

401 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE SEARCH; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Accentuating the Positive After a Layoff

BYLINE: By PHYLLIS KORKKI. 
E-mail: thesearch@nytimes.com

 BODY:
AFTER a layoff, your self-esteem and personal relationships may take a hit. Your bank account and quality of life may both spiral downward. You may not even be sure you can pay your mortgage or rent.
 And now you're supposed to go out and convince employers that you'd be a great hire?
 Desperation, hopelessness, depression, anger -- these are not useful feelings to bring to a job search. Yet after a layoff, it is normal to experience some or all of them. 
 And the longer joblessness lasts, the greater the emotional toll it can exact. Ford R. Myers, a career coach, author and president of Career Potential in Philadelphia, says it is taking his clients 20 percent to 25 percent longer, on average, to land a job than it did before the recession.
 If desperation levels could be measured, they would surely be higher, too. And ''if you're feeling desperate the employer can smell it a mile away,'' Mr. Myers said.
 Now, a certain amount of acting more confident than you really feel may be in order at interviews, but there are ways you can genuinely take the edge off your negative emotions.
 It's important to work through the negative feelings you experience because of a layoff, said Nancy Molitor, public education coordinator for the American Psychological Association and a psychologist in private practice in Wilmette, Ill. 
 Being laid off ''is a profound loss,'' Dr. Molitor said. It can lead to feelings of humiliation, embarrassment, sadness, guilt and frustration. And if you are supporting other people financially, a host of other powerful emotions and worries can be released, she said. 
 Consider, too, that a layoff removes people from the structure and camaraderie of daily working life and can plunge them into unaccustomed isolation -- a possible precursor to stress and depression. 
 Periodically, you may need to ''download'' all your emotions -- to write them down or discuss them with a trusted friend who won't criticize or judge you, Dr. Molitor said. Then identify which things you can control and which you can't. Throughout your search, make detailed lists of the things you have done and still need to do, she said. 
 If you keep your emotions bottled up, ''you're going to have stress symptoms later,'' she said. These can include insomnia, panic attacks, and colds brought on by a weakened immune system, she said. (And these will make you perform all the worse during an interview.)
 Mentally, stress can distort your perspective. ''When we get stressed, the brain is sometimes ineffective at processing things rationally,'' Dr. Molitor said. In short, things may not be nearly as bad as they appear, and you have more control over your situation than you think. 
 Get help from your primary care doctor if you have symptoms like insomnia, she said. You may need to see a mental health professional if you are experiencing anxiety, depression or other symptoms. 
 If you believe that you have lost your health insurance, check with your former human resources department about your post-layoff benefits. ''Don't assume that you don't have coverage,'' Dr. Molitor said. 
 Maybe your doctor or therapist can work out a payment plan, she advised. If not, she said, check with your county's public health department about services available to people without insurance.
 Dr. Molitor said that getting help can give you back your perspective -- the ability to say: ''O.K., this is terrible but it's already happened. I have to focus on what I can control going forward.'' 
 It's hard to look for a job when you don't know if you can keep a roof over your head or put food on the table. A realistic review of your finances is crucial to your emotional well-being. Question all your expenses, advised Eric Tyson, a personal finance expert and author.
 He also recommends these steps: Try to avoid dropping insurance entirely; in some cases you can raise the deductible. Transfer credit card balances to a card with a lower rate, or try to negotiate lower rates on your current cards. Use a debit card; this can prevent you from spending money that you don't have, Mr. Tyson said. 
 If you own a home, you may want to rent out a room or rooms. If you are a renter, you may need to move to a cheaper place. You may even need to move in with a family member or a friend for a time.
 Think to yourself: ''I'm going to do this for a year or two until I get my feet back on the ground, and then I'm out of here,'' Mr. Tyson said.
 Be creative about ways to generate income, he said. Take part-time, temporary, freelance or contract jobs -- preferably related to your professional field in some way. 
 If you aren't working at all, at least get dressed and get out of the house, Mr. Myers said, and ''take advantage of seminars and workshops in your area that have to do with careers and job search.'' Keep networking even if you aren't in the mood for it, he added. 
 Finally, a note to friends, family members and former colleagues of the unemployed: Be available to lend a sympathetic and nonjudgmental ear and, if you can, to offer other types of help -- for example, job leads or temporary lodging.
 Just hearing ''I'm here for you'' can mean a lot to an unemployed person, Dr. Molitor said. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SEAN KELLY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); DEPRESSION (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (70%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (70%); ANXIETY DISORDERS (70%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); WRITERS (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGICAL ASSOCIATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (71%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009



402 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Banks Help Small Debt Become a Big One

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER. 
E-mail: dwyer@nytimes.com

 BODY:
In his briefcase, Imar Hutchins carries a certified check for $25,000. It is a crazy amount to walk around with, but for the last nine months, a series of banks have refused to take the money, even though Mr. Hutchins owes it toward a mortgage on a small apartment building in Harlem. 
 In fact, the $25,000 check is the fourth and largest payment that Mr. Hutchins has tried to make after he fell one month behind last year. Since then, the banks have rejected every penny he has sent. At bewildering speed, and without telling him, the original bank -- Washington Mutual -- invoked a clause in the lending note and moved to seize the building, at 763 St. Nicholas Avenue, near 148th Street. 
 So many foreclosures are hitting the courts, the stories of greed and folly by all parties could fill volumes. But the machinery of foreclosure also has a brainless side. Even generally responsible people can get trapped among the shards of the global financial crisis.
 In 2005, lenders filed foreclosures on an average of 14 properties a day across the city. This year, it is 65 per day.
 ''Banks get bought by other banks, they change their philosophies,'' Mr. Hutchins said. ''The people fall through the cracks. No one is really looking out for the customer.'' 
 While Mr. Hutchins's case is just one foreclosure among thousands now moving through the courts, a judge saw it as an example of how things should not be done.
 ''The facts in this case, in their simplicity,'' wrote Justice Emily Jane Goodman, ''illustrated the state of property foreclosures in New York and the economic relationship between banks and their borrowers, as well as the surrounding ironies.''
 Mr. Hutchins, 39, who, among other things, co-founded an elementary school in Atlanta while he was a student at Morehouse College, ran a vegetarian restaurant in Washington, and got a law degree from Yale, has lived in Harlem for the last five years. His grandfather Lyman T. Johnson sued the University of Kentucky to force it to admit black students in 1949. ''My father was a Realtor,'' Mr. Hutchins said. ''I tried like hell to do anything but real estate.''
 In May 2006, he bought 763 St. Nicholas Avenue, which has seven apartments and a storefront, taking out a $470,000 loan. As tenants left, he renovated the apartments and began to collect higher rents. 
 A few days ago, Mr. Hutchins welcomed a visitor into a ground-floor apartment that he is using as an office. The new floor had a high gleam. ''The wood is from a Brazilian tree that grows up in water,'' he said. ''We got it because the guy upstairs kept flooding the apartment, and I thought it would do better in a flood.'' 
 Generous as the guy upstairs was with water, he did not pay his rent for a year and a half, Mr. Hutchins said. Another tenant got sick and couldn't pay for a year. That meant two out of seven apartments in the building were a dead loss.
 A year ago in May, Mr. Hutchins missed a mortgage payment of $3,730. The lender, Washington Mutual, was then on the verge of the largest bank collapse in United States history. 
 ''First, I tendered $3,730 -- that was a month late,'' Mr. Hutchins said. ''I didn't want it to go 60 days. They rejected that. It made me look bad later. Then I tried to pay $7,500. I Fedexed the check to the bank. They returned it uncashed with a form letter.'' Later, he tried to pay $17,500, and eventually the $25,000. 
 Although lawyers for the bank did not respond to a request for comment, for Justice Goodman the central facts were not in dispute. ''There is no evidence whatsoever that Defendant intended to ignore, neglect or default in this matter,'' she wrote, adding that Mr. Hutchins ''made numerous efforts to pay the two months that were late, and even attempted to pay more.''
 While Mr. Hutchins had regular communications with bank lending officers, no one told him that the bank had begun foreclosure. The notice was served on a tenant in the building rather than the owner, suggesting, Justice Goodman wrote, ''bad faith by Washington Mutual, especially when taken with their refusal to accept payment.'' 
 With no reply from Mr. Hutchins, he was declared in default. When he learned of the action, he went to court, and Justice Goodman agreed to lift the default. Now Mr. Hutchins and the successor to Washington Mutual will meet in court to settle the amount he owes. 
 Why wouldn't a bank take money that it was owed? There are only guesses. One possibility, Mr. Hutchins said, is that the building is worth around $700,000, considerably more than the $470,000 original mortgage.
 The judge also wondered why. ''Despite the Owner's undisputed efforts to pay the Bank,'' she wrote, ''the Bank nevertheless brought proceedings to foreclose because, as stated by Plaintiff's counsel at oral argument, 'that's their choice.' ''
 That would fall under the unilluminating doctrine of ''because they feel like it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: COMPLICATED: For Imar Hutchins, a Harlem landlord, trouble snowballed after he missed a mortgage payment.(PHOTOGRAPH BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(MB2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (67%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (62%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009



403 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: Money Walks: In Hard Times, Sports Is Bad for Business

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
Baseball's deliberate pace and the increasingly lavish suites and box seats have made major league games an ideal setting for doing business. But for bankers, brokers and others in the financial industry, accepting an invitation to a game has fast become taboo.
 Not only are companies cutting their entertainment budgets, but they are also facing increased scrutiny from regulators, shareholders and politicians -- pressures that have forced workers even at healthy firms to avoid being seen at sporting events.
 This is particularly true in New York, the capital of the financial industry, where the most expensive seats at the new Yankee Stadium and Citi Field, or at the Billie Jean King National Tennis Center in Queens, home of the United States Open, far exceed what many firms allow employees to accept from clients.
 In better times, many companies casually enforced entertainment guidelines, which typically prohibit employees from accepting tickets worth more than $100. In the past year, however, as the government has spent hundreds of billions of dollars rescuing financial firms like Bank of America and Citi, companies have begun to enforce policies more strictly through ethics seminars, e-mail reminders and dismissals. 
 Corporate compliance departments and the Internal Revenue Service are also doing more to ensure that the business entertainment taking place at games is tangible, not tangential. 
 ''The seats behind home plate, no one wants to be seen there,'' said John Lieberman, the former chairman of the entertainment and sports committee of the New York State Society of Certified Public Accountants. ''There's a perception that you're throwing your money away. Politically, it's like car company executives taking private jets from Michigan to Washington.''
 Baseball was the first major sport to begin a full season in this more spartan environment. Yet with new seasons approaching, basketball and hockey teams are trying to find takers for suites that were not renewed by financial firms. Many corporate hospitality tents sat unused at the United States Open at Bethpage this June, one reason annual revenue at the United States Golf Association is expected to be about 20 percent below the projections made before the economic collapse.
 Ticket brokers are also scrambling.
 ''The bankers we did business with in the past have eliminated purchases or scaled back to minimal amounts,'' said Jason Berger, the managing partner of AllShows.com, one of the largest ticket brokers in New York. ''A few years ago, they were focused on the best, best seats. Now they're under a tremendous amount of scrutiny, especially under TARP, so we're seeing almost no spending.''
 The belt-tightening on Wall Street could have severe consequences for the Mets and the Yankees, which opened their stadiums this season and, more than most teams, expected free-spending bankers, brokers and fund managers to fill top seats. The teams initially priced some tickets so high -- as much as $2,500 each -- that the sight of empty box seats became a symbol of excess and hubris. The teams have since discounted some of their seats by as much as 50 percent.
 The financial industry's troubles could prompt teams across the country to re-evaluate their reliance on corporate dollars.
 ''There's been a level of greed that runs the risk of destroying what makes the business a business,'' said Paul Swangard, the managing director at the Warsaw Sports Marketing Center at the University of Oregon School of Business. ''Believing that people always will pay more may need to be corrected.''
 Some season-ticket holders who have found it hard to use their seats to entertain clients, and who have had trouble reselling their tickets online, are considering canceling their plans next year.
 ''People turned us down before, but it has gotten much worse as the face value of the tickets keeps rising,'' said one executive with a financial search firm who has four $225 box seats at Citi Field. ''This year, it's completely dried up.''
 Like others interviewed for this article, the executive declined to be identified for fear of bringing attention to his company or risking the appearance of seeming too extravagant. The executive and others said companies had recently fired employees for violating entertainment policies.
 Representatives of the Mets and the Yankees declined to speak specifically about their season-ticket holders or about whether the teams were being affected by stricter corporate policies. 
 Asset managers like Vanguard and General Electric Asset Management have prohibited some or all of their employees from accepting sports tickets. So far this year, the compliance department at Vanguard has turned down two requests from employees who wanted to accept tickets.
 At Oppenheimer Funds, employees invited to attend with a client can cover the cost of any ticket with a face value exceeding $100.
 ''It's really the personal decision of the employee whether they want to spend the extra money,'' said Jeaneen Pisarra, a spokeswoman for Oppenheimer.
 But given the escalating price of tickets, many bankers simply say no.
 ''A lot of people have gotten hurt by this stuff, so it's easier to just not do it,'' said one director at a firm that manages pension funds. ''More than the price, it's just the nature of the environment out there, so it's not worth the risk.''
 In its newly updated code of conduct, American Express, which took $3.4 billion in government funds, said employees could not accept or offer entertainment considered ''excessive in value,'' ''not business-related'' or ''in an inappropriate setting.''
 At Bank of America, managers are encouraged to skip the expensive sporting events and ''leverage their existing routines,'' according to Kelly Sapp, a spokeswoman. But when they do accept an invitation, she said, the entertainment cannot be ''lavish, frequent or contrary to Bank of America guidelines.''
 At JPMorgan Chase, employees are permitted to accept tickets on a case-by-case basis, according to a spokeswoman. But legitimate business has to take place, which means the host has to be present, the event has to be held at a ''reputable venue'' and the ticket value must be ''reasonable.''
 The bank's compliance department, she said, would probably deny requests to accept Super Bowl or World Series tickets because they ''would be deemed as lavish and unreasonable.''
 The bank's policies language echoes the Treasury Department's standards for compensation and corporate governance for TARP recipients.
 In an internal memo sent in July, JPMorgan Asset Management told employees in its Institutional Americas division that ''in light of the current regulatory environment,'' they would not be allowed to entertain clients at the United States Open tennis tournament this month.
 The United States Tennis Association said it might sell 700,000 tickets to the event, just under last year's record attendance. But this year, companies are being allowed to rent suites for less than the entire two-week tournament.
 ''Going into 2009, we recognized the new economic environment in the country and its impact on events like ours,'' said Chris Widmaier, a spokesman for the U.S.T.A. ''This will not be business as usual.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SPORTS (89%); TICKET SALES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (76%); TICKET AGENCIES (75%); TENNIS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); BASKETBALL (73%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); ACCOUNTING (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ETHICS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); TAX AUTHORITIES (66%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); NEW YORK STATE SOCIETY OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009



404 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: Now You See Him, Now You Don't

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

 BODY:
There are untold ways that gambling can put you in a hole, and most of them are predictable. They are usually economic, social, spiritual or familial.
 About 1:30 Saturday afternoon, Vincent Riggio stepped out of an Off-Track Betting parlor in Lower Manhattan and wound up in a hole no horse-racing aficionado could ever have foreseen: a literal one.
 He left the betting parlor on Murray Street to smoke a cigar, stepped a few feet east, away from Church Street, and suddenly vanished in a cloud of brownish dust as rotted metal doors over a store's cellar gave way, according to officials and witnesses. 
 ''He just fell,'' said Freddy Chew, 55, who saw the accident. ''He disappeared.''
 The distance? Roughly 30 feet.
 Mr. Chew, who had also been enjoying the afternoon in the Off-Track Betting parlor, which is jammed between a women's clothing store and the Remix Lounge, said he ran over and peered through the broken cellar opening in the sidewalk and into the darkness below.
 There, Mr. Riggio came to rest after having fallen in stages, apparently hitting several uneven surfaces on the way down. 
 Another man on the street saw the commotion, ran over, and dialed 911.
 As firefighters from Battalion 1 in Lower Manhattan raced to the scene, Mr. Riggio, 59, pulled out a cellphone and called his wife, Joann. She was at the Jersey Shore when his call came in.
 ''He said that he fell, he fell through a hole,'' Ms. Riggio, 48, said a short time later, as she drove north on the Garden State Parkway to be by the side of her husband of 17 years.
 ''He said he was injured,'' she said. ''He said he was bleeding and he possibly broke his ankle.''
 Firefighters arrived at the scene, at 20 Murray Street, and Mr. Riggio spoke to them, said Daniel Sheridan, a battalion chief.
 ''He was calm,'' Chief Sheridan said, adding that Mr. Riggio's good spirits and cooperation helped the rescue. ''He's a tough guy.''
 The firefighters hooked a harness to a bucket lift and eased him out, an operation that took 13 minutes. Mr. Riggio's friends from the betting parlor watched, hoping he was not badly injured. Later, they said he was a friendly man who came regularly to bet. 
 They said he had a 3-year-old son.
 Afterward, some workers cordoned off the hole with orange plastic barriers. A man wearing a T-shirt from the city's Office of Emergency Management arrived and appeared to examine the location. Lying crumpled on the sidewalk nearby were some racing forms that someone had scrawled on with black ink.
 A cigar was lying amid the papers, and ashes were on the window sill of the clothing store, DeJaneiro Ladies Clothing and Shoes.
 Outside Mr. Riggio's apartment building, on Duane Street, a doorman said: ''He's a good guy. He's a very nice man.''
 Some neighbors asked about him.
 ''He's a wonderful guy,'' a woman said.
 Ms. Riggio, who spoke as she drove to St. Vincent's Hospital Manhattan, said her husband, who owned his own business, had never been at the center of such a ruckus. He did attend the music festival at Woodstock 40 years ago, she said, and his nickname, Jimi, came from his appreciation for the guitarist Jimi Hendrix when he was a teenager.
 But he did not like Woodstock, Ms. Riggio said. It was rainy.
 ''He's having the same kind of weekend he had that weekend,'' she said.
 As for betting, she said, ''He enjoys the horses, that's for sure.'' Asked if his luck was running up or down, she said: ''He always thinks he's up. That's the nature of gambling: you always hope to win.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (90%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (89%); HORSE RACING (77%); MISSING PERSONS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); BONE FRACTURES (75%); SMOKING (71%); SPORTS FANS (71%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (70%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (53%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009



405 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: I Say Spend. You Say No. We're in Love.

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
Despite the old saying ''opposites attract,'' scholars have found that in almost every way imaginable, people tend to choose mates who look, sound and act as they do.
 But in the area perhaps most fraught with potential conflict -- money -- somehow, some way, people gravitate toward their polar opposite, a new study says.
 ''Spendthrifts'' and ''tightwads'' (which, as it turns out, are actual academic terms) tend to marry the other. Unfortunately, these dichotomized duos report unhappier marriages than people with more similar attitudes toward spending. 
 How do we know all this? Researchers at the University of Pennsylvania, the University of Michigan and Northwestern University looked at several surveys that asked a married couple to assess separately their personal feelings toward spending money. (While the study used the responses of a self-selected group of online news readers, it was bolstered by a randomized poll commissioned by the researchers.)
 Respondents were then rated on a Tightwad-Spendthrift scale. The labels refer not to how much people earn or spend, but how people described their feelings about spending. 
 Spendthrifts, on this scale, say they experience too little pain when spending, leading them to spend more than they should; they later regretted their financial recklessness.
 Tightwads, by contrast, report feeling too much pain when spending. They have trouble parting with their pennies, and yet they frequently kick themselves for having so much difficulty living life. In other words, they live in a perpetual state of nonbuyer's remorse. 
 From such yin-and-yangness, love blossoms. (At least to a modest but statistically significant degree, the study found.)
 ''Almost all prior research has found that birds of a feather flock together,'' said Scott I. Rick, a University of Michigan marketing professor who is a co-author of the study. ''People have tried to find evidence of complementarity, but they usually can't.'' The major previously identified exception to that rule is on dominant and submissive personalities, traits for which opposites do tend to attract.
 Why do people seek out their opposites in spending attitudes? Most likely, what we hate in ourselves, we also hate in other people. And the more we hate that quality in ourselves, the more we avoid it, the study suggested.
 ''I can see how this might be one of those kinds of seductive differences in the early stages of courtship,'' said Stephanie Coontz, a professor at Evergreen State College in Olympia, Wash., and research director for the Council on Contemporary Families. ''Maybe you say to yourself, 'This guy makes me feel so free,' or 'This gal reins me in.' ''
 Which is unfortunate. 
 As previous studies have found, spending decisions are a common source of marital conflict and a major contributor to divorce. And as prior literature would predict, this new study showed that financially polar pairs report greater conflict over money, and lower levels of connubial bliss.
 It appears that people are aware of this potential for conflict. In another set of surveys, the authors asked unmarried people about their ideal mates. The answers generally described a spouse who would be identical to them on consumption concerns: the more these unmarried survey respondents said they disliked spending money, the more they thought their soul mates should also dislike spending money, and vice versa.
 ''It turns out they're right: They would be happiest with themselves,'' Mr. Rick says. ''But for whatever reason, they are not able to or motivated to act on it when they get into the field, so to speak.''
 (Mr. Rick, it seems, avoided that pitfall. Newly married, he said he had informally evaluated his wife's spending attitudes and concluded that she's ''probably a little tighter'' than he is, but ''not too far off.'' Which, given the results of his research, probably bodes well for their marital well-being.)
 Perhaps this disconnect between the qualities people say they want and the spouses they actually choose happens because people don't talk about money, relationship experts say. Couples never come around to addressing how their different attitudes toward spending would play out in day-to-day married life. 
 ''You would be shocked at how many people don't talk about these things before they get married,'' said Susan Reach Winters, a divorce lawyer in Short Hills, N.J. ''I mean, they're willing to get naked with these people before they get married, but they don't, or can't, talk about money before they get married.''
 But more broadly, just like the proverbial woman who says she wants a nice guy but really goes for the bad boys, people are also just plain bad at predicting what they want in love and marriage, the researchers found. 
 ''We seem to have to have approximately no introspective accuracy as to what it is we want in a partner,'' said Eli J. Finkel, a Northwestern psychology professor who is another co-author of the study.
 Mr. Finkel speculated that the recession could amplify the fallout from monetary mismatchings.
 ''People may not think about these things when they first get married,'' he said. ''But a bad economy serves as a crucible for complementary marriages.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (pg. WK1)l (pg. WK2)(DRAWINGS BY CHRIS GASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (88%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); FAMILY (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OLYMPIA, WA, USA (85%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (85%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009



406 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: Even in Recession, Believers Invest in the Gospel of Getting Rich

BYLINE: By LAURIE GOODSTEIN

DATELINE: FORT WORTH 

 BODY:
Onstage before thousands of believers weighed down by debt and economic insecurity, Kenneth and Gloria Copeland and their all-star lineup of ''prosperity gospel'' preachers delighted the crowd with anecdotes about the luxurious lives they had attained by following the Word of God. 
 Private airplanes and boats. A motorcycle sent by an anonymous supporter. Vacations in Hawaii and cruises in Alaska. Designer handbags. A ring of emeralds and diamonds. 
 ''God knows where the money is, and he knows how to get the money to you,'' preached Mrs. Copeland, dressed in a crisp pants ensemble like those worn by C.E.O.'s. 
 Even in an economic downturn, preachers in the ''prosperity gospel'' movement are drawing sizable, adoring audiences. Their message -- that if you have sufficient faith in God and the Bible and donate generously, God will multiply your offerings a hundredfold -- is reassuring to many in hard times. 
 The preachers barely acknowledged the recession, though they did say it was no excuse to curtail giving. ''Fear will make you stingy,'' Mr. Copeland said. 
 But the offering buckets came up emptier than in some previous years, said those who have attended before. 
 Many in this flock do not trust banks, the news media or Washington, where the Senate Finance Committee is investigating whether the Copelands and other prosperity evangelists used donations to enrich themselves and abused their tax-exempt status. But they trust the Copelands, the movement's current patriarch and matriarch, who seem to embody prosperity with their robust health and abundance of children and grandchildren who have followed them into the ministry. 
 ''If God did it for them, he will do it for us,'' said Edwige Ndoudi, who traveled with her husband and three children from Canada for the Southwest Believers' Convention this month, where the Copelands and three of their friends took turns preaching for five days, 10 hours a day at the Fort Worth Convention Center. 
 The crowd of more than 9,000 was multiracial, from 48 states and 27 countries. There was no fee to attend. There were bikers in leather vests, pastors, blue-collar workers, professionals and plenty of families with children. 
 A large contingent came in wheelchairs, hoping for miraculous healings. The audience sat with Bibles open, flipping to passages cited by the preachers, taking notes on pads and laptop computers. 
 ''The folks who are coming aren't poor,'' said Jonathan L. Walton, a professor of religion at the University of California, Riverside, who has written about the movement and was there doing research. ''They reside in that nebulous category between the working and the middle class.'' 
 Sitting in Section 316, eight rows up, making peanut butter and jelly sandwiches on a Bible at lunch time, was a family who could explain the enduring loyalty the prosperity preachers inspire. 
 Stephen Biellier, a long-distance trucker from Mount Vernon, Mo., said he and his wife, Millie, came to the convention praying that this would be ''the overcoming year.'' They are $102,000 in debt, and the bank has cut off their credit line, Mrs. Biellier said. 
 They say the Copelands rescued them from financial failure 23 years ago, when they bought their first truck at 22 percent interest and had to rebuild the engine twice in a year. 
 Around that time, Mrs. Biellier first saw Mr. Copeland on television and began sending him 50 cents a week. 
 Others who bought trucks from the same dealer in Joplin that year went under, the Bielliers said, but they did not.
 ''We would have failed if Copeland hadn't been praying for us every day,'' Mrs. Biellier said. 
 The Bielliers are now among 386,000 people worldwide whom the Copelands call their ''partners,'' most of whom send regular contributions and merit special prayers from the Copelands. 
 A call center at the ministry's 481-employee headquarters in Newark, Tex., takes in 60,000 prayer requests a month, a publicist said.
 The Copelands' broadcast reaches 134 countries, and the ministry's income is about $100 million annually.
 The Bielliers were at the convention a few years ago when a supporter made a pitch for people to join an ''Elite CX Team'' to raise money to buy the ministry a Citation X airplane. (Mr. Copeland is an airplane aficionado who got his start in ministry as a pilot for Oral Roberts.) At that moment, Mrs. Biellier said she heard the voice of the Holy Spirit telling her, ''You were born to support this man.''
 She gave $2,000 for the plane, and recently sent $1,800 for the team's latest project: buying high-definition television equipment to upgrade the ministry's international broadcasts. 
 Mrs. Biellier said some friends and relatives would say the preacher just wanted their money. She explained that the Copelands did not need the money for themselves; it is for their ministry. And besides, even ''trashy people like Hugh Hefner'' have private airplanes. 
 ''I remember Copeland had to once fly halfway around the world to talk to one person,'' she said. ''Because we're partners with Kenneth Copeland, for every soul that gets saved, we get credit for that in heaven.''
 But while a band primed the crowd, Professor Walton called the prosperity preachers ''spiritual pickpockets.''
 ''To dismiss and ignore the harsh realities of this economic crisis,'' he said. ''is beyond irresponsible, to the point of reprehensible.''
 The Copelands refused an interview request, but one of their daughters, Kellie Copeland Swisher, and her husband, Steve Swisher, who both work in the ministry, spoke for them. 
 Mrs. Swisher said the ministry gave away ''a minimum of 10 percent of what comes in'' to other charities. Her father's current favorite, she said, is a Roman Catholic orphanage in Mexico. 
 The ministry has resisted providing the Senate investigation with all the documents requested, she said, because the Copelands did not want to publicly reveal the names of the ''partners.'' The investigation, which could result in new laws, is continuing, a committee spokeswoman said. Among those being investigated is Creflo Dollar, one of the ministers at the Copelands' convention.
 Mr. Swisher said that even in the economic downturn, the ministry's income going into the convention was up 3 percent over last year. Asked if they had adjusted the message for the economy, Mrs. Swisher patted the worn Bible in her lap and said: ''The message they preach is the Word of God. The Word doesn't change.''
 At the convention, the preachers -- who also included Jesse Duplantis and Jerry Savelle -- sprinkled their sermons with put-downs of the government, an overhaul of health care, public schools, the news media and other churches, many of which condemn prosperity preaching.
 But mostly the preachers were working mightily to remind the crowd that they are God's elect. ''While everybody else is having a famine,'' said Mr. Savelle, a Texas televangelist, ''his covenant people will be having the best of times.''
 ''Any time a worried thought about money pops up in your mind,'' Mr. Savelle continued, ''the next thing you do is sow'': drop money, like seeds, in ''good ground'' like the preachers' ministries. ''Stop worrying, start sowing,'' he added, his voice rising. ''That's God's stimulus package for you.'' 
 At that, hundreds streamed down the aisles to the stage, laying envelopes, cash and coins on the carpeted steps.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Donors streamed forward at the Southwest Believers' Convention this month in Fort Worth.(A1)
 Ushers carried buckets holding donations from the Southwest Believers' Convention this month at the Fort Worth Convention Center. Collections were taken several times a day during the meeting.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); RELIGION (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); FAMILY (78%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (77%); CRUISES (77%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (57%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (72%) HAWAII, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009



407 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL 2010 KIA SOUL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: Kia's Pitch: No Curves Ahead

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

DATELINE: HUNTINGTON BEACH, Calif. 

 BODY:
 THE Kia Soul parked in my driveway earlier this morning didn't stay very long. In just a few hours it could be seen over at the local high school, where I left it after dropping off my daughter. 
 I headed off on foot to do some local errands. When I next saw it, the Soul was surrounded by teenagers. 
 ''It's like it had honey smeared all over it,'' I told a friend after returning home with this latest entry in a thriving class of resolutely angular automobiles.
 The Soul seems to score off the meter with the young-driver demographic, one of the most desirable groups for auto marketers. Win a young customer, the strategy goes, and there's a chance you will have a customer for life.
 Much of the time the Soul was with us, my 16-year-old daughter, Shannon, was sitting inside, stress-testing the stereo. From inside the house I could hear its radio, even when it was parked across the street. With all the windows shut.
 I had the radio cranked up as high as its 12 setting once, and I thought my ears were going to start bleeding. Shannon had it up to 35. 
 The Soul has a mood-lighting system inside that can be synched to the audio system. Among other tricks, the door-mounted speakers can be set to produce a pulsing red glow in cadence with your music, an effect that made me think of the furnace grates at a crematorium. Seeing the Soul come down the street at night with that glow emanating from inside, it looked as if Satan was on his way home with another load of sinners.
 The Soul's appeal sneaked up on me. Kia unveiled a design study named Soul at the 2006 Detroit auto show; I made fun of it. Responding to a question about when the Soul might go into production, my answer was, ''The 12th of never.'' 
 Now that it is here -- excuse me while I eat my words -- I have to say, it's kind of cool.
 Sure, there are those odd television advertisements with rodents in treadmill cages. Officially, they are supposed to be hamsters; I thought they were rats. But they are hip, whatever species the little animatronic creatures represent, and they get down with some of the best music in car commercials since Mitsubishi's award-winning spots several years ago.
 Did you know there is a series of the rodent commercials? Teenagers know. It's actually a single commercial visually (in either 30-second or one-minute versions), but there are several variations, each with the rodents grooving to a different music track. 
 You can find them all on YouTube, where the commercials had been viewed around 600,000 times the last time I checked. The full-length music videos (sans hamsters) of each song have been viewed hundreds of thousands of times more. Listen for yourself: ''Do What You Do'' by Marz, featuring Pack and Mumiez; ''Fort Knox'' by GoldFish; ''Junkyard'' by the Potbelleez; and ''Colours'' by Calvin Harris.
 Yes, it seems to be working. Owners are blogging about the Soul. Web site hits are adding up. The car itself almost seems beside the point, but Souls are selling.
 The Soul is little more than a box on wheels, but there is something oddly compelling these days about motorized boxes. The more boxlike they are, the more stylish they seem to be. The Scion xB -- which was outsold by the Soul in the United States last month -- Honda Element and Nissan Cube are all evidence of box lust among shoppers.
 In its transition to production form, the Soul lost some of the visceral appeal seen in a series of concept vehicles that Kia has displayed at auto shows in recent years. I particularly liked the sinister look of the Burner, which I saw at the Geneva show in 2008, with its Goth color scheme of black in various finishes set off by details painted blood-red. 
 But the production Soul still has a soul.
 ''It's the color of root beer,'' my daughter observed of our metallic brown test car. Actually, that paint treatment is called Java. Other choices like Molten, Alien and Shadow resonate better than red, pea green and black, don't you think? Inside, there is only a sand-and-black combination, but it includes hound's-tooth accents on the headrests and seat fabric that can glow in the dark (along with the word Soul).
 Two 4-cylinder engines are offered: a 122-horsepower 1.6-liter and a 2-liter with 142 horsepower. The smaller engine comes only with a 5-speed manual transmission; the larger can be ordered with an optional 4-speed automatic. I tested only the bigger engine and found it plenty peppy. Its E.P.A. fuel economy rating is 30 m.p.g. on the highway and 24 in town.
 The 2,800-pound front-wheel-drive Soul is built on a modified version of the platform that Kia uses for its Rio subcompact. Driving dynamics were not intended to be a big selling point for the Soul, yet the handling is more than adequate. 
 Last week, the Soul received a Top Safety Pick rating from the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety.
 The Soul's 100.4-inch wheelbase helps with leg room for back seat passengers. Seating for five, with four doors and a large rear hatch, means the Soul easily packs a party. Even with the optional sunroof, there's plenty of headroom for 6-footers. 
 Prices starts at a friendly $13,995, and rise through the range with quirky model names differentiated by punctuation: the Soul + and the Soul ! lead up to the fanciest Soul, the Sport, which starts at $18,595. And then there are must-have options like an eardrum-melting stereo and crematorium disco lighting.
 INSIDE TRACK: The hamster that roared.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NEW ANGLE: Kia Soul is the latest entry in the class of boxy compacts intended to appeal to youthful drivers. (AU1)
 SOUNDING OUT: Soul is available with a 315-watt stereo, glowing speakers. (AU10) CHART: Wrapping Up the Latest Boxes 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (89%); MUSIC (87%); RODENTS (87%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); TEENS MARKET (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (69%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009



408 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 209 words

HEADLINE: Emily Kehm, Austin Smith

 BODY:
Emily Christine Kehm and Austin Taylor Smith were married Saturday at St. Andrew's Episcopal Church in Des Moines. The Rev. Parker Jameson, an Episcopal priest and the bridegroom's godfather, performed the ceremony. 
 Mrs. Kehm Smith, 25, is to begin teaching English to fifth- through eighth-grade students at St. Thomas Choir School in New York in September. She graduated magna cum laude from Gustavus Adolphus College in St. Peter, Minn. In September, she is also to start her second and final year of a master's in the teaching of English at Teachers College at Columbia University.
 She is a daughter of Diane Christine Kehm and David Kehm of Des Moines. Her mother is the vice principal of Merrill Middle School there. Her father is a certified public accountant for the Des Moines Public Schools. 
 Mr. Smith, also 25, is a senior software developer at economist.com, the Web site for The Economist magazine. He works in New York. 
 He is a son of Debra Morris Smith and the Rt. Rev. George Wayne Smith of St. Louis. His mother is an educational coordinator at the Parkway Area Adult Education and Literacy/English as a Second Language Program, a nonprofit organization in St. Louis. His father is the bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Missouri. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (88%); RELIGION (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); MULTILINGUALISM (77%); LANGUAGE SCHOOLS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); TEACHER EDUCATION (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (72%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (72%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (71%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (71%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (68%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (66%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009



409 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION NEW JERSEY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: Glittering Potential, Shady Past

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
WHAT sort of property would entice four big-foot developers to come up with substantial proposals, in the midst of a recession, to build on ground that has lain fallow for 35 years -- half of it sold at a sheriff's auction only last winter?
 No need to build up the suspense, particularly after three and a half decades. It is the 16 acres of rocky, weed-ridden land beside the entrance to the George Washington Bridge in Fort Lee. 
 Previous plans for the site collapsed last year when Town and Country Developers of Westwood conceded that its mixed-use Centuria project was stalled. Half the property was then sold at auction to the Tucker Development Corporation of Chicago.
 Two weeks ago, the borough of Fort Lee called for new development proposals for either all or half the site -- and received one from Tucker for its half; one from SJP Residential Properties and the Bergen County developer James Demetrakis for the other; and two proposals for the whole site.
 The first of the whole-site proposals was from the World Trade Center developer Silverstein Properties, in conjunction with the high-end fashion mall developer Taubman Centers (owner of the Mall at Short Hills). Their plan is for a regional retail center, with a couple of housing towers situated to take advantage of the up-close view of the bridge, the Hudson River and the Manhattan skyline.
 The second was from Amerea Development, a partnership of Panepinto Properties of Jersey City and Cheongwon America Inc. of South Korea. This proposal also envisions a retail center with housing. But it includes elements sought by the borough: a hotel and office space that the Silverstein-Taubman team described as not ''viable.''
 No matter what happens now, though, the ''big-time allure'' of a site with a shady past has been proved forevermore, asserted Burt Ross, the onetime mayor of Fort Lee. 
 In 1974, an initial group of developers wanted to build on the property so badly that they sent a Mafia representative to offer a bribe to Mr. Ross. (He wore a wire, and they went to prison, as detailed in a 1976 book about the case, called ''The Bribe.'')
 A decade after that, the real estate mogul Harry Helmsley and his wife, Leona, reached out to grab the glittering potential of the site. Mr. Helmsley aggressively pursued a plan for mixed-use development, but momentum dissipated after Mrs. Helmsley was sent to jail in 1989 for tax evasion.
 The property languished in the Helmsley portfolio until 2005, when it was bought by Town and Country, an affiliate of a Manhattan investment company.
 ''In some people's minds, the question might be: What's wrong with the borough?'' said Allen F. Goldman, the president of SJP Residential, in an interview after his company submitted its proposal. ''Over 30 years, it can't take such an important parcel and make something happen?''
 ''But right now, today, we believe this is an extremely valuable property,'' Mr. Goldman added, ''suitable to become a dynamic town center that offers every element the borough seeks, from retail, to housing, to hotel, and office.'' 
 Silverstein-Taubman, by contrast, envisions an upscale fashion retail center with a mix of restaurants, to attract ''a large trade area of underserved New Jersey and New York shoppers.'' There would be apartment units over the low-rise part of the retail center; two housing towers would be built in a latter phase.
 The Panepinto-Cheongwon plan would cluster housing development on the eastern side of the parcel and establish a ''nontypical'' shopping center with large gathering spaces and pedestrian access to the Fort Lee downtown on the western half of the site.
 One obvious hurdle for the two proposals that would extend over the full 16 acres is Tucker's ownership of the eight acres on the west.
 Mr. Tucker made it clear in an interview that his company intended not to sell its property but to develop it -- though perhaps in concert with partners.
 The Tucker proposal, called Hudson Lights (for the green ''necklace'' of lights sparkling on the bridge at night), calls for 940,000 square feet of construction: 185,000 square feet of retailing, restaurants and a health club as well as 357 rental apartments and 170 condominiums.
 In its plan for the eastern parcel, the SJP-Demetrakis team proposed 800 units of rental housing in two high-rise towers, and an 18,000-square-foot high-end food market and associated retail space. A later phase of development would include a 250-room hotel with a banquet facility, and 100 hotel-condominium units.
 A couple of the developers' proposals provided rather detailed information about financing, but others were ''sketchy,'' according to Fort Lee's current mayor, Mark Sokolich, who last week was still trying to digest the voluminous proposals.
 The Borough Council intends to select among the proposals by Sept. 10 and to complete an accord by Jan. 15.
 In the executive summary of Tucker's proposal, available for perusal at Borough Hall, the company notes that ''the current environment will undoubtedly increase the financing gap that typically exists in mixed-use development.'' 
 On the positive side, Tucker noted, the state Economic Recovery Act of 2009 sets up several possible financing sources for urban development projects. Assuming that this backing is available, along with long-term tax abatement, Tucker would still need to finance about $23 million, or 20 percent of the total cost of its project.
 In an interview, however, Mr. Tucker declined to discuss financial aspects, other than to note that the company is an equity fund that operates with capital investments from a number of partners.
 The Silverstein-Taubman team wrote in its summary that it would need ''the parking, land and other costs subsidized in order for the project economics to work.''
 The SJP-Demetrakis team asserted that much of its financing would come through SJP's relationship with Prudential Real Estate, a partner of SJP on numerous projects over the last 20 years.
 The Panepinto-Cheongwon summary was short on hard facts about finances, but it did definitively assert its determination to succeed in the face of hard economic times, not to mention a site with a difficult past.
 ''These are the times that try men's souls,'' it quoted Tom Paine, who famously pamphleteered about the experiences of American Revolutionary soldiers serving at Fort Lee. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BUILDING PLANS: A rendering of Hudson Lights, a mixed-use proposal for half of a 16-acre site in Fort Lee near the George Washington Bridge.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ARQUITECTONICA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MAYORS (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RETAILERS (77%); REAL ESTATE AUCTIONS (77%); TAX LAW (73%); BRIBERY (65%); TAX FRAUD (60%); JAIL SENTENCING (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009



410 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Is the Recession Over Yet? AUG. 9-15

 BODY:
THE NEWS The Federal Reserve said the recession was ending.
 BEHIND THE NEWS The central bank stopped well short of declaring victory. But it said that the downturn appears to have hit bottom and that consumer spending, financial markets and inventory building by businesses were stabilizing. Still, the Fed cautioned that the recovery would be slow and would pick up speed only gradually in 2010. Unemployment is also likely to continue to climb and remain high through the next year. The Fed's assessment comes two years after it began the first of its emergency lending programs to banks when credit markets seized up in response to the crisis in the subprime credit market. 
 THE NEWS The European economy bounced back with unexpected strength in the second quarter after contracting sharply at the beginning of the year.
 BEHIND THE NEWS The improvement put Europe roughly on par with the United States. But many economists say they expect Europe to fall behind over the next year because of lagging efforts to repair a damaged banking system in key countries like Germany, and sharply rising unemployment. Still, France and Germany, the continent's largest economy, saw their economies grow, balancing out weaker performances in Italy and Spain. Eastern Europe -- particularly in Hungary and the Baltics -- remains deeply troubled. 
 THE NEWS Russia's economy, which declined more than any major economy during the recession, appears to have stabilized, new government figures show.
 BEHIND THE NEWS The country's economy all but skidded to a halt last winter when global demand for its oil and other commodity exports dried up. Russia was also hurt as companies defaulted on debt acquired before the credit bubble burst, and as investors fled the country, in part because of the war in Georgia last summer. Still, it could have been worse. Oil prices bounced back, and Russia was able to tap some of its huge foreign currency and gold reserves.
 THE NEWS Asia appears to be on track for a recovery that would outpace those of Europe and the United States, new economic data suggests.
 BEHIND THE NEWS Economists pointed to unexpectedly good corporate earnings, new hiring and a stock market rally. Asia's export-dependent economies suffered badly when consumers and companies in the United States and Europe curtailed purchases. But governments in Asia spent heavily to lift their economies. Banks there had also avoided the complex financial instruments that hurt Western banks. Still, exports remain weak, and a downturn in the West or drop in Asia stocks could drag down the economy again. 
 THE NEWS For all the optimism that things may be improving, consumers aren't opening up their wallets yet, earnings reports from retailers showed.
 BEHIND THE NEWS Retail spending remains far below that of a year ago in virtually every category. Worse, it appears that consumers are likely to keep their wallets closed for the back-to-school shopping season, a crucial time for retailers. Economists said high unemployment and stagnant wage growth were likely to keep shoppers cautious, even if other parts of the economy begin to improve. ''Without the consumer, the economy will not have any kind of a typical recovery, and will grow very, very slowly for a long time,'' said one.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARTIN OESER/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY SERGEY PONOMAREV/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY YM YIK/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVEN SENNE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); RECESSION (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); SUBPRIME LENDING (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); CURRENCIES (73%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); CORPORATE DEBT (68%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SPAIN (79%); HUNGARY (79%); FRANCE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009



411 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; CHECK IN, CHECK OUT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: SAN FRANCISCO: The Stanford Court

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER

 BODY:
THE BASICS
 The Stanford Court would seem to have everything going for it. It's in a gorgeous old building near the top of Nob Hill. A new owner threw $34 million at it for a top-to-bottom renovation that is mostly finished. But then the economy fell to pieces, and the new owner walked away from its loan, leaving plenty of questions about the property's future. 
 THE LOCATION
 If you don't mind hills, you can walk to many notable San Francisco neighborhoods from the hotel. Chinatown, Union Square, Pacific Heights and the beloved Ferry Building (with all of its edible delights) are within strolling distance. (Nonhikers will be happy to know that three cable car lines pass the hotel, all of which have stops just steps from the main entrance.)
 THE ROOM
 A standard-issue renovation kit has emerged in recent years, ripped from the Pottery Barn catalog with various elements lifted from the W Hotels chain and middlebrow condominium decorators. It's all here at the Stanford, and there's nothing wrong with any of it. The featherbed-topped mattress, the LCD television, the robe, the LED reading lights and the yards of granite all take their requisite bows. So does the iPod-compatible clock radio, but the hotel should tell guests that the cord is hidden underneath. 
 THE BATHROOM
 I was allowed to check in early (really early; 9:30 a.m.) when I showed up at the front desk. But the handicapped room I was given -- which was all that was available -- was one the remodelers hadn't gotten to yet, as the plumbing fixtures were straight out of a school restroom. The water pressure was also horrific, just like it was after 10th-grade gym class. Renovated bathrooms, however, have marble counters and strong showers. Toiletries are laced with various fragrant edibles, including yuzu bergamot, which did not make an appearance on the hotel restaurant menu, alas. 
 AMENITIES
 The nicest lagniappe is the hotel driver willing to take you anywhere within reason, free (I tipped $5). Other hotels do this too, but at classy joints that are constantly full you can never find the guy when you want him. There were no such problems at the Stanford Court when I was in residence.
 ROOM SERVICE
 I couldn't find a phone number for room service on the room service menu (Hello!) but turned one up in the battered hotel directory (the secret extension is 1550). The lemon souffle pancakes were a solid upgrade from standard rolling-tray fare, and the pine nuts and raspberry syrup show that someone in the kitchen is thinking creatively. 
 BOTTOM LINE
 This is a paint-by-numbers renovation, and that's no insult. Marriott, which owns the Renaissance brand and is a chain known chiefly for ubiquity and blandness, could certainly do worse. The uncertainty at the ownership level, however, is disconcerting. Employees are probably wondering whether they should leave, but only the good ones will be able to find comparable jobs (leaving hotel guests less than well served). The general manager, Scott McCoy, said that average employee tenure was 22 years, and that he had high hopes all of his workers would stick around. Doubles start at $149. 
 The Stanford Court, a Renaissance Hotel, 905 California Street; (415) 989-3500; www.stanfordcourt.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A room at the Stanford Court overlooking the city. The hotel is set near the top of Nob Hill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESTAURANTS (76%); HOTEL CHAINS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (72%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (71%); LIGHT EMITTING DIODES (71%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (66%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (63%); PLUMBING SYSTEMS & FIXTURES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009



412 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1413 words

HEADLINE: 2 Killings Stoke Kashmiri Rage At Indian Force

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

DATELINE: SHOPIAN, Kashmir 

 BODY:
On a sunny late spring afternoon, Asiya and Nilofa Jan left home to tend to their family's apple orchard. Along the way they passed a gantlet of police camps wreathed in razor wire as they crossed the bridge over the ankle-deep Rambi River. 
 Little more than 12 hours later their battered bodies were found in the stream. Asiya, a 17-year-old high school student, had been badly beaten. Blood streamed from her nose and a sharp gash in her forehead. She and her 22-year-old sister-in-law, Nilofa, had been gang raped before their deaths. 
 The crime, and allegations of a bungled attempt by the local police to cover it up, set off months of sporadic street protests here in the Indian-controlled part of Kashmir. It is now the focal point for seemingly bottomless Kashmiri rage at the continuing presence of roughly 500,000 Indian security forces. The forces remain, though the violence by separatist militants whom they came here to fight in the past few years has ebbed to its lowest point in two decades. 
 ''India says Kashmir is a free part of a free country,'' said Majid Khan, a 20-year-old unemployed man who has joined the stone-throwing mobs. ''If that is so, why are we being brutalized? Why are women gang raped?''
 India and Pakistan have fought two wars over Kashmir, and the Himalayan border region remains at the heart of the 62-year rivalry between the nuclear-armed neighbors. 
 Settling the Kashmir dispute is the key to unlocking the region's tensions, something the United States hopes will eliminate Pakistan's shadowy support for militant groups and allow its army to shift attention toward fighting Taliban militants. 
 Despite Kashmiri rage and the damage to India's image, the Indian government has bridled at any outside pressure to negotiate a solution, let alone reduce its force level here. Caught in the middle are Kashmir's 10 million people. The case of Asiya and Nilofa is only the latest abuse to strike a chord with Kashmiris, who say it is emblematic of the problems of what amounts to a full-scale occupation. 
 Kashmir has its own police force, but it works in close tandem with the Indian forces here and is seen by many as virtually indistinguishable from them. Four Kashmiri officers are suspected of trying to cover up the crime. 
 Kashmiri activists and human rights groups say that rapes by men in uniform, extrajudicial killings and a lack of redress are endemic, not least because security forces are largely shielded from prosecution by laws put in place when Indian troops were battling a once-potent insurgency here. Both local and national security forces here operate with impunity, they say.
 Last summer a dispute over land for Hindu pilgrims between Kashmiris, who are mostly Muslims, and the region's Hindu administrators, set off weeks of massive demonstrations as well. 
 The question for India, Kashmiris say, is whether the huge security presence is doing more harm than good.
 ''Maybe at some point in time when the militants were in the thousands it made sense to have so many soldiers here,'' said Mehbooba Mufti, leader of a major opposition party here. ''But at this point they are not helping in any way. Their mere presence has become a source of friction.''
 Indian government officials disagree and point to statistics showing a decline in infiltration from Pakistan as proof that their tough methods have worked. 
 According to the government, 557 civilians died in 2005 in what the government calls ''terrorist'' violence in Jammu and Kashmir, which is India's full name for the area. By 2008 that number had plummeted to 91. The number of militants killed has fallen by nearly two-thirds, while the deaths of security personnel in the region have been more than halved. Where tens of thousands of armed men once roamed, government officials now estimate there are as few as 500. 
 Analysts say that other events have also played a role in reducing militancy and infiltration. Secret talks between India and Pakistan over Kashmir made progress but broke down in 2007, when Pakistan's president at the time, Pervez Musharraf, began losing his grip on power. 
 In addition, after two decades of militant separatism, in December 2008 voters ignored separatist calls for a boycott and cast ballots in huge numbers in state assembly elections. It was a hopeful sign that Kashmiris believed they could influence their destiny by peaceful means. 
 The election brought Omar Abdullah, the scion of Kashmir's most famous political family, to power as chief minister of the state. He promised to roll back the laws that shielded Indian security forces in Kashmir from oversight, and to put Kashmir's police force, rather than federal police and troops, at the forefront of securing the region. But that has not happened, and the details of the Shopian killings have fed the darkest and most personal fears of Kashmiris as the investigation into the deaths has stalled. 
 ''Who does not see their wife in Nilofa, their daughter in Asiya?'' said Abdul Rashid Dalal, who lives in Shopian. 
 Nilofa and Asiya Jan had walked to the orchard around 3:30 p.m. on Friday, May 29. When Shakeel Ahmad Ahanger, Nilofa's husband, came home at 7:30 p.m., the two had not yet returned. He went to search for them but found no trace. 
 By 9:30 p.m. he was frantic. He went to the police station, and along with several officers scoured their route, including the shallow bed of the Rambi River. The police called off the search at 2:30 a.m., urging Mr. Ahanger to return at daybreak. After his dawn prayers, he went back to the bridge with police officials. 
 ''Look, there is your wife,'' the local police chief said to Mr. Ahanger, pointing at a body lying prone on some rocks in a dry patch in the middle of the stream. 
 He rushed to her, but she was dead. Her dress had been hiked up, exposing her midriff. Her body was bruised. ''I knew immediately something very bad had happened to her,'' Mr. Ahanger said. His sister was found a mile downstream. Their bodies were taken for autopsies, but the cause of death seemed clear to residents who have longed lived in the shadow of the security forces. 
 ''Two girls disappear next to an armed camp,'' said Abdul Hamid Deva, a member of a committee of elders set up in response to the killings. ''Their bodies then mysteriously appear in a river next to the camp. It does not take much imagination to know what is likely to have happened.'' 
 Town residents gathered at the hospital for the autopsy results. Initially a doctor said the women drowned. But the crowd rejected the conclusion; the stream was barely ankle deep. Residents pelted the hospital with stones. A second team of doctors was called in. They confirmed that the women had been raped. 
 ''What was done to these women even animals could not have done,'' the gynecologist who examined the women told the crowd, weeping as she spoke, according to witnesses. 
 Two men who had been at a shop near the bridge would later tell investigators they saw a police truck parked on the bridge and heard women crying for help. 
 Initially, the chief minister, Mr. Abdullah, also told reporters that the women had drowned. Later security officials said that advisers had misinformed him. A few days later he acknowledged that the women had come to harm and appointed a commission to investigate. But investigators say that crucial evidence has been lost and that they are no closer to finding the culprits despite the arrest of four local police officers on suspicion of a cover-up.
 Kuldeep Khoda, the director general of Kashmir's police force, admitted that his forces had made mistakes. ''There is a prima facie feeling there was destruction of evidence, whether deliberate or inadvertent,'' Mr. Khoda said. ''The investigation is going on and the results of that investigation will come.''
 Indian government officials say that the security forces here are needed to head off more insurgent violence or a Pakistani invasion. ''If there would not be a war that is fought by external forces, our soldiers would not be there,'' said a senior Indian intelligence official, referring to groups in Pakistan. 
 But residents of Shopian say the security forces are the only threat. ''The only thing I can do now is hope justice will be done,'' said Mr. Ahanger, Nilofa's husband, who is struggling to care for his 2-year-old son, Suzain. ''Nobody is safe in Kashmir -- even a child, an elderly man, a young girl. Nobody is safe.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A sister of Nilofa Jan, with Nilofa's son, Suzain. Nilofa and her sister-in-law Asiya Jan were found dead this spring.
Men at the grave of Nilofa Jan, including her father, squatting. Four officers are accused of a cover-up in the case.
Signs in Shopian calling for the killers of Asiya and Nilofa Jan to be brought to justice. Both victims were also raped.
Nilofa Jan's husband, Shakeel Ahmad Ahanger, left, with Nilofa's father. Nilofa and Asiya Jan vanished on May 29.
A sister of Asiya Jan, a 17-year-old high school student who was also killed, holding Asiya's high school uniform.
 The stream where the bodies of the victims were found. The authorities initially said that the women drowned.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CANDACE FEIT)(A6) MAP: The killings touched off sporadic protests in Shopian. Map details Shopian, Kashmir.(A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); RIOTS (77%); ARMIES (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (74%); TALIBAN (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); FACIAL INJURIES (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (70%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (68%); ARMED FORCES (62%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KASHMIR (95%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (94%) ASIA (95%); INDIA (94%); PAKISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009



413 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Interns Find a Will, a Way, a Floor

BYLINE: By BOBBY ALLYN

 BODY:
JUST as New Yorkers become part of the summer patchwork on the beaches of Long Island and the Jersey Shore, another group reverse-migrates to New York City for the warm months: college interns.
 For decades, interns have served as coffee gofers in the financial district and entered data behind the walls of corporate cubicles in Midtown. 
 But this year, intern life has changed a bit. 
 It isn't clear how many interns flood the city each summer to secure professional connections and add muscle to their resumes, but many of the internships that once paid a few hundred dollars a month no longer do so. 
 The parents of some students pay thousands of dollars to secure choice positions, or help out with rent and expenses. But many interns can't rely on outside help and must invent survival tactics on the fly and take side jobs to make ends meet.
 Rahim Abulaban, 22, a Palestinian refugee now in college in Virginia, came to New York with no money, few contacts and a lot of ambition. 
 An aspiring visual artist, he jumped at the chance to work with Marc Asnin, a documentary photographer. 
 ''This was a golden opportunity,'' said Mr. Abulaban, a senior at Bridgewater College. ''I didn't want to lose it, especially the summer before I graduate.'' 
 In late May, he moved into a house in Millburn, N.J., a situation arranged by his scholarship sponsor and American mentor. The agreement was that he was to receive a free room in exchange for errand-running and cat-sitting for the homeowner, a retired doctor. Mr. Abulaban said he and the doctor had different expectations and after just 10 days, his time in New Jersey was over. 
 ''She would complain that I was feeding the cat 15 minutes late and not doing enough,'' he said. 
 With no backup plan, he came back to the city with a I'm-gonna-make-it-work-somehow attitude. But even after reaching out on the Web and contacting friends who have friends living here, he was up against the wall.
 A Muslim, he visited several mosques, hoping to find a place to stay. Each time, after evening prayers, the imam announced that a person in their midst was in need of housing, and he was given a place to stay for a couple of days. 
 That gave him the leeway to make another plan. He had a college friend who had a friend in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, who offered him a floor to sleep on for a week. Then, through a fellow intern, he found Mike Falco, a student at the Fashion Institute of Technology who lives in Bushwick and is letting him sleep rent-free on his floor. 
 Mr. Abulaban planned on moving again in mid-August to his sponsor's daughter's cousin's apartment, but that fell through, and his Bushwick floor-bed will remain his resting space until he returns to Virginia in the fall. 
 Mr. Abulaban said the relationship he has developed with Mr. Asnin has helped him keep his spirits high.
 ''I'm learning so much,'' he said. ''Listening to his conversations is valuable. He's teaching me how to be successful.'' 
 Some interns get along by teaming up to make the most economical use of room space -- blurring privacy lines but reducing monthly payments. 
 After Megan Nuttall's parents bought her plane ticket to New York City from Oregon as a graduation gift, she opened the door to her new digs in Flatbush, Brooklyn: a 9-by-12 room. And she planned to share it.
 Ms. Nuttall graduated from the University of Oregon with a B.A. in journalism and hopes of landing a job as an advertising copy writer. She accepted an unpaid position at Poke, a digital advertising agency on the Lower East Side, viewing her payless toiling as an investment in her career, an inexpensive alternative to graduate school.
 ''I needed a cheap apartment because I'm living off of savings,'' said Ms. Nuttall, 22. ''Of course, there's no guarantee, but it might lead to a job sometime.'' 
 While she was still in Oregon, she began searching Craigslist with a college classmate for a berth in New York City for under $500 a month. They hoped to share a bedroom in an apartment. But the response to their room-splitting proposal was an unwavering no.
 In June, Ms. Nuttall found a Craigslist ad offering the Flatbush room for $775 a month. It was out of her price range, but she persuaded the housemates to let her share the room with her friend.
 Now they each foot a recession-friendly rent of $387 a month. Never mind that the room is ''basically two mattresses side by side.''
 If Ms. Nuttall's pursuit of lucrative full-time employment falls flat, she will be returning to the West Coast, motivated by her finite savings and lack of health insurance. 
 In any event, she has developed useful survival skills. 
 Ms. Nuttall loads up on office snacks and is careful to always eat a big lunch, paid for by the company. She saves the leftovers for dinner, she said in an e-mail message. 
 Libby Mattern is soon to be a junior studying fashion design at Cornell University. This summer, she landed a full-time unpaid internship at Liz Claiborne.
 ''I need to make any kind of contacts,'' Ms. Mattern said. ''In fashion, nobody pays.'' 
 Living in a School of the Visual Arts dorm at Ludlow and Delancey Streets -- $1,800 a month, split three ways -- Ms. Mattern, 20, fetches garments and measures fabric 40 hours a week.
 For income, she said, she replies to about five Craigslist ''talent gig'' postings a day, with most turning out to be scams. But some are legitimate, including a casting call for ''Step Up 3-D,'' the third installment of a Disney youth dance series. She and one of her roommates, also an unpaid intern, showed up on the set and were promptly hired as extras.
 ''I got there and was immediately sent to wardrobe,'' Ms. Mattern said. ''I'm not exactly an actress or a break dancer, so I was exceptionally self-conscious about everything I was doing.'' 
 The other dancers displayed acrobatic techniques that were out of her range, so she stayed in the back of the group and moved with wary steps. ''I was probably a poor casting decision, but I think I pulled through in the clutch,'' she said.
 Each woman earned $370 after taxes.
 Frustrated with the hopelessness of the job market, she is pinching pennies. ''I tried limiting myself to $5 a day,'' Ms. Mattern said. ''It would be like coffee in the morning, peanut butter and jelly for lunch and $1 noodles for dinner.'' Her budget is now $10 a day. 
 ''It's hard living in New York,'' she said. ''Any money we earn on the side dries up as soon as we get it.'' 
 Part of Mr. Abulaban's agreement with Mike Falco was a promise to restock the pantry and pay what he can at the end of each month. His schedule and the terms of his visa have made it difficult for him to follow through. This has not affected Mr. Falco's hospitality. 
 ''Mike's really chill about it,'' Mr. Abulaban said. ''Not everyone would bring a stranger into their place. When I make the money, I'm going to pay him back. I didn't tell him that, but I definitely will.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 23, 2009

 CORRECTION:
The continuation of a cover article on Sunday about the spartan living arrangements of unpaid summer interns in New York City reversed the first two columns of type. The correct version can be found at nytimes.com/realestate.
The continuation of a cover article last Sunday about the spartan living arrangements of unpaid summer interns in New York City reversed the first two columns of type. The correct version can be found at nytimes.com/realestate.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ENTRY-LEVEL HOUSING: Rahim Abulaban, 22, a college student who wants to be a visual artist, has spent the summer on an acquaintance's floor, a rite of passage.(PHOTOGRAPH BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. RE1)
A STEP ON THE LADDER: Megan Nuttall, above, in the bedroom she and a friend rented, sight unseen, in Flatbush, Brooklyn. Libby Mattern, left, an intern at Liz Claiborne, lives with roommates in a dormitory of the School of the Visual Arts.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS Jr./THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. RE8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BEACHES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (72%); PHOTOGRAPHY (67%); VISUAL ARTS (67%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (67%); RELIGION (65%); SPONSORSHIP (64%); REFUGEES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009



414 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 231 words

HEADLINE: Darlyn Pirakitikulr, Jonathan Heckman

 BODY:
Darlyn Pirakitikulr and Jonathan Jacob Heckman were married Saturday at the Trump International Hotel and Tower in Chicago. Judge Richard A. Posner of the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit officiated. 
 The couple, both 27, met in middle school at the University of Chicago Laboratory Schools but did not begin dating until their senior year at Princeton, from which they both graduated, he summa cum laude. 
 Mrs. Heckman received a law degree from Boston University. In January she is to become an associate in the Boston office of Weil, Gotshal & Manges, the New York law firm.
 She is the daughter of Dr. Ungsana Ittemakin of Crown Point, Ind., and Pichai Pirakitikulr of Chiang Mai, Thailand. Her father is the dean of the faculty of pharmacy at Payap University in Chiang Mai. Her mother is an anesthesiologist and a partner of Anesthesiology Consultants of Indiana in Crown Point.
 In September, Mr. Heckman will become a postdoctoral research fellow in physics at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J. He received a master's and doctorate degree in physics from Harvard.
 He is the son of Lynne Pettler Heckman and James J. Heckman of Chicago. His father is a professor of economics at the University of Chicago. In 2000, he and Daniel L. McFadden shared the Nobel Prize in Economic Science for their work in econometrics and microeconomics. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMPSON WEDDING PHOTOGRAPHY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); PHYSICS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); LAWYERS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); APPEALS COURTS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); ANESTHESIOLOGY (68%); NOBEL PRIZES (67%)

COMPANY: WEIL GOTSHAL & MANGES LLP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (83%); INSTITUTE FOR ADVANCED STUDY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (91%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); THAILAND (54%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009



415 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; CHILDREN'S BOOKS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: Summer Reading Chronicle

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH DEVEREAUX

 BODY:
STRAWBERRY HILL By Mary Ann Hoberman. Illustrated by Wendy Anderson Halperin.231 pp. Little, Brown. $15.99.(Ages 8 to 12) Even if you didn't know that Mary Ann Hoberman is the current national children's poet laureate, with a shelf of distinguished picture books to her credit, you could tell from ''Strawberry Hill,'' her first novel, that you were in the hands of a seasoned writer. The restraint of her style is a tip-off that here is someone who knows how to bring detail and language into just the right balance to catch you up and pull you into the story. 
 The virtues of ''Strawberry Hill'' may not be immediately apparent from a synopsis of the plot, which is set during the Depression and follows the narrator, Allie, from the end of third grade, when her family moves from an apartment in one Connecticut city to a house in another, to the end of fourth grade. Charmed by her new address, 12 Strawberry Hill, Allie imagines a grassy incline speckled with red, juicy strawberries; she will have only to enter a little gate ''just like Alice in Wonderland'' to pick as many as she wants. The elaborate picture she conjures up feels so real to her that she is deflated when the street proves very ordinary and devoid of strawberries.
 Hoberman maintains an exquisite balance between Allie's perspective and that of the adults around her, allowing for both a child's way of thinking and a polished narration. Allie struggles with friendships and best-friendships: she'd rather spend time with Martha from next door than with Mimi from across the street, who cries easily and whose bookie father is ''always a little scary, all dressed up and fancy all the time'' -- even after Martha remains overly loyal to a classmate who calls Allie a dirty Jew. While the brush with anti-Semitism and the economic hardship of the period might separately furnish entire novels, this author keeps these issues lifelike in their proportions, so that Allie feels more upset when her mother marches her over to Martha's house and noisily tells off Martha's friend than she is by the slur itself; Allie knows her mother has ''spoiled everything.'' The shifting of fortunes in Mimi's favor doesn't punish Martha or proceed without reversals, and the impact is the greater for being measured and realistic. In the conclusion, when Mimi shows Allie that strawberries grow on Strawberry Hill after all, they feel to her like magic. Magic or not, she and Hoberman have earned them; they are the fruits of Allie's year of discovery. ELIZABETH DEVEREAUX

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: In Mary Ann Hoberman's first novel, Allie calls a friend she has met in Strawberry Hill. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); WRITERS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (77%); POETRY (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009



416 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; DVDS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1464 words

HEADLINE: Mothra Lives! Beware, New Kirk City!

BYLINE: By DAVE KEHR

 BODY:
EVEN if you don't know the Japanese director Ishiro Honda, you almost certainly know some of his offspring. They tend to be large, mostly lizardlike creatures with attitude problems and a propensity for tromping destructively through downtown Tokyo: ''Godzilla'' (1954), ''Rodan! The Flying Monster'' (1956), ''Varan the Unbelievable'' (1958), ''Mothra'' (1961), ''Ghidrah, the Three-Headed Monster'' (1964) and so on and so on, through a series of sequels, crossovers and spinoffs that continued through Honda's retirement in 1975, with ''Terror of Mechagodzilla.'' 
 Most of these movies were released in the United States in cut and dubbed versions, shown at Saturday matinees, drive-ins and on television (ceaselessly it seemed). At first these exotic imports stimulated awe and wonder in their young viewers. Later, as those viewers grew up and movie special effects became more expensive and sophisticated, the blatantly obvious spectacle of stuntmen dressed in big rubber suits rampaging through balsa-wood office blocks began to seem campy and quaint. 
 But Honda's films, particularly when seen in their uncut, Japanese-language versions (increasingly available, thanks to home video), retain a charm and earnestness that few digital age monster movies -- exemplified by the disastrous 1998 remake of ''Godzilla'' -- can approach. The persuasiveness of the special effects, creatively engineered in the great majority of Honda's films by the technician Eiji Tsuburaya was always beside the point in these pictures, which were more like marvelous puppet shows. The strings often showed, literally and figuratively, but such was the affectionate, after-school spirit of the enterprise. 
 Each of Honda's giant monsters (known as kaiju in Japan) possessed a distinct personality. They ranged from the adorably clumsy, childlike Godzilla (who would eventually grow up to be a responsible parent and defender of the Japanese nation) to the slimier, more serpentlike Ghidrah, a bad-boy juvenile delinquent whose destructive behavior often had to be reined in by good-guy monsters acting in tandem. 
 But these films weren't only innocent allegories of childhood and adolescence. Born out of the nuclear anxiety that followed World War II, Honda's early movies explicitly link their monsters to atomic testing, as do several American pictures of the same period. But unlike, say, the purely malevolent mutants of Hollywood's ''It Came From Beneath the Sea'' (1955) or ''Them!'' (1954), the kaiju are ambivalent figures, sometimes blindly destructive, sometimes friendly, effective allies. In Japan, where the American occupation ended only in 1951, these lumbering beasts seem also to reflect the complex, contradictory attitudes about the United States, the annihilating conqueror now become an inescapable partner in political rebirth and economic development.
 A new three-disc set from Sony, ''Icons of Sci-Fi: Toho Collection,'' demonstrates the wide range of attitudes found in Honda's films. The set contains both the original Japanese and the cut-and-dubbed American versions of three films: ''The H-Man'' (1958), ''Battle in Outer Space'' (1959) and ''Mothra'' (1961). Of these only ''Mothra'' can be strictly classified as a kaiju eiga (monster movie); the other two find Honda working in different genres, but bending their structures to fit his themes.
 Like the original ''Godzilla,'' both ''The H-Man'' and ''Mothra'' trace their origins to the widely reported news in 1954 that a Japanese fishing boat ventured too close to an atomic test site, and several crew members came down with radiation sickness. In ''The H-Man'' radiation sickness becomes a sort of communicable disease, spreading like a plague through the Tokyo sewers. The first victim is a burglar who melts away in the rain while trying to make a getaway.
 Instead of a science fiction adventure ''The H-Man'' takes the form of a police thriller, not unlike ''Stray Dog,'' a 1949 film on which Honda had worked as an assistant to the director, his old friend and colleague, Akira Kurosawa. The police investigation leads to a Western-style nightclub, where the vanished suspect's girlfriend is a torch singer, chanting ballads in throaty English. 
 The police are skeptical until other gangsters start going up in blue flames. Only when Japanese scientists order a complete destruction of the American club and its surrounding neighborhood (the sewers are set on fire, using Mitsubishi gasoline!) is the threat temporarily abated.
 The more optimistic science-fiction epic ''Battle in Outer Space'' imagines all the nations of Earth -- but mainly, Japan and the United States -- getting together to fight a sinister alien race that has established a base on the Moon. A body-snatching theme (one of the allied spacemen falls under alien mind control) points toward familiar cold war brainwashing obsessions: these all-purpose aliens seem to be Soviet Russia and Communist China combined, and they are up to no discernable good. 
 The aliens first annihilate New York and the Golden Gate Bridge before heading on to the real value target, Tokyo, where the Japanese Self-Defense Forces use ground-based heat rays to shoot saucers out of the sky. (American advisors look on admiringly.) The sequence powerfully suggests Pearl Harbor therapeutically turned inside out, with heroic ground gunners battling enemy aircraft. For Eiji Tsuburaya, the special effects director, this was not new territory: one of his earliest assignments was the wartime propaganda film ''The War at Sea from Hawaii to Malay'' (1942) in which he used his now familiar miniatures to recreate the Pearl Harbor attack.
 By the time of ''Mothra'' relations have worsened to the point where America appears under the (faintly medical) pseudonym ''Rolisica,'' a nation of greedy businessmen represented by a show-business entrepreneur (clearly modeled on Robert Armstrong's character in ''King Kong'') who kidnaps a pair of ''secret fairies'' from an island being used for bomb tests. The fairies -- tiny identical twins -- are drafted as the stars of a campy jungle revue staged in a Tokyo theater. 
 They use their reedy voices to summon forth the mythical protector of their native island, a giant silk worm who promptly swims to Japan and spins a cocoon in Tokyo Tower. When Mothra emerges, his first priority is to flap his giant wings over to Rolisica, where he levels the capital, New Kirk City. 
 With its fluorescent colors and exotic design ''Mothra'' is probably Honda's most profoundly folkloric film, drawing on traditions of Japanese nature gods to imagine a force superior to American economic and military strength. But Honda is no reactionary Japanese militarist. 
 ''Mothra,'' like many of Honda's films, ends with a simple and sincere moral precept, directed toward the audience: ''May all the world's peoples live together in peace and harmony!'' the repatriated fairies proclaim. And if they don't, there's always a giant lizard handy to knock them back into line. (Sony Pictures Home Entertainment, $24.96, not rated)
 ALSO OUT THIS WEEK 
 DEXTER: THE THIRD SEASON America's favorite television serial killer (Michael C. Hall) discovers he's going to become a dad in the latest season of the popular Showtime series. (Showtime/Paramount, $42.99, not rated) 
 HANNAH MONTANA: THE MOVIE Miley Cyrus stars as a simple, down-to-earth international pop phenomenon in a feature extension of the Disney Channel show. Peter Chelsom (''Hear My Song'') directed; with Billy Ray Cyrus and Emily Osment. Jeannette Catsoulis wrote in The New York Times in April, ''It's just as awesome as the TV show only bigger and prettier, and she doesn't fall down so much.'' (Disney, Blu-ray $44.99, standard definition $29.99, G) 
 PLAYTIME A dramatically improved edition of the 1967 Jacques Tati classic, now based on the full-length 70-millimeter version and featuring much better color balance. Vincent Canby, writing in The Times in 1973, called ''Playtime'' ''Tati's most brilliant film, a bracing reminder in this all-too-lazy era that films can occasionally achieve the status of art.'' (The Criterion Collection, Blu-ray $39.98, standard definition $39.95, not rated) 
 THE SIMPSONS: THE 12TH SEASON All 21 episodes from the 2000-1 season, spread over four discs. (20th Century Fox, $49.98, not rated) 
 TYSON In James Toback's documentary about the former heavyweight champion Mike Tyson, ''the filmmaker allows the fighter to have his unchallenged say to justify, condemn and contradict himself,'' A. O. Scott wrote in The Times in April. ''In exchange Mr. Tyson has enabled Mr. Toback to make his best film, which is also, paradoxically, his most personal.'' (Sony, Blu-ray $39.95, standard definition $28.96, R) 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 23, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption last Sunday with the DVD column, about the Japanese director Ishiro Honda, was published in error. The photograph showed behind-the-scenes preparations for Mr. Honda's 1961 movie ''Mothra.'' It was not a scene from the film.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A scene from ''Mothra,'' left, which draws on traditions of Japanese nature gods. Below, a scene from ''The H-Man.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SONY PICTURES HOME ENTERTAINMENT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (88%); HORROR FILMS (76%); ADOLESCENTS (73%); WORLD WAR II (60%)

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (93%)

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (93%); HMC (NYSE) (93%); 7267 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009



417 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: In the Grip Of Indecision

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON

 BODY:
PICTURE this: You are standing on the edge of a pool, trying to figure out whether to dive in -- do you or don't you?
 A few years ago, buying real estate was that simple. If you loved the place, you could buy it. If you were ambivalent, you could buy it anyway, because if you changed your mind later, you could always sell it at a profit. 
 But these days, buying a home is more psychologically demanding, fraught with conflict and confusion. Buyers and sellers need to know what they want to own, and commit to it -- a challenging task for even the steeliest New Yorkers. Nothing is ever perfect, even when you have a big budget.
 Confounding the emotional calculus is the fact that home prices could drop in the autumn -- or not. It's anybody's guess. 
 These questions, psychologists say, have left a bewildered public even more unsure about what to do this summer, no matter what the economic indicators seem to point to. ''The tipping point for many people is when they finally become exhausted by their emotions,'' said Kathleen Gurney, the chief executive of the Financial Psychology Corporation in Miami, which studies the psychology of money management. ''People will do anything to not regret how they feel.''
 For many homeowners who bought at the top of the market, admitting what now seems to have been a mistake is painful, and could keep them from selling, even though the decision may be a smart one. ''If they don't sell, they don't regret the loss,'' Dr. Gurney said. Others don't want to look dumber than their equally unfortunate friends.
 But the fact is, no one is immune to ambivalence and confusion.
 In June, Hans Tester, an actor, signed a contract to buy a one-bedroom apartment on the Upper West Side. Yet, just a few weeks later, he joined half a dozen other people in a hallway on the 14th floor of the Park Royal on West 73rd Street, waiting to see apartments for sale. He had continued to look at apartments in other buildings, worried that the deal might fall through. 
 Mr. Tester had agonized for months over whether to buy, and where. He looked at houses in Los Angeles but opted against moving there, he said, because ''in New York, I feel good, happy and centered.'' He spent hours perusing real estate Web sites and sometimes attended 10 open houses in a day. ''This is all I've thought about since October,'' he said. 
 Conflicting opinions from friends and real estate brokers have made it difficult to gauge whether he made the right decision in buying. ''Everyone is telling me prices can go down another 30 or 40 percent,'' he said. ''Others say it is time to buy.''
 Ultimately, though, when he saw a place he liked, he felt that he had to sign a contract or risk feeling worse later about having missed it. Now he feels good about the decision -- he was recently approved by the board and can quit looking.
 ''I couldn't take another day not deciding what to do,'' Mr. Tester said.
 In calculating what to own, primal concerns like job security and loss of income are more important now than price. Nearly two-thirds of New Yorkers believe that now is a good time to buy, according to a recent study of 2,000 potential buyers who responded to weekly polls conducted by the Corcoran Group on its Web site.
 But 59 percent of those buyers also said that their ability to make a purchase was based on whether they received a bonus, which is no longer a sure bet, especially for those working on Wall Street.
 But while conscious concerns about finances clearly matter, unconscious ones are at play, too. ''The herd mentality was influential in getting people to jump into the bubble, and it is the same keeping people out,'' said Mary Gresham, a clinical psychologist in Atlanta who studies personal finance issues. ''Anxiety runs through a culture just like greed.''
 Or, as Dr. Gurney put it: ''They'd rather be a part of a crowd, even a crowd of losers, than stand out.''
 Debra Bondy, a Corcoran broker who also happens to be a psychotherapist with a practice in Park Slope, Brooklyn, says she has been doing a lot of hand-holding lately for buyers and sellers as they grapple with conflicting emotions. She has also had to interpret, as much as listen to, what her clients say.
 She says that two types of real estate investors are now dominating the market: first-time buyers, and sellers who are adjusting their attitudes to market conditions.
 ''Those who have a secure sense of self and an openness to market changes are going to be the most successful,'' Ms. Bondy said. ''I can't make people do anything: I can only steer them. They have to do things in their own time. I will provide them with as much information as I can. But if they choose not to buy or sell, that is their decision.''
 Despite the available information, some people still remain paralyzed. Such was the case for Dani Gorman, the executive beauty director at Self magazine. 
 In July 2007, Ms. Gorman was ecstatic with the purchase of what she thought was a relative bargain: a one-bedroom in Midtown Manhattan for $615,000. Six months after she moved in, she met her boyfriend, Yale Pollack, who rented an apartment in Great Neck, N.Y., on Long Island.
 In November 2008 he asked her to move in with him, so she decided to sell her apartment and listed it for $649,000. But after two weeks and no buyers, she took it off the market, reasoning that the holidays were approaching. Three weeks later, Mr. Pollack proposed.
 Ms. Gorman said she regretted not lowering the sale price in November as she watched similar apartments in the same building plummet to $400,000. She called her mother for comfort. ''She told me not to do anything drastic,'' Ms. Gorman said. She approached her co-op board about subletting; the answer was no. 
 ''Please tell me what to do,'' she said she implored her fiance one night over dinner. He declined, she said, telling her he did not want to influence her decision.
 ''I thought, 'Am I going to have this apartment in Manhattan the rest of my life?' '' she said.
 Five months ago she decided to put it back on the market, for $625,000. In June, she lowered the price to $575,000, assuring a loss. This month, she lowered the price to $559,000. But her decision came down to this: she could either keep the apartment or use money from a sale to help buy something bigger for herself and her fiance.
 Buying and selling are particularly tricky for couples, whose decisions may be influenced by differing agendas and attitudes toward money.
 Dr. Gurney said she recently counseled a husband and wife who were considering buying a condominium in Florida as a second home. The wife wanted it, dazzled by the discounted $500,000 price. The husband told his wife that they couldn't afford it.
 In truth, the couple had enough money, Dr. Gurney said, but the husband was put off by the decor (whatever the price) and admitted later that he would not visit it much. The wife did not like the decor either, but hoped that having the condo would entice their children to see them more often. In fashion terms, Dr. Gurney said, the wife saw a dress on sale, while the husband saw a dress that would never fit.
 ''We talked about it and I said, 'What if he's right?' '' Dr. Gurney said. ''How are you going to feel about that? She was looking at the potential and not the reality.''
 Of course, the winds of reason will shift if the most elusive of emotions returns: consumer confidence. Already, real estate brokers say there is a barely perceptible change in attitude among some buyers and sellers. ''Maybe it is summer weather,'' Ms. Bondy said. Indeed, she has four clients with contracts to buy apartments. 
 Meanwhile, Ms. Gorman, the magazine beauty director, is still awaiting an offer. She has vowed not to remove her apartment from the market until it is sold. 
 ''I know I am taking a hit,'' Ms. Gorman said. ''But I had to make a choice: my fiance or my apartment. And I don't think I can go wrong with the decision I made.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPH BY COLEMAN/CLASSIC STOCK)(pg. RE1)
BACK AND FORTH: After much deliberation, Hans Tester bought a one-bedroom. ''I couldn't take another day not deciding,'' he says. Dani Gorman asked her fiance what to do about her unsold apartment. He wouldn't advise her.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. RE8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); HOME PRICES (74%); BUDGETS (74%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009



418 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; UNBOXED; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: The Corporate Lab As Ringmaster

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
THE Internet has changed many things, of course, but one of its more far-reaching effects has been to transform the economics of innovation.
 The nation's big corporate research and development laboratories -- at I.B.M., General Electric, Hewlett-Packard and a handful of other companies -- have their roots and rationale in the industrial era, when communication was costly, information traveled slowly and social networks were fostered at conferences and lunchrooms instead of over the Web.
 Crowdsourcing and other new, more open models of innovation are really byproducts of the low-cost communication and new networks of collaboration made possible by the Internet. 
 So, in the Internet era, what is the continuing role and comparative advantage of the corporate R.& D. lab?
 Its role will be smaller and its advantage diminished, suggests Michael Schrage, a research fellow at the Center for Digital Business at the Sloan School of Management at M.I.T. The idea-production process, according to Mr. Schrage, will continue to shift away from the centralized model epitomized by large corporate labs, going from ''proprietary innovation to populist innovation.''
 Much of traditional corporate R.& D. spending, he said, has been subsidized by profits that are increasingly under Internet-era pressures. ''The economic case for a lot of in-house R.& D. no longer makes sense,'' Mr. Schrage said.
 The best bet for corporate R.& D. labs, he said, is to adopt a ''federated'' model that leverages all the innovative work by outsiders in universities, start-ups, business partners and government labs. The corporate lab's role, then, is to be more of a coordinator and integrator of innovation, from both outside and inside the company walls.
 Though hardly alone, Hewlett-Packard has aggressively adopted that approach in the last two years, after Prith Banerjee became the senior vice president for research. Under Mr. Banerjee, former dean of engineering at the University of Illinois at Chicago, H.P. Labs has not only narrowed its focus, placing larger bets on fewer projects, but has also systematically sought outside ideas.
 H.P. now runs a yearly online contest, soliciting grant proposals from universities worldwide. The company lists eight fields in which it is seeking advanced research, and scientists suggest research projects in those fields. 
 The H.P. grants are typically about $75,000 a year, and many of the collaborative projects are intended to last three years. In June, the company announced the 61 winners from 46 universities and 12 countries, including 31 projects receiving a second year of funding. ''We are tapping the collective intelligence, selectively, of leading academics around the world,'' Mr. Banerjee said.
 Alan E. Willner, an electrical engineer at the University of Southern California, is one of those academics. He is an expert in photonics, using light photons instead of electrons to transmit information. The goal of the project with H.P. is to cut power consumption and increase data-transmission speeds between computers in data centers, and eventually even inside of chips.
 The H.P. project, he said, supports a research student, provides insights from H.P. scientists and has helped double the productivity of his research team, whose members have co-authored 21 conference and journal papers related to the project in the last year.
 Another name on all those papers is Raymond G. Beausoleil, an H.P. research fellow. The U.S.C. team, Mr. Beausoleil said, has helped fill a gap in photonics expertise in the company's research program and accelerated its progress. He noted that H.P. Labs has long worked with university professors, but that the outreach tended to be informal and ad hoc. ''Before,'' he said, ''there wasn't necessarily a mandate to collaborate.''
 Opening up is a good approach to some problems. But tight-knit teams inside corporate labs, experts say, can outshine the open model when working on multidisciplinary challenges in projects soon heading to market. 
 G.E. built up a biosciences unit, starting in 2004, to help push its diagnostic imaging technology to new commercial frontiers. Last year, G.E. and the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center developed a prototype scanner that sharply cuts the time needed to digitize images on pathology slides.
 Now, the G.E. researchers are working on the software and data analysis tools to look into such images for a deeper understanding of diseases. G.E. is collaborating with Eli Lilly and the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. But the core is a 15-person team at G.E. Research that includes computer scientists, molecular biologists, chemists and statisticians.
 ''It really helps to have the close and constant communications loops within the team, because engineers have to learn a lot of biology and biologists have to learn a lot of engineering,'' said Fiona Ginty, a bioinformatics scientist who leads the project.
 Probably more than any other company, I.B.M. has successfully reinvented its R.& D. labs over the years, analysts say. Jolted by its early-1990s tailspin, I.B.M. opened its labs to the outside world and to customers. Since the mid-'90s, it has sharply shifted its research focus toward its growth engines of software and services.
 I.B.M. is a major underwriter of open research in universities, but also collects more patents for its own use than any other company, year after year.
 The open innovation model, says John E. Kelly, senior vice president and director of research, has many advantages. But he points to several innovations that became products after originating in I.B.M. labs.
 ''You can't leave discovery completely to others and to chance,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The I.B.M. research center in Yorktown Heights, N.Y., one of the nation's big corporate research labs. Jolted by its tailspin in the 1990s, I.B.M. opened its labs to the outside world and to customers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY I.B.M.)
 Under Prith Banerjee, Hewlett-Packard's laboratories have placed larger bets on fewer projects, and have systematically sought outside ideas.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (94%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); CROWDSOURCING (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); EXECUTIVES (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (65%)

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009



419 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: The Quick Buck Just Got Quicker

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
WITH outsized and corrupting corporate pay packages under scrutiny, you might think that companies would be rushing to tamp down their compensation plans. Making sure that pay actually rewards long-term performance, for example, seems a fairly obvious way to allay shareholder fears that managers are lining their pockets rather than safeguarding their companies. 
 But a study of changes made in pay practices by 191 of the nation's largest companies this year shows that where pay is concerned, enlightenment remains a long way off. In other words, meet the new pay, same as the old. 
 The study was conducted by James F. Reda & Associates, an independent compensation consultant in New York, and it looked at proxy filings issued by almost 200 companies in the first half of 2009. The firm analyzed changes these companies made to their pay plans that take effect this year. 
 The biggest shock? Instead of seeing a greater reliance on long-term incentive programs, the Reda report found that changes in these companies' plans made short-term incentive pay a bigger part of the compensation pie. Let me say that again: The plans -- despite the calamities that short-term profiteering has visited on our economy -- made short-term incentives a bigger component of compensation.
 Last Friday, troubled financial companies relying on the taxpayers' dime had to deliver details of their top executives' compensation packages to Kenneth Feinberg, the government's so-called pay czar. It will be interesting to see whether Mr. Feinberg finds the same short-term incentive skew in those pay packages that Mr. Reda did in his study.
 ''If you were going to encourage long-term thinking and behavior, you would reduce short-term pay, but companies have in fact reduced the long-term programs,'' Mr. Reda said. ''This is counter to the direction suggested by the United States Treasury, academics and other expert advisers regarding ways to mitigate risk.''
 Another troubling finding in the Reda study was an increased use of restricted stock awards that are not performance-based. The awards simply vest over time. 
 Finally, the study found no significant decline in the use of so-called tax gross-up deals, a shareholder-unfriendly arrangement under which companies foot the bill on taxes that executives owe on their munificent pay packages.
 Changes to pay practices were common this year: about 70 percent of the analyzed companies disclosed making some shift, Mr. Reda said. Almost 60 percent of the analyzed companies made what he considered to be major changes to their pay plans. But the nature of those changes surprised him. 
 ''I was expecting that a lot of companies would be changing the payouts from cash to stock and then restricting the stock for three to five years,'' he said. ''Or paying out half of the bonus in cash and half in stock that must be held for three years. Those would be helpful changes, but I didn't see any of that.''
 Several pay policy changes showed some sensitivity to shareholder concerns about excessive compensation. For example, 43 percent of the companies making changes to their pay said they had eliminated merit increases, while 15 percent said they had reduced retirement benefits or eliminated tax gross-up payments on perquisites like insurance policies or use of jets. Some 13 percent said they froze or reduced base salaries and 4 percent reduced the benefits that would accrue to a chief executive if the company he or she oversaw changed hands. 
 Here is another plus: Some companies tightened up performance measures that must be met before incentive pay is dispensed. For example, 10 companies that changed their short-term incentive pay structures added profit or cash-flow requirements to performance pay hurdles. And in long-term performance programs, several companies added capital efficiency measures to their benchmarks. These included return on equity and return on invested capital. 
 BUT the overall message from the study, Mr. Reda said, is that in executive payland, real change comes exceedingly slowly. And pay for performance remains more mantra than practice. 
 Mr. Reda said he suspected that the increased reliance on short-term incentive pay that he found was a result of the precipitous declines in many of these companies' share prices. Indeed, he found that the greater the drop in a company's stock price, the more likely that its pay program was changed.
 There were a variety of changes made to incentive pay that wound up skewing companies' total packages toward short-term performance. First were the adjustments made to long-term incentive grants, like decreasing the value of awards or dispensing the same number of shares regardless of a decline in their value. 
 Among short-term incentive programs, some companies moved to discretionary plans, widened payout ranges or lowered performance hurdles. 
 The end result was a greater reliance over all on short-term incentive pay. And that invites riskier behavior among executives, Mr. Reda said.
 With more than 20 years of executive pay analysis under his belt, Mr. Reda can offer a historical perspective on how the mix of compensation has changed over the years. In his view, leverage in compensation -- where incentive pay far outweighs salary -- has ballooned. And the opportunity for executives to tap into that leverage has vastly increased the risk in pay plans. 
 ''Corporate America needs to deflate their compensation packages because with higher leverage comes higher risk,'' Mr. Reda said.
 Comparing today's common practices with those of his early days in the business is revealing, he said.
 ''When I first got in this business in 1987, a typical C.E.O. would have a short-term incentive opportunity of 60 percent of salary, and for the long-term, a good one would get two times salary,'' Mr. Reda said. ''If you do the math, the salary was equal to about 30 percent of the total compensation package. Today, it's about 10 percent. So over the last 20 years or so the leverage of these compensation packages has increased dramatically.''
 Compare these figures with those paid out in 2008. The typical short-term incentive pay for a chief executive was 200 percent of salary, while long-term incentives accounted for eight times salary. 
 ''In both cases the incentive pay more than tripled,'' Mr. Reda said. ''Have people changed that much in 20 years that you need to throw these huge outsized incentive bonuses at them to get them to work?''
 Come hell, high water, financial crisis or stock market collapse, the executive pay grab goes on. Clearly, if shareholders thought the economic downturn would result in more sensible pay packages, they've got another think coming. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009



420 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Reading File

 BODY:
As the World Ages, Reason to Smile
 Zoe Williams writes in The Guardian about the rising number of older people worldwide.
 This week the U.S. Census Bureau announced that, within 10 years and for the first time in history, old people will outnumber young people across the globe. They were careful not to be too judgmental about this -- there being so little we can do about it anyway -- and concentrated not on consequent problems but on the ''challenges to policymakers.'' And yet whenever this demographic shift comes up, it is presented in terms of a crisis on one hand and a burden on the other.
 Pensions are always in turmoil and dependency ratios, particularly in developed economies, are always dangerously skewed. This paper talked about the bureau having ''sounded the alarm,'' about the ''burden on carers and social services'' and ''intense pressures on individuals and families.'' But so did all the other papers: these are the terms of any discussion about an aging population -- that it represents a calamity. But what if it isn't calamitous? What if it's a good thing? ... 
 The rise in the number of the old (and, according to this report, the ''oldest old,'' classified as the over-80s) is a massive human success story: life expectancy increases because of better education, greater wealth, lower infant mortality, better healthcare, less disease, the reduction of armed conflict, and the development of technology and its application in pursuit of good. It is, frankly, insane to look at an aging population and not rejoice. Why do we even have a concept of public health, of co-operation, of sharing knowledge, if not to extend life, wherever we find it?
 Health Care's Oil Dependency
 Judith D. Schwartz writes in Miller-McCune magazine about the threat American health care faces from oil. 
 One might not imagine oil and medicine would mix, but U.S. health care relies on cheap crude in multiple ways: from petroleum-derived pharmaceuticals (including such commonly prescribed drugs as aspirin, vitamin capsules, cortisone and many antibiotics, antihistamines, medicated skin creams and psychiatric medications), catheters and syringes to running and transporting high-tech machines and time-is-of-the-essence ambulance runs. This makes for great aseptic single-use equipment and complex, even heroic, surgeries, but it also leaves our medical system highly vulnerable to any disruptions to the oil supply -- which experts say will undoubtedly happen, though no one knows exactly when. ...
 [Such a disruption] will affect all aspects of our lives, but health care is one that will get hit first, said Howard Frumkin, director of the National Center for Environmental Health, Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. He sees the risk as significant enough that in a recent Public Health Reports he and colleagues suggest professionals engage in the kind of preparedness, forecasting and scenario-building that's applied to bioterrorism threats or potential infectious disease outbreaks. 
 Hanky Panky Among China's Powerful
 Stephen Wong writes in Asia Times about the re-emergence of the concubine culture in China.
 The ancient Chinese tradition of men keeping concubines was attacked by the Communist Party when it came to power in the 1949 revolution. With its ''iron fist,'' the party under Chairman Mao Zedong also successfully weeded out other ''social evils'' such as prostitution and drugs. Bigamy is still outlawed today, at least on paper. 
 With the advent of economic modernization and capitalistic values in China, an undercurrent of sexual liberation and material decadence has also emerged, resulting in the return of concubines and an increase in extramarital infidelity. 
 For the rich and the powerful, keeping extra-marital relations has become fashionable, particularly in officialdom. It seems that from senior party and government officials to grass-roots organizers -- anyone who has access to power has access to mistresses. 
 Jon Stewart and the Neocons
 Jacob Gershman writes in New York magazine about why neoconservatives like appearing on ''The Daily Show'' with its host, Jon Stewart.
 Conservatives like Stewart because he's providing them a platform to reach an audience that usually tunes them out. And they often find that Stewart takes them more seriously than right-wing political hosts, who are often just using them to validate their broad positions, do. Stewart will poke fun, but he offers a good-faith debate on powder kegs -- torture, abortion, nuclear weapons, health care -- that explode on other networks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED KASHI/CORBIS)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY ETHAN MILLER/GETTY IMAGES FOR COMEDY CENTRAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); AGING (89%); AGING TRENDS (89%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (78%); CENSUS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (78%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (73%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (71%); STEROIDS (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (69%); MEDICAL DEVICES (69%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); DISEASE REPORTING (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (69%); ANTIBIOTICS (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (66%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (65%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (63%); VITAMIN SUPPLEMENTS (50%); INFANT MORTALITY (50%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009



421 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1507 words

HEADLINE: Mission: Rebuild a Workable City Opera

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI

 BODY:
THE stage door to the David H. Koch Theater is plastered with construction permits from New York City. ''We are doing everything absolutely by the book,'' said George Steel, as he greeted me on Monday evening for a hard-hat preview of the extensive renovations to the building, formerly the New York State Theater, at Lincoln Center.
 Mr. Steel, the general manager and artistic director of the New York City Opera, is eager to show off the round-the-clock construction site: tangible evidence, as he sees it, that the company is coming back. ''We are on a solid financial footing, and are moving swiftly on a road to revival,'' he said. 
 In February, when he took over, even those most hopeful about his potential wondered whether any manager, let alone one with so little experience in opera, could stabilize the tottering company. There was a reported debt of $15 million; staff members were demoralized; unions representing the orchestra and chorus did not know whether to dig in and hold the City Opera to its commitments or face facts and negotiate new contracts with fewer guaranteed work weeks. 
 Mr. Steel's steadiness and youthful enthusiasm (he is a boyish 43) seem to have paid off. Since he arrived, he said, some $10.5 million has been raised for various funds and future projects. Looking at the larger picture, he added, the company has in recent years raised roughly $14.5 million annually for operating costs. But even with the house dark last season and the future looking bleak, the company brought in about $12 million for fiscal year 2009, he said, calling this an ''astonishing fact.'' 
 Things could still fall apart. City Opera has had to dip into its dwindling endowment for operating expenses. And delicate negotiations are still under way with the American Guild of Musical Artists, representing the chorus, solo singers, dancers, stage managers and others.
 Mr. Steel reached an agreement with the orchestra union, which made significant concessions. ''I can't say enough how great it was to work with the committee from the orchestra,'' Mr. Steel said. ''The orchestra showed great leadership.''
 The City Opera season is scheduled to start on Nov. 5 with ''American Voices,'' a gala program of songs and choruses from American operas and musicals. Two days later comes a revival of Hugo Weisgall's formidable opera ''Esther,'' a City Opera commission that received its premiere in 1993 in a limited but enthusiastically received run. This production, the first of only five for the season, should truly reveal the artistic state of the City Opera. 
 Walking around the auditorium on Monday, dodging sparks from welders and ducking under hanging cables, I had to wonder whether construction would be finished in time for the company to move in on Oct. 20, as scheduled. The renovation of the building will eventually cost about $200 million. Some $85 million of that is being spent on this first phase. But the changes are already striking. 
 An expanded orchestra pit should be able to accommodate up to 90 players. (The old pit typically held 65, with a potential of up to 75.) A new elevator allows the pit to be adjusted: raised for a Baroque opera with a modest instrumental ensemble; lowered for a work like ''Esther,'' with its heavy scoring. The pit's floor, which used to be plywood on concrete, will now have air space underneath to enhance the resonance of the sound. There will be sleek, comfortable new seats throughout the house, covered in a fabric that absorbs less sound. And the orchestra level will have center aisles: two of them. 
 The specifics of Phase 2 are still being discussed. Straightening the curved walls on the sides of the theater to improve the acoustics is one proposal. I have been a persistent critic of the decision to install an electronic sound-enhancement system in the theater in 1999. Without commenting officially, Mr. Steel hinted that I and others who shared my opinion should be satisfied before long.
 On Mr. Steel's urging all the carpeting in the auditorium, which, inexplicably, covered almost everything -- the floors, the walls, even the handrails -- has been removed. This has already enlivened the sound in the house, Mr. Steel said, and demonstrated by clapping his hands and hooting. The sounds he made reverberated throughout the space. 
 The construction work is actually ahead of schedule, he said, so much so that additional projects were added to Phase 1, including new public restrooms and new dressing rooms for artists.
 In his office after the tour Mr. Steel held forth about the coming season and his artistic plans. If New York is to sustain two opera companies, it means that more than ever City Opera will have to distinguish itself from the Metropolitan Opera by honing its mission and affirming its identity.
 For the near future, Mr. Steel said, his chief job is to ''find the right size for the company, the correct equilibrium.'' In its most ambitious seasons the City Opera presented 16 or 17 productions, an impossible number today. 
 ''We want to make sure we present a work we believe in every night,'' he said. How many would be ideal in a season? Maybe 10, he said, though at this point he could not say for sure.
 Nothing better conveys Mr. Steel's vision than the decision to present ''Esther'' as his first staged production. During his tenure as executive director of the Miller Theater at Columbia University, Mr. Steel was an innovative presenter of contemporary music. He was attracted to City Opera partly because of its historic commitment to new work. With the ''Esther'' revival he continues that tradition. Who should champion this work if not the company that commissioned it?
 Weisgall, who died in 1997 at 84, was an unapologetic modernist during a period of backlash against complex, atonal compositional idioms. Though his language was gritty and demanding, he had an innate feeling for drama. His tough musical voice exudes theatrical vitality. Based on the biblical story of the Persian queen Esther, who thwarts a plan by the evil prime minister Haman to exterminate the Jews, ''Esther'' was the last of Weisgall's 12 operas, and arguably his masterpiece.
 The basic elements of the 1993 City Opera production, a simple yet effective staging, are usable. The costumes have been remade, and there will be computer-generated video images to replace the earlier projections. The original director, Christopher Mattaliano, is returning, along with the original star, the soprano Lauren Flanigan, who triumphed in the title role.
 Even in this limited season Mr. Steel wanted to present a standard in a new production with a strong point of view. He approached the director Christopher Alden, ''whose work I love,'' Mr. Steel said, and ''it took about three minutes for us to settle on 'Don Giovanni.' ''
 Singing the title role will be the bass-baritone Daniel Okulitch, who starred last year in the Los Angeles Opera's American premiere production of ''The Fly,'' by the composer Howard Shore, best known for his work in film. Mr. Shore's opera received fairly dismal reviews, but Mr. Okulitch's courageous portrayal of the obsessed scientist Seth Brundle was warmly praised. His voice, if not large, was elegant and wistful. 
 Mr. Steel is a huge fan of Emmanuel Chabrier, whose theater works are grossly neglected, he said. So he is reviving a Mark Lamos production of Chabrier's 1877 comic opera ''L'Etoile,'' one of the best-kept secrets of the 19th century, a harmonically rich and refined score revered by Debussy and Stravinsky.
 Mr. Lamos's beautifully austere production of Puccini's ''MadamaButterfly,'' which won an Emmy Award for the City Opera when it was broadcast on public television last year, is also returning. Finally there will be a revival of Handel's ''Partenope,'' a Francisco Negrin production. Over the last 20 years the City Opera has become a go-to place for Handel. Mr. Steel, as passionate about early music as he is about contemporary, intends to maintain this strand of the company's mission.
 Like President Obama, another newcomer to a tough job in a time of crisis, Mr. Steel has been trying to look forward and not dwell on the mistakes of his predecessors. But to concerned admirers of the City Opera, Susan L. Baker, the company's embattled chairwoman, has much to answer for. 
 I still maintain that recruiting Gerard Mortier to run City Opera was an intriguing, if risky, idea. Mr. Mortier's vision of transforming the company into an institution rooted in 20th-century repertory had merit. He wanted a yearly budget of $60 million to carry out that vision. Even though City Opera had never raised much more than $40 million per season, Ms. Baker promised to meet his demands. Once the economy failed, Mr. Mortier hastily withdrew, leaving the company reeling.
 That Mr. Steel, an adventurer by nature, has been forced to restart the City Opera modestly may be a saving grace, assuming that the reopening goes as planned. Right now that looks like a pretty good assumption.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 23, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about George Steel, the general manager and artistic director of the New York City Opera, misidentified the company that commissioned ''Esther,'' which City Opera is performing this fall. It was the San Francisco Opera, not City Opera. (After the San Francisco Opera dropped the project, City Opera resuscitated it and gave ''Esther'' its world premiere in 1993.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: George Steel, left, will try to put New York City Opera back on solid footing. The season will feature Hugo Weisgall's ''Esther.'' It had its premiere at City Opera in 1993 with Lauren Flanigan, above, who will return in the title role. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RENe PEREZ
 CAROL ROSEGG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); THEATER (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); OPERA (89%); BUILDING PERMITS (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (76%); DANCE (73%); DANCERS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009



422 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1426 words

HEADLINE: On the Mat, Florida Wonders Which Way Is Up

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
-- The men trickling into a golf course clubhouse outside Fort Myers, Fla., had come to pray and study Bible verses that would help them become rugged, confident, adventurous. But their faces, reflected in the room's frosted mirrors, showed only worry. More than half said they had been laid off, nearly all from jobs tied to real estate. 
 ''We need something different,'' said Norman Baldie, 54, a real estate agent in Lehigh Acres. ''This community is all bent out of shape.'' 
 Ever since the 1920s Florida has been cast as the place people go to escape contemplation, not to indulge in it. But in the past year, from Pensacola to Miami Beach, Floridians have been soul searching. And for good reason. The state's decades-long binge on real estate has given way to empty homes in rich and poor neighborhoods alike. Hundreds of thousands of jobs have vanished, empty stores are everywhere and even golf courses are shutting down. 
 Once again, Florida -- where frugality gave way to indulgence after World War II, where the drug war took garish form, and where a divisive post-election recount in 2000 altered the country's political direction -- is magnifying a moment of national redefinition. 
 ''There is a psychological edge in being at ground zero in the bust,'' said Carl Hiaasen, the well-known chronicler of Florida in newspaper columns and novels like ''Strip Tease.'' ''There is a sense of we're not going under, we've got to do something.''
 And yet if the Sunshine State is a larger-than-life reflection of where the country is heading, then the nation is still stuck, scared and uncertain of how far it wants to stray from the status quo. My travels through Florida make clear that -- despite the urge to see recovery in improved housing sales -- the costs of recent real estate mistakes continue to be severe. Change was often discussed during the 2008 election and after the financial meltdown, but Florida these days often resembles the character played by its native son Mickey Rourke in ''The Wrestler'': a broken-down piece of meat, damaged and sincere, but a little too messed up to drop familiar habits.
 Real estate and fast money, after all, have defined this peninsula since the '20s, when empty lots of swamp could be flipped for a profit between martinis. Florida has generally relied far more on growth than its counterparts: in 2004 and 2005, housing construction's share of the state economy was close to twice the national average, according to the Bureau of Economic and Business Research at the University of Florida.
 Weaknesses in the approach emerged quietly, even before the bust, as overdevelopment and rising costs started pushing people away. Some were ''halfbacks'' -- retirees originally from the North who ventured ''halfway back'' to Georgia or the Carolinas -- but young families fled, too. In 2005, Broward County lost 1,756 students, in a district that thought nothing of adding 10,969 in 2001. Since 2004, enough parents have left to shrink the student body by 6 percent.
 ''They tell me that when they moved in, it was different place,'' said Stephanie Kraft, a member of the Broward County School Board. ''They're seeing it change, they're seeing it go to hell and they're abandoning it.''
 Real estate agents and builders maintain that the Florida Dream can be revived, without fundamental change. Gary Hunter, a state lobbyist for several large developers, said, ''We still have sunshine, we still have the largest coastline in the United States, we still have no state income tax.'' Echoing the view of builders, he said developers had in recent years only been responding to demand and had nothing to be sorry for.
 Still, it took Miami about eight years to recover from the building craze of the 1980s, said Andrea Heuson, a finance professor at the University of Miami. And the current collapse has affected more of the state. 
 It is a mess of immense volume: In the first six months of this year, 268,064 properties in Florida received a foreclosure filing, up nearly 42 percent from the first half of 2008, making it the second worst state in total foreclosures nationwide behind California. And for those convinced that recent, positive sales figures signal a brisk recovery, consider this: foreclosures outpaced sales of houses and condos in the same period (99,010) by a factor of nearly three. If every home in Boston received a foreclosure notice, the total would still be less than Florida's. 
 Here in Miami -- the city Norman Mailerdescribed as ''materialism baking in the sun'' -- looking up brings enlightenment. Nearly 23,000 new condominiums have been added downtown since 2003, and while sales have increased recently, many buildings still contain far more granite countertops than people.
 Reaction to these ghost worlds can be funny: ''Depressionism: inexpensive art for tough times,'' read a sign at an outdoor art fair on Lincoln Road, in Miami Beach. And it can be angry, like the spray-painted message in a half-built home in Lehigh Acres that said ''Kill the rich.'' 
 Either way, it amounts to a wake-up call. ''For a lot of people, Florida is a place for land scams and deals,'' said Damon Shelor, president of the largest local citizens group in Lehigh Acres. ''Well, we've got to get rid of that.''
 Mr. Shelor, an agriculture consultant and political independent, has given it his best shot by trying to create a cohesive community from little more than an amalgamation of homes. He pushed last year for Lehigh Acres to approve incorporation so the town of roughly 60,000 could hire a mayor, and its own police force. But voters shot it down. They feared higher taxes.
 Then, in February, Mr. Shelor and his neighbors wrote a letter to President Obama, asking for stimulus help when he visited the area to announce parts of his economic plan. There were rumors that he would visit.
 But the president never came. Lehigh Acres is still dominated by a main drag with shuttered construction companies, including one named ''American Dream,'' while the budget of its fire department may soon be cut by more than a third because of declining property tax revenue.
 Mr. Shelor and his neighbors say they want ''industry'' to save them, perhaps biotech or anything stable and disconnected from real estate. It is an emotional plea more than a proposal, echoing from Key West to Tallahassee.
 Gov. Charlie Crist acknowledged the problem in an interview: ''Imagine a state where the dominant part of the economy is automobiles as it is in Michigan. That puts them in a difficult spot, just as real estate does for Florida.''
 Actually changing, as opposed to recognizing the problem, has been harder to do. Last month, Governor Crist, a Republican, signed a growth management bill that made it easier for builders to add new construction in more populated areas, without expanding roads or dealing with regional planning boards.
 He did this -- arguing that it would help the economy -- even though 300,000 residential units in Florida sat empty at the time, and 630,000 new ones are in the pipeline; even though a growing body of research from academics like Christopher Leinberger at the University of Michigan suggests that communities with looser land use regulations suffer more severe booms and busts.
 Mr. Hunter, the development lobbyist, praised the new law for directing growth away from rural areas, where the environmental costs are greater, but critics say its definition of ''urban'' is so broad that it creates a new incentive for suburban sprawl.
 Gary Mormino, a historian at the University of South Florida since the '70s, said the state has yet to grasp its limits. ''We're going to have to think about new shifts in thinking,'' he said, ''new ways of urban living.''
 But for now, few see it happening. The federal stimulus plan has brought only $505 per person to Florida, which ranks last among the 50 states, according to an analysis by The Palm Beach Post.
 Meanwhile work, the real measure of recovery, keeps disappearing. Unemployment in Florida is now at 10.6 percent, nearly a full point higher than when President Obama visited in February.
 Mr. Hiaasen, who has treated the state to a mix of tenderness, satire and cynicism in his novels, said he doubted that the desire for change among many Floridians would ever be fulfilled -- especially if a recovery lulls people back to complacency.
 ''We need to do something bold, we need to do something radical,'' he said, adding: ''Everything is going to be O.K., but not if we do it the same way.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BOOM TO BUST: Miami Beach, like much of Florida, prospered when real estate values climbed. Today, many condominiums are vacant.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX QUESADA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); GOLF (90%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); WORLD WAR II (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (90%); PENSACOLA, FL, USA (77%) FLORIDA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009



423 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1569 words

HEADLINE: 'Mad Men' Crashes Woodstock's Birthday

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
IN our 24/7 mediasphere, this weekend's misty Woodstock commemorations must share the screen with Americans screaming bloody murder at town hall meetings. It's a vivid reminder that what most endures from America, 1969, is not the peace-and-love flower-power bacchanal of Woodstock legend but a certain style of political rage. The angry white folk shouting down their congressmen might be -- literally in some cases -- those angry white students whose protests disrupted campuses before and after the Woodstock interlude of summer vacation '69. 
 The most historically resonant television event this weekend, however, may be none of the above. Sunday night is the premiere of the third season of ''Mad Men,'' the AMC series about a fictional Madison Avenue ad agency in the early 1960s. The first episode is to be simulcast in Times Square after a costume party where fans can parade their retro wardrobes. This promotional event is Woodstock, corporate style, with martinis instead of marijuana, Sinatra instead of Shankar and narrow ties supplanting the tie-dyed. 
 Woodstock's 40th anniversary is being celebrated as well -- with new books, a new documentary, a new Ang Lee movie and the inevitable remastered DVDs and CDs. But it's ''Mad Men'' that has the pulse of our moment. Though the show unfolds in an earlier America than Woodstock, it seems of far more recent vintage, for better and for worse.
 As many boomers have noted, Woodstock's nirvana was a one-of-a-kind, one-weekend wonder anyway, not the utopia of subsequent myth. It wasn't even meant to be free; in the chaos, the crowds overwhelmed and overran the ticket sellers. That concept of ''free'' -- known to some adults as ''theft'' -- persists today in the downloading of ''free'' music, which has decimated the recording industry far more effectively than brown acid ever did.
 Even in Woodstock's immediate aftermath, there was no consensus on its meaning. A Times editorial titled ''Nightmare in the Catskills'' saw ''a nightmare of mud and stagnation'' and asked rhetorically, ''What kind of culture is it that can produce so colossal a mess?'' Time magazine, surprisingly, was more sympathetic. ''It is an open question,'' the writer intoned, ''whether some as yet unknown politician could exploit the deep emotions of today's youth to build a politics of ecstasy.'' Actually, both proved wrong. Woodstock was no apocalypse, but neither was it a political turning point. Nixon would be re-elected in 1972, and the only politician with a touch of ecstasy, Robert Kennedy, had already been murdered.
 Ten years later, a New Yorker cartoon depicted a Woodstock reunion as a buttoned-down yuppie cocktail party, not a hippie love-in. By then, the '60s counterculture had been completely commodified. Today a Woodstock couldn't exist without corporate sponsorship; in fact this weekend's planned 40th-anniversary concert was canceled for lack of one. Any large-scale youth ''community'' would be virtual, on Facebook and Twitter, and so might some of the sex. Only pot remains eternal.
 That the early '60s of ''Mad Men'' seems more contemporary than the late '60s of Woodstock has little to do with the earlier period's style or culture in any case (however superior the clothes). The rock giants of Woodstock remain exponentially more popular than Vic Damone and Perry Como, the forgotten crooners heard in ''Mad Men.'' The repressive racial and sexual order of Sterling Cooper, the show's fictional ad agency, is also a relic, in part because of the revolutions that accelerated in the Woodstock era. The misogyny, racism and homophobia practiced in the executive suites of ''Mad Men'' are hardly extinct -- and neither are the cigarettes that most of the characters chain-smoke -- but they are in various stages of remission.
 What makes the show powerful is not nostalgia for an America that few want to bring back -- where women were most valued as sex objects or subservient housewives, where blacks were, at best, second-class citizens, and where the hedonistic guzzling of gas and gin went unquestioned. Rather, it's our identification with an America that, for all its serious differences with our own, shares our growing anxiety about the prospect of cataclysmic change. ''Mad Men'' is about the dawn of a new era, and we, too, are at such a dawn. And we are uncertain and worried about what comes next.
 In his new book ''1959: The Year Everything Changed,'' Fred Kaplan writes about the forces that were roiling America in the year before ''Mad Men'' begins. It was in 1959 that Berry Gordy founded Motown, that G. D. Searle applied to the F.D.A. for approval of the birth-control pill, and that Texas Instruments announced the advent of the microchip. The year began with a Soviet technological triumph, the launching of the spacecraft Lunik I, and ended with an embarrassing capitalist fiasco, Ford Motor's yanking of the ignominious Edsel. Along the way the first two American soldiers were killed in South Vietnam. ''By the end of 1959,'' Kaplan writes, ''all the elements were in place for the upheavals of the subsequent decades.''
 The first season of ''Mad Men'' was set in 1960. This season -- and there will be no spoilers here -- opens in 1963. That's the year of Beatlemania's first sightings, of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s march on Washington and, of course, of gunfire in Dallas. Bruce Handy sums it up in the current Vanity Fair: ''As in Hitchcock, the characters are unaware of shocks that the audience knows all too well lie ahead, whether they be the Kennedy assassination and women's lib or long sideburns and the lasting influence of Doyle Dane Bernbach's witty, self-deprecating 'lemon' ad for Volkswagen.'' 
 What we don't know is how the characters will be rocked by these changes. But we're reasonably certain it won't be pretty. That's where the drama is, and it's tense.
 In the world of television, ''Mad Men'' is notorious for drawing great press and modest audiences. This could be the season when the viewers catch up, in part because the show is catching up to the level of anxiety we feel in 2009. In the first two seasons, the series was promoted with the slogan ''Where the Truth Lies.'' This year, it's ''The World's Gone Mad.'' The ad hyping the season premiere depicts the impeccably dressed Don Draper, the agency executive played by Jon Hamm, sitting in his office calmly smoking a Lucky Strike as floodwater rises to his waist.
 To be underwater -- well, many Americans know what that's like right now. But we are also at that 1963-like pivot point of our history, with a new young president unlike any we've seen before, and with the promise of a new frontier whose boundaries are a mystery. Something is happening here, as Bob Dylan framed this mood the last time around, but you don't know what it is. We feel Don Draper's disorientation as his once rock-solid '50s America starts to be swept away. We recognize his fear that the world could go mad.
 It's through this prism we might re-examine the raucous town hall eruptions this month. Even if they are inflated by activist organizations and cable-TV overexposure, they still cannot be dismissed entirely as made-for-media phenomena made-to-measure to fill the August news vacuum. Nor are they necessarily about health care. The twisted distortions about ''death panels'' and federal conspiracies ''to pull the plug on grandma'' are just too unhinged from the reality of any actual legislation. These bogus fears are psychological proxies for bigger traumas.
 ''It's the economy, the facts that millions of people have lost their jobs and millions of others are afraid of losing theirs,'' theorizes one heckled senator, Arlen Specter. That's surely part of it. So is fear of more home foreclosures and credit card bankruptcies. So is fear of China, whose economic ascension stands in stark contrast to the collapse of traditional American industries from automobiles to newspapers. So is fear of Barack Obama, whose political ascension dramatizes the coming demographic order that will relegate whites to the American minority. In our uncharted new frontier, even the most reliable fixture for a half-century of American public life, the Kennedy family, is crumbling.
 These anxieties coalesce in various permutations right, left and center. In most cases they don't surface in the explosions we're seeing at these town hall meetings but in the kind of quiet desperation that afflicts Don Draper and his cohort in ''Mad Men.'' But this summer's explosions are also in keeping with 1963.
 The political rage at the young, liberal Kennedy administration in some quarters that year was rabid and ominous. When Adlai Stevenson, then ambassador to the United Nations, spoke in Dallas that October, jeering zealots spat on him and struck him with a picketer's placard. Stevenson advised Kennedy against traveling there. Dallas rushed to draft a new city ordinance restricting protesters' movements at lawful assemblies and passed it on Nov. 18. We need not watch ''Mad Men'' to learn how that turned out. 
 Oh, to be back in the idyllic summer of 1969, when the biggest sin committed by the rebellious mobs at Woodstock was getting stoned. Something else is happening here in our anxious summer of 2009, when instead of flower-power and free love there are reports of death threats and fanatics packing guns. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (75%); EVENT MARKETING (75%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); WRITERS (73%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (70%); RECORD INDUSTRY (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (70%); TICKET SALES (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (72%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Mad Men (TV Program); 1959: The Year Everything Changed (Book); Mad Men (TV Program); 1959: The Year Everything Changed (Book)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009



424 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: The Little Economy That Couldn't

BYLINE: By HARRY HURT III

 BODY:
THERE is a relatively new expression in global financial circles: ''going Iceland.''
 It's not an invitation to foreign tourists to enjoy a vacation on the island known for its geysers, glaciers and legendary Viking heritage. Rather, as Asgeir Jonsson explains, it denotes the sudden economic collapse of an entire country, a tale that larger nations might do well to heed. 
 Mr. Jonsson details Iceland's extraordinary roller-coaster ride from rags to riches and back to rags in his fascinating, if often frustratingly arcane, book, ''Why Iceland? How One of the World's Smallest Countries Became the Meltdown's Biggest Casualty'' (McGraw-Hill, $22.95). 
 Mr. Jonsson says Iceland's plunge was not caused by criminality or bad luck, and he makes his case with a store of insider knowledge. A native Icelander and the author of several books about Icelandic history and economics, he is head of research and chief economist at Kaupthing Bank, which as the largest bank in Iceland was a central figure in the crisis.
 Mr. Jonsson devotes the first half of the book to a recounting of the nation's history and its rapid-fire evolution into a modern banking power. The main theme is a recurrent swing between an extreme geographic, cultural and geopolitical isolation and an apparently contradictory, equally extreme openness. 
 ''Iceland was the creation of cosmopolitans, Norse chieftains who roamed through the Atlantic and even into the Mediterranean,'' Mr. Jonsson notes. ''These were confident, risk-taking adventurists that conducted daring raids on hostile territories. On the other hand, they were also refugees, and deeply suspicious of any foreign authority.''
 For more than 1,000 years, Iceland remained, as Mr. Jonsson puts it, ''frozen in time,'' having a land mass the size of Kentucky, an economy based on farming and fishing, and a language all its own. 
 But the author says Icelanders ''refuse to acknowledge that the small size of their nation could ever be a hindrance to their ambition.'' He describes them as full of ''unbounded confidence and zealous drive'' but hobbled by ''a lack of critical thinking and precaution.''
 All of these traits came starkly into play during the 1990s, when a generation of Icelanders born between 1966 and 1976 set their sights on transforming their country into a global financial center. Mr. Jonsson's own Kaupthing Bank was among a handful of major players in this game; it was a commercial bank, an investment bank, a private equity firm and a hedge fund.
 In order to grow, Kaupthing bankers had to find opportunities overseas. Iceland's central bank didn't have the regulatory authority of the Federal Reserve of the United States. And lacking a ''lender of last resort,'' Mr. Jonsson says, Icelandic banks had to rely on international wholesale credit markets for financing.
 Before everything fell apart, Kaupthing and rival institutions like Landsbanki and Glitnir built a financial empire worth -- at least on paper -- 10 times their country's gross domestic product. The wealth of the average Icelandic family also increased. 
 In October 2008, just days after the fall of Lehman Brothers, the Icelandic house of cards toppled. The collapse was caused by a sudden loss of confidence by foreign financial institutions and hedge funds. Investors stampeded to sell their stakes and/or short the Icelandic krona.
 Mr. Jonsson says the Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank and the Bank of England refused to rescue the Icelandic banks with emergency loans. Kaupthing, Glitnir and Landsbanki went into receivership, many nonbank Icelandic companies were effectively bankrupted and thousands of average citizens lost their life savings. 
 The humiliated Icelandic government ultimately accepted a $6 billion bailout package from the International Monetary Fund.
 According to Mr. Jonsson, about 95 percent of the Icelandic banking system, including his employer, Kaupthing, is now under state control. 
 He says the nation, which has a population of about 300,000, is torn between trying to recapture ''ephemeral international glory'' by joining the European Union and returning ''to the old Iceland, contained in a natural, resource-based economy.''
 Mr. Jonsson warns that in the meantime, Britain and Switzerland may be setting themselves up for financial crisis. He says that both have relatively small populations, ''large internationally exposed banking sectors,'' ''a currency that is not a global reserve currency'' and ''limited fiscal capacities.'' 
 ''WHY ICELAND?'' is a provocative, urgently important case study in international finance, but it is marred by the fact that the prose sometimes degenerates into macroeconomic-speak that may be incomprehensible to the general reader. 
 ''The quotas were maintained for assets with risk that ran idiosyncratic to the international financial market,'' the book says at one point, ''and thus incrementally decreased the total risk of their portfolio adjusted for return.''
 Mr. Jonsson also stops short of applying the lessons of Icelandic banking to the United States -- which, of course, has a large population, the Fed and a global reserve currency. But our government has lately become a major stakeholder in some of our biggest banks and corporations. If the rest of the world suddenly loses confidence in our faith and credit, will America still be fiscally strong enough to avoid ''going Iceland?'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HISTORY (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); WRITERS (75%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (67%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (61%); PRIVATE EQUITY (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: ARION BANK HF (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ICELAND (98%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Why Iceland? How One of the World's Smallest Countries Became the Meltdown's Biggest Casualty (Book); Why Iceland? How One of the World's Smallest Countries Became the Meltdown's Biggest Casualty (Book)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009



425 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: A Dispute Over a River Basin Is Pitting Atlanta Against Its Neighbors

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN

DATELINE: ATLANTA 

 BODY:
The residents of the economic engine of the South, as they like to call this comparatively gleaming and rapidly expanding state capital, have always suspected that they are the objects of resentment from their more rural neighbors. 
 Now they are certain of it.
A recent court defeat has left Atlanta howling that its enemies, including Alabama and Florida, are trying to choke off the city's prosperity, if not out of sheer spite then at least the misguided notion that jobs and money would flow to them instead. The conflict is the timeworn rural-versus-urban enmity writ large, a battle over water that has pitted Atlanta against its neighbors in and out of Georgia. 
 ''The only motivation is political,'' Charles Krautler, the director of the Atlanta Regional Commission, said of the fight. ''We don't have as good of spin doctors as they do. It's easy to point the finger at big bad Atlanta.'' 
 Ostensibly, the war among the three states is about a river basin that supplies the taps of 3.5 million people in metropolitan Atlanta before it flows down the Alabama-Georgia state line and into the Florida Panhandle. Each state says the others are demanding too much water. But many experts say there is no actual scarcity -- the system, managed properly, could meet the needs of users along the Apalachicola, Chattahoochee and Flint Rivers, including power companies, farmers and oystermen.
 Still, the three states have spent nearly 20 years battling over the allocation of the water. And now, no matter their motive, Alabama and Florida have the law squarely on their side. On July 17, Judge Paul A. Magnuson of Federal District Court agreed with their argument that supplying water to Atlanta was not an authorized use of Lake Sidney Lanier, the federal reservoir northeast of the city at the headwaters of the river basin.
 For decades, Judge Magnuson ruled, the Army Corps of Engineers had illegally managed the Buford Dam, which created the lake beginning in 1956, to provide the Atlanta region with drinking water. He said Congress built the dam only for navigation, flood control and hydropower. The 97-page ruling largely faults the corps for overstepping its authority but also suggests that Georgia knew for decades that Congressional approval was needed.
 Govs. Charlie Crist of Florida and Bob Riley of Alabama, both Republicans, hailed the decision. 
 ''Atlanta has based its growth on the idea that it could take whatever water it wanted, whenever it wanted it, and that the downstream states would simply have to make do with less,'' Mr. Riley said. 
 After the court's ruling, he added, ''this massive illegal water grab will be coming to an end.''
 Alabama officials say that they are not trying to prevent Atlanta from growing but that they want the city to pay for the infrastructure that growth requires. In 1948, the mayor of Atlanta declined to contribute money to the construction of the Lake Lanier dam, arguing that the city would not need the water. 
 Atlanta has responded with a major public relations offensive, painting the city as a good steward that has carried out a water plan, treats its sewage until it is drinkable and, during the recent drought, put conservation measures in place when downstream users did not. (Environmentalists concede these points but say that they are half-hearted at best and that the metropolitan area could save millions of gallons through more aggressive conservation.)
 Gov. Sonny Perdue of Georgia, a Republican who is not normally an Atlanta ally in intrastate battles over rural and urban priorities, has recently begun to defend its water use. Mr. Perdue cites figures showing that the city's net water use is less than 1 percent of the river basin's water flow when it reaches the Florida-Georgia border. At that point in the basin, the minimum water flow maintained by the corps is 5,000 cubic feet per second, compared with 750 in Atlanta.
 Mr. Perdue argues that the real goal of Florida, in suing for more water under the Endangered Species Act, is to protect the fishing industry in the Apalachicola Bay. And he says that while Alabama has argued for better navigation, it really wants water to cool power plants. Neither goal is an authorized use of Lake Lanier, and neither, Atlantans say, is as crucial as their own needs.
 ''What happens in metro Atlanta and Georgia doesn't hurt either of those states,'' said Pat Stevens, chief of the environmental planning division for the Atlanta Regional Council, blaming Georgia's opponents for the many failed efforts at negotiations over the years. ''But if their goal is to hurt metro Atlanta and Georgia, they could achieve that. I always just thought they never had a reason to come to an agreement.''
 If that is true, they have less reason now. 
 Judge Magnuson did not order the spigots shut off immediately, nor did he say that the system could never be used for drinking water. Instead, he said he would allow three years for the corps to receive approval from Congress to use the lake for that purpose.
 Several members of Congress have said they will not act unless the three states make a deal. But Georgia's hand is now far weaker than it was before the ruling. 
 ''Why didn't they go to Congress for approval 20 years ago?'' asked Sally Bethea, executive director of the Upper Chattahoochee Riverkeeper, an environmental organization. ''It was obvious that this was a gamble to say well, the corps gave it to us so we get to keep all this water. There's no insurance policy in that.''
 Instead of taking a conciliatory approach, though, Mr. Perdue has vowed to ''fight to the death,'' accused his opponents of hypocrisy and pointedly brought up a 150-year-old Supreme Court decision declaring the Chattahoochee River to be on Georgia's side of the state line. Mr. Perdue is hoping to find allies among other states where reservoirs built for other purposes are used for drinking water.
 The governor has also talked about building reservoirs and is planning to appeal the decision, although even his allies say a successful appeal is unlikely.
 Mr. Riley has engaged in theatrics of his own. When Mr. Perdue appointed Mike Garrett, the chief executive officer of Georgia Power, to work with Congress on the water issue, Mr. Riley warned the power company's parent, Southern Company, to stay neutral. He did not mention that Alabama Power, another subsidiary of Southern Company, has been a party to the lawsuit for years.
 Seeking Congressional authorization would be a tricky matter for Georgia, whose delegation is outflanked by Alabama and Florida combined, both in size and influence, though all three states are led by Republicans and lack firepower in the Democratic leadership that controls Congress. 
 Representative John Lewis, a Democrat from Atlanta and the senior member of the Georgia delegation, said members of Congress would become more involved in negotiations among the states. ''It would be our hope,'' Mr. Lewis said, ''that the three states and the members of Congress from the three states would work it out, and if not we will take it up at the Congressional level.''
 One of Mr. Perdue's goals, meanwhile, is to go back to the negotiating table. To show his enthusiasm, on July 30 he sent a letter, which he made public, to Governors Crist and Riley, listing 40 possible dates for a meeting. 
 They are both still reviewing their schedules. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Boats sitting in mud slips in the reservoir Lake Sidney Lanier northeast of Atlanta in 2007, during Georgia's worst drought in nearly a century. (pg. A12)
In July, a federal judge sided with an argument by Alabama and Florida that supplying water to Atlanta was not an authorized use of Lake Lanier.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS RANK/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(pg. A14) MAP: Tristate Fight on Water: A federal court judge has ruled that Atlanta-area residents cannot rely on Lake Sidney Lanier as their primary source of drinking water. Alabama and Florida have long argued that Atlanta's withdrawal from the lake does not leave enough water for downstream users of the Apalachicola-Chattahoochee-Flint Basin.(Sources: Army Corps of Engineers
 United States District Court, Middle District of Florida)(MAP BY HAEYOUN PARK/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIVERS (90%); WATER RIGHTS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (75%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); LAKES (72%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (70%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (70%); ARMIES (69%); APPROVALS (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); FLOOD CONTROL (61%); ENGINEERING (61%)

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%)

PERSON: BOB RILEY (56%); CHARLIE CRIST (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (95%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



426 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 4912 words

HEADLINE: The Predictor

BYLINE: By CLIVE THOMPSON. 
Clive Thompson, a contributing writer for the magazine, writes frequently about technology.

 BODY:
Is Iran going to build a bomb? 
 Many people wonder, but Bruce Bueno de Mesquita claims to have the answer.
 Bueno de Mesquita is one of the world's most prominent applied game theorists. A professor at New York University and a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford, he is well known academically for his work on ''political survival,'' or how leaders build coalitions to stay in power. But among national-security types and corporate decision makers, he is even better known for his prognostications. For 29 years, Bueno de Mesquita has been developing and honing a computer model that predicts the outcome of any situation in which parties can be described as trying to persuade or coerce one another. Since the early 1980s, C.I.A. officials have hired him to perform more than a thousand predictions; a study by the C.I.A., now declassified, found that Bueno de Mesquita's predictions ''hit the bull's-eye'' twice as often as its own analysts did. 
 Last year, Bueno de Mesquita decided to forecast whether Iran would build a nuclear bomb. With the help of his undergraduate class at N.Y.U., he researched the primary power brokers inside and outside the country -- anyone with a stake in Iran's nuclear future. Once he had the information he needed, he fed it into his computer model and had an answer in a few minutes.
 In June, I visited Bueno de Mesquita at his San Francisco home to see the results. A tall man with a slab of gray hair, Bueno de Mesquita, who is 62, welcomed me with painstakingly prepared cups of espresso. Then he pulled out his beat-up I.B.M. laptop -- so old that the lettering on the A, S, D and E keys was worn off -- and showed me a spreadsheet that summarized Iran's future.
 The spreadsheet included almost 90 players. Some were people, like the Iranian president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, and Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei; others were groups, like the U.N. Security Council and Iran's ''religious radicals.'' Next to each player, a number represented one variable in Bueno de Mesquita's model: the extent to which a player wanted Iran to have the ability to make nuclear weapons. The scale went from 0 to 200, with 0 being ''no nuclear capacity at all'' and 200 representing a test of a nuclear missile.
 At the beginning of the simulation, the positions were what you would expect. The United States and Israel and most of Europe wanted Iran to have virtually no nuclear capacity, so their preferred outcomes were close to zero. In contrast, the Iranian hard-liners were aggressive. ''This is not only 'Build a bomb,' '' Bueno de Mesquita said, characterizing their position. ''It's probably: 'We should test a bomb.' ''
 But as the computer model ran forward in time, through 2009 and into 2010, positions shifted. American and Israeli national-security players grudgingly accepted that they could tolerate Iran having some civilian nuclear-energy capacity. Ahmadinejad, Khamenei and the religious radicals wavered; then, as the model reached our present day, their power -- another variable in Bueno de Mesquita's model -- sagged significantly.
 Amid the thousands of rows on the spreadsheet, there's one called Forecast. It consists of a single number that represents the most likely consensus of all the players. It begins at 160 -- bomb-making territory -- but by next year settles at 118, where it doesn't move much. ''That's the outcome,'' Bueno de Mesquita said confidently, tapping the screen.
 What does 118 mean? It means that Iran won't make a nuclear bomb. By early 2010, according to the forecast, Iran will be at the brink of developing one, but then it will stop and go no further. If this computer model is right, all the dire portents we've seen in recent months -- the brutal crackdown on protesters, the dubious confessions, Khamenei's accusations of American subterfuge -- are masking a tectonic shift. The moderates are winning, even if we cannot see that yet.
 Could this possibly be what will happen? Certainly Bueno de Mesquita has his critics, who argue that the proprietary software he uses can't be trusted and may cast doubt on the larger enterprise of making predictions. But he has published a large number of startlingly precise predictions that turned out to be accurate, many of them in peer-reviewed academic journals. For example, five years before Ayatollah Khomeini died in 1989, Bueno de Mesquita predicted in the journal PS that Khomeini would be succeeded by Ali Khamenei (which he was), who himself would be succeeded by a then-less-well-known cleric named Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani (which he may well be). Last year, he forecast when President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan would be forced out of office and was accurate to within a month. In ''The Predictioneer's Game,'' a book coming out next month that was written for a popular audience, Bueno de Mesquita offers dozens more stories of his forecasts. And as for Iran's bomb?
 In a year, he said with a wide grin, we'll know if he's right.
 ''I'm not an Iran expert,'' Bueno de Mesquita told me cheerfully as we walked down his tree-lined street on our way to grab some Burmese food. Indeed, his career has been built on a peculiar concept: If you want to predict political events, wisdom and expertise, deep knowledge of a country's culture and history, aren't enough. To forecast the future, you need to be an expert not in statecraft but in the way individual people make decisions. You need ''rational actor'' game theory.
 Bueno de Mesquita began studying political science in the 1960s. While working on his dissertation at the University of Michigan on parliamentary politics in India, a professor assigned him William H. Riker's book ''The Theory of Political Coalitions,'' one of the first works to apply game theory to politics. Game theory is a branch of mathematics that studies the way people will behave in strategic situations -- that is to say, when they're making decisions based on how they think other people will make decisions. Generally, game theory assumes that people are always rational and selfish; they're always angling to get what's best for them, which means their behavior can often be predicted. One famous application of rational-choice theory that particularly intrigued Bueno de Mesquita was Duncan Black's analysis of ''committee voting,'' which argues that if two rival candidates are trying to get elected on a single issue -- say, taxes -- they'll inevitably shift their positions toward the median voter.
 Bueno de Mesquita was enthralled by the idea of rendering the messy business of politics and history into precise, logical equations. He began his signature academic work on ''the selectorate,'' or the group of actors who run a country. In Bueno de Mesquita's worldview, there is no such thing as a ''national interest'' (or ''state''). There are just leaders trying desperately to stay in power by building coalitions within their selectorate -- buying off cronies in the case of a dictatorship, for example, or producing enough good works to keep hoi polloi happy in a democracy.
 When Bueno de Mesquita spotted a logical error in one of Riker's books, he wrote the author a letter; Riker offered Bueno de Mesquita a job in 1972 at the University of Rochester, where a new generation of political scientists was starting to apply formal mathematical models to political analysis.
 That's where Bueno de Mesquita began programming his computer model. It is based loosely on Black's voter theory, and it works like this: To predict how leaders will behave in a conflict, Bueno de Mesquita starts with a specific prediction he wants to make, then interviews four or five experts who know the situation well. He identifies the stakeholders who will exert pressure on the outcome (typically 20 or 30 players) and gets the experts to assign values to the stakeholders in four categories: What outcome do the players want? How hard will they work to get it? How much clout can they exert on others? How firm is their resolve? Each value is expressed as a number on its own arbitrary scale, like 0 to 200. (Sometimes Bueno de Mesquita skips the experts, simply reads newspaper and journal articles and generates his own list of players and numbers.) For example, in the case of Iran's bomb, Bueno de Mesquita set Ahmadinejad's preferred outcome at 180 and, on a scale of 0 to 100, his desire to get it at 90, his power at 5 and his resolve at 90.
 Then the math begins, some of which is surprisingly simple. If you merely sort the players according to how badly they want a bomb and how much support they have among others, you will end up with a reasonably good prediction. But the other variables enable the computer model to perform much more complicated assessments. In essence, it looks for possible groupings of players who would be willing to shift their positions toward one another if they thought that doing so would be to their advantage. The model begins by working out the average position of all the players -- the ''middle ground'' that exerts a gravitational force on the whole negotiation. Then it compares each player with every other player, estimating whether one will be able to persuade or coerce the others to move toward its position, based on the power, resolve and positioning of everyone else. (Power isn't everything. If the most powerful player is on the fringe of an issue, and a cluster of less-powerful players are closer to the middle, they might exert greater influence.) After estimating how much or how little each player might budge, the software recalculates the middle ground, which shifts as the players move. A ''round'' is over; the software repeats the process, round after round. The game ends when players no longer move very much from round to round -- this indicates they have compromised as much as they ever will. At that point, assuming no player with veto power had refused to compromise, the final average middle-ground position of all the players is the result -- the official prediction of how the issue will resolve itself. (Bueno de Mesquita does not express his forecasts in probabilistic terms; he says an event will transpire or it won't.)
 The computer model, in short, predicts coalitions. And computers are much better at doing this than humans, because with more than a few players the number of possible coalitions quickly multiplies. With 40 players, the typical size of one of Bueno de Mesquita's forecasts, there are 1,560 possible pairs to consider just for starters. This is why, he says, his model often produces surprising results. It's not that it is smarter than humans. But it methodically works through not only the obvious coalitions we know about and expect but also the invisible ones that we don't.
 For Bueno de Mesquita, the first prominent use of the model came in 1979, when the State Department was canvassing academics with expertise on India, including Bueno de Mesquita, to see how some parliamentary maneuverings would unfold. Bueno de Mesquita decided to use his first version of the software (which was, as he puts it, ''barely working'') and his own knowledge of India to determine the power players and each of their numbers. Then the university's mainframe computer worked on the data all night.
 In the morning, Bueno de Mesquita said, he was astonished: the predicted victor was a seemingly minor figure, someone discounted by the experts. Bueno de Mesquita shared their opinion, he told me, but he accepted the computer's verdict anyway. ''So I called the person back at the State Department, and told him what I had concluded,'' Bueno de Mesquita went on. ''And there was a long, quiet period and some laughing. He said: 'How did you arrive at that? Nobody's saying that.' So I told him I had a little computer model. He just guffawed. He said, 'I wouldn't repeat that if I were you.' ''
 Three months later, according to Bueno de Mesquita, his prediction turned out to be right.
 The son of Jewish immigrants who arrived from Brussels during World War II, Bueno de Mesquita grew up in Manhattan, where his father ran a small publishing company and his mother managed a women's clothing shop. He went to Queens College when he was 16 -- ''way too young,'' he says -- and read history and literature voraciously. (Bueno de Mesquita spent years researching and writing a short novel that defends Ebenezer Scrooge as a kindhearted man.) ''He is one the most remarkably intelligent human beings I've met in my life, and Bruce does not hesitate to tell you that,'' Kevin Gaynor, an environmental lawyer who has twice hired Bueno de Mesquita to advise his corporate clients on ''extremely sensitive'' government negotiations, told me half-jokingly. ''He's not self-effacing. But he's not self-effacing in a charming way.'' Bueno de Mesquita's voluminous academic work -- he has published 16 books and more than 100 papers -- is credited with helping to move game theory and mathematical modeling into the mainstream of political science; according to one count, by 1999 fully 40 percent of papers in the American Political Science Review used modeling. (The figure was so high it prompted deep consternation among non-game-theory political scientists.) While few perform the consulting work he does, other game theorists have produced models very similar to Bueno de Mesquita's, and he actively promotes his technique, including training N.Y.U. undergraduates to do similar predictions.) He spends half the year at N.Y.U., where he recently finished a four-year stint as the chairman of the political-science department, and half the year at the Hoover Institution at Stanford. Under the terms of his academic contracts, he is permitted to spend one day per week during the academic year doing outside consulting.
 It is this consulting, more than his academic work, that has made Bueno de Mesquita both well off and controversial. He began offering predictions to the private sector in 1982, when A.F.K. Organski, a former professor of his, suggested they go into business using Bueno de Mesquita's model. Business negotiations, they reasoned, were like international relations in that they involved players trying to wheedle and coerce one another. Soon Bueno de Mesquita and Organski (who died in 1998) acquired clients ranging from Arthur Andersen to Union Carbide, which tapped them for advice on placating the Indian government after the Bhopal chemical spill. Today Bueno de Mesquita's firm essentially consists of himself and Harry Roundell, a former banker at J. P. Morgan who met Bueno de Mesquita when Roundell hired him in 1995 to help the bank figure out how to push for new, favorable regulations in the U.S. They charge $50,000 and up to do a prediction and offer negotiating tips, and they take on 18 to 20 of these assignments a year. Beyond saying it was ''a reasonable amount of money,'' Bueno de Mesquita would not describe his income from the company.
 To produce a corporate prediction, Roundell and Bueno de Mesquita determine the numerical values of the players in a negotiation by interviewing a firm's executives. This can take anywhere from a few hours on the phone to two days of face-to-face conversations. Both men conduct the interviews, and Bueno de Mesquita enters the information into a spreadsheet.
 The real value of Bueno de Mesquita's work, several clients told me, is not only in his predicting how a corporate event might unfold. It is also in figuring out how to influence that event. Because Bueno de Mesquita's model forecasts the future by calculating the impact every player has on every other player, round by round, Bueno de Mesquita can go back and see when some players suddenly become more flexible midway through a negotiation. He can thus perform ''what if'' experiments: What if that person could be persuaded to change his mind? He'll enter new values into the model, manually changing that player's position, then run it again to see if this change recasts the future to his client's advantage. If it does, Bueno de Mesquita now has a piece of advice: focus on that player in real life, and try to influence him. If there are dozens of players and dozens of rounds, the number of possible ''what if'' scenarios becomes enormous: it can take Bueno de Mesquita days of peering at his spreadsheets to identify useful pressure points.
 One of Bueno de Mesquita's most prominent public consultations occurred in 1999, when Richard Lapthorne, then the vice chairman of British Aerospace, asked him to help engineer a $10 billion acquisition. The British government wanted British Aerospace to form a pan-European firm by merging with the German firm DASA and the French giant Aerospatiale; British Aerospace, however, was more interested in trying to buy the British electronics giant Marconi Electronic Systems. To persuade the British government to approve the Marconi deal, Lapthorne asked Bueno de Mesquita to predict the viability of mergers between the German and French firms. The model forecast that the three firms would never be able to agree on terms, and that the Marconi deal was the better option; when Bueno de Mesquita showed his analysis to the government heads, they agreed to permit the Marconi acquisition. ''There's nothing shimmy shammy or flip-flop about it,'' Lapthorne says of the logical nature of Bueno de Mesquita's prediction. ''It's very clear where the information came from. It has intellectual rigor.'' Lapthorne is now chairman of the U.K. telecommunications company Cable and Wireless; he has used Bueno de Mesquita for seven predictions since, though he would not disclose the subjects.
 It is difficult to verify how accurately Bueno de Mesquita's model performs in corporate settings because most firms are loath to discuss his work for them. For most of the cases we discussed, Bueno de Mesquita would disclose details of the negotiation but wouldn't name the firms in question. In other cases, clients would talk to me and praise Bueno de Mesquita's work for them, but they would not disclose verifiable details of specific negotiations. There were a few exceptions: Robert F. Kelley, a retired former partner of Arthur Andersen, described using Bueno de Mesquita for ''60 or 70'' cases, ranging from internal firing decisions to figuring out how to persuade the U.S. to support China's entry into the World Trade Organization. (Bueno de Mesquita also offered to use his software to predict which of Arthur Andersen's clients -- including, at the time, Enron -- were likely to engage in financial fraud. But the firm's lawyers, Bueno de Mesquita says, didn't want to use the tool for fear it would put them in awkward legal positions. ''Had I been able to convince the firm'' to use the model, Kelley says, ''I think that Andersen would be alive today.'')
 Bueno de Mesquita's most regular client by far has been the C.I.A. He says he has performed more than 1,200 predictions for the agency, tackling questions like ''How fully will France participate in the Strategic Defense Initiative?'' and ''What policy will Beijing adopt toward Taiwan's role in the Asian Development Bank?'' In 1987, Stanley Feder, a research political scientist for the C.I.A., published a report analyzing forecasts that Bueno de Mesquita's firm did of political events in 27 countries; he found that the success rate of its predictions was the same as that of the C.I.A.'s own analysts, only more precise. (He ''got the bull's-eye twice as often,'' Feder wrote in his report, which was declassified in 1993. No other reports have been declassified since.) Feder noted, for example, that Bueno de Mesquita's model predicted in a forecast done of Italy's budget one year a specific figure that turned out to be off by only 1 percent; the C.I.A. method would predict just a deficit.
 Those who have watched Bueno de Mesquita in action call him an extremely astute observer of people. He needs to be: when conducting his fact-gathering interviews, he must detect when the experts know what they're talking about and when they don't. The computer's advantage over humans is its ability to spy unseen coalitions, but this works only when the relative positions of each player are described accurately in the first place. ''Garbage in, garbage out,'' Bueno de Mesquita notes. Bueno de Mesquita begins each interview by sitting quietly -- ''in a slightly closed-up manner,'' as Lapthorne told me -- but as soon as an interviewee expresses doubt or contradicts himself, Bueno de Mesquita instantly asks for clarification.
 ''His ability to pick up on body language, to pick up on vocal intonation, to remember what people said and challenge them in nonthreatening ways -- he's a master at it,'' says Rose McDermott, a political-science professor at Brown who has watched Bueno de Mesquita conduct interviews. She says she thinks his emotional intelligence, along with his ability to listen, is his true gift, not his mathematical smarts. ''The thing is, he doesn't think that's his gift,'' McDermott says. ''He thinks it's the model. I think the model is, I'm sure, brilliant. But lots of other people are good at math. His gift is in interviewing. I've said that flat out to him, and he's said, 'Well, anyone can do interviews.' But they can't.''
 You might expect Bueno de Mesquita to be the toast of both Washington and Wall Street, constantly in demand for prognostications. Yet he and Roundell have found that it is not so easy to attract clients. This is partly because most of their clients -- especially the C.I.A. -- swear them to secrecy. (And perhaps also because, as Roundell says, ''Bruce and I are . . . terrible salespeople.'') But they have also faced a barrier that's almost existential, a skepticism that computer models can truly predict the outcome of negotiations. The C.I.A., for example, built its own replica of Bueno de Mesquita's original forecast model, but as Feder noted in his report, ''the vast majority of analysts'' didn't use it because it seemed too rigid. They thought of analysis as reading and pondering until they had an aha! moment -- not feeding data points into a computer model and waiting to see what comes up.
 When we spoke, Bueno de Mesquita often seemed irritated by resistance to his work. For all his gifts of intuition, he has a Spocklike disdain for gut instinct. When he occasionally hires colleagues to help him with a complex bit of corporate work, he sternly warns them that they must refrain from expressing any personal opinions and describe only what they see in the spreadsheets. Bueno de Mesquita habitually and hissingly disparages traditional political analysis. He is savvy enough to know that nobody likes a scold, yet he can't help himself; he sheepishly admits to becoming ''confrontational'' when people think mathematical reasoning can't be used. At the C.I.A., Feder told me, ''there were some people who found him arrogant, which was maybe a reasonable reaction.''
 Donald Green, a political scientist at Yale, questions whether Bueno de Mesquita is serving the discipline well. ''When I see clips of Bruce at the TED conference,'' he says, referring to the annual conference promoting ideas in technology, entertainment and design, ''I watch the video and I think, Wow, this is so far from the typical way in which political scientists of any stripe behave.'' Some political scientists are openly dubious about the accuracy of Bueno de Mesquita's model. Stephen Walt, a Harvardprofessor of international affairs, says that Bueno de Mesquita's nonprediction work -- like his theory of the ''political survival'' of heads of state -- make him a ''respected scholar, deservedly so.'' It's the predictions that Walt doesn't trust, because Bueno de Mesquita does not publish the actual computer code of his model. (Bueno de Mesquita cannot do so because his former firm owns the actual code, but he counters that he has outlined the math behind his model in enough academic papers and books for anyone to replicate something close to his work.) While Bueno de Mesquita has published many predictions in academic journals, the vast majority of his forecasts have been done in secret for corporate or government clients, where no independent academics can verify them. ''We have no idea if he's right 9 times out of 10, or 9 times out of a hundred, or 9 times out of a thousand,'' Walt says. Walt also isn't impressed by Stanley Feder's C.I.A. study showing Bueno de Mesquita's 90 percent hit rate. ''It's one midlevel C.I.A. bureaucrat saying, 'This was a useful tool,' '' Walt says. ''It's not like he's got Brent Scowcroft saying, 'Back in the Bush administration, we didn't make a decision without consulting Bueno de Mesquita.' '' Other academics point out that rational-actor theory has come under increasing criticism in recent years, as more evidence accumulates that people make many decisions irrationally.
 And it's true that there have been cases when Bueno de Mesquita's model has gone awry. In his 1996 book, ''Red Flag Over Hong Kong,'' he predicted that the press in Hong Kong ''will become largely a tool of the state'' -- a highly debatable claim today. (In 2006, Reporters Without Borders noted concerns about self-censorship but said that ''journalists remain free in Hong Kong.'') In early 1993, a corporate client asked him to forecast whether the Clinton administration's health care plan would pass, and he said it would.
 What's more, with corporate clients in particular, there's always the potential problem of reflexivity, of the prediction itself influencing events and making it hard to evaluate the prediction's value. Suppose a firm is told a merger will fail, for example, and abandons its merger efforts. Was the prediction accurate or a self-fulfilling prophecy?
 Spending time with Bueno de Mesquita is alternately alarming and reassuring, because he has such confidence in his own predictions about our global fate. Like many, he believes the future of Pakistan is ''incredibly distressing'' right now, but he has reached this conclusion in his own way: when he and his students modeled its future last year, the power of Al Qaeda and the Taliban in that region grew quickly throughout 2009, far outstripping that of the government and military. Global warming is another area where politics are doomed to fail. World governments are set to meet this December in Copenhagen to commit to firm CO2-reduction levels -- but when Bueno de Mesquita modeled the future of these targets, most countries renege on them. No democratic government will seriously limit CO2 if it will hurt its citizens economically.
 ''When people are asked to make personal sacrifices for the greater good in the longer term, they seem to find 1,001 reasons why their particular behavior is so virtuous that this one particular deviation is really O.K.,'' Bueno de Mesquita told me recently as we talked in his home office. '' 'I have to drive an S.U.V. because I want to protect my little children from a car accident!' ''
 Yet Bueno de Mesquita remains cheerful, almost unnervingly so. Years of peering at his model have shown him that conflicts almost always have hidden solutions -- places where the computer illuminates the sort of leverage that could be employed to create a sudden, useful countercoalition. For example, with Pakistan, his model showed that if the U.S. merely doubled its annual aid from $700 million to $1.5 billion, America's influence in the country would significantly jump, while the militants' would drop drastically. Why? Because with that sort of financial flow, corrupt rural officials would suddenly profit more from helping the U.S. than from helping the Taliban.
 In the short term, though, Bueno de Mesquita's reputation will be colored by Iran. The last time we met, it was two weeks after the Iranian election, and the opposition protests had been quashed. The hard-liners, I noted, seemed to be winning -- did this mean that the prediction was wrong? ''The street movement is running out of steam,'' Bueno de Mesquita agreed. ''Shooting people does act as an effective deterrent.'' But he still maintained that his model was likely to prevail, and that domestic coalitions we might not detect from abroad are gathering to overwhelm the religious conservatives.
 He spent that morning looking over his Iranian data, and he generated a new chart predicting how the dissidents' power would grow over the next few months. In terms of power, one category -- students -- would surpass Ahmadinejad during the summer, and by September or October their clout would rival that of Khamenei, the supreme leader. ''And that's huge!'' Bueno de Mesquita said excitedly. ''If that's right, it's huge!'' He said he believed that Iran's domestic politics would remain quiet over the summer, then he thought they'd ''really perk up again'' by the fall.
 Bueno de Mesquita also approved of Obama's hands-off approach. Bueno de Mesquita ran an experimental version of his Iranian model without the U.S. in it as a player at all, and the coalitions that oppose Ahmadinejad and the bomb emerge a few months more quickly. In other words, American meddling is indeed counterproductive; the less America tries to influence Iran, the more quickly Iran will abandon nuclear weapons, if the logic of the computer is correct.
 It's a fascinating analysis, but, I wonder, has he given it to anyone in the State Department? He laughed. ''I'm working on access.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM SCHIERLITZ)(pg. MM21) DRAWINGS (DRAWING BY TED MCGRATH)(pg. MM23)
(DRAWING BY CHRIS SILAS NEAL (LEFT) AND GRADY MCFERRIN)(pg. MM24)
 (pg. MM25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HOOVER INSTITUTION ON WAR REVOLUTION & PEACE (58%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (58%); ALI KHAMENEI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009



427 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 209 words

HEADLINE: Laugh Lines

 BODY:
CONAN O'BRIEN
 President Obama has been explaining his health-care plan now to senior citizens. And yesterday, at a town hall meeting, he promised the crowd that he will not, quote, ''pull the plug on Grandma.'' Then, there was an awkward moment when Grandpa stood up and booed. 
 A company in Michigan is trying to make Americans healthier by sending out ice cream trucks stocked only with fruits and vegetables. It's not going so well, because all the trucks have been turned over and burned by angry, fat kids.
 JIMMY FALLON
 During his town hall meeting in New Hampshire yesterday, President Obama tried to make a point about private companies and the government providing the same services. He said U.P.S. and FedEx are doing just fine; it's the Post Office that's always having problems. That's probably going to anger some postal workers but what's the worst that could happen?
 During his weekly radio address, Obama said we've finally begun to put the brakes on this recession, which is good news. Unfortunately, the brakes were built by General Motors.
 Regis Philbin's back in prime time, hosting 11 new episodes of ''Who Wants To Be a Millionaire.'' But because of Obama's tax plan, it's been re-titled ''Who Wants To Win Just Under $250,000.''

GRAPHIC: CARTOONS (CARTOONS BY Pat Oliphant/Universal Press Syndicate
Steve Breen/San Diego Union-Tribune, Creators Syndicate
 Nick Anderson/Houston Chronicle, Washington Post Writers Group) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (71%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); REGIS PHILBIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009



428 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 153 words

HEADLINE: A Cap-And-Trade Detour

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 N. Gregory Mankiw's observation about the cap-and-trade system as envisioned by Barack Obama as a presidential candidate, versus what's now likely to come out of Congress, was well taken (''A Missed Opportunity on Climate Change,'' Economic View, Aug. 9). 
 Candidate Obama's plan to sell carbon credits, instead of giving many of them away, would have yielded a windfall to the government. In theory, the government could have used that money for tax cuts to offset higher energy costs for consumers.
 In the real world, however, it is hard to imagine that such a windfall would be returned to taxpayers, and easy to imagine that the current administration would use it for other spending. Even if there were an attempt to cut overall taxes, it would be impossible, both politically and economically, to compensate people in proportion to their actual burden. Michael Weiss
 Woodland Hills, Calif., Aug. 9

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (88%); TAX LAW (88%); CARBON OFFSETS (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009



429 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: Hillary Clinton and the Diplomacy of Folksy

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN

DATELINE: SANTA MARIA, Cape Verde 

 BODY:
-- Think of it as Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton's informational interview of Africa. Eleven days, seven countries of friendly, engaging, edifying talk -- but with no urgent American interest on the line. There were no nukes to stop; no peace deal to start; no young American women to free (Bill Clinton's shadow loomed large from the moment Mrs. Clinton's plane took off).
 More than anything, the African safari she finished last week was about her and her emerging style as secretary of state. She stuffed her days with what felt like a dozen events, a blur of high-level meetings, roundtable discussions and ''townterviews'' (more on that later). She seemed engaged throughout it all, scribbling in her notebooks like a dutiful student during meetings, keeping a straight, earnest face even when one Nigerian religious leader told her he was ''constipated with ideas.'' 
 ''Condi would never do this,'' whispered one of Mrs. Clinton's aides during yet another sweaty town hall meeting. Neither, probably, would Colin Powell. Or Madeleine Albright. Or Henry Kissinger. Or just about any other secretary of state, a job that in the past seemed to go to people who didn't like to smile much. 
 But Mrs. Clinton is different. She's a recovering politician, with First Lady tendencies. And a celebrity in her own right. She can't resist the rope line even when it's in a South African housing project teaming with glassy-eyed men and her secret service agents are practically shouting into their cufflinks. Her style is to go heavy on the politics, heavy on the policy, but mix in some real people as well.
 ''Diplomacy is not just carried out by diplomats,'' she said in her farewell-for-now speech from Cape Verde.
 Ironically, it was one of these softer, Oprah-style moments that did her in. ''My husband is not the secretary of state, I am,'' Mrs. Clinton snapped, after a Congolese student at a town hall meeting (also sometimes called a ''townterview'') asked what Mr. Clinton thought about an issue. That snippy -- but totally inconsequential -- comment, grabbed more attention that anything else she said or did in Africa. Congo may be burning. Trouble may be brewing in Kenya. Liberia may be heroically emerging from gruesome circus to model democracy. But in the end, Africa isn't so interesting to most Americans. Hillary Clinton still is.
 These trips have their own lingo, I learned, as part of the traveling press corps assigned to chronicle every speech, handshake and hug. ''Bi-lats'' are bilateral meetings. ''Meet-n-greets'' are visits to American embassies. ''Camera sprays'' are essentially photo opportunities, usually staged and no questions allowed, and ''spray'' can be used as a noun, as in, ''there's a camera spray at 2 p.m. with President X'' or as a verb -- ''come on guys, time to spray the lunch.'' The secret service on her plane refer to their M-4 assault rifles as their ''sticks.'' The secretary of state is called ''the package.''
 Traveling with this package was like covering a presidential campaign -- but 10 times more exhausting. The press corps are steerage at the back of the plane, the only ones in economy seats (the rest are business-class and Mrs. Clinton has her own bedroom on board). It was a telling statement which media organizations could still afford to spring for the trip: among them, The Wall Street Journal, Bloomberg, Fox News and yes, Vogue (she's got a shot at the cover, but probably not until late fall). 
 Often, we were herded around like goats. ''Move! Move ! Move!'' her handlers would yell. The secret service were the least of our worries. It was the 20-something aides in charge of babysitting the 30-something and 40-something reporters. Many times they literally pushed us into the press van, Japanese subway style. They said it was their job. 
 The aides were experts at the camera spray. In eastern Congo, we needed to use two planes to land at a small airport and Mrs. Clinton's plane circled in the air for 15 minutes so journalists could land first, set up their cameras and get the arrival shot of her, the first secretary of state to swoop into Congo's conflict zone, despite the fact this very area has been a killing field since the mid-1990s. 
 In Liberia, though, she missed a great opportunity: Her motorcade drove right past a muddy soccer field where all the players were on crutches and had one leg. It was an amputee soccer game, a spirited match between war-injured men who refused to give up. Bill would have definitely jumped out and charged across the field to commune. Had Mrs. Clinton, that might have been the enduring image of her Africa trip, not the irritated response in Congo.
 But the convoy moved on, through the lashing Liberian rain. It's strange to be in Africa in a bubble. I live in Kenya. I know how it can take two hours to get from the American embassy in Nairobi to the airport. But when the Kenyan government shuts down the main highway for Mrs. Clinton's motorcade, voila!, it takes only 16 minutes. That day, as we raced to the airport in our air-conditioned vans, we passed thousands of Kenyans lining the road. These people weren't waiting to wave goodbye. They were stuck in traffic. We looked at them and they looked at us, separated by glass and speed and unable to share even a word. In a way, it was like being in Africa without any Africans. Even most of the big-time hotels we stayed at had windows that didn't open, denying us that distinctive African pleasure that might have jolted us back to reality: catching a whiff of woodsmoke.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 23, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton's 11-day, seven-country tour of Africa referred incorrectly to the American government security agents responsible for protecting her during this trip and other foreign travels. They are from the State Department's Bureau of Diplomatic Security -- not the United States Secret Service, which protected her as first lady and continues to provide protection for her as a former first lady when she is at home and on non-official business.
 Because of an editing error, the article also carried an incorrect dateline. The article was filed from Santa Maria, Cape Verde -- not Casa Verde.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ACROSS AFRICA: Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton commemorated the bombing of the United States embassy in Nairobi, Kenya.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NOOR KHAMIS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); RELIGION (53%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BILL CLINTON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAIROBI, KENYA (58%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFRICA (94%); KENYA (93%); CAPE VERDE (92%); LIBERIA (79%); NIGERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009



430 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Turns to Radio Stations and Cellphones to Counter Taliban's Propaganda

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Obama administration is establishing a new unit within the State Department for countering militant propaganda in Afghanistan and Pakistan, engaging more fully than ever in a war of words and ideas that it acknowledges the United States has been losing.
 Proposals are being considered to give the team up to $150 million a year to spend on local FM radio stations, to counter illegal militant broadcasting, and on expanded cellphone service across Afghanistan and Pakistan. The project would step up the training of local journalists and help produce audio and video programming, as well as pamphlets, posters and CDs denigrating militants and their messages. 
 Senior officials say they consider the counterpropaganda mission to be vital to the war.
 ''Concurrent with the insurgency is an information war,'' said Richard C. Holbrooke, the special representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan, who will direct the effort. ''We are losing that war.
 ''The Taliban have unrestricted, unchallenged access to the radio, which is the main means of communication,'' he added. ''We can't succeed, however you define success, if we cede the airways to people who present themselves as false messengers of a prophet, which is what they do. And we need to combat it.''
 The team he is putting together is the latest entry into the government's effort to direct the flow of information in support of American policy. The campaign is scattered throughout the bureaucracy and the military, variously named public affairs, public diplomacy, strategic communications and information operations.
 Officials acknowledge that the government routinely fails when trying to speak to the Muslim world and battle the propaganda of extremism -- most often because the efforts to describe American policy and showcase American values are themselves viewed as propaganda.
 The new campaign is especially focused on providing cellphone service, and thus some independent communications for people in remote areas where the Taliban thrive. It is a booming industry now: Afghanistan had no cellular coverage in 2001 but today has about 9.5 million subscribers.
 That work is closely coordinated with American and allied forces in Afghanistan, where Rear Adm. Gregory J. Smith, NATO's director of communication in Kabul, said the challenge was in protecting the population and the official communications network from insurgents -- a new strategic priority. 
 ''If we can insulate the people, separate the population from insurgents, they become less vulnerable and less susceptible to the coercion and intimidation designed to steer them away from the government of Afghanistan,'' Admiral Smith said.
 ''The ability to communicate empowers a population,'' he said. ''That is a very important principle of counterinsurgency and counterpropaganda.''
 In southern Afghanistan, now the center of American military offensives under the troop increase ordered by President Obama, insurgents threaten commercial cellphone providers with attack if they do not switch off service early each night.
 That prevents villagers from calling security forces if they see militants on the move or planting roadside bombs; the lack of cellphone service at night also hobbles the police and nongovernmental development agencies.
 Proposals to counter insurgent threats include establishing security for cellphone towers by offering local communities money, electricity or free service to guard the towers -- or even erecting cellphone towers, which cost about $200,000 each, on allied military bases.
 Expanding and securing cellphone service has the additional benefit of assisting economic development, officials said, as it could provide wireless access to banking systems for those who now must travel long distances for financial services.
 Officials involved in the new unit say they are seeking to amplify the voices of Afghans speaking to Afghans, and Pakistanis speaking to Pakistanis, rather than have ''Made in the U.S.A.'' stamped on the programming.
 And officials said the counterpropaganda unit would seek ways to ''denigrate the enemy,'' portraying militant attacks on markets, schools and public buildings as a religious violation.
 ''Given the archaic values of Al Qaeda and the Taliban, we must devise policies that expose the true nature of the militants,'' said Ashley Bommer, an adviser to Mr. Holbrooke. ''And we must shift the paradigm so that the debate is not between the United States and the militants, but between the people and the militants.''
 Officials said the unit would work to counter the primary routes of extremist communications, in particular low-power radio stations and the distribution of videos, CDs and ''night letters'' -- chilling militant notes that threaten violence if local residents cooperate with the government, America or its allies.
 Vikram Singh, on loan from the Pentagon as Mr. Holbrooke's senior defense adviser for the project, said the United States would begin by ''building the capabilities of the private sectors and the governments in both of these countries to effectively communicate and engage with their own populations.'' 
 This is particularly important, he said, in the border areas of Pakistan and across large parts of Afghanistan that for decades had only primitive communications.
 In the tribal areas of Pakistan, for example, there are only four legal FM radio stations, compared with more than 150 illegal low-watt stations run by militants, according to officials involved in the counterpropaganda effort. Some of the insurgent radio stations are mobile, broadcasting from vehicles or even donkey carts to avoid detection and extend their reach.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); INFORMATION WARFARE (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (76%); WRITERS (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); COMPANY STRATEGY (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009



431 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: A Closely Watched Closing

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
IT used to be that the drama at the opening of a luxury condominium was the delectable identification of the men and women of wealth and celebrity who had chosen to make a home in a new tower in the sky. Lately, the theatrics have centered on whether these luxury palaces will close at all.
 At One Madison Park, a 597-foot-tall glass tower at East 23rd Street near Broadway and Madison Square Park, lawyers for some anxious buyers have been circling for months as the project headed toward a Sept. 1 deadline. If the sponsors do not complete the first closing by then, buyers will have a chance to back out of their contracts, or perhaps negotiate lower prices. 
 For weeks, the sponsors -- Ira Shapiro and Marc Jacobs -- have scheduled and then postponed the first closings as they rushed to get their paperwork lined up. Toward the end of July, they obtained their first temporary certificate of occupancy for the first 10 apartments on five floors.
 Then, last Monday, the condominium declaration was filed, listing the individual apartments and block and lot numbers.
 And late last week, lawyers for the first buyer, of a two-bedroom 11th-floor apartment, showed up with a check, getting that requisite first closing under way. The apartment is to be a pied-a-terre for a couple who live in Montauk, on the eastern end of Long Island, brokers said. 
 Wendy Maitland, a broker for Brown Harris Stevens, who has been marketing the apartments at One Madison Park with a partner, Wilbur Gonzalez, said that with the stirrings of renewed confidence in the economy, at least five other buyers are scheduled to close in the next few days. 
 The list includes one buyer who might have some particular insight into the intrinsic value of Manhattan real estate: Peter Buffett, a composer, singer and songwriter, and a son of Warren E. Buffett, the billionaire investor and philanthropist. 
 Mr. Buffett and his wife, Jennifer, plan to buy a three-bedroom apartment at One Madison Park. They have a house upstate and have been renting an apartment at Morgan Court, a postwar apartment tower in Murray Hill. Jonathan Adelman, Mr. Buffett's representative, said Mr. Buffett was traveling last week and unavailable for comment. 
 ''It is going to be his home, and he will have a small studio there as well,'' Mr. Adelman said. ''They chose to move there because they love the neighborhood and it's an extraordinary building.''
 Ms. Maitland said that in the past, when some buyers at One Madison Park said they would not be able to close on their apartments, the units were resold, including a high-floor apartment that went for more than $3,000 per square foot in the last few weeks. ''In March, the market was abysmal; now it is not as abysmal and deals are being done,'' Ms. Maitland said. ''There is an air of excitement. We are seeing a whole different side of the market.'' 
 But one lawyer said he represented a handful of buyers who still hoped to recover their deposits. He declined to be named because he has not yet notified the sponsors.
 Of the 69 apartments in the tower, 62 are now in contract, Ms. Maitland said, while several others were reserved by the sponsors. A $45 million penthouse was pulled from the market until it is completed, she said.
 The project at one time included a second, cantilevered 22-story building, designed by Rem Koolhaas, which was supposed to rise over East 22nd Street. But the condominium declaration filed on Monday said the second building would be only 13 stories high, with only nine apartments.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: One Madison Park (PHOTOGRAPH BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (74%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (67%); SONG WRITING (67%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (67%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (62%)

COMPANY: BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (54%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (74%); MARC JACOBS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009



432 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: Fat Tax

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
David Leonhardt is an economics columnist for The Times and a staff writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
Two years ago, the Cleveland Clinic stopped hiring smokers. It was one part of a ''wellness initiative'' that has won the renowned hospital -- which President Obama recently visited -- some very nice publicity. The clinic has a farmers' market on its main campus and has offered smoking-cessation classes for the surrounding community. Refusing to hire smokers may be more hard-nosed than the other parts of the program. But given the social marginalization of smoking, the policy is hardly shocking. All in all, the wellness initiative seems to be a feel-good story.
 Which is why it is so striking to talk to Delos M. Cosgrove, the heart surgeon who is the clinic's chief executive, about the initiative. Cosgrove says that if it were up to him, if there weren't legal issues, he would not only stop hiring smokers. He would also stop hiring obese people. When he mentioned this to me during a recent phone conversation, I told him that I thought many people might consider it unfair. He was unapologetic. 
 ''Why is it unfair?'' he asked. ''Has anyone ever shown the law of conservation of matter doesn't apply?'' People's weight is a reflection of how much they eat and how active they are. The country has grown fat because it's consuming more calories and burning fewer. Our national weight problem brings huge costs, both medical and economic. Yet our anti-obesity efforts have none of the urgency of our antismoking efforts. ''We should declare obesity a disease and say we're going to help you get over it,'' Cosgrove said.
 You can disagree with the doctor -- you can even be offended -- and still come to see that there is a larger point behind his tough-love approach. The debate over health care reform has so far revolved around how insurers, drug companies, doctors, nurses and government technocrats might be persuaded to change their behavior. And for the sake of the economy and the federal budget, they do need to change their behavior. But there has been far less discussion about how the rest of us might also change our behavior. It's as if we have little responsibility for our own health. We instead outsource it to something called the health care system.
 The promise of that system is undeniably alluring: whatever your ailment, a pill or a procedure will fix it. Yet the promise hasn't been kept. For all the miracles that modern medicine really does perform, it is not the primary determinant of most people's health. J. Michael McGinnis, a senior scholar at the Institute of Medicine, has estimated that only 10 percent of early deaths are the result of substandard medical care. About 20 percent stem from social and physical environments, and 30 percent from genetics. The biggest contributor, at 40 percent, is behavior.
 Today, the great American public-health problem is indeed obesity. The statistics have become rote, but consider that people in their 50s are about 20 pounds heavier on average than 50-somethings were in the late 1970s. As a convenient point of reference, a typical car tire weighs 20 pounds.
 This extra weight has caused a sharp increase in chronic diseases, like diabetes, that are unusually costly. Other public-health scourges, like lung cancer, have tended to kill their victims quickly, which (in the most tragic possible way) holds down their long-term cost. Obesity is different. A recent article in Health Affairs estimated its annual cost to be $147 billion and growing. That translates into $1,250 per household, mostly in taxes and insurance premiums. 
 A natural response to this cost would be to say that the people imposing it on society should be required to pay it. Cosgrove mentioned to me an idea that some economists favor: charging higher health-insurance premiums to anyone with a certain body-mass index. Harsh? Yes. Fair? You can see the argument. And yet it turns out that the obese already do pay something resembling their fair share of medical costs, albeit in an indirect way. Overweight workers are paid less than similarly qualified, thinner colleagues, according to research by Jay Bhattacharya and M. Kate Bundorf of Stanford. The cause isn't entirely clear. But the size of the wage difference is roughly similar to the size of the difference in their medical costs.
 It's also worth noting that the obese, as well as any of the rest of us suffering from a medical condition affected by behavior, already have plenty of incentive to get healthy. But we struggle to do so. Daily life gets in the way. Inertia triumphs.
 The question of personal responsibility, then, ends up being more complicated than it may seem. It's hard to argue that Americans have collectively become more irresponsible over the last 30 years; the murder rate has plummeted, and divorce and abortion rates have fallen. And our genes certainly haven't changed in 30 years. 
 What has changed is our environment. Parents are working longer, and takeout meals have become a default dinner. Gym classes have been cut. The real price of soda has fallen 33 percent over the last three decades. The real price of fruit and vegetables has risen more than 40 percent. 
 The solutions to these problems are beyond the control of any individual. They involve a different sort of responsibility: civic -- even political -- responsibility. They depend on the kind of collective action that helped cut smoking rates nearly in half. Anyone who smoked in an elementary-school hallway today would be thrown out of the building. But if you served an obesity-inducing, federally financed meal to a kindergartner, you would fit right in. Taxes on tobacco, meanwhile, have skyrocketed. A modest tax on sodas -- one of the few proposals in the various health-reform bills aimed at health, rather than health care -- has struggled to get through Congress.
 Cosgrove's would-be approach may have its problems. The obvious one is its severity. The more important one is probably its narrowness: not even one of the nation's most prestigious hospitals can do much to reduce obesity. The government, however, can. And that is the great virtue of Cosgrove's idea. He is acknowledging that any effort to attack obesity will inevitably involve making value judgments and even limiting people's choices. Most of the time, the government has no business doing such things. But there is really no other way to cure an epidemic. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEN DAVIS)
(PHOTOGRAPH: LEE MARKS FINE ART) CHART: 9.1: is the percentage of annual U.S. medical costs that are obesity-related.(SOURCE (TOP LEFT) : RTI INTERNATIONAL, THE AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE RESEARCH AND QUALITY AND THE U.S. CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (90%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (90%); OBESITY (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); SMOKING CESSATION (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); INSURANCE (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); DIETING (70%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (66%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (64%); BUDGETS (64%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009



433 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Senator Gains a Promise by Myanmar for Detained American's Release

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS; Thom Shanker and Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: BANGKOK 

 BODY:
Senator Jim Webb of Virginia held a rare meeting on Saturday in Myanmar with the leader of the ruling junta, Senior Gen. Than Shwe, and emerged with a promise to free a detained American, officials said, at a time when the United States has said it is reassessing its hard line toward Myanmar's repressive military government.
 The senator's office said he had secured the release of the American, John Yettaw, who was sentenced to prison on Tuesday after intruding at the home of the pro-democracy leader, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi. 
 In another gesture by the government, Mr. Webb, a Democrat, was allowed to meet with Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, who was sentenced at the same trial to 18 months of added house arrest, arousing international condemnation. She has spent 14 of the past 20 years under house arrest. 
 Most visiting foreign officials are denied permission to meet her, most recently United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon in July.
 Mr. Yettaw will be officially deported and will join Mr. Webb on a military aircraft to Bangkok on Sunday, according to the statement by the senator's office. 
 ''I am grateful to the Myanmar government for honoring these requests,'' Mr. Webb said in the statement. ''It is my hope that we can take advantage of these gestures as a way to begin laying the foundations of good will and confidence building in the future,'' he said.
 These positive signals are part of a tentative process of re-engagement that has been under way for some time, said David I. Steinberg, professor of Asian studies at the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University. ''What can actually happen as a result is another matter,'' he said. Any concrete changes, like easing economic sanctions or even appointing an ambassador, will need confirmation from a potentially hostile Congress, he said.
 In February, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton opened the discussion of a change, saying the longstanding policy of economic sanctions and political confrontation had failed to have an effect on the junta.
 In calling for the release of Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi last month, Mrs. Clinton said, ''This would open up, at least for my government, a lot of opportunities for engagement and that includes investment and other forms of exchange.''
 Last week, both Mrs. Clinton and President Obama criticized the verdict against her in relatively measured language, calling it ''unjust'' and repeating a demand for her release.
 A State Department spokesman, Fred C. Lash, reiterated that demand on Saturday, saying that although Mr. Yettaw's release was a welcome step, more needed to be done. ''We also call on Burmese authorities to release unconditionally Aung San Suu Kyi and all of Burma's more than 2,100 political prisoners in order to begin a process of national reconciliation and inclusive political dialogue.'' 
 Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, 64, was convicted along with two housemates of violating the terms of her house arrest in May after Mr. Yettaw, 53, swam across a lake and spent two days at her home.
 Mr. Yettaw, of Falcon, Mo., was sentenced to seven years in prison with hard labor. An unemployed veteran, he said he had been on a mission to protect her from assassins.
 Senior administration officials, speaking on the condition of anonymity because of the delicate nature of the trip, said Friday that Mr. Webb was traveling independently and ''not carrying a message from the administration,'' although he had been briefed by the State Department before he left. But as chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asian and Pacific Affairs, Mr. Webb has been a strong proponent of moving to a new policy of engagement with the ruling generals -- a view in sync with Mrs. Clinton's and Mr. Obama's statements.
 Still, any easing of sanctions will face strong opposition from lobbying groups and some members of Congress who say democratic changes in Myanmar must come first.
 Mr. Webb's visit also drew criticism from Burmese exile groups who are wary of engagement and familiar with the junta's manipulation of previous visits by envoys from the United Nations for propaganda purposes.
 In a letter addressed to the senator, the groups warned that his visit would be exploited by the junta as an endorsement of its human rights record, including its treatment of Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi and an estimated 2,100 other political prisoners.
 A Burmese exile activist, Aung Din, director of the U.S. Campaign for Burma, pointed out that while Mr. Yettaw will go free, the continued detention of Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi and other dissidents still rankles. 
 ''This will surely make a negative impression among the people of Burma,'' he said in an e-mail message, using the former name of Myanmar. ''They will think that Americans are easy to satisfy with dictators when they get their citizens back.''
 Government-controlled newspapers and television stations have given wide coverage to the visit, showing the senator in meetings with various groups and leaders.
 In a separate letter this week, three other groups inside Myanmar reminded the senator of the government's human rights violations that have drawn condemnation from Washington. 
 ''As we are in hiding to avoid arrest, torture and imprisonment of the regime, we would not have a chance to meet you when you are in our country,'' the letter said.
 Speaking in Congress in June, Mr. Webb presented his rationale for engagement.
 ''Aung San Suu Kyi's ongoing trial is the latest incident in a cycle that's been virtually unchanged for 60 years, and in that time, particularly over the past 10 years, the United States' ability to influence events in Burma has steadily waned,'' he said. 
 ''Businesses, NGOs, government groups have been ousted. Meanwhile, other countries, not only China but most notably China, are more engaged than ever with infrastructure projects, mineral resources.''
 Before meeting with the senior general, the senator met with Myanmar's prime minister, Gen. Thein Sein, and with three representatives of Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's political party, the National League for Democracy.
 The party won more than 80 percent of the seats in parliamentary elections in 1990, but the military annulled the results and clung to power.
 Mr. Webb's official meetings were held in the remote administrative capital, Naypyidaw. He met with Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi in Yangon, the main city and former capital. He was scheduled to meet with locally based reporters on Sunday. Most foreign journalists are barred from the country.
 Mr. Webb arrived in Myanmar on Friday from Laos. He will also visit Thailand, Vietnam and Cambodia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (90%); HOUSE ARREST (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); VERDICTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); DEPORTATION (77%); PRISONS (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: JIM WEBB (90%); AUNG SAN SUU KYI (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); THAN SHWE (78%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); BAN KI-MOON (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (92%) MYANMAR (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); THAILAND (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009



434 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: A Public Option Isn't a Curse, or a Cure

BYLINE: By RICHARD H. THALER. 
Richard H. Thaler is a professor of economics and behavioral science at the Booth School of Business at the University of Chicago.

 BODY:
WE clearly don't need any more distractions from the two main issues of health care reform: how to deal with our large uninsured population and how to make the entire system more cost effective. So, for now, let's ignore the shouted rhetoric about whether ''death panels'' want to kill off Grandma or whether President Obama wants to turn the country into a socialist state.
 But even if we discard these absurdities, and tune out the raucous scenes at town-hall meetings, one big distraction remains: the question of whether a ''public option'' should be part of the health care solution. To me, the issue is a red herring, and is getting in the way of genuine reform. 
 In debating the public option -- that is, an insurance option run by the government -- the politicians themselves are making exaggerated claims about its pros and cons. We hear from the right that an insurance plan run by the government will drive all private-sector insurers out of business and be the first step toward socialism, if not communism. The left claims that only a public option can give evil insurers the competition they need to create much-needed reform. 
 To evaluate these contentions, we need to know some details about how a public option would work in practice. And those details have been missing. 
 For example, President Obama has said that the public plan would be required to break even financially, but Congress hasn't decided how to make that happen. (Of course, the poor may have to have their health insurance subsidized, but those subsidies could go to both public and privately operated insurance companies.) Nailing down this detail is crucial. If the public option does not have to break even -- if, in fact, it is to receive government subsidies -- then it is correct to worry that it would destroy competition, not foster it. If the public plan runs a deficit, who will fix it? If it is Congress, we have to worry that what should be economic decisions will turn into political battles. 
 A second detail is whether the government will grant the public plan the power to impose special deals with suppliers like hospitals and drug companies -- a move that would dampen, not enhance, competition with the private sector.
 But let's assume that the public option does have to break even and can't make any special deals. What should we expect to happen?
 Here is a thought experiment: Can you think of a domain where a government-run business competes successfully with private-sector companies? In a town hall meeting last week, President Obama mentioned one such example: the market for overnight shipments. This market now has two main private suppliers, FedEx and UPS, and one public one, the United States Postal Service. When you have to send something overnight, which one do you use? Most shippers choose one of the private companies. (Indeed, even the idea that we need a government-run postal service is doubtful. Sweden has successfully privatized its postal service. Sweden! And the European Union will open mail service to competition in 2011.)
 The Postal Service offers another instructive lesson. When it periodically starts running deficits (as it is now) and proposes cost-saving measures like eliminating Saturday delivery or closing tiny post offices, Congress often intervenes under pressure from predictable interest groups like bulk mailers, the 600,000 postal employees, and the users of those tiny offices. 
 More generally, it is hard to find examples where government-run businesses compete with private companies and win. One reason is that governments are not very good at innovation. As the great 19th-century economist Alfred Marshall wrote, ''A government could print a good edition of Shakespeare's works, but it could not get them written.''
 But what about the often-stated fact that Medicare has much lower operating costs than private insurance companies? Won't this allow the public option to compete successfully? As Victor Fuchs, the dean of American health economists, recently argued in The New England Journal of Medicine, this is not an apt comparison because the new public plan would have marketing and other administrative costs that don't apply to Medicare with its captive market.
 ALL of this leads me to conclude that if we impose sensible rules on the public option, it will neither save nor destroy the health care system because it will simply not get much market share. And if we do not impose those rules, the public option will hurt rather than help. 
 So here's some free advice to members of Congress: While you are enjoying your August recess and town hall meetings, instead of arguing about whether to have a public option, argue about the ground rules. 
 To the Republicans, I say this: If you can get real assurances that the public option has to break even, and that it will get no special deals from suppliers, let the Democrats have it but ask for concessions on tort reform in return. (That could actually save some money.) The resulting public plan will be too small to notice.
 To the Democrats, I say this: If you want competition in health care, you won't get it if the public option can make deals its competitors can't. So either give the Republicans hard assurances that the public option would have to break even and not get special treatment, or, better yet, just give it up to ensure that some useful health care reform is passed. A public option is neither necessary nor sufficient for achieving the real goals of reform, and those goals are too important to risk losing the war. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); POLITICS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (62%); POSTAL SERVICE (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%)

COMPANY: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (50%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009



435 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Women's Fashion Magazine; TALK CROSS CURRENTS; Pg. 160

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Revisionist History

BYLINE: By SUZY MENKES

 BODY:
To those who lived it, the 1980s seem like yesterday: the dance-inspiring beat from Michael Jackson's ''Thriller,'' so often replayed since his sudden death; the soulful ballad of Prince's ''Purple Rain''; Madonna out there in all her Gaultier glory bringing women the joy of sex. But there was something else that was out there in the 1980s: shoulders. 
 ''Like American footballers,'' we in Europe said dismissively when fashion moved to the padded shoulder around 1984. Joan Collins in ''Dynasty'' gave this feminist statement a grand slam of glamour -- and women of the Western world bought into it. 
 So pervasive were the pads that I remember finding a pair in a sewing store and sticking them right inside my sweater. If you didn't bother to sew on a Velcro strip, your shoulder enhancement might slip from under your bra strap and suddenly endow you with a third female protuberance or drop directly to the floor, where -- I cringe remembering -- your only choice was to pretend to ignore the dirty white thing at your feet.
 So it is with mixed feelings that I have to accept that big shoulders are back, and along with them, Madonna as the reincarnated Material Girl, marking the worst financial crash in living memory with an ultrashort hemline barely meeting laced boots at her thighs.
 That was in May at the Costume Institute gala, where another style-conscious maven, the dermatologist Dr. Lisa Airan, had abandoned her graceful Prada elegance for a crystal-studded Balmain dress whose shoulders turned her perfectly honed figure into an inverted triangle.
 On the runways -- and not just at in-your-face Balmain -- the 1980s were everywhere. When Marc Jacobs at Louis Vuitton gave us a remix of the best of the ''greed is good'' era, it felt like I was reliving Christian Lacroix's ebullient pouf moment, with a touch of early Karl Lagerfeld at Chanel thrown in.
 Since so few fashion people now work without references, I could envisage pages of Bruce Weber fashion spreads sprawled all over the work tables of designers who were in diapers back then. At the fall shows there were flashbacks of Thierry Mugler's rigid futurism, Gianni Versace's metal mesh and Claude Montana's head-to-toe perfectionism. There was even a touch of '80s counterculture in a revival of Romeo Gigli's soft-shouldered egg-shape coats. Not to mention plenty of Azzedine Alaia, whose global rebirth as Michelle Obama's main man in Europe proves that what originated nearly three decades ago can still be relevant.
 Yet for anyone who reaches into the depths of a closet to drag a perfectly tailored Armani pantsuit from its transparent plastic shroud, the effect is uncertain. Maybe it could look great if worn -- just the jacket -- by a 20-something who would belt it and team it with drop-crotch trousers or skinny jeans. Or partner the mannish pants, jacked up on platform shoes, with a shrunken bolero. But as is, an iconic symbol of the 1980s might stubbornly refuse to have a second fashion life. Because ultimately, in setting a search engine on the past, a creative mind is looking for a spark of an idea -- not a replica of the clothes. 
 The kids who bought slender Biba dresses in the swinging London of the 1960s might have thought they looked like family photos from the 1930s. But body mass changes with each generation along with body language -- not to mention, hair, makeup, underwear and shoes. 
 Ah! Shoes. They are, of course, what makes such an enormous difference to the revisited '80s silhouette now perched on top of thick platforms or caged sandals with vertiginous heels. In their original incarnation, shoulders were thrust out but then faded away below long exposed legs or straight pants. Now shoes are shouting for attention.
 I had a weird experience when I visited an obscure Paris museum to look at an exhibition of accessories from the 1940s. There were all our shoes! Deprived of basic materials reserved for the war effort, necessity became the mother of invention. So designers created platform shoes that stood proud, made of straw, felt, cloth, cork or wood -- not unlike those currently dominating store windows.
 What did women in wartime, reduced to austerity chic, wear with these amazing shoes? There were fancy hats, made like kids' crafts from paper and wood shavings. And there were plain but substantial suits with wide shoulders. Suddenly the fall season began to look less like '80s redux -- with all its puzzling references to an era of flash and plenty -- and more in keeping with the style and spirit of the financially challenged 1940s, when the Depression was still a harsh reality. 
 So the answer to this back-to-the-future thing seems to be that fashion is an eternal carousel -- clothes come back around, but never in the same way. Those women defiantly showing off their Balmain duds, sharp shoulders to the fore, have more in common with bravado in tough times than with flashdancing on the sidewalk. SUZY MENKES

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THEN AND NOW: From top: Louis Vuitton, 2009
Christian Lacroix. 1987-8
Thierry Mugler, 1987-8
Dr. Lisa Airan at the 2009 Costume Institute gala. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, FROM TOP: DON ASHBY
RUE DES ARCHIVES/THE GRANGER COLLECTION, NEW YORK
PIERRE VAUTHEY/CORBIS SYGMA
 GETTY IMAGES.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); FASHION SHOWS (75%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (71%); SEWING & CRAFT STORES (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (65%); ATHLETES (56%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (82%); THIERRY MUGLER (51%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (82%); LVMH (BIT) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (82%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (82%)

PERSON: MADONNA (89%); MICHAEL JACKSON (73%); MARC JACOBS (55%); MICHELLE OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2009



436 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Women's Fashion Magazine; EDITOR'S NOTE; Pg. 68

LENGTH: 328 words

HEADLINE: Gimme 5!

BYLINE: By STEFANO TONCHI

 BODY:
A few weeks ago, sitting with Miuccia Prada and talking about the last golden years of fashion and the present financial crisis, I asked her if she thought people would change their attitude and not spend on fashion. Her answer was short and precise: we will always buy clothes because they let us live our dreams. Ah yes, dreams. 
The stuff of Hollywood and fashion. While actors rely on costumes, sometimes even prosthetics, to become another person, the rest of us depend on a great-looking pair of shoes and a hot new haircut. As the editor of T magazine, I am a firm believer in the transformative powers of fashion. Every season for the past five years we have tried to share our dreams and to inspire yours. On our covers, and in our pages, we have asked actors and actresses to role-play. They've been directed by some great photographers: Jean-Baptiste Mondino, Raymond Meier, Paolo Roversi, Mark Segal, Solve Sundsbo and many others we admire. Designers, stylists, makeup artists and hairdressers have been our accomplices. We want to thank them all for inspiring us and for making this special anniversary issue on Hollywood their celebration, too. Almost from the start, Hollywood was called the dream factory. Unknowns would land in Los Angeles and get a new identity with the help of costume designers like Adrian and Irene. An actress would have little to say in the way she looked, which is ironic, since how she looked often dictated fashion for the rest of us. (Later on, designers like Giorgio Armani, with ''American Gigolo,'' and Ralph Lauren, with ''The Great Gatsby,'' would create a fashion frenzy.) But with the rise of celebrity culture, costume designers largely have gone from being creative types to personal shoppers. That puts the pressure on fashion, which has the capacity to take us out of ourselves and let us live in our own private movies. We hope that T will be your dream factory -- we are ready for your close-up. STEFANO TONCHI

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT MAXWELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (89%); VISUAL ARTS (88%); CELEBRITIES (78%); PERSONAL SHOPPER SERVICES (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: DREAM FACTORY (55%)

PERSON: GIORGIO ARMANI (79%); MIUCCIA PRADA (73%); RALPH LAUREN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2009



437 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Women's Fashion Magazine; EDITOR'S NOTE; Pg. 68

LENGTH: 328 words

HEADLINE: Gimme 5!

BYLINE: By STEFANO TONCHI

 BODY:
A few weeks ago, sitting with Miuccia Prada and talking about the last golden years of fashion and the present financial crisis, I asked her if she thought people would change their attitude and not spend on fashion. Her answer was short and precise: we will always buy clothes because they let us live our dreams. Ah yes, dreams. 
The stuff of Hollywood and fashion. While actors rely on costumes, sometimes even prosthetics, to become another person, the rest of us depend on a great-looking pair of shoes and a hot new haircut. As the editor of T magazine, I am a firm believer in the transformative powers of fashion. Every season for the past five years we have tried to share our dreams and to inspire yours. On our covers, and in our pages, we have asked actors and actresses to role-play. They've been directed by some great photographers: Jean-Baptiste Mondino, Raymond Meier, Paolo Roversi, Mark Segal, Solve Sundsbo and many others we admire. Designers, stylists, makeup artists and hairdressers have been our accomplices. We want to thank them all for inspiring us and for making this special anniversary issue on Hollywood their celebration, too. Almost from the start, Hollywood was called the dream factory. Unknowns would land in Los Angeles and get a new identity with the help of costume designers like Adrian and Irene. An actress would have little to say in the way she looked, which is ironic, since how she looked often dictated fashion for the rest of us. (Later on, designers like Giorgio Armani, with ''American Gigolo,'' and Ralph Lauren, with ''The Great Gatsby,'' would create a fashion frenzy.) But with the rise of celebrity culture, costume designers largely have gone from being creative types to personal shoppers. That puts the pressure on fashion, which has the capacity to take us out of ourselves and let us live in our own private movies. We hope that T will be your dream factory -- we are ready for your close-up. STEFANO TONCHI

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT MAXWELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (89%); VISUAL ARTS (88%); CELEBRITIES (78%); PERSONAL SHOPPER SERVICES (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: DREAM FACTORY (55%)

PERSON: GIORGIO ARMANI (79%); MIUCCIA PRADA (73%); RALPH LAUREN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2009



438 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2636 words

HEADLINE: Out of Exile, Back in Soulsville

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

DATELINE: MEMPHIS 

 BODY:
 AS the peacock-blue Cadillac with the gold trim and fur lining spun on a giant turntable in the Stax Museum of American Soul Music here, Al Bell, the final owner of the late, great record label, chuckled. Decades before 50 Cent with his customized Rolls-Royce and Akon with his tricked-out Lamborghini, there was Isaac Hayes with this pimped-out ride, an over-the-top gift from Stax to its over-the-top star, who wore slave chains like emancipatory bling across his bare, buff chest. 
 ''The reason I chuckle is because I think of what has been born out of the rap and the hip-hop world, and then I look at what we were doing back then, and, you know, we were really ahead of our time,'' Mr. Bell said. 
 His chuckle is rueful, though. When Mr. Bell, 69, stands by that revolving Cadillac, he sees the arc of his life come full circle, unexpectedly. The original Stax Records is long gone, Mr. Hayes and many other Stax artists, from Otis Redding to Rufus Thomas, have died, and, until recently, Memphis showed little interest in reclaiming or building on its soul-music heritage. Six years ago, though, the Stax Museum opened. And earlier this summer Mr. Bell was invited back to Memphis with a bittersweet mandate: to resuscitate the city's once great music industry as chairman of the Memphis Music Foundation. 
 As a result, after years of exile, Mr. Bell now has the opportunity both to promote a more enlightened Memphis and to redeem his own legacy, which was tarnished when Stax was forced into involuntary bankruptcy in 1975 and when he himself was tried for -- and acquitted of -- bank fraud.
 What happened at Stax in the turbulent years after the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s assassination in Memphis was complicated, as was Mr. Bell's role in it. But in retrospect Deanie Parker, interim chief executive of the Soulsville Foundation, which runs the museum, boils it down pungently to this: ''In its own way, Stax Records was fighting the same fight as Dr. King, and Stax Records was assassinated too.'' 
 In its heyday Stax, a rhythm and blues label founded by a white brother and sister, Jim Stewart and Estelle Stewart Axton, represented the model of an integrated workplace in a deeply segregated city. Under Mr. Bell it became one of the nation's largest black-owned companies. Its failure devastated not only those whom it sustained financially and artistically but also those who saw it as an inspiration. Many African-American leaders, including the Rev. Jesse Jackson and the Rev. Ralph Abernathy, viewed Mr. Bell's prosecution as persecution; his trial included testimony that a local banking official had bragged, using a racial slur, about ''running those'' blacks ''and especially the chief'' black ''out of town,'' Mr. Bell's defense lawyer, James F. Neal, a former Watergate prosecutor, recollected recently. 
 Despite his acquittal Mr. Bell left Memphis with his career in tatters. 
 ''I didn't feel broken -- I'm a fighter -- but I did experience the low lows,'' said Mr. Bell, who is imposingly tall (6 foot 4 * in his precise accounting) and dapper, with pinstripe suits, monogrammed cuffs and silk pocket squares that match his ties. 
 To many, then, it seems a fitting, if not poignant, postscript that Memphis is welcoming Mr. Bell back with outstretched arms. ''The way that Al Bell was treated in that city at the end of the history of Stax Records was despicable,'' said Rob Bowman, the author of ''Soulsville U.S.A,'' the definitive history of the record label. ''I think it's wonderful that he has been chosen for this position. Al did so much for Memphis. In taking Stax from a mom-and-pop operation to an R&B powerhouse, he really put Memphis on the map.''
 Born Alvertis Isbell in Brinkley, Ark., Mr. Bell is a mix of velvety charm and prickly pride, with the rhetorical cadences of a preacher and the unwavering self-confidence of a politician. His bumpy career path intersected with crucial figures and moments in 20th-century African-American -- and entertainment -- history. 
 The product of a black high school and college in Little Rock, Mr. Bell marched with Dr. King, worked as a black-radio D.J. in Washington at the peak of the civil rights movement, ran the two major black record companies -- he served briefly as president of Motown Records too -- and eventually started his own independent label, Bellmark, with hit songs as varied as ''The Most Beautiful Girl in the World'' (Prince) and ''Whoomp! (There It Is)'' (Tag Team). 
 Now, at an age when others choose to retire, Mr. Bell is trying to reinvent himself. In Memphis his mission at the private, nonprofit foundation is nothing less than to help make Memphis the independent-music capital of the country, first by nurturing local artists and music businesses. In a personal venture, he recently started an Internet radio network, albellpresents.com, with an e-commerce link, and its first station features soul music with Mr. Bell hosting in his suave baritone.
 Returning to the role of disc jockey, like returning to Memphis, is ''precious,'' he said. His ''jock'' career began in high school, when he was president of the audio-visual club. This put him at the helm of the sock hops, for which he borrowed records from girls, whom he quizzed thoroughly about their interest in, say, the Coasters or Nat King Cole. ''This gave me so much insight until finally I got me a microphone,'' he said. Soon he was a gospel music D.J. on a Little Rock station.
 After high school, in 1959, Mr. Bell went to work under Dr. King at the Southern Christian Leadership Conference. He spent a year in Georgia until ''breaking rank'' with the nonviolent-resistance ethos at a march in Savannah, Ga. When a hostile bystander spit on him, Mr. Bell pulled a switchblade from his pocket and plunged into the crowd. Fellow marchers restrained him, ''fortunately,'' Mr. Bell said, but Dr. King was not pleased.
 Earlier, Mr. Bell said, he had brushed aside Dr. King's concern about his switchblade by joking to him, ''Well, Doc, Jesus had Peter with him, and Peter carried a sword.'' But Mr. Bell said that after the march Dr. King, calling him Alvertis, rebuked him for his increasing advocacy of self-defense against the police and their dogs. ''So I said, 'O.K., Doc.' And I left the next day, with love.''
 Back in Little Rock, Mr. Bell, while attending college, resumed his radio career, eventually graduating in 1961 to WLOK in Memphis, where he used this sign-on: ''This is your 6 feet 4 bundle of joy, 212 pounds of Mrs. Bell's baby boy, soft as medicated cotton, rich as double-X cream, the women's pet, the men's threat, the baby boy Al'' -- and then he rang a bell -- ''Bell.'' 
 At the time, in a converted movie theater in a black neighborhood, Mr. Stewart and Ms. Axton, who died in 2004, were getting Stax off the ground. Mr. Bell promoted their artists, not only in Memphis but also, more significantly, in Washington, when he moved to WUST in 1963. Two years later it seemed a natural fit for Stax to hire Mr. Bell as its first in-house promotions man. 
 A 25-year-old workaholic who posted a giant thermometer in the lobby to track sales, Mr. Bell injected considerable energy into the small company. ''You could say that Stax didn't really begin until he got there,'' said William Bell, 70, whose ''You Don't Miss Your Water'' was an early Stax release. ''Jim Stewart was a behind-the-scenes guy. Al Bell was a wheeler-dealer.'' 
 In Mr. Bowman's book, Booker T. Jones of Booker T. and the MGs, the house band that shaped the Stax sound, calls Mr. Bell ''our Otis for promotion.'' Otis Redding, a year younger than Mr. Bell, was the life force of the studio. '''Everybody looked up to him,'' Mr. Bell said. Asked if he too looked up to him, Mr. Bell said, ''I looked at him.'' 
 In his drive to promote the gritty Memphis sound outside the South Mr. Bell took a Who's Who of Stax talent to the Apollo Theater in Harlem for 10 days in 1967. It was during those shows that Redding became a kinetic performer instead of a stationary crooner, according to Mr. Bell. As Redding, the headliner, watched from the wings, Johnnie Taylor would energize the crowd by shouting, ''I want everybody here to give me the clap,'' and Sam and Dave would ''set the stage on fire.'' 
 ''Finally,'' Mr. Bell said, laughing, ''Otis came out, grabbed the microphone and went hustling from one end of the stage to the other.'' 
 On Dec. 10, 1967, when Mr. Bell was attending a radio industry convention in Las Vegas, a loudspeaker announced that Redding, 26, had died in a small plane crash near Madison, Wis. ''I lost it,'' Mr. Bell said. That night he drank himself into a stupor while playing craps. He learned the next morning that he had made $85,000. ''But Otis was still gone,'' he said.
 Four months later, on April 4, 1968, Mr. Bell was presiding over, in retrospect, a bizarrely timed recording session of ''Send Peace and Harmony Home,'' a song that he, with others, had written for Dr. King. He was staying nearby at the black-owned Lorraine Motel, the only place in town where Stax's racially mixed artists were free to socialize and where classics like ''In the Midnight Hour'' were written.
 According to Mr. Bell, Homer Banks, a singer and songwriter, burst into the studio, calling out, ''They just shot Dr. King, and he's dead.'' The tape was rolling, and the vocalist, Shirley Walton, started singing wrenchingly and crying. ''My God,'' Mr. Bell said, shuddering.
 Racial tensions escalated in Memphis. Stax remained safe while other white-owned businesses were burned. But inside the company, Mr. Bell said, there developed ''a new color consciousness.'' Around that time Mr. Bell was given a stake in Stax, and he soon signed his favorite group, the Staple Singers. But there were business problems. After Warner Brothers bought Atlantic Records, which had been Stax's distributor, Stax learned that it no longer owned its chief asset, its back catalog.
 In an effort to create a new catalog from scratch, Mr. Bell called on Stax's entire roster to produce. ''He was our 'Yes, we can' man,'' said Ms. Parker, who was director of publicity. In May 1969 alone Stax released 27 albums and 30 singles. ''Craziness!'' Mr. Bell said.
 The most successful album was ''Hot Buttered Soul,'' which Hayes, who was primarily a songwriter, had to be coaxed into recording. He had been lured into the studio to make his first album, which was not very successful, after Mr. Bell loosened him up with Asti Spumante at a party one night. This time Mr. Bell urged him to do whatever he wanted, which resulted in unconventionally long songs like an 18-minute 42-second version of ''By the Time I Get to Phoenix'' and a 9-minute Bell-Hayes collaboration called ''Hyperbolicsyllabicsesquedalymistic'' (a word that Mr. Bell said he coined to describe those who abuse big words).
 To the surprise of many ''Hot Buttered Soul'' was a hit. It was followed by the soundtrack for the movie ''Shaft'' and ever-increasing success for Mr. Hayes and for Stax. The company was continually expanding yet also losing its original intimacy, and some of its original musicians, as new personnel and heightened security ruffled feathers.
 In the summer of 1971 Mr. Bell's younger brother Louis was murdered in Arkansas. Right before the funeral, Mr. Bell said, he sat on the hood of a junked school bus in his father's yard and a song came to him: 
 I know a place
 Ain't nobody crying
 Ain't nobody worried
 Ain't no smilin' faces
 Lyin' to the races.
 Afterward Mr. Bell brought the song to a recording session with the Staple Singers, who ''took it to the next level,'' he said, and ''I'll Take You There,'' with its island groove, became one of their biggest hits. Mr. Bell likes to say that he did not write the song but that it was ''written through me.'' Still, he claimed sole songwriting credit, irking Mavis Staples, who believed the song to be collaborative, according to Mr. Bowman.
 Mr. Bell increasingly saw Stax, which branched into spoken-word albums with Mr. Jackson, Richard Pryor and Bill Cosby, as a platform for black advancement. Looking back at ''Wattstax,'' the 1972 concert -- later a film -- at the Los Angeles Coliseum that was referred to as the black Woodstock, Mr. Bell still takes pride: ''Here's this black guy from Memphis, Tenn., pulling together 112,000 black people in Hollywood.'' 
 But the unraveling of Stax began not long afterward. Mr. Stewart wanted to leave, with cash for his half of the company. Mr. Bell made a distribution deal with Clive Davis, who ran CBS Records, which allowed him to buy out Mr. Stewart. But CBS soon dismissed Mr. Davis and relations between the two companies disintegrated, ultimately causing severe cash flow problems for Stax. 
 ''The time came for the big fish to eat the little fish,'' Mr. Bell said.
 Stax filed an antitrust suit against CBS, and its bank, Union Planters, also accused CBS of economically strangling Stax. But Union Planters, which was facing its own financial troubles, was squeezing Stax too, and it brought pressure to bear with racist rhetoric, as came out at Mr. Bell's trial. 
 At the same time Stax found itself under investigation by the Internal Revenue Service. Employees started going without paychecks, and artists were jumping ship. Mr. Bell came under attack in the Stax family, although Ms. Parker said that many later regretted that they had not been ''the wind at Al's back instead of the wind in his face.'' 
 Mr. Stewart, the company founder, who tried to salvage Stax with his own money, never held Mr. Bell responsible for Stax's downfall, Mr. Bowman said. ''Al Bell went to Herculean efforts to try to save Stax,'' he said. ''Jim Stewart found the racism involved in the end to be despicable.'' 
 On Dec. 19, 1975, after three small creditors, prompted by Union Planters, brought an involuntary bankruptcy petition against Stax, the company's receiver, accompanied by armed guards, arrived at Stax. Mr. Bell said the receiver addressed him with a slur, saying, ''You got 15 minutes to get out of the building.'' He got out. 
 Not long afterward Mr. Bell was indicted for conspiring with a former Union Planters official to defraud the bank. The banker had confessed to making fictitious loans and to forging Mr. Bell's signature as a guarantor on those loans. 
 ''It was a bitter story,'' Mr. Bell's lawyer, Mr. Neal, said. ''The bank engineered the government into charging him criminally. I never thought he was guilty, and neither did the jury.''
 Mr. Bell moved his family into the unfinished basement of his father's house in Little Rock. ''I went from a man that owned a company whose masters were valued by Price Waterhouse at $67 million to a man that could scrape together 15 cents from time to time,'' he said.
 After the bankruptcy Union Planters deeded the studio to the Southside Church of God in Christ for $10, and the church eventually tore it down. Occasionally, Mr. Bell said, he visited the vacant lot. ''I'd see beer bottles and paper bags and all that,'' Mr. Bell said. ''It was a like a dumping ground, yet all this creativity was still vested in that soil. I would cry.''
 But Mr. Bell, and Stax's music, with its singles rereleased in very successful box sets in the '90s, both outlasted Union Planters. Mr. Bell gradually made his way back into the entertainment business, greatly assisted by Berry Gordy Jr., the founder of Motown. ''He mainstreamed me back into the industry,'' Mr. Bell said.
 And the Stax Museum's opening kick-started the process of bringing Mr. Bell back to Memphis and Memphis back to him. ''He has a reputation, he is a brand name, and we need him,'' said Dean Deyo, president of the Memphis Music Foundation. Sometimes, Mr. Bell said, he has to pinch himself.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Al Bell, who led Stax Records in Memphis during the label's 1960s and '70s heyday, has returned to the city as chairman of the Memphis Music Foundation to resuscitate its entertainment stature. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.AR1)
Al Bell at the Stax Museum of American Soul Music in Memphis. Mr. Bell was a major player in the city's music scene in the '60s and '70s. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REED BUNZEL)
Right, Jim Stewart, one of the founders of Stax Records, with Mr. Bell during the label's peak period. Below, the Staple Singers, an act Mr. Bell signed to Stax. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STAX MUSEUM OF AMERICAN SOUL MUSIC
MICHAEL OCHS ARCHIVE/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.AR20)
Far right, Al Bell, right, with the Rev. Jesse Jackson at ''Wattstax,'' the 1972 soul concert in Los Angeles. Near left, from top, the Stax singers Isaac Hayes in 1973 and Otis Redding in 1967. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FANTASY/CONCORD MUSIC GROUP/STAX MUSEUM OF AMERICAN SOUL MUSIC
JAN PERSSON/REDFERNS
 MICHAEL OCHS ARCHIVE/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.AR21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); MUSIC (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MUSIC GENRES (78%); HIP HOP CULTURE (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); RAP MUSIC (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); JAZZ & BLUES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); CIVIL RIGHTS (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (63%); ACQUITTAL (63%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (62%); EXECUTIVES (61%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); 50 CENT (79%); JESSE JACKSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (94%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009



439 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: Corzine Running Mate Brings Folksy Pragmatism

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
When she signed on as Gov. Jon S. Corzine's running mate in late July, Loretta Weinberg, a longtime state senator, introduced herself to voters as the ''feisty Jewish grandmother'' of New Jersey politics. Since then, she has wasted little time trying to fulfill her colorful proclamation.
 In blasting Christopher J. Christie, Mr. Corzine's Republican rival, for his political connections and his ''ongoing relationship with Bush administration holdovers,'' Ms. Weinberg has left little doubt that as a candidate for the state's newly created position of lieutenant governor, she will take on the attack-dog role customarily played by vice presidential nominees and second fiddles elsewhere. 
 And in a smattering of face-to-face political appearances, Ms. Weinberg, 74, has done nothing to diminish her reputation as a seasoned schmooze artist, doling out small talk and compliments as if she were serving up brisket and kugel. 
 At a block party in Trenton recently, she strolled up the street at the dawdling pace of ''bubbe on the Boardwalk,'' oohing and ahhing at petunia gardens and artfully arranged salad bowls. When a resident mentioned that her patio needed repairs, Ms. Weinberg quickly assigned two local officials traveling with her -- Mayor Douglas H. Palmer of Trenton and Brian M. Hughes, the Mercer County executive -- to find out if government assistance programs were available to help pay for home improvements.
 ''If you end up getting any of that,'' she told the homeowner, Wanda Wilson, ''I'm going to come back here, and we are going to sit out there and have a glass of wine.'' 
 ''That would be nice,'' Ms. Wilson said, beaming.
 The blend of folksiness and hard-edged political pragmatism has been the engine of Senator Weinberg's four decades in public life. She was drawn to a career in government by the mass movements of the 1960s -- for civil rights, women's rights and an end to the Vietnam War -- and deftly navigated New Jersey's dangerous political waters to become part of the Democratic establishment. 
 Mr. Corzine said he chose her because of her record as a reformer, citing her battles with party bosses in Bergen County. She was not his first choice, but he decided on Ms. Weinberg when her unblemished reputation suddenly became appealing after a corruption scandal that ensnared several mayors and state lawmakers erupted two days before Mr. Corzine was to name his running mate. 
 Republicans cast Ms. Weinberg as the consummate insider who, after a long tenure in county government and in Trenton, shares the blame for the spending decisions that have saddled the state with high debt and onerous taxes. 
 She prefers to portray herself as an outsider working from within, saying she has fought for gay rights, health care and gun control, whether her party was in power, or as part of the minority opposition.
 ''Government is the place where real change can be made,'' Ms. Weinberg said. ''But you've got to be willing to push, even within your own party. Especially within your own party.'' 
 She was born in New York in 1935 and was raised in the Bronx and Beverly Hills, Calif., where she moved with her mother after her parents divorced. After graduating from the University of California, she moved to New Jersey to study public administration at Fairleigh Dickinson University in Madison, and eventually settled in Teaneck in the mid-1960s with her husband, Irwin Weinberg. Ms. Weinberg was troubled by the lack of shady streets to walk her two children in their strollers, so she went to a council meeting and began her first political crusade: a successful effort to have more trees planted. 
 While helping her husband run an interior design business out of their home, Ms. Weinberg also began working her way up the ladder of town and county politics, and advocating causes ranging from school desegregation to equal pay for women. 
 The biggest setback of her career came in the mid-1980s, when eight tons of tuna disappeared from the storerooms of Bergen Pines County Hospital in Paramus when Ms. Weinberg was the institution's assistant executive director. The Republican-led county leadership blamed Ms. Weinberg for the security lapses and fired her. But she sued, saying that she had no role in the missing merchandise and had been a victim of partisan politics. She won a $70,000 settlement.
 ''A judge said I was a heroine in helping get to the bottom of what happened,'' she said last week.
 After being elected to the State Assembly in 1992, Ms. Weinberg established herself as a forceful, occasionally cantankerous, voice, fighting to require insurance companies to pay for new mothers to remain in the hospital for 48 hours after giving birth, to reduce smoking in public buildings and to limit gun purchases. Eleanore Nissley, a Republican State Committee member from Bergen County, said Ms. Weinberg was respected by many Republicans because ''she has always cared about the quality of government and the people in it, rather than just trying to get jobs for friends.''
 In 2005, Ms. Weinberg won a highly publicized showdown with Joseph A. Ferriero, the Bergen County Democratic chairman, who wanted to appoint another candidate to an empty seat in the State Senate that eventually went to Ms. Weinberg. Mr. Ferriero was later indicted on fraud charges, so the fight bolstered her reputation as a reformer -- and makes her important to Mr. Corzine's re-election hopes as the Republicans have made corruption a major campaign issue.
 State Senator Raymond J. Lesniak, a Democrat from Union County, said Ms. Weinberg had never shied away from taking on party power brokers. ''She's not afraid of standing up to the old boys,'' he said. ''And she puts us in our place all the time.''
 Ms. Weinberg lives in Teaneck and spends much of her time with her children and two grandchildren. She suffered a devastating financial blow last year when she learned that her life savings -- $1.3 million -- had evaporated because her financial adviser had invested it with Bernard Madoff, whose Ponzi scheme bilked victims out of $65 billion.
 ''It's the only time I've ever been glad that my husband isn't here any more,'' said Ms. Weinberg, who was widowed in 1999 after 38 years of marriage. ''I've tried to put it behind me, but he would have taken it harder.''
 Given her long track record of promoting liberal causes, Ms. Weinberg's nomination has buoyed activists like Steven Goldstein, a gay rights advocate, who said she is ''instinctively drawn to helping the underdog. ''
 That trait will be helpful to Mr. Corzine, who has consistently trailed Mr. Christie in recent polls. But Ms. Weinberg said she was confident that Mr. Corzine's fortunes would rise as Election Day neared and voters began to focus on the candidates' records and their plans for leading the state out of the recession.
 She also believes her experience in Trenton will help the state avoid repeating the excesses of the past. 
 ''There are a lot of us, from both parties, who made spending decisions that weren't as responsible as they should have been over the past two decades,'' she said. ''Just like a lot of American families and businesses did. But when the economy recovers, and I am confident that it will, we will be much wiser and make certain that doesn't happen again.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: State Senator Loretta Weinberg, 74, second from right, visiting with Trenton residents, is a candidate for lieutenant governor.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COUNTIES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); WOMEN (72%); GAYS & LESBIANS (71%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (64%); LGBT RIGHTS (61%); CIVIL RIGHTS (61%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (61%); VIETNAM WAR (50%); SCANDALS (50%); CORRUPTION (50%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2009



440 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 517 words

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
NEW YORK ON LESS:
 Sales and Closings
 In Central S. I.
 At first glance, it looks as if the area overseen by Staten Island's Community Board 2, which stretches across the island's midsection like a snug-fitting strapless swimsuit, is fairly contained from the fallout of Manhattan's financial troubles. Sun lovers still flock to South Beach, and residents still fight for last-minute reservations at restaurants like Bocelli's in Grasmere. 
 But while the area may have held up better than others in the city, Debra A. Derrico, below, the board's district manager for two years and a 40-year resident of the area, has glimpsed trouble.
 Driving onto the Sea View Hospital campus in Willowbrook, where the community board's office is located, she points out the future site of a 345-unit home for the elderly, which she said the area desperately needed. The developer, Leewood Real Estate Group, is expected to start construction early next year, and the project is to create 550 construction jobs.
 Most business owners and neighbors won't readily admit that they're struggling, she said, so Ms. Derrico has become a recession detective of sorts. She points out the furniture store, car dealership and 40-year-old design shop that have closed recently. 
 She passes shops plastered with sale signs, with some merchandise even carted onto the street. She found that shops at her local mall in Springville have started to close a half-hour earlier.
 At Fox Floors Carpet One, which recently restored the floors in Ms. Derrico's home, Scott Markoff, the company's president, said that with fewer people renovating their homes, business was at its worst in nearly 25 years. These days, his business depends largely on two Staten Island schools that are doing major renovations.
 Hopping back into her car, Ms. Derrico talked about noticing many signs of trouble while shopping and eating.
 Q. When did you first notice that the recession had hurt your district?
 A. Linens 'n' Things, Circuit City, Ethan Allen and Island Ford -- they all closed. I'm like, ''Oh, boy, what's happening?'' We're in trouble. The island is in trouble. We're trying to keep our money and people on Staten Island. Now it's like we're forcing them to go out of the borough.
 Q. How have these closed businesses affected other businesses?
 A. There's a pizzeria called Bario's. Bario's got a lot of business from those businesses that closed. They would do lunch and cater for those businesses' meetings. Now what Bario's is doing is selling pizzas $1 a slice. Now a family of five can eat for $10. CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY 
 SLIDESHOW: Online: A slide show from Springville and Willowbrook. 
 TAKING
 QUESTIONS
 This week, Emily Rosenbaum, professor of sociology at Fordham University and co-author of ''The Housing Divide: How Generations of Immigrants Fare in New York's Housing Market,'' will answer readers' questions about how race influences immigrants' housing options and what this may mean for the future prospects of some immigrant groups. Submit questions online; the first set of answers will appear on the blog on Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); RESTAURANTS (76%); FURNITURE STORES (65%); NEW CAR DEALERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2009



441 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: Seattle Theater Takes No-Frills Approach to Filling a Top Job

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

DATELINE: SEATTLE 

 BODY:
When the esteemed Intiman Theater here needed to hire a new managing director last year, the trustees went the route that most major nonprofit theaters take: spending about $50,000 on a national search, retaining consultants and an interim managing director, and devoting countless hours to discussions of the candidates.
 That search ended happily, with the arrival of Brian Colburn from the Pasadena Playhouse in November. But soon after, the trustees decided to try something different when they had to find a successor for their artistic director, Bartlett Sher, who won a Tony Award in 2008 for directing ''South Pacific'' at Lincoln Center Theater.
 The trustees skipped an expensive search and instead relied on Mr. Sher's assessment of directing talent around the country. They went so far as to quickly meet and interview his choice, Kate Whoriskey, the 38-year-old director of the acclaimed Off Broadway production of ''Ruined,'' which won its author, Lynn Nottage, a Pulitzer Prize. Ms. Whoriskey had never run a theater, but Mr. Sher pledged that if she were hired, he would stay until she had settled fully in. 
 ''I've watched a lot of theaters really, really suffer in the course of succession, and I wanted Intiman to avoid that,'' Mr. Sher said. In late June the Intiman announced that Ms. Whoriskey would be its new leader, and that she and Mr. Sher would run the theater together through 2010, a highly unusual arrangement in the theater world. Like many corporations, universities and other organizations, major theaters have found that succession planning has the potential be a messy business. 
 Consultant-driven searches can take a year or more; boards can descend into squabbling; and donors, foundations and subscribers often pause in their support until a new artistic director has arrived -- or wait even longer, to judge the successor's taste and style.
 The American Repertory Theater in Cambridge, Mass., for instance, took a year and a half to replace Robert Woodruff as artistic director after his contract was not renewed. (Diane Paulus, the director of ''Hair'' on Broadway, is now on board.) The Center Theater Group in Los Angeles, the Long Wharf Theater in New Haven, and -- a situation well known to Intiman trustees -- the Seattle Repertory Theater have also experienced tumultuous transitions or embarked on lengthy searches this decade.
 Forgoing a typical search has its drawbacks. Organizations can learn about themselves through such a process, and the Intiman trustees proceeded without an outside analysis of the theater's artistic strengths and weaknesses or a list of independently vetted candidates. And allowing an artistic director essentially to handpick his successor -- especially one who has never run a theater -- has its risks, as Mr. Sher and the theater's president, Kim A. Anderson, acknowledge.
 ''I think what we're doing is brave and bold, but it is also an experiment,'' Ms. Anderson said. ''The way we searched, having two artistic directors in 2010 -- that is not without risk. Our board had a very, very long discussion about due diligence and our responsibilities, and even dedicated our April board retreat to our approach and to Kate.''
 During the retreat, Ms. Anderson said, none of the 30 or so board members urged hiring a search firm or holding in-depth interviews with anyone other than Ms. Whoriskey.
 Among the reasons, Ms. Anderson said, was members' respect for Mr. Sher: the Intiman won the Tony Award for regional theater in 2006, and Mr. Sher's most recent directing credit was the critically lauded Lincoln Center Theater production of ''Joe Turner's Come and Gone'' on Broadway in the spring. Trustees also spoke of their admiration for Ms. Whoriskey, who has directed three productions at the Intiman -- including a well-received staging of Ionesco's ''Chairs'' -- and held a visiting role as associate artist there in 2002-3.
 Mr. Colburn, the managing director, noted that after winning the Tony, the Intiman hired consultants to study the theater with an eye toward a capital campaign. (The consultants helped determine that fund-raising efforts brought in about a third less than they should, he said.) That experience, he said, as well as his own hiring, which had been guided by consultants, armed trustees with information that made them more confident about hiring Ms. Whoriskey on their own.
 ''In this economy we can't say to donors and foundations that we're in a pause period as we do a long search and try to figure out our future,'' Mr. Colburn said, adding, ''The relief and enthusiasm among our funders has been massive in response to hiring Kate so quickly and having her and Bart working together for another year and a half.''
 Mr. Sher said that far from picking a successor whose artistic sensibilities were just like his, he first wanted to find a director on the rise who was eager to infuse the Intiman with fresh ideas and new energy. He and Ms. Whoriskey are more colleagues than close friends, he added. He said she approached some plays from a ''more conceptual'' perspective than he would, though they both have a strong visual sense. (Mr. Sher said he first saw Mr. Whoriskey's work when she directed his wife, Kristin Flanders, in a production of Ibsen's ''Master Builder'' at the American Repertory Theater in 1999.)
 ''I see my role going forward as being a resource for Kate as she plans her first season and establishes herself at Intiman,'' Mr. Sher said. ''And I can help raise money and talk to people and not have the transition be so abrupt. We can go together to meet with the Mellon and Shubert Foundations, say, and I can help in the conversations.''
 Ms. Whoriskey said she would begin spending time here starting this winter. She has yet to decide whether to buy a home in Seattle or live here part-time. This is a sensitive point for some in Seattle, given that Mr. Sher has been away for long stretches in recent years directing in New York and elsewhere. But she emphasized that she took the Intiman job partly because she was eager ''for an artistic home.'' (She and her husband, the actor Daniel Breaker, a Tony nominee for ''Passing Strange'' who now plays Donkey in ''Shrek,'' have a newborn son.)
 Ms. Whoriskey plans to direct ''Ruined'' here in 2010, and wants to broaden the Intiman's offerings by producing more international work by or about people in countries like Iran, Cuba, Cambodia and Pakistan. She also said she hoped to work with the Seattle Symphony and other theaters and cultural institutions here on joint projects in the seasons ahead.
 ''I've been a freelance director for 10 years, traveling all over the country, and the idea of working at Intiman and with the Seattle community is just so inspiring at this stage of my career,'' she said. ''I realize what we're doing is new for Intiman, for Seattle, for Bart and for me. But that's part of what makes this so exciting.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kate Whoriskey and Bartlett Sher of the Intiman Theater.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEN LAMBERT/THE SEATTLE TIMES)(C1)
 Bartlett Sher said he would stay on for a spell at the Intiman to help his successor.(PHOTOGRAPH BY T. CHARLES ERICKSON)(C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (92%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%); WRITERS (67%); SUCCESSION PLANS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (57%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (52%) WASHINGTON, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); CONNECTICUT, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2009



442 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: Europeans Moving to Cut Fees for Calls to Cellphones

BYLINE: By KEVIN J. O'BRIEN

DATELINE: BERLIN 

 BODY:
The next frontier for lower mobile calling rates in Europe is cracking a 20-year-old system of connection fees that has rewarded bigger operators and has artificially raised rates to consumers.
 Since March, regulators in Germany, France and Spain have cut the special charge for calling a mobile phone -- known as the mobile termination rate -- by 30 percent to 50 percent. In Britain, Ofcom, the communications regulator, is considering how much to trim the rate there.
 Bigger mobile operators tend to collect most of the fees under the system, which was set up to compensate for the extra cost of connecting to a mobile network. Smaller challengers want lower fees so they can sell more flexible calling plans. 
 ''The big rate cuts are redrawing the competitive playing landscape for operators in each market, altering the economics,'' said Frederic Doussard, an analyst at Oddo Securities in Paris. ''But for consumers, this should only lead to even lower costs.''
 The wave of reductions began in March after the European Commission urged European Union countries to lower termination rates, which average 9 euro cents (13 cents) a minute, to less than 3 cents by 2012. The commission has already mandated lower call- and data-roaming fees.
 Mobile termination charges were set up in Europe in the late 1980s. They were seen then as a way to support fledgling operators like Vodafone, T-Mobile, Orange and O2, whose smaller networks were struggling to handle the flood of calls from landlines.
 Under the billing system, European callers pay the per-minute terminate rate; costs range from less than 1 cent in Denmark to 15 cents in Bulgaria, when dialing someone on another mobile network from a landline or from a rival mobile operator.
 Even after the latest round of cuts, termination rates in France, Germany and Spain remain above the goal set out by the commission. National regulators must give only ''utmost consideration'' to the commission's recommendation.
 The United States, by contrast, employs a ''receiver pays'' system where interconnection charges are included in monthly calling plans. The United States approach led to unlimited calling packages for all mobile networks, something still not available in Europe.
 In Britain, the largest wireless carriers, O2 U.K. and Vodafone, are closely following Ofcom's deliberations, which will set new termination rates that take effect in April 2011. Rates are now 4.7 to 5.8 pence (8 to 10 cents) a minute.
 ''We don't see a case for changing the entire system,'' said Simon Lloyd, a spokesman for O2, the biggest mobile company in Britain. Mr. Lloyd said higher charges were justified because it cost more to connect a call on a mobile network than on a fixed network.
 If termination charges are sharply reduced in Britain, operators may have to raise prices elsewhere to recoup costs, perhaps for pre-paid calling plans that cost as little as $:10, Mr. Lloyd said.
 ''Most people I don't think are aware of the prices they pay because of these rates,'' said Nigel Evans, a member of the House of Commons from northwest England. ''I think big, drastic cuts in rates by Ofcom would be very welcome.''
 In France, the 30 percent rate cut will lead to lower sales and profit for the market leaders Orange and SFR, said Mr. Doussard, the Oddo analyst. He estimated that the charges generated 15 percent of those companies' revenue.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (92%); TELEPHONE RATES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%)

COMPANY: T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (54%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%) EUROPE (96%); FRANCE (94%); SPAIN (93%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); DENMARK (58%); BULGARIA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2009



443 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1485 words

HEADLINE: Common Tale of Search Firms: Big Pitches, Big Fees, Few Jobs

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO; Kitty Bennett contributed research.

DATELINE: NAPERVILLE, Ill. 

 BODY:
In retrospect, Kerry Fischman said he should have paid more attention to the nagging concern he felt when the saleswoman from the job search company kept pressing him to sign the contract and send in his credit card number.
 But it had been just two weeks since he lost his management job in safety and compliance at Georgia Pacific, the paper products company, and the maelstrom of emotions was still fresh.
 ''Obviously, the anxiety and the fear were there,'' Mr. Fischman said. ''That's all you ever heard on the news, how many more thousands, tens of thousands, lost their jobs.''
 Seeking an edge, Mr. Fischman paid the company, the ITS Corporation, $8,250 in December, believing it would help him land a six-figure job in the Denver area, which he said the saleswoman promised. But the company did little more than redo his resume and push him to cold-call employers, he said. 
 Mr. Fischman, 58, now believes the company misrepresented its services and exaggerated its capabilities. He eventually found a job, but without the help of ITS, and received a partial refund after threatening to report the company to the authorities.
 Company officials deny that ITS misrepresented itself. But Mr. Fischman's experience highlights the vulnerability of job seekers as they cast about for help in the most difficult job market in decades and encounter a bewildering and largely unregulated array of individuals and businesses offering assistance. While some customers have benefited from their work, others have accused the companies of using misleading sales tactics. 
 ''Career management'' or ''career marketing'' companies like ITS, which charge large up-front fees, are easy to stumble upon on employment Web sites. Often, as in Mr. Fischman's case, they contact job seekers after they post their resumes. They usually focus on professionals and managers, massaging their egos by boasting that they accept only the most marketable candidates. Some companies place advertisements that appear to be job postings but instead are lures for sales pitches. 
 The offices of several state attorneys general said they had fielded complaints about career counseling companies during this recession. 
 ''Many employment services provide valuable help, but others misrepresent themselves and their services in an attempt to take your money,'' said the Illinois attorney general, Lisa Madigan, who succeeded several years ago in having one career counseling company, Bernard Haldane Associates, banned from doing business in the state. ''To find legitimate agencies for your needs, it's critical to do your homework first.''
 Over the years, several state attorneys general have filed lawsuits after consumers said they had been misled. In the mid-1980s, the New Jersey attorney general's office sued several career counseling companies founded by Robert J. Gerberg Sr., whose son, Robert J. Gerberg Jr., now runs ITS. (The elder Mr. Gerberg is a senior consultant to the company.) A judge later found that the companies had violated state consumer fraud laws ''through the use of various misrepresentations and misleading statements to consumers.'' The company was ordered to change its practices.
 The elder Mr. Gerberg said the complaints in the lawsuit represented a tiny fraction of the companies' clients. The younger Mr. Gerberg said ITS had tens of thousands of satisfied customers but declined to let The New York Times talk to any clients chosen at random.
 Many of the companies do little more than provide ordinary job search assistance: overhauling resumes and cover letters, giving advice on how to network and helping sort through public job listings. While this can be a legitimate and useful service, much of it can be obtained more cheaply.
 Edward Bockman, 44, who managed the technology center of an Illinois college before losing his job during a restructuring, paid a career management company $5,000 in late 2007 after responding to what he thought was a job posting for professionals looking to earn $100,000 a year.
 Instead, he got a sales pitch from Benchmark Professional Careers in Chicago. He said he was told that a search for someone his age would normally take 13 months but that the company would cut that in half. Mr. Bockman said he believed that the company was a high-end recruiter, with access to a vast ''hidden job market,'' as he said company officials put it, that gave it connections to positions unavailable to regular job seekers. 
 Only later, after he began working with the company, did he realize it did not have any special pathways to job openings.
 He demanded a refund but got nowhere. Two years later, he still does not have a job, and the company's $5,000 charge on his credit card helped push him and his wife to file for bankruptcy.
 Corporate records show Benchmark is one of several business names for the same company, KHTX Management, which lists an address in Harlingen, Tex., that is a U.P.S. store. According to records, it is run by Larry Keim, who has been quoted in newspaper articles as a job search expert.
 Mr. Keim's phone number is unpublished, and messages left at Berkeley Palmer, a different name for the company in Overland Park, Kan., were not returned. The company's advertisements, now under the name BCS, still appear on job search Web sites. 
 In the case of ITS, Mr. Fischman made an appointment to stop by the company's Denver office when he was in town visiting his daughter. He asked a representative of the company whether it could get him a job in Denver, with a relocation package, at a low-six-figure salary similar to his old one. The representative immediately said the company could, he said, claiming ITS had a 95 percent placement rate. 
 Mr. Fischman said later that he knew no one could guarantee him a job but that he was under the impression he would have an inside track on positions the company scouted out for him. He also was intrigued by promises of access to ''unpublished'' jobs.
 But he was never given access to a list of such jobs. Instead, he said, his counselor directed him to an online database of companies and executives, telling him he should contact them himself to inquire about openings. 
 ''They were just giving me names and information,'' he said. 
 The company told him it had faxed or e-mailed his resume to hundreds of companies, but he said he never heard from any. 
 Mr. Fischman said he should have been more careful. But it is difficult to find much about the company on the Internet. It has several Web sites and operates under different names. 
 The Denver Better Business Bureau lists 58 complaints in the last three years under ITS Corporation -- there are nearly two dozen more under related company names -- but gives the company an A-plus rating because it is classified as a large company, so the number of complaints is considered relatively small. 
 Bureau officials, however, conceded that the classification of the company's size was based solely on its word. The younger Mr. Gerberg, chief executive of America's Job Network, which he described as the parent company of ITS, said what set the company apart was specialized software that filtered through listings from hundreds of job sites. He said the company assisted 500 to 700 people a month, including ''lots of celebrity clients.''
 Mr. Gerberg noted that ITS's contract clearly said it did not guarantee jobs. It is also carefully worded to say that the company merely provides leads to unpublished openings.
 ''It's very difficult to imagine our clients that come on board have some misunderstanding on what we do and don't do,'' Mr. Gerberg said.
 He also said the company had a money-back guarantee, but Mr. Fischman said the period for requesting a refund passed very early, before he understood what the company was doing.
 Interviews with three other disgruntled former ITS clients who filed complaints with the Better Business Bureau found that one got a full refund after filing his grievance; another got half of his money back, and another got nothing. 
 The company gave The Times a list of 11 clients who ITS said were satisfied. One of them, Ira Glasser, 50, a hedge fund executive from New York, was enthusiastic in an interview about his experience, saying he found the structured assistance useful. Another, Bruce Reid, 49, a product engineering manager from Sullivan, Ill., said that he might have, in retrospect, paid too much, but that he was satisfied because he found a job.
 In Mr. Fischman's case, after much back and forth with company officials, he threatened to report the company to the Colorado attorney general. ITS then offered to refund him $2,450, but only if he signed a release that pledged him to keep his experience confidential.
 Mr. Fischman was hardly satisfied but accepted the offer. By then, he had taken a job with United Airlines. He got the job on his own, using his old resume.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kerry Fischman of Naperville, Ill., paid $8,250 to the ITS Corporation for help in his job search. Mr. Fischman said it did little more than redo his resume and push him to cold-call employers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER WYNN THOMPSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (92%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (87%); LAYOFFS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); DISMISSALS (73%); PAPER MFG (71%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); LITIGATION (60%); PAPER & PACKAGING (56%)

COMPANY: GEORGIA-PACIFIC LLC (57%); BERNARD HALDANE ASSOCIATES INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (57%); NAICS321219 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (57%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (57%); SIC2493 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCTS (57%)

PERSON: LISA MADIGAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2009



444 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week included Monday's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday. 
 According to traders, at the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.17 percent. The rate on the six-month issue at 0.25 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.09 percent.
 The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
 TUESDAY
 Minnesota, $82.9 million of certificates of participation. Competitive.
 Orange County, Fla., Development, $86.5 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
 Raleigh, N.C., $57.7 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 Arizona School District, $152 million of certificates of participation for the Tax Anticipation Notes Financing Program. Piper Jaffray.
 Broward City, Fla., Board of Commissioners-Broward City Airport System, $100.9 million of debt securities. J.P. Morgan Securities.
 City and County of San Francisco Redevelopment Financing Authority, $75 million of taxable tax allocation revenue bonds for San Francisco Redevelopment Projects. Piper Jaffray.
 City of Colorado Springs, $64.8 million of Colorado Utilities System refinancing revenue bonds. Piper Jaffray. 
 City of Houston, $490.8 million of debt securities for Direct-Subsidy Build America Bonds. Loop Capital Markets.
 City of Orlando, Fla., Community Redevelopment Agency, $71 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Collin County, Tex., $74 million of limited/unlimited tax refinancing and permanent improvement revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Dallas Convention Center Hotel, $400 million of development corporation hotel revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
 District of Columbia, $268.9 million of income tax secured revenue refinancing bonds. Barclays Capital.
 Hanley Road Corridor Transportation Development District, Brentwood and Maplewood, Mo., $51 million of transportation sales tax revenue bonds. Stifel, Nicolaus.
 Hays County, Tex., $50.5 million of pass-through toll revenue and limited tax bonds. Piper Jaffray.
 Indianapolis Local Public Improvement Bond Bank, $162 million of debt securities. J.P. Morgan Securities.
 Kissimmee, Fla., Utility Authority, $60.7 million of debt securities. Morgan Keegan.
 Miami-Dade County Public Facilities, $87 million of revenue bonds for Jackson Health. Morgan Keegan.
 Midland County, Tex., Hospital, $115 million of debt securities for Replacement Hospital Financing. Merrill Lynch.
 Mississippi Development Bank, $72 million of special obligation bonds for Harrison County, Mississippi Highway Project. Morgan Stanley.
 Montgomery County, Tex., $54.9 million of debt securities. Wells Fargo Brokerage Services.
 New York State Dormitory Authority, $710 million of PIT revenue bonds. Merrill Lynch.
 New York State Dormitory Authority, $468 million of debt securities. M. R. Beal. 
 Sarasota County, Fla., Public Hospital District, $104 million of fixed-rate hospital revenue bonds for Sarasota Memorial Project. Citigroup Global Markets.
 South Bayside, Calif., Waste Management Authority, $54 million of solid waste enterprise revenue bonds. Merrill Lynch.
 Texas Department of Transportation, $1 billion of general obligation bonds for the State of Texas. Barclays Capital.
 Industrial Development Authority of the County of Pima, $174.9 million of Arizona Metro Police Facility lease revenue bonds for Clark County, Nev., project. RBC Capital Markets.
 Regents of the University of California, $1.4 billion of general revenue bonds. Barclays Capital.
 Utah County Transportation, $101 million of sales tax revenue bonds. George K. Baum.
 Wisconsin Electric Pollution Control, $147 million of refinancing bonds. Merrill Lynch.
 Wisconsin Health and Educational Facilities Authority, $152.3 million of debt securities for Children's Hospital of Wisconsin. Goldman Sachs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (88%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SALES TAX (78%); SANITATION DISTRICTS (78%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (74%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (70%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (70%); TAX LAW (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (68%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (68%); AIRPORTS (67%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (65%); HOSPITALS (64%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (85%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (74%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (56%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (53%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (74%); JPM (LSE) (74%); 8634 (TSE) (74%); PJC (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (74%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (76%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (70%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2009



445 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: A New Test For Business And Biofuel

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: IGNACIO, Colo. 

 BODY:
An unusual experiment featuring equal parts science, environmental optimism and Native American capitalist ambition is unfolding here on the Southern Ute Indian Reservation in southwest Colorado.
 With the twin goals of making fuel from algae and reducing emissions of heat-trapping gases, a start-up company co-founded by a Colorado State University professor recently introduced a strain of algae that loves carbon dioxide into a water tank next to a natural gas processing plant. The water is already green-tinged with life. 
 The Southern Utes, one of the nation's wealthiest American Indian communities thanks to its energy and real-estate investments, is a major investor in the professor's company. It hopes to gain a toehold in what tribal leaders believe could be the next billion-dollar energy boom. 
 But from the tribe's perspective, the business model here is about more than business. ''It's a marriage of an older way of thinking into a modern time,'' said the tribe's chairman, Matthew J. Box, referring to the interplay of environmental consciousness and investment opportunity around algae.
 The tribe, whose reservation sits atop one of the world's richest fields of natural gas from coal-bed methane, had to surmount many hurdles to find an alternative energy idea it considered suitable. 
 For example, any project that would displace land used for growing food was tossed out for philosophical reasons: the Southern Utes' belief that energy and food should not compete in a world where people still starve. That eliminated discussion of corn-based ethanol. 
 And whatever was chosen had to be at least technically feasible, if not immediately profitable.
 The 1,400-member tribe also has a long history of herbal medicine use that made growing algae for fuel appealing, Mr. Box said. ''It reminded people of herbs that are helpful here, like bear root, which is harvested in the mountains,'' he said.
 The Colorado State professor, Bryan Willson, who teaches mechanical engineering and is a co-founder of the three-year-old company Solix Biofuels, said working with the Southern Utes on their land afforded his company advantages that would have been impossible in mainstream corporate America. The tribe contributed almost one-third of the $20 million in capital raised by Solix, free use of land and more than $1 million in equipment.
 ''If you're going with strict venture capital, they're looking for a blistering return on capital in three to five years,'' Dr. Willson said. ''The Utes have a very long economic view. They're making decisions now for future generations as opposed to the next quarter, and that is just fundamentally different.'' 
 But the tale of any start-up is written between the margins of inspiration and hard-edged reality. 
 More than 200 other companies are also trying to find a cost-effective, scalable way to achieve the same end -- turning algae into vegetable oil fuel, according to the National Renewable Energy Laboratory, a federal research center in Golden, Colo. Just last month, Exxon said it planned to throw $600 million into its own algae project, dwarfing Solix's financial base about fiftyfold. Like most oil-to-fuel efforts, the Solix project focuses on making biodiesel, which can be used in a regular diesel engine.
 ''This is still a very young industry, with a lot of claims out there that are sometimes difficult to believe,'' said Al Darzins, a group manager at the lab's National Bioenergy Center. 
 Mr. Darzins said Solix's model was different from most: the algae is grown in closed bags, lined up vertically in the water tanks, with the intent of increasing yield. But for every hopeful, he said, the crux will be controlling costs. 
 ''Solix has an interesting idea; whether it will work, I don't know,'' Mr. Darzins said. ''It's all going to come down to the economics.''
 Solix's facility project is next to the natural gas processing plant for access to the carbon dioxide waste stream, which will be used to nourish the algae -- a kind of biological recycling of carbon dioxide before its discharge into the atmosphere as the vegetable fuel is burned. 
 The plant also produces waste heat, which could be used to warm the algae beds in winter. In addition, the high desert plateau of southwest Colorado is one of the sunniest spots in the nation, providing solar radiation that accelerates algae growth.
 Central to Solix's business model, Dr. Willson said, is the hope that power plants and other factories now venting carbon dioxide will allow the company to build an algae farm next to their carbon dioxide vent pipes. A plant could sell the oil or biodiesel, and Solix would earn its return by being a part owner-operator, or by licensing the technology.
 If Solix can expand its operations to a commercial scale, the Southern Utes will have certain first ownership and operating rights in Solix plants throughout much of the Western United States.
 Karl Jacob, the director of public finance in state and local government ratings at the credit rating agency Standard & Poor's, tracks Native American economics and has assigned the Southern Utes' debt a AAA rating, the agency's highest. Mr. Jacob said the tribe had proved a canny investor by doing its homework and not moving too fast. 
 It operates businesses in 14 states, owns office towers and land from Denver to Oceanside, Calif., and controls a company that processes about 1 percent of the nation's natural gas. But it has only about $69 million in debt according to S.&P. Compared with most companies, that is a tiny debt-to-asset ratio. 
 ''They have always been very prudent,'' Mr. Jacob said, ''looking out into the next generation.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Algae produced at the plant, a start-up with unusual business partners.
The Solix Energy biofuels plant on the Southern Ute Indian Reservation in southwest Colorado. The area averages 300 sunny days a year.
 ''It's a marriage of an older way of thinking into a modern time,'' said Matthew J. Box, the chairman of the Southern Utes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC DRAPER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIVE AMERICANS (92%); BIOMASS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); BIOFUELS (89%); STARTUPS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); METHANE (78%); ETHANOL (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); ALCOHOLS (72%); NATURAL GAS PROCESSING (71%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (71%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (70%); HERBAL MEDICINE (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2009



446 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: AOL Blossoms As Print Retreats

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR. 
E-mail: carr@nytimes.com http://twitter.com/carr2n

 BODY:
The office at Ninth Street and Broadway in Manhattan in the former Wanamaker's department store has all of the trademarks of a well-financed digital start-up. Young people eat pizza and chat about applications while others are jammed into conference rooms discussing search optimization. The only oddity in the futuristic tableau comes when you step off the elevator to see three large letters: A O L. 
 The name AOL, apart from conjuring echoes of the most disastrous merger in business history, redounds with the archaic sound of a phone-driven modem screeching as it connects with some fusty computers sequestered in Dulles, Va., the former headquarters of the company.
But AOL, often derided as the original gated community, is now manufacturing a broad array of digital media that is free for the grabbing. There are 300 working content producers in its New York headquarters, backed by hundreds of other freelancers and programmers in Bangalore, Dublin and Dulles, cranking out copy and editing photos for more than 80 Web sites. Ten are ranked in Technorati's top 100. Politics Daily, which began in April, already has 3.6 million unique users a month, while Politico, a much more established name, has 1.1 million. In the aggregate, the media properties at AOL have about 76 million unique visitors. 
 Part of the way that AOL has been able to achieve quick credibility is by grabbing talent that is on the loose because of trouble in the rest of the industry. At Politics Daily, there are many recognizable names, including Melinda Henneberger, formerly of The New York Times; Carl Cannon, who worked for years at major daily newspapers and National Journal; and Walter Shapiro, who worked at The Washington Post, USA Today, Time and Newsweek. 
 Todd Pruzan and Jeff Bercovici, both of the shuttered Portfolio, work for DailyFinance, while AOL's FanHouse sports site is deep in newspaper veterans, including Kevin B. Blackistone, a former columnist for The Dallas Morning News, and Greg Couch, formerly of The Chicago Sun-Times. According to some I spoke to, their salaries approach the ones they left behind. 
 ''I'm not going to deny that the availability of talent has accelerated many of our efforts,'' said Martin Moe, who is in charge of the news sites at AOL, including Politics Daily and DailyFinance. ''Suddenly, in the last 18 months, this huge pool of talent has become available.''
 Visitors to sites like Engadget and FanHouse may not know that those sites emanate from a company that used to confine most of its communication to telling them they've got mail. Which is sort of the idea. 
 After the merger with Time Warner was announced in 2000, it was thought that AOL would serve as a digital outlet for all manner of the company's content, but those potential synergies never materialized, to say the least. And while the leadership of AOL won't say it aloud, they sound like they want to be the Time Inc. for the next generation. 
 Since he arrived in April, Tim Armstrong, chief executive of AOL and the former head of sales at Google, has made it clear that he expects AOL, using its MediaGlow division, to be one of the largest sources of ad-supported content on the planet. He's a bit more chaste in person.
 ''We are just a small little company that has gone through some challenging times that is trying to find a way to come up with ideas that will connect with an audience,'' he said, smiling, when I bumped into him on a tour of the office.
 Mr. Armstrong doesn't think it's important that customers of Black Voices, BloggingStocks or Stylelist need to know it was all brought to you by AOL.
 ''I am not sure that is important to the audience that Disney owns ABC or ESPN, so in the same way, FanHouse, our sports site, will live or die on its connection to the audience,'' he said. ''We can light a fuse, but whether or not it comes to fruition is reliant on the content.''
 It is not unlike how all the major brewers responded to the influx of microbrews. They simply brewed up their own small-label brands or bought existing ones, and kept their own brand in very tiny print deep in the label where most beer drinkers can't be bothered to look. Nick Denton, who has had some success at Gawker Media on a smaller scale with federated blogs, said it makes sense for AOL to minimize its imprimatur. 
 ''If the sites are to seem authentic, they can't be so obviously the product of an unimaginative conglomerate,'' he said in an instant message. ''That said, they didn't do themselves any favors with some of the names. Politics Daily? Snore.''
 Of course, as many newspapers have found out, you can't create a blogger simply by having someone from mainstream media work in their pajamas. But building from its purchase of Weblogs from Jason Calcanis in 2005, AOL has managed to develop a number of sites with rabid fans and traffic that comes from all corners, not just the portal. 
 ''Advertisers want reach, engagement and scale, and we want this to work,'' said Rob Norman, chief executive of GroupM Interaction, a unit of ad giant WPP. He said that in spite of the many fizzled efforts to remake AOL, ''you now have leadership in place who has a clear understanding of the economics and strategies for creating great content.''
 By some reports, Web advertising inventory is doubling every year, and there is little leverage on price even for the most trusted brands in a brutal spending environment. Still, being associated with AOL does give the sites a competitive advantage.
 ''We can make significant investments in quality content, and yes, use our traffic,'' said Bill Wilson, president of AOL Media. ''But there have to be inbound links for organic growth and people sending it out across the social Web.''
 This is probably version 8.0 of the revolution at AOL, none of which have stemmed its steady decline. When its core dial-up business began to falter, AOL was going to be the next Windows. Then it was going to be the largest media company in the world by virtue of a merger with Time Warner. Then it was an entertainment channel. 
 Next up was an emphasis on the member experience, then a jab at providing broadband, followed by portal initiatives, free e-mail and then a huge advertising initiative called Platform A. Along the way, there was talk of a sale, changes in leadership and general malaise mixed with management mayhem. 
 Finally, perhaps tired of all the zigzagging from a declining asset, Time Warner announced plans to spin the enterprise out on its own by the end of this year. 
 And wouldn't it be funny if about the time that Time Warner forced AOL to stand on its own two feet, it actually was able to? 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 21, 2009

 CORRECTION:
The Media Equation column on Monday, about the growing amount of Web content generated by AOL, misspelled the surname of a founder of Weblogs, an online content company that AOL purchased in 2005. He is Jason Calacanis, not Calcanis. The column also referred incompletely to the sale of the company. AOL bought Weblogs from its co-founders, Mr. Calacanis and Brian Alvey -- not just from Mr. Calacanis.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: AOL's headquarters in Manhattan, where 300 producers work. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCAS JACKSON/REUTERS)(B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEB SITES (72%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (68%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (63%); WRITERS (63%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (62%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (53%); CHICAGO SUN-TIMES INC (52%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (58%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2009



447 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: Arts Cuts at Colleges

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''Arts Programs in Academia Are Forced to Nip Here, Adjust There'' (Arts pages, Aug. 10) says that tens of thousands of art students will see ''piercing budget cuts'' that will reduce programs, classes and teachers. Nearly all the colleges in the article are public, which is not surprising given government budget cuts. But the effect on private art schools has been nowhere near as draconian as the article suggests. 
 The 36 art and design schools in our association are experiencing some pressure, to be sure. But what I hear from our campuses is a very strong commitment to protecting academic programs at all costs. So while we're seeing staff and faculty salary freezes at most campuses, almost none of our schools are reducing faculty or cutting programs.
 The average tuition at our schools is up 4 percent this year, while institutional financial aid is up 8 percent. So in the midst of a serious recession, when our students start classes they will find more aid available than ever before and virtually no change in program offerings or quality.
 Bill Barrett Executive Director, Association of Independent Colleges of Art and Design San Francisco, Aug. 10, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Your article points to the cuts to arts programs at universities and colleges in the United States. I taught for years in the United States before moving to Canada, where similar cuts are occurring, though I would not characterize them as a ''nip here'' and an ''adjust there.'' It's more like a slash here, a burn there.
 These cuts are a symptom of a much larger problem, namely that higher education is becoming increasingly streamlined to fit into the demands of the economy, either in terms of conducting basic research that can be exploited for financial gain or by producing competent employees and managers to fill what positions the economy can still provide. 
 This in turn is a symptom of a larger problem in the world as a whole: all that matters any longer is what can earn money and what can lead to a job.
 Of course, those departments where ideas are taught that challenge the unquestioned primacy of work and profit -- those pesky humanities and arts departments -- are first in line for the biggest cuts, so fewer and fewer students will be exposed to truly challenging ideas.
 Christopher Pavsek Vancouver, British Columbia, Aug. 10, 2009
 The writer is an assistant professor of film at the School for the Contemporary Arts, Simon Fraser University. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); TUITION FEES (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); WRITERS (73%); FILM SCHOOLS (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (54%) BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (54%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2009



448 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 122 words

 BODY:
ECONOMIC DATA Reports will include housing starts for July and the Producer Price Index for July (Tuesday); the Philadelphia Federal Reserve manufacturing index for August and the Conference Board's leading economic indicators for July (Thursday); and existing-home sales for July (Friday). 
 CORPORATE EARNINGS Reports will come from Lowe's (Monday); Hewlett-Packard, Home Depot, Saks, Target and TJX (Tuesday); BJ's Wholesale Club, Deere and Limited Brands (Wednesday); Barnes & Noble, Gap, H. J. Heinz,Hormel Foods and Sears (Thursday); and J. M. Smucker (Friday).
 FED CHAIRMAN SPEAKS The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, speaks at the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City's annual symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyo. (Friday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC INDICATORS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); HOUSING MARKET (88%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); EXISTING HOME SALES (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (69%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF KANSAS CITY (70%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%); H J HEINZ CO (57%); BJ'S WHOLESALE CLUB INC (57%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (57%); HNZ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (70%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (70%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (57%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (57%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (57%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (57%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (57%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2009



449 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: The View from the Bottom

 BODY:
Federal Reserve policy makers said last Wednesday that the recession appeared to be hitting bottom. Among the end-is-near indicators was consumer spending, which they said had begun to stabilize. 
 On Thursday, the Commerce Department reported that retail sales fell in July, after rising in May and June. It turns out that the earlier boosts had come mainly from higher prices for necessities like energy, not from more spending on more items. And while the government's cash-for-clunkers program increased car sales last month, retail sales on everything else fell by 0.6 percent, a much worse showing than economists had expected. The downbeat news was reinforced on Friday, when the University of Michigan's consumer sentiment index also fell unexpectedly. 
 Consumer spending accounts for nearly 70 percent of economic activity. So the latest data could be a warning that the recession is not bottoming out, as the Fed believes. Or -- almost as grim -- the data may be evidence that hitting the bottom will not be followed by a rebound, but by a long spell of very weak growth. 
 The good news is that over the next several months, stimulus spending is likely to lift economic growth considerably. But the headwinds are also considerable. 
 Policy makers, eager to declare the recession over, need to pay close attention and be ready to do more to rescue the economy. Otherwise there is a high risk that once the stimulus begins to fade, the economy will too. 
 Consumer spending will not truly recover until employment revives. Unfortunately, job growth is not expected to resume before next year. From there, it could take another two years or so to recoup the devastating job losses of this recession. Spending will also be restrained as households work off their heavy debt loads and try to rebuild the trillions of dollars of wealth they have lost in the housing and stock markets. 
 At the same time, families will face more pressure from higher state taxes and from cuts in public services. The 2010 fiscal year for most states began on July 1, but new budget shortfalls have already opened up in 13 states and the District of Columbia, totaling $26 billion.
 The financial system is also not out of the woods. Commercial property loans -- there are $3.5 trillion worth outstanding-- are increasingly prone to default. Midsized and smaller banks, heavy lenders to developers, are especially in harm's way. Many will fail, and as they do, credit will become even harder to come by for businesses and consumers. And the residential foreclosure crisis continues. There were more than 360,000 foreclosure filings in July, yet another record, according to RealtyTrac, an online marketer of foreclosed homes. Foreclosures usually mean financial ruin for the defaulters. They also mean reduced property values for everyone else. 
 Joblessness, weak spending and state fiscal distress will all require more federal spending -- on unemployment benefits and aid to states. That will help to replace the demand that is lost as consumers retrench. Bank weakness will require federal regulators to efficiently shut down insolvent institutions, so that losses do not deepen and make eventual failures even more damaging. Mounting home foreclosures will require the Obama administration and Congress to come up with alternatives to current -- inadequate -- relief efforts. 
 It is already clear that policy makers need to do more to ensure that whenever the bottom comes, the economy does not stay mired there. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); FAMILY (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (72%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (70%); PROPERTY TAX (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2009



450 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Health Care's Generation Gap

BYLINE: By RICHARD DOOLING. 
Richard Dooling is the author of ''Critical Care,'' a novel.

 BODY:
IN the 1980s, I worked as a respiratory therapist in intensive-care units in the Midwest, taking care of elderly, dying patients on ventilators. I remember marveling, along with the young doctors and nurses I worked with, over how many millions of dollars were spent performing insanely expensive procedures, scans and tests on patients who would never regain consciousness or leave the hospital. 
 When the insurance ran out, or Medicare stopped paying, patients and their families gave the hospital liens on their homes to pay for this care. Families spent their entire savings so Grandma could make yet another trip to the surgical suite on the slim-to-none chance that bypass surgery, a thoracotomy, an endoscopy or kidney dialysis might get her off the ventilator and out of the hospital in time for her 88th birthday. 
 That was back in the mid-'80s, when the nation was spending around 8 percent of its gross domestic product on health care. I and other health care workers solemnly agreed that the spending spree could not continue. Taxpayers and insurance companies would eventually revolt and refuse to pay for such end-of-life care. Somebody would surely expose the ruse for what it was: an enormous transfer of wealth based on the pretense that getting old and dying is a medical emergency requiring high-tech intensive-care intervention and armies of specialists, which could cost $10,000 or more per day. (Europeans have so far resisted this delusion, one reason they spend much less than we do on health care, with far better results.) 
 But we were wrong. Health care spending has since doubled, to around 16 percent of our gross domestic product, and in the next 25 years or so is projected to reach 31 percent of G.D.P. Despite having those figures in hand, Congress might still pass legislation calling for spending more, not less, on health care, even though we've been told for decades that what we spend has almost nothing to do with the quality of care we receive.
 In fact, expensive care is often worse care, because it snowballs into what some are calling an ''epidemic of overtreatment,'' in which unnecessary procedures, tests and medications all spawn more tests, more meds (to treat the side effects of the first batch) and more follow-up scans and procedures (in stand-alone clinics owned by the same doctors prescribing the tests, scans and procedures). 
 With so much evidence of wasteful and even harmful treatment, shouldn't we instantly cut some of the money spent on exorbitant intensive-care medicine for dying, elderly people and redirect it to pediatricians and obstetricians offering preventive care for children and mothers? Sadly, we are very far from this goal. A cynic would argue that this can't happen because children can't vote (even if their parents can), whereas members of AARP and the American Medical Association not only vote but can also hire lobbyists to keep the money flowing. 
 One thing's for sure: Our health care system has failed. Generational spending wars loom on the horizon. Rationing of health care is imminent. But given the political inertia, we could soon find ourselves in a triage situation in which there is no time or money to create medical-review boards to ponder cost-containment issues or rationing schemes. We'll be forced to implement quick-and-dirty rules based on something simple, sensible and easily verifiable. Like age. As in: No federal funds to be spent on intensive-care medicine for anyone over 85.
 I am not, of course, talking about euthanasia. I'm just wondering why the nation continues incurring enormous debt to pay for bypass surgery and titanium-knee replacements for octogenarians and nonagenarians, when for just a small fraction of those costs we could provide children with preventive health care and nutrition. Eight million children have no health insurance, but their parents pay 3 percent of their salaries to Medicare to make sure that seniors get the very best money can buy in prescription drugs for everything from restless leg syndrome to erectile dysfunction, scooters and end-of-life intensive care. 
 Sir William Osler, widely revered as the father of modern medicine, said, ''One of the first duties of the physician is to educate the masses not to take medicine.'' Perhaps the second duty should be to administer an ounce of prevention instead of a pound of cure.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MARCELLUS HALL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); NURSES & NURSING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (88%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); ENDOSCOPY (78%); PEDIATRICS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); DEATH & DYING (73%); AGING (73%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (73%); MEDICARE (73%); INSURANCE (71%); DIALYSIS (69%); LEGISLATION (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2009



451 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Sites Ask Users to Spend to Save

BYLINE: By BRAD STONE

 BODY:
Some people will stop at nothing to snap up a bargain -- even if it means paying too much.
 That is the paradoxical principle behind Swoopo, a Web site that offers a seductive and controversial proposition to online shoppers.
 The site, which started in Germany and was recently introduced in the United States, sells appliances, electronics and other products in auctions that typically top out at a small fraction of the retail price. 
 This month, a new 40-inch Samsung TV, which normally sells for $1,500, sold for $67.92, and a white LG refrigerator with a price tag of $1,498 went for a cool $77.90.
 But there is a catch, of course: Swoopo users are charged 60 cents every time they bid, and those charges add up quickly. 
 The complicated machinations behind Swoopo and its online imitators are drawing attention from critics who say they prey on human foibles, like the tendency of people to overlook the small increments of money they spend to pursue alluring discounts. 
 These critics also say that players face long odds in Swoopo's auctions, where they must compete against people in the United States, Britain and Germany. And they say that Swoopo is making a nice profit on each item when all the bidding fees are tallied.
 Competing bidders spent a cumulative $2,337 in their losing effort to buy the $1,498 refrigerator, for example. 
 Swoopo says it must spend much of that revenue to advertise the auctions and attract customers to the site, which it says had 2.5 million visitors in July, double the number it had a year earlier, and a total of 2.5 million registered users. 
 ''In aggregate, consumers trying to obtain these products are overpaying,'' said Glen Whitney, a mathematician and a former quantitative analyst at the hedge fund Renaissance Technologies, who was asked to evaluate Swoopo. ''Unless you have an edge over other people who are bidding, and you can get them to subsidize your purchase, you shouldn't do it. It's a chump's game.''
 Executives at Entertainment Shopping, the German company that runs Swoopo, counter that the auctions are fun and challenging while offering the possibility of a killer deal. 
 ''We are combining elements of online auctions, skill games and traditional e-commerce,'' said Gunnar Piening, the company's chief executive. ''We are trying to bring back fun and excitement into shopping, which hasn't been there in a long time.''
 Swoopo recently acknowledged that one aspect of the game is not much fun: spending money to bid on products that someone else wins. Last month the site began allowing American users to apply that money toward buying the product at full price. Swoopo's retail prices are marginally above those offered by sites like Amazon.
 Mr. Piening says that auctions have lost much of their luster online. EBay's marketplace, once a mainstay of e-commerce, has been shrinking for years amid complaints of fraud and the proliferation of automated bidding software that allows people to win auctions at the last possible moment.
 Swoopo avoids fraud by selling all of the products itself, often shipping them directly from suppliers. Bidding starts at zero, and players can bid up the auction price only in small set increments, like 1, 2 or 6 cents. Swoopo also offers its own automated bidding tool on the site, called Bid Butler. There is no possibility that users can ''snipe'' an auction at the last moment, because a few seconds are added to the clock with every new bid.
 That, incidentally, creates the impression of Swoopo auctions that are about to end but last for hours more, a feature of the site that critics say is subtly misleading.
 Nevertheless, Swoopo's spin on the Internet auction appears to be suddenly in vogue. This spring, August Capital, a Silicon Valley venture capital firm, invested $10 million in Entertainment Shopping, to help it expand worldwide. 
 In addition to a growing number of small Swoopo imitators with names like GoBid and Rockybid, another start-up, Project Fair Bid, has raised $4.5 million from three American venture capital firms and plans to unveil its site next March. 
 People who use these sites say they can be addictive, frustrating and potentially rewarding with the right combination of patience, timing and perhaps luck. 
 Last month, Carolyn Parslow, who manages a flea market in Trumbull, Ohio, won a new refrigerator on Swoopo for $9.66 -- plus the $61.80 she spent on bids. But she sounds a note of caution, saying that she has lost far more auctions than she has won, and that there does not appear to be a way to gain a persistent edge over rival bidders.
 ''It's not easy. As soon as you think you have it figured out, you lose,'' Ms. Parslow said. ''You pull your hair out more than you jump up and down with excitement.''
 Nick Marchevsky, a 27-year-old unemployed piping draftsman from Sewell, N.J., is more successful than most Swoopo users: he says he has won 27 items in the last few months, including digital cameras, TVs and Mac computers. But his strategy, he says, is simple, bullheaded persistence. He spends up to two hours in each auction and makes sure he outspends other bidders. 
 That also means he has, on occasion, spent more money in a winning effort than the item itself would have cost.
 Mr. Marchevsky argues that winning on Swoopo requires dexterity and patience -- players must know when an auction is likely to end, so they can allocate their time and money. And they should never casually bid if they are not serious about prevailing.
 ''You have to have some skill at it, or you are not going to go anywhere,'' Mr. Marchevsky said. ''I wouldn't call it gambling at all.''
 In that regard, the company behind Swoopo is not taking chances, retaining a well-known gambling lawyer, Anthony Cabot of the Las Vegas law firm of Lewis and Roca, as an adviser. ''Lotteries are games of chance, and an auction does not have what you would call any systematic chance, a random event that determines the winner,'' Mr. Cabot said in an interview.
 I. Nelson Rose, a consultant to the gambling industry and professor at Whittier Law School, said federal regulators would probably evaluate Swoopo and its ilk not as games of skill or luck, but as auction sites. In that respect, he said, the law on the topic is somewhat of a gray area. 
 ''It turns out the idea of paying for bids does not seem to be specifically allowed by states, as it is in most of Europe,'' Professor Rose said. ''But it doesn't seem to be explicitly prohibited either.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nick Marchevsky has beat the odds on one auction site, Swoopo, to win items like digital cameras and Nintendo Wiis. ''You have to have some skill at it,'' he says, ''or you are not going to go anywhere.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK SIMON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B1)
 Swoopo starts the bidding at zero dollars and zero cents. (pg.B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (77%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (77%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (72%); EXECUTIVES (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2009



452 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM.; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Bank Branches Are Slow to Vanish

BYLINE: By ROB COX and ANTONY CURRIE

 BODY:
Bank Branches
 Slow to Vanish
 Surely it's time to start writing obituaries for the bank branch -- that physical manifestation of the financial industry's recent bloat. Like the many McMansions they financed during the boom, new branches seemingly mushroomed on every available corner of rural and urban America. With the credit bubble gone and online banking proliferating, the branch must be finished, right?
 Not so fast. While the growth of bank outlets is slowing, rumors of the death of the branch are greatly exaggerated. True, consolidation, like JPMorgan's takeover of Washington Mutual and PNC's purchase of National City, is leading to the closing of overlapping franchises. But the financial crisis and ensuing race for deposits may actually have extended the longevity of the branch. 
 Statistics from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation highlight the fundamental problem facing the banking industry. The 8,246 banks with deposits insured by the regulator had $13.54 trillion of assets on their books at the end of the first quarter. Yet they had only $7.54 trillion of deposits against them. That $6 trillion gap had to come from other sources -- largely the capital markets.
 And if there is any single lesson to draw from the crisis it is that this kind of financing is at best fickle and at worse entirely unforgiving. Had it not been for governments around the world, with financing efforts like the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program in the United States, many of the world's largest institutions would have struggled to match their assets with corresponding liabilities.
 All of which has highlighted the charms of the simple retail bank deposit. It doesn't just come cheaply, well below the cost of borrowing money in the financial markets. It is also remarkably stable. While consumers may be prone to all sorts of retail fads, they rarely move their banking relationships. Breaking the inertia of depositors takes a major event, like fundamental concerns about solvency like those experienced by Washington Mutual and IndyMac right before their seizure by regulators last year.
 But what's the big deal about branches if, after all, it takes just a few clicks of a mouse to open an online banking account? Who needs all those bricks and mortar and Howard Johnson-esque architectural flourishes? The truth is, apart from concerns about solvency, bankers say there's nothing quite like shutting a local branch to make customers think about moving their deposit relationships. 
 Given the worries over future funding, that is a risk bankers are at pains to avoid and may explain why Bank of America last month played down reported comments by its chief executive, Ken Lewis, to investors about reducing its 6,100-strong branch network by up to 10 percent. 
 Even though online banking has taken off over the last decade, branches are still hives of activity. According to McKinsey, by 2007 the proportion of day-to-day transactions like bill payments that is conducted in branches had fallen to less than 30 percent, from 70 percent at the turn of the century. 
 Yet the absolute number of transactions at a branch has remained stable while the average number of customer visits at a branch in Europe and the United States rose during the period. A survey by Bank of America this year of its own branches shows that trend has accelerated.
 Over time the importance of the branch will inevitably fade. By 2007 more than 90 percent of customers in their 20s in the United States had signed up for Internet banking, while the proportion stands at about half for the entire client population, McKinsey says. 
 In the next couple of decades that should make branches less relevant. But the preference for face-to-face interaction and concerns about online security still give branch banking an edge in collecting, and retaining, customer deposits. 
 Of course, branches are also expensive to maintain, especially in a recession. The challenge for banks will be to balance the competing desire to attract and hold onto deposits while also persuading shareholders they can rein in costs and build up capital. 
 That's no easy trick. But for now, with financing concerns still lingering over the industry, it probably extends the life of the bank branch indefinitely. 
 ROB COX and ANTONY CURRIE 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Branches of Washington Mutual, now owned by JPMorgan Chase, are dwindling. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE SEGAR/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANK BRANCHES (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (93%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (89%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (89%); INTERNET BANKING (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); RETAIL BANKING (79%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); TAKEOVERS (75%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (69%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (69%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2009



453 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: Young, Mentally Ill and Behind Bars

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Mentally Ill Offenders Stretch the Limits of Juvenile Justice'' (front page, Aug. 10): 
 Solitary confinement is among the harshest legal punishments that American society inflicts on its adult inmates. To inflict it on children is cruel and immoral. 
 I studied suicides in New York State's prisons over a six-year period and found that half occurred in solitary confinement units even though just 7 percent of the population was housed there. In 1890, the United States Supreme Court observed that prisoners in solitary confinement ''fell, after even a short confinement, into a semifatuous condition, from which it was next to impossible to arouse them, and others became violently insane.'' 
 If adults are unable to endure the tedium and psychological torture of round-the-clock confinement, imagine what it does to young, developing minds -- and what it does to those with mental illness.
 Mary Beth Pfeiffer Stone Ridge, N.Y., Aug. 10, 2009
 The writer is a journalist and author of ''Crazy in America: The Hidden Tragedy of Our Criminalized Mentally Ill.''
 To the Editor:
 In response to rallying cries of ''get tough on crime'' in the 1980s, many policies were put in place that have led to skyrocketing prison populations. The most troubling, with profound effects, is in the juvenile justice system.
 The systematic use of and reliance on the criminal justice system to deal with mental health problems of our youth have been misguided. Not only is this a waste of taxpayer money, but it is also tragic for the youth, families and communities in which they reside. The juveniles who are imprisoned because of mental illness are often without adequate treatment and without hope of recovery. They will be doomed to a life of crime and their victims will suffer. The economic crisis has worsened the situation, as it has resulted in a reduction of support for treatment of mental illness.
 Congress should address the policies and revisit laws that result in an extraordinary number of youth with mental health disorders landing in prison. Instead, when possible, home-, family- and community-based care that addresses the underlying disorders should be used.
 Greater collaboration is also needed among everyone involved in the lives of youth. Earlier detection of mental health and substance abuse disorders of juveniles in the justice system; increased training for juvenile court, corrections and law enforcement personnel; and expanded services and programs that have been proved to reduce recidivism and improve outcomes for juvenile offenders are needed in order to improve the likelihood that juveniles with mental health disorders will get the help they need to become productive members of the community.
 As Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. told the American Bar Association during its annual meeting this month in Chicago, while we need to be tough, we also need to be smart on crime.
 Carolyn B. Lamm President, American Bar Association Washington, Aug. 12, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Your article accurately portrays the devastating consequences of cutting state and community mental health programs. Cutting publicly financed programs does a disservice to the mentally ill, costs more in the long run and worsens human suffering.
 A 2004 study showed states with intensive community treatment programs had fewer arrests, jail days and hospitalizations of people with mental illnesses. One state saw an 83 percent reduction in jail days. States and communities that effectively carry out community mental health programs will reduce costs and, more important, help the mentally ill get effective treatment and keep them out of prisons.
 Laurence H. Miller Chairman, Assembly Committee on Public and Community Psychiatry American Psychiatric Association Little Rock, Ark., Aug. 11, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Research demonstrates that delinquent youth with mental health issues can be far more effectively helped by home-based and community-based treatment than in correctional institutions. That is why in 2007 the Bloomberg administration began the Juvenile Justice Initiative, which provides treatment at home as an alternative to incarceration for juvenile delinquents.
 Treatment for these youth, many of whom have been diagnosed with mental illness, is provided by trained clinicians with small caseloads who help families with obtaining appropriate psychiatric services. This reduces recidivism by 30 to 70 percent (far better than the 90 percent re-arrest rate for youth placed in juvenile prisons), and provides treatment for a fraction of the cost, while more successfully addressing antisocial behavior and teaching caregivers for these youth how to manage the symptoms of their children's mental illness.
 By wrapping services around the youths and their families in the community, therapeutic gains can be sustained after treatment ends.
 John B. Mattingly Commissioner, New York City Administration for Children's Services New York, Aug. 11, 2009
 To the Editor:
 While thorough in describing the plight of mentally ill youth, your article does not describe emerging innovations.
 For example, juvenile mental health courts and legal services lawyers in California have joined together to divert mentally ill youth from detention. These nonadversarial courts offer intensive case management and link youth to community-based mental health services so they can safely return home. The legal services lawyers expand access to critical resources like Medicaid, special education and disability benefits by enforcing existing legal rights to adequate mental health treatment and supports. Providing intensive treatment in the home is cheaper, more effective and more humane than detention.
 Juvenile mental health courts are an important innovation to reduce detention of youth with mental illness, but they are not a solution. Only by providing adequate mental health services to every child in America will we end the practice of using juvenile jails to warehouse mentally ill youth.
 Patrick Gardner Fiza Quraishi Oakland, Calif., Aug. 11, 2009
 The writers are, respectively, the deputy director and a legal fellow at the National Center for Youth Law.
 To the Editor:
 The crisis in our juvenile corrections system will only worsen unless we reverse course and aggressively put in place early identification, prevention and effective treatment programs for mental health conditions.
 We have a strong research base that shows that these programs can reduce antisocial behaviors and help young people succeed. Yet we fail to invest in these proven approaches. The plight of children in these facilities demands that we change course.
 The health reform plans now being debated improve access to prevention programs that can avert the current downward spiral. Effective implementation of the 2008 insurance parity act contained in economic bailout legislation will help assure equitable access to mental health services. 
 We must change policies that permit mental health services to be the first cut. Continuing on our current path is expensive, ineffective and inhumane.
 David L. Shern President and Chief Executive Mental Health America Alexandria, Va., Aug. 11, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JORDAN AWAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRISONS (90%); WRITERS (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); MENTAL HEALTH (89%); JUVENILE COURTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); JUVENILE CRIME (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); TORTURE (77%); FAMILY (77%); LAWYERS (74%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); RECIDIVISM RATES (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); SUICIDE (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (62%); TALKS & MEETINGS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (57%)

PERSON: ERIC HOLDER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2009



454 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Growing a Bit, Japan's Economy Raises Hope of Recovery

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
Japan's economy rebounded in the latest quarter for the first time in a year, signaling the possible end of the country's deepest recession since World War II and brightening prospects for a widespread global recovery.
 Japan's economy, the world's second-largest, plunged into recession in the wake of the global financial crisis last year. Exports, its mainstay, at one point fell to half their precrisis levels.
 But a turnaround in exports and a vast fiscal stimulus program helped produce a 0.9 percent economic expansion in the three months that ended June 30, government figures showed on Monday, equivalent to annualized growth of 3.7 percent. 
 The expansion was in line with the 0.9 percent growth forecast that was the average of 10 economists surveyed last week. A 1.2 percent growth in public demand helped offset a 1.3 percent fall in demand from the private sector, the data showed. Overall domestic demand fell 0.7 percent from the previous quarter.
 ''The results were very positive,'' said Takuji Aida, senior economist at UBS Securities Japan. ''It's true Japan would not have achieved growth without government stimulus. Still, the data shows that inventory adjustment is all but over, and we can expect growth going forward.'' 
 The Japanese economy's resurgence after four consecutive quarters of contraction -- including an 11.7 percent fall in annualized terms in the previous quarter -- adds to a slowly improving picture of the world economy. (The growth rate for the previous quarter was revised upward Monday from 14.2 percent.)
 Last week, the German and French economies showed unexpected growth. The Federal Reserve said last week that the United States, the world's biggest economy, appeared to be ''leveling out.'' China, Hong Kong, Singapore and South Korea have reported rebounds as the effects of stimulus efforts across the globe take effect.
 Recovery in these critical overseas markets whittled down inventories and released some pent-up demand, bolstering Japan's exports of cars and electronics. Exports grew 6.3 percent from the previous quarter, while imports fell 5.1 percent. 
 At home, new tax breaks and incentives to help sales of energy-efficient cars and household appliances, coupled with lower gas prices and a rebound in share prices, spurred consumer spending. Prime Minister Taro Aso has pledged 25 trillion yen (about $263 billion) in stimulus money, including a cash handout plan and more public spending on programs like quake-proofing the country's public schools, to revive the economy.
 Investors have shown recent optimism in Japan's economy; shares in Tokyo recently rallied to their highest levels since early October.
 But the Nikkei 225 average dipped 1.5 percent in early trading Monday after the numbers were announced, after weak consumer sentiment data in the United States sent Wall Street lower on Friday.
 Still, the outlook for Japan remains unclear, and some analysts question whether the economy can sustain this recovery after stimulus measures at home and elsewhere run their course. Falling employment and wages are also expected to weigh on consumer spending for some time.
 Japan's jobless rate hit a six-year high of 5.4 percent, and wages showed a record drop in June on an annual basis, dragging down consumer spending. Weak demand, coupled with falling oil prices, have put downward pressure on prices here, raising fears of prolonged and damaging deflation.
 ''With the factors driving the current rebound being temporary in nature, a self-sustaining recovery is still not in sight,'' Ryutaro Kono, Tokyo-based economist for BNP Paribas, told clients in a report published before Monday's numbers.
 The latest growth recoups only a small fraction of the 8.8 percent the Japanese economy has lost since peaking in early 2008, Mr. Kono said.
 Private capital investment and real estate values also remain weak, economists say.
 Although production activity has increased with the turnaround in exports, ''we have yet to see 'active production' backed by capital investment,'' Kyohei Morita, chief economist for Japan at Barclays Capital, wrote in a note.
 Though exports and industrial production are recovering, their levels remain well off their peak, saddling companies with excess capacity and employment, Mr. Morita said.
 The Bank of Japan struck a similarly cautious note over prospects for a sustained recovery in a recent report. While the bank said the Japanese economy had stopped deteriorating, it warned that employment and wages would stay low for some time, hurting consumer spending. Despite this quarter's growth, the bank predicts that Japan's economy will contract 3.4 percent in the year to March 2010.
 The latest uptick is unlikely to enhance the standing of Mr. Aso's Liberal Democratic Party ahead of national elections this month, when many expect the party to lose its grip on power for only the second time in over half a century.
 Voter surveys show that the Democratic Party, Japan's main opposition party, which vows to put more money in the hands of consumers, is favored to beat the Liberal Democrats in the Aug. 30 balloting.
 Support has soared for the Democrats and their ambitious election platform, which includes cash allowances to families with children, free tuition and lower gasoline taxes.
 But some economists warn the Democrats' plans will add to Japan's growing debt, which already surpasses 180 percent of its gross domestic product.
 Others say that Japan needs deeper structural reforms to raise productivity, especially in the face of a shrinking population. An overhaul of the tax and social insurance systems are also priorities for Japan.
 Unless Japan can maintain robust growth into next year, the country will have suffered another ''Lost Decade'' of economic growth, after limping through much of the 1990s with little growth, Yutaka Harada, chief economist at the Daiwa Institute of Research, wrote in a recent note.
 ''Ten years after our Lost Decade, we're finding ourselves in the midst of a second Lost Decade,'' Mr. Harada said.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 19, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about the Japanese economy's resurgence after four consecutive quarters of contraction misstated its drop in the previous quarter. The economy, which increased 0.9 percent in the quarter that ended June 30, fell 11.7 percent in annualized terms in the quarter before that -- not 14.2 percent. (The figure was revised upward in the latest release.).

GRAPHIC: CHART: A RETURN TO GROWTH: After four quarters of contraction, Japan estimates its economy grew in the second quarter. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); WORLD WAR II (72%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); ELECTRONICS (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (60%); GASOLINE PRICES (60%)

PERSON: TARO ASO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (89%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2009



455 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: A Determined Outpost Of Tiny Technology

BYLINE: By ASHLEE VANCE

DATELINE: SAN JOSE, Calif. 

 BODY:
Tessera Technologies may just be the loneliest company in Silicon Valley. 
 Most of the office parks surrounding Tessera are vacant. The expanse of empty parking lots reflects the deflated economy, industry consolidation and the loss of technology manufacturing and design work to overseas companies. 
 Many of the organizations that once flanked Tessera, which specializes in making the tiniest of computing devices, had assembly lines and industrial operations here. They have since withdrawn from ultra-competitive manufacturing, leaving Tessera on its own. In fact, a recent study by the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics shows that Silicon Valley lost more than a quarter of its chip, computer, instrument and communications equipment manufacturing jobs from 2001 to 2008. 
 ''I don't know how long these other buildings will remain empty,'' said Henry R. Nothhaft, the chief executive of Tessera, who goes by Hank. ''I am very dedicated to this area, but I am concerned about it.''
 A serial entrepreneur, Mr. Nothhaft says California has made life too difficult on technology companies with its high taxes and regulations. Still, he is out to prove that a small company with manufacturing and engineering skills can survive and even thrive if it takes the right risks.
 Tessera's niche is miniaturization. The company is on a quest to make ladybug-size digital cameras and silent cooling systems, just one-fifth of an inch high, for laptops. 
 This passion for the tiny stems from decades of work in a crucial but often overlooked part of the computer chip field known as packaging. Tessera has developed patented methods for protecting the chips that go into computers and cellphones from wear and tear -- most notably the stress that results from chips heating up and cooling down time and again. 
 To perform such feats, Tessera tends to work on the nanotechnology scale where things are most often measured for laymen in terms of the human hair. For example, Tessera can place 10,000 copper wires on a nickel-size chip with each wire separated by a distance equal to two hairs. 
 Many chip makers, including giants like Intel and Samsung, have licensed Tessera's packaging technology.
 Last year, Tessera recorded about $250 million in revenue, most of it from licensing the packaging technology, and it put 25 percent of that total toward research and development spending. 
 Tessera's strategy has locked it into near-constant litigation, charging some of the world's largest chip makers with stealing its packaging techniques. 
 Tessera has since settled most of the claims, and its share price has reflected the peace. In the last nine months, Tessera's stock has climbed to $26 a share, from $9. 
 Now, the company wants to focus on growth and solidify a strategy that has been in the works for the last four years. 
 By eliminating mechanical parts, Tessera keeps shrinking the camera and now is trying to shrink the price of the cameras. ''You can actually build these things using traditional chip manufacturing techniques known for their cost efficiencies,'' said Kevin Vassily, who follows Tessera for Pacific Crest Securities. ''That opens up this market to a lot of things that have been off limits for some time.''
 The price of the Tessera devices should go low enough to put a camera into even the cheapest cellphones. The company expects toy makers, surveillance companies and video game makers to find new uses for the cameras, for instance, in fuzzy bears that respond to a child's reactions. Tessera has placed another risky bet on creating a new type of cooling system.
 Computers typically have loud, spinning fans for removing heat produced by chips and other components. To replace cooling fans, Tessera has concocted a device that moves around electrically charged air molecules to create a chilled breeze. The device is much quieter than the humming fan inside most PCs, takes up less space and requires less battery power for the same amount of cooling. 
 Such technology, while still in the prototype phase, could play well with computer makers like Apple and Dell that are competing to produce the thinnest, quietest, lightest laptop. 
 And, while others have given up on the messy work of building things, Tessera sees the cooling systems as a way to sidestep its traditional licensing business and crank out some actual products.
 ''We haven't decided for sure yet, but we'd like to be in a position where we might be manufacturing some of those,'' Mr. Nothhaft said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A typical camera module used in cellphones, top left, compared with a wafer level camera made by Tessera. The company specializes in packaging, developing patented methods for protecting computer chips from wear and tear. Left, Henry R. Nothhaft, the chief executive. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TESSERA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); ELECTRONICS (89%); MICROPROCESSORS (89%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); PATENTS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (77%); DEFLATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (71%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (71%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (71%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (71%); STATISTICS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (68%); LITIGATION (60%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

COMPANY: TESSERA TECHNOLOGIES INC (90%); INTEL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%)

TICKER: TSRA (NASDAQ) (90%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2009



456 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: '39 Steps': Unlikely Broadway Survivor

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
The 1,000-watt celebrities have either gone home or on vacation. The enriching revivals from canonical playwrights have finished their runs, and the Tony winners have packed up their trophies. Starting on Monday there will be just one nonmusical on Broadway: ''Alfred Hitchcock's The 39 Steps.'' This joyously wacky four-person show has endured cast changes, runs in three different Broadway theaters and a recession, outlasting pretty much every other straight play without the benefit of elaborate sets or well-known stars.
 ''It has restored my faith in the simple power of the theater,'' said Jeffrey Kuhn, who portrays more than 40 different characters in less than two hours, including a vaudevillian named Mr. Memory, a Nazi fraulein in garters, a cop, a marching band, a pious farmer and a traveling lingerie salesman. His colleague Arnie Burton plays another 40. 
 Directed by Maria Aitken, ''The 39 Steps,'' now at the Helen Hayes Theater, follows the general outline of Hitchcock's 1935 thriller of the same name, in which a hapless man becomes entangled in an espionage conspiracy and has to run for his life. Along the way the actors not only send up the film but also make joking reference to dozens of others. 
 Yet as Mr. Burton says, ''It's really not so much about a spoof of Hitchcock, which it is, of course; it's really an homage to the theater.'' Not the contemporary theater, where mermaids traverse the stage on wheels and gargantuan mechanical sets get bigger applause than the actors, but the nostalgic version that survives on greasepaint and hammy actors. ''It's a valentine to that kind of creativity and imagination, of doing so much with so little,'' said Mr. Burton, who has been with the show since its out-of-town run in Boston in 2007 and its Broadway opening in January 2008.
 With just a few props that include a table, ladders, several puppet silhouettes and spotlights, the cast members -- with the help of about 12 people backstage -- ingeniously recreate a chase atop a speeding train, a suspension bridge, a windy Scottish moor, a London theater and a sprawling mansion. (The show won Tony Awards for lighting and sound design.)
 Recently Mr. Burton and Mr. Kuhn were having a pretheater dinner with Jill Paice (who plays three characters) and Sean Mahon (who retains his identity as the square-jawed hero throughout). Ms. Paice, who joined in June, is the newest member of the team. 
 ''I was terribly nervous,'' she said. The dizzying pace of character and scene changes demands perfect rocket-launch timing. The group of seasoned actors has quickly developed into a tightknit family, Mr. Burton said. In this type of ensemble performance, he added, ''the four of us have to work together as a group, and there can't be any divas.''
 Despite the tightly orchestrated production, unforeseen troubles can arise. One evening Mr. Burton and Mr. Kuhn had hurried into a backstage corner to do a quick costume change.
 ''Jeffrey kept saying, 'I'm going to be sick, I'm going to be sick,' '' Mr. Burton recalled, ''and then he starts projectile vomiting.''
 ''Great dinner story,'' Mr. Kuhn interjected.
 Both men were in the next scene, but Mr. Kuhn couldn't appear, so Mr. Burton turned their comic dialogue into a monologue (still comic, he hoped). Mr. Kuhn's standby got into costume, but by the following scene Mr. Kuhn managed to make it back onstage, albeit a bit pasty-faced. 
 Mr. Kuhn, who joined the cast in October 2008, right after the financial crash, remembered thinking it would be a short-term job because the production probably would not survive the dead days of January. ''I still can't quite figure it out,'' he said. ''It actually surprised me that it didn't take the hit.''
 Bob Boyett, the lead producer, said the production is close to recouping its $2.2 million investment. 
 Now into its second year, the play draws in tourists and passers-by who haven't necessarily seen the Hitchcock movie or read the John Buchan novel on which it was based, or don't know what to expect after they step inside the theater. Something clicks about 10 minutes into the show, Mr. Mahon said, when the actors begin to construct the jostling train out of four trunks, and the audience realizes what's going on. In Ms. Paice's eyes the audience members function like a character in the play. ''They determine what type of show it is,'' she said, depending on whether they understand the Hitchcock jokes or respond more to the slapstick. Different audiences have different senses of humor.
 Mr. Kuhn and Mr. Burton said they do a rough assessment each night when they hear the reaction to the comic precurtain announcement to shut off cellphones. A big laugh and the actors know the audience is game. 
 A block away from the Helen Hayes is the Bernard B. Jacobs Theater, where Yasmina Reza's ''God of Carnage'' has been residing. It is on vacation and is scheduled to resume performances after Labor Day, ending the brief monopoly of ''The 39 Steps'' on Broadway playgoers. ''God of Carnage'' also has four actors -- though they are all well-known from television and film.
 Mr. Burton related that the producers of ''The 39 Steps'' initially wanted some familiar names, but Ms. Aitken, who had directed the London production, was adamant. ''You have to trust me on this,'' she told them. And they did.
 ''It's a play that's been able to run a year and a half without a celebrity or a star,'' Mr. Burton added. ''It shows it can be done.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The cast of ''The 39 Steps,'' from left: Jeffrey Kuhn, Arnie Burton, Jill Paice and Sean Mahon at the restaurant Angus McIndoe. The show is ''an homage to the theater,'' Mr. Burton said.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (91%); CELEBRITIES (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE FILMS (77%); LINGERIE (73%); WRITERS (73%); THEATER (73%); ESPIONAGE (52%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (67%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

TITLE: 39 Steps, The (Play); 39 Steps, The (Play)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2009



457 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; CAMPAIGN SPOTLIGHT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: How Do I Pop Thee? Let Me Count the Ways

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
If there are 50 ways to leave your lover, as Paul Simon once suggested, a brand of snack chips wants to double the ante.
 The Procter & Gamble Company is sponsoring a sweepstakes that asks consumers to demonstrate the 100 ways they eat, munch, nosh and snack on its Pringles line of potato crisps. Fans of the brand can submit video clips, photographs or text messages in Twitter-sized, 140-count bites to a section of the Pringles Web site (pringles.com/100ways).
 The sweepstakes began on Aug. 5 and continues through Sept. 11. Prizes include a trip to New York City and $100 gift cards.
 The sweepstakes is part of a campaign promoting a restaging of Pringles, centered on the introduction of a larger container called the Super Stack can. The can contains, on average, 100 crisps, and weighs 6.4 ounces; previously, the regular variety of Pringles came in a 6-ounce can and there was no head count for the number of chips inside. 
 The campaign, which carries the theme ''Everything pops with Pringles,'' includes television commercials, print advertisements, ads in stores, public relations and an extensive interactive component that involves, in addition to the brand's Web site, presences on Facebook, Flickr, Twitter and YouTube.
 The campaign is being handled by a team of agencies owned by WPP. They include Grey New York, part of the Grey Group, for the creative duties; G2, also part of Grey, for elements in stores; Hill & Knowlton, for public relations; MediaCom, part of GroupM, for the media duties; and Bridge Worldwide, for the interactive duties.
 The campaign is emblematic of efforts being made by giant marketers to spark renewed interest in familiar brands as consumers display continued reluctance during the recession to buy much beyond household necessities.
 Indeed, when Procter reported earnings earlier this month, executives said that sales of its discretionary products were particularly sluggish. Those lines include fragrances, hair care, batteries and snacks -- i.e., Pringles.
 Pringles is the last major food brand owned by Procter, which in recent years has sold off food lines like Crisco shortening and cooking oil, Folgers coffee and Jif peanut butter. Analysts have speculated that the company may be interested in divesting Pringles, too, as it focuses on areas like beauty, household cleaning products and men's care.
 Whether or not Pringles will be a Procter brand for another 40 years, the company is clearly devoting time and money to it, bringing out new varieties in addition to the Super Stack can.
 ''There are new flavors, new sub-lines, new tastes,'' says Bryan Hamilton, North America brand manager for Pringles at Procter in Cincinnati.
 Among them, he lists a line of ''Extreme'' flavors like ''blazin' buffalo wing'' and ''smokin' hot ranch'' and ''Restaurant Cravers'' flavors like onion blossom and cheeseburger.
 The idea behind the campaign is to let consumers ''know we're delivering more product than before,'' Mr. Hamilton says, and having 100 or so crisps in each can reflects that ''100 is a noticeable number.''
 ''When we did research, consumers were pleasantly surprised over the number of crisps that were in the can,'' he adds.
 The sweepstakes, soliciting material from consumers, reflects that ''fun and playfulness have always been a part of our heritage,'' Mr. Hamilton says, ''and we wanted to make sure we give them an outlet.''
 There have been similar sweepstakes and contests before for Pringles, among them one that asked consumers for new commercial jingles.
 On the section of the Pringles Web site devoted to the sweepstakes, entries have already been posted. Some people are playing with their food, as in a video clip in which a woman flips chips into her mouth from a table.
 There are photographs of Pringles paired with a dish of macaroni and cheese and, oddly, of a woman eating Pringles while working out on an exercise bicycle at a health club.
 A TV commercial promises that ''everything pops with the new Pringles Super Stack can'' as a couple dances to the rock tune ''Hooked on a Feeling.'' The spot shows crisps emerging from a Pringles can like butterflies.
 And in a print ad, a kitchen counter looks as if a hole had to be cut into it to make room for a Pringles Super Stack can: ''100 Pringles now in every Super Stack can,'' the headline reads. ''(Minor renovations not included.)''
 ''We maybe slightly underestimated'' the power of the message of 100 chips in the can, says Brett Banker, vice president and group management supervisor at Grey New York.
 ''It was a magic number,'' he adds, ''compelling and engaging.''
 It is ''a good time to bring this message to the forefront,'' Mr. Banker says, referring to the economic climate.
 ''A lot of brands are charging more, but you're getting less,'' he adds. ''This is a tight message: 'more to enjoy with the 100 crisps in a can.' ''
 Consumers will find when they shop that as they get more Pringles, they are paying more, too. The average retail price rose from around $1.25 for the old can to $1.50 to $1.65 for a Super Stack can.
 ''We haven't taken pricing in 10 years in the category,'' Mr. Hamilton says, using a marketing term that refers to a price increase.
 Mr. Banker says he believes the higher price should not pose a problem because ''we have a great product at a great value.''
 ''Pringles has always been seen as a good value,'' he adds. ''Though the price increase took place, you're getting more per can.'' The cost issue is addressed to some degree in the TV commercial, which compares 100 potato chips and 100 Pringles crisps.
 ''Both cost the same, but only the Pringles Super Stack can makes everything pop,'' the spot declares. ''Same cost, but a lot more fun.''
 Makers of potato chips like the Frito-Lay division of PepsiCo had been shrinking the sizes of their bags without lowering prices, thus increasing the cost of each chip. Frito-Lay has recently been promoting bags with ''20 percent more'' chips for brands like Lay's, but it is difficult to determine whether or not the bags are now back to their previous sizes.
 Procter has been raising prices during the recession on many products, to counter rising energy and commodity costs. But in some categories , like detergents, that move has cost the company sales as consumers switch to cheaper brands.
 Procter is counterattacking with campaigns that proclaim its products, like Bounty and Charmin, may cost more than ''bargain'' brands but cost less on a per-use basis because they are of higher quality or efficacy.
 Another tack Procter is taking is to introduce lower-priced versions of its premium products like a variety of Tide named Tide Basic, which is being tested in about 100 supermarkets in the South and Southwest.
 What would a variety of Pringles called Pringles Basic be like? Perhaps, to quote a song by Chuck Berry, it would be too pooped to pop.
 -------
 If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that runs Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times print edition and on nytimes.com.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SNACK FOODS (91%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); SWEEPSTAKES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); BRANDING (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); DIVESTITURES (77%); SOCIAL MEDIA (76%); POLISHES & SANITATION GOODS (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (66%); COMPANY EARNINGS (62%); TEXT MESSAGING (56%); CLEANERS (50%)

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (91%); FACEBOOK INC (55%); GREY GLOBAL GROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (91%); PG (NYSE) (91%); FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (91%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (91%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (91%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (54%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (77%) NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009



458 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEBDENDA; Pg. 

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: People and Accounts of Note

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Antonio Alonso, chief development officer at CBS Outdoor International, London, part of the CBS Outdoor unit of the CBS Corporation, was promoted to chief executive. He succeeds Clive Punter, who left, the company said, to pursue new opportunities. 
 Elisabeth Baker and Tom Platoni joined Allied Advertising and Public Relations, New York, in new posts. Ms. Baker becomes vice president for creative client services; she had most recently been vice president for marketing at the Weinstein Company, New York. Mr. Platoni becomes vice president and creative director; he had also been at Weinstein, as vice president for print creative.
 Eric Baker joined the O Group, New York, as design director. He had been principal at his own design company, Eric Baker Associates. 
 Matt Bonin joined Trailer Park, Hollywood, Calif., in a new post, director for integrated production. He had most recently been vice president and integrated head of video at the Boulder, Colo., office of Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners.
 Erin Brockman joined Yodle, New York, as vice president for client services. She had been vice president for operations at Yahoo HotJobs, New York, part of Yahoo.
 Scott Donaton joined Mediabrands, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, to lead Ensemble, a new branded-entertainment unit. Mr. Donaton had most recently been publisher at Entertainment Weekly magazine, New York, part of the Time Inc. unit of Time Warner.
 Mona Downey joined ISM, Boston, in a new post, director for strategic planning and digital integration. She had most recently been director for consulting at Beam Interactive, Boston.
 DunnWell, Garner, N.C., which provides fire prevention and safety services to companies with multiple facilities, hired the Republik, Durham, N.C., as its first agency of record. Spending was estimated at $500,000.
 Perianne Grignon joined the Online Publishers Association, New York, as senior vice president for marketing. She succeeds Kathryn Koegel, now a freelance marketing consultant. Ms. Grignon had most recently been vice president for media strategy and digital innovation at the Sears Holdings Corporation, Hoffman Estates, Ill.
 Health Club Media Network, Woodland Hills, Calif., added the 11 units of the New York Health and Racquet Club to the estimated 4,000 health clubs displaying its static and digital panels that carry advertising.
 Brittany Hodak joined Fathom Communications, New York, part of the Omnicom Group, in a new post, account supervisor for the entertainment marketing division. She had been partnership marketing director at the Red Distribution unit of Sony Music Entertainment, New York, part of the Sony Corporation.
 Tony Kalathara joined Toy New York as an art director. He had been an art director at the New York office of Draft FCB, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
 Karen Kaufman, a managing partner and head of the business planning unit at Mindshare, New York, part of the GroupM unit of WPP, was named to a new post at a sibling GroupM agency, Maxus, where she will be worldwide business development director. 
 Eve Kornblum, executive vice president and director for content production at Deutsch, New York, and Guy Williams, senior vice president and executive producer for broadcast production, were named executive vice presidents and co-directors for broadcast production. They assume the duties of Jim Frame, director for broadcast production, who left the agency to open Truth Inc., a production consulting company. Deutsch is part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
 Nancy LeMoine joined Parade, New York, as an account executive. She had been an advertising account manager at Prevention magazine, New York, part of Rodale. Parade is part of the Parade Publications division of Advance Publications.
 Noam Levavi, president at YCD Multimedia, New York, was promoted to chief executive. Mr. Levavi succeeds Barry Salzman, who wrote in an e-mail message that he had ''decided to explore other professional interests, more closely aligned with my Internet marketing and advertising background,'' as his two-year contract with YCD near its expiration.
 Market Research Bureau of Ireland, Dublin, part of WPP, will be acquired by Ipsos, Paris, subject to regulatory approval. Financial terms were not disclosed.
 Morton Hospital and Medical Center, Taunton, Mass., chose Strategis, Stoughton, Mass., as its agency of record. Billings for the assignment, previously handled by Commonwealth Creative, Framingham, Mass., were not disclosed.
 Jessica Orkin joined Straightline International, New York, as managing director. She had been executive vice president for strategy and account management at the Carpenter Group, New York. 
 The operating assets of Rock Coast Media, Newburyport, Mass., were acquired for undisclosed terms by Amp Agency, Boston, part of Alloy Media and Marketing, and the staff members of Rock Coast joined Amp.
 John Schneider joined Gabriel deGrood Bendt, Minneapolis, also known as GdB, in a new post, chief marketing officer. He had most recently been vice president and account principal at Walsh Bishop Associates, Minneapolis.
 Stephanie Schwab joined Kaplow, New York, as senior vice president and director for the K:drive digital communications division. She had been vice president at Converseon, New York.
 Taillight, Nashville, Tenn., is opening a commercial division, to be led by Brooke Boling, executive producer.
 Ashlee Yingling joined McDonald's USA, Oakbrook, Ill., part of the McDonald's Corporation, as supervisor for United States media relations on the United States communications team. She had been a senior account executive at Marc USA, Pittsburgh.
 Zeeshan Zaidi joined LimeWire, New York, in a new post, head of global. He had been chief operating officer and head of business development at Nabbr, New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (89%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); BUSINESS PLANS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (77%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (77%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (76%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (75%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (72%); FITNESS CENTERS (71%); PUBLISHING (70%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (70%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (70%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (64%); TRAILER PARKS (54%)

COMPANY: CBS CORP (91%); CBS OUTDOOR INC (90%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (85%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); ALLIED ADVERTISING & PUBLIC RELATIONS (84%); WEINSTEIN CO LLC (84%); TIME INC (82%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (69%); SEARS HOLDINGS CORP (64%); NEW YORK HEALTH & RACQUET CLUB INC (63%); SONY BMG MUSIC ENTERTAINMENT (62%); SONY CORP (62%); MDC PARTNERS INC (56%)

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (91%); IPG (NYSE) (85%); OMC (NYSE) (84%); SHLD (NASDAQ) (64%); SON (LSE) (62%); SNE (NYSE) (62%); 6758 (TSE) (62%); MDZ.A (TSX) (56%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (90%); SIC7312 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SERVICES (90%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (85%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS512120 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (64%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (64%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (64%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (64%); NAICS713940 FITNESS & RECREATIONAL SPORTS CENTERS (63%); SIC7991 PHYSICAL FITNESS FACILITIES (63%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (62%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (62%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (62%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (62%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DURHAM, NC, USA (54%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (77%); COLORADO, USA (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009



459 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
 PAPERS SHOW DISCUSSIONS
 To Destabilize Chile
 According to recently declassified documents from the cold war, President Richard M. Nixon discussed with Brazil's president a cooperative effort to overthrow the government of Salvador Allende of Chile. PAGE A7
 FEUD OVER AFRICAN ISLAND
 Migingo Island in Lake Victoria is not even one acre, but it is creating a huge fuss: It lies right along the disputed watery border between Kenya and Uganda, and politicians in the two countries have even threatened to go to war over it, thanks to the abundance of exportable Nile perch that live in the water. PAGE A4
 MYANMAR FREES AMERICAN
 An American man who was sentenced to seven years of hard labor last week for intruding at the home of Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the pro-democracy leader, in Myanmar was released and left the country with a visiting American senator, Jim Webb of Virginia. PAGE A4 
 NORTH KOREA TO OPEN BORDER
 North Korea said Monday it would crack open its highly militarized border with South Korea to allow periodic family reunions and group visits by tourists from the South. PAGE A5
 MEETINGS ON ARAB CONCERNS
 In meetings beginning Monday, President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt is expected to tell the Obama administration that Arab nations want peace, but are unwilling to heed Mr. Obama's call to make good-faith concessions to Israel until Israel takes steps like freezing settlements, an Egyptian official said. Page A8
 National
 AFTER QUIET SEASON,
 Three Storms Near U.S.
 After 11 weeks of a quiet hurricane season, three storms were churning toward the United States on Sunday. Two were several days away in the Atlantic Ocean, but one popped up, very close to the Florida Panhandle in the Gulf of Mexico.PAGE A12 
 GENETICS AND HEPATITIS C
 A Duke University team has uncovered the principal reason for the disparity between the races in the way people respond to the standard treatment for infection with the hepatitis C virus. It lies not in differing compliance to the treatment or access to health care, as some have assumed, but in genetics. PAGE A10
 New York
 STAR'S QUESTIONING LINGERS
 Over India Parade
 A Bollywood star, Shahrukh Khan, was the talk of the India Day parade in Midtown Manhattan, after he was stopped for questioning at Newark Liberty International Airport on his way to Chicago for a similar parade celebrating India's independence. PAGE A14
 BRINGING A FOLKSY TOUCH
 Loretta Weinberg, a longtime New Jersey state senator who signed on as Gov. Jon S. Corzine's running mate in late July, introduced herself to voters as the ''feisty Jewish grandmother'' of New Jersey politics. Since then, she has wasted little time trying to live up to her colorful proclamation. PAGE A16
 Business
 JAPAN'S ECONOMY GROWS,
 Sparking Optimism
 Japan's economy, the world's second largest, rebounded in the second quarter for the first time in a year, signaling the possible end of the country's deepest recession since World War II and brightening prospects for a widespread global recovery. PAGE B1
 COULD IMUS HELP FOX TV?
 The News Corporation is trying to lure television viewers to the Fox Business Network, and it is reportedly in advanced negotiations with the radio host Don Imus to simulcast his syndicated talk show on the network. PAGE B1
 AOL FOCUSES ON CONTENT
 AOL, often derided as the original gated online community, is manufacturing a broad array of digital features that are free for the grabbing, and it has quickly established its credibility. David Carr, The Media Equation. PAGE B1
 BANK BRANCHES LIVE ON
 With the credit bubble gone and online banking proliferating, bank outlets have been popping up less slowly. But the financial crisis and ensuing race for deposits may actually have extended the longevity of the branch. PAGE B2
 BROADWAY, VIA TWITTER
 The production of ''Next to Normal'' is enjoying a pop with what is by all accounts a Broadway first: an adapted version of the show over Twitter, the social networking site. PAGE B4
 CHINA STOPS MILL'S SALE
 A Chinese provincial government halted the privatization of a state-owned steel mill, apparently capitulating to thousands of workers who protested last week and took an official as hostage. PAGE B3
 Arts
 WOODSTOCK ALUMNI RETURN, ONSTAGE AND OFF
 The Bethel Woods Center for the Arts in Bethel, N.Y., was the obvious anniversary stop for the Heroes of Woodstock tour, featuring groups whose members performed at the original concert. Many audience members were back, too. PAGE C1 
 A BROADWAY SURVIVOR
 Starting Monday there will be just one nonmusical on Broadway: ''Alfred Hitchcock's The 39 Steps.'' PAGE C1 steps
 A THEATER'S NO-FRILLS SEARCH
 When Seattle's Intiman Theater needed a new artistic director, it skipped the expensive search and consultants and simply asked its managing director to pick one. PAGE C1 
 'DISTRICT 9' NO. 1 AT THEATERS
 The low-budget alien movie ''District 9'' was No. 1 at the weekend box office with an estimated $37 million in ticket sales, a stronger than expected result fueled by a quirky marketing campaign. PAGE C2 
 ON A FAMILY ROAD TRIP
 ''Glenn Martin, DDS,'' a new prime-time cartoon on Nickelodeon about a family taking an R.V. for a cross-country trip, is pretty much laugh-free (though it does have a laugh track). A review by Mike Hale. PAGE C3 
 BRINGING BRIO TO BEETHOVEN
 The Finnish conductor Osmo Vanska was the guest conductor for an all-Beethoven concert with the Mostly Mozart Festival Orchestra, and even with limited rehearsal time, he drew bracing performances. A review by Anthony Tommasini. PAGE C3 
 SMUGGLED IN FROM CHINA
 Patrick Radden Keefe's ''Snakehead'' focuses on a ghetto within a ghetto, the New York community of emigres from the Fujian Province of China who began arriving in the United States in large numbers in the 1980s. Books of The Times by Janet Maslin. PAGE C4 
 A CHOIR'S SECOND HOME
 The Schola Cantorum de Venezuela has performed at Lincoln Center before, brought in by several composers. The choir had its own program on Saturday, devoted mostly to Venezuelan music. A review by Allan Kozinn. PAGE C7 
 Sports
 AFTER LONG LAYOFF,
 Radcliffe Just Misses Record
 Paula Radcliffe was alone when she crossed the finish line to win the New York City Half-Marathon in 1 hour 9 minutes 45 seconds -- two seconds off the course record -- completing an emphatic return from a nine-month layoff. PAGE D8
 TRYING TO BOUNCE BACK
 Four years ago, Cadillac Williams was the N.F.L.'s offensive rookie of the year and quickly became the cornerstone of the Tampa Bay offense. But serious injuries have altered the course of his career, and the budding star has since become an afterthought. PAGE D1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); RACE & RACISM (72%); LAKES (72%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (71%); HEPATITIS (70%); JEWS & JUDAISM (70%); WEATHER (69%); HEPATITIS C (67%); FAMILY (67%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (61%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%); SENTENCING (54%); AIRPORTS (50%); VIRUSES (50%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (73%); HOSNI MUBARAK (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JON CORZINE (57%); JIM WEBB (57%); AUNG SAN SUU KYI (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (66%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); LAKE VICTORIA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHILE (94%); INDIA (93%); EGYPT (93%); JAPAN (92%); ISRAEL (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); UGANDA (92%); KENYA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); MYANMAR (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2009



460 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: Dangling $4.3 Billion, Obama Pushes States to Shift on Education

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON; Jennifer Medina contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Holding out billions of dollars as a potential windfall, the Obama administration is persuading state after state to rewrite education laws to open the door to more charter schools and expand the use of student test scores for judging teachers. 
 That aggressive use of economic stimulus money by Education Secretary Arne Duncan is provoking heated debates over the uses of standardized testing and the proper federal role in education, issues that flared frequently during President George W. Bush's enforcement of his signature education law, called No Child Left Behind.
 A recent case is California, where legislative leaders are vowing to do anything necessary, including rewriting a law that prohibits the use of student scores in teacher evaluations, to ensure that the state is eligible for a chunk of the $4.3 billion the federal Education Department will soon award to a dozen or so states. The law had strong backing from the state teachers union. 
 Illinois, Indiana, Louisiana, Tennessee and several other states have moved to bring their laws or policies into line with President Obama's school improvement agenda. 
 The administration's stance has caught by surprise educators and officials who had hoped that Mr. Obama's calls during the campaign for an overhaul of the No Child law would mean a reduced federal role and less reliance on standardized testing. The law requires schools to bring all students to proficiency in reading and math by 2014 and penalizes those that do not meet annual goals.
 The proposed rules make testing an even more powerful factor in schools by extending the use of scores to teacher evaluations. The proposed rules for the $4.3 billion in grants, which the administration calls the Race to the Top, require states to show they are fostering innovation, improving achievement, raising standards, recruiting effective teachers, turning around failed schools and building data systems. 
 Just to be eligible to apply, a state must have no ''barriers to linking data on student achievement or student growth to teachers and principals for the purpose of teacher and principal evaluation,'' the rules say.
 While many educators and advocates support the administration, there has also been an outpouring of complaints, including in comments on the rules filed with the Education Department. (The department will issue final rules after the comment period ends Aug. 28.)
 ''The proposed regulations are overly burdensome,'' Robert P. Grimesey, superintendent of the Orange County Public Schools in Virginia, said in written comments. ''They give the impression that stimulus funds provide the federal government with unbridled capacity to impose bureaucratic demands.'' 
 Much of the grumbling is from educators who say they supported Mr. Obama's candidacy.
 ''I am a public school teacher who vehemently wanted to vote for a president who would save us from No Child Left Behind,'' Diane Aoki of Kealakekua, Hawaii, wrote to the department. But linking test scores to teacher evaluations, Ms. Aoki said, means ''the potential is there for the test frenzy to get worse than it is under No Child Left Behind.''
 An Education Department spokesman, Peter Cunningham, said, ''There's a healthy debate around this grand application, which is what we were hoping for.''
 ''We're mindful of all the criticisms about federal overreaching, about too much testing, of all the complaints about No Child Left Behind,'' Mr. Cunningham said. ''These complaints come up all the time in conversations about all our programs, not just this one, with education officials across the country. The context that No Child has generated is the context that we have to live with.''
 The New Teacher Project, a nonprofit group, published a report this month handicapping states' chances. Florida and Louisiana, it said, were ''highly competitive,'' New Jersey and others were ''competitive,'' and Connecticut was ''somewhat competitive.'' California, New York and Wisconsin, the report said, were not eligible because of state laws limiting the use of achievement data in teacher evaluation. 
 Lawmakers and officials in California and Wisconsin are debating whether to make legislative changes.
 In New York, officials are pushing back against suggestions that the state is ineligible. Merryl H. Tisch, chancellor of the Board of Regents, said Friday that because the law banned the use of student data in evaluating teachers only for tenure decisions, New York should be eligible.
 Also, Dr. Tisch said, the state law is scheduled to expire in June 2010, and ''there is no appetite to renew that law.''
 Not everyone is upset with the administration's tactics.
 ''We like the way the administration is using Race to the Top to send a message about its priorities,'' said Joe Williams, executive director of Democrats for Education Reform. ''We like that it's gotten states to take a close look at their laws and practices.''
 Diane Ravitch, an education historian at New York University, disagreed. ''The Department of Education should respect the requirements of federalism and look to states to offer their best ideas rather than mandating policies that the current administration likes,'' Dr. Ravitch said in comments filed with the department.
 An early sign that the promise of education financing could induce state changes came after several blunt statements by Mr. Duncan this spring that states limiting the growth of charter schools would have trouble getting an award.
 Lawmakers in Illinois, Louisiana, Tennessee and several other states responded by lifting caps on the numbers of charter schools or by expanding the pool of students eligible to attend them. Charter schools are publicly financed, but they are managed by groups separate from school districts and are largely free from traditional school work rules. 
 In Indiana, lawmakers beat back an effort to impose a moratorium on new charters and, after Mr. Duncan warned that states prohibiting the use of test data in teacher evaluations would be ineligible for awards, revoked such a prohibition.
 Union lobbying was crucial in passing such laws. The two national unions have not formally commented on the proposed rules. They have opposed using test scores in evaluations, saying misuse of ambiguous data could lead to unfair dismissals. 
 California got attention in June when Mr. Duncan noted in a speech that it was among states that had created ''a firewall between students and teacher data.''
 ''In California, they have 300,000 teachers,'' he said. The top 10 percent are the ''best in the world,'' he said, the bottom 10 percent, ''should probably find another profession, yet no one in California can tell you which teacher is in which category.''
 ''Something is wrong with that picture,'' he said.
 In response, the state's superintendent of public instruction, board of education president and education secretary jointly wrote to Mr. Duncan saying his concerns were ''based on a misunderstanding.'' 
 California's law, they argued, bars state officials from using test results to evaluate teachers but does not block local districts from doing so. Only a few do. 
 State Senator Gloria Romero, a Democrat and chairwoman of the Senate Education Committee, said in an interview that because ''disagreement continues'' between the state and Obama officials, she was drafting legislation to clarify the law. Ms. Romero has scheduled a hearing on the issue for Aug. 26.
 ''We'll do everything in our power,'' she said, ''to make sure that California is in compliance with the expectations of the Obama administration.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Arne Duncan, right, the federal secretary of education.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN MARGOT/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION LAW (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (89%); PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL (89%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (72%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); TEACHER UNIONS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); ARNE DUNCAN (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2009



461 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Afghanistan's Tyranny of the Minority

BYLINE: By SELIG S. HARRISON. 
Selig S. Harrison is the director of the Asia program at the Center for International Policy and a senior scholar at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 AS the debate intensifies within the Obama administration over how to stabilize Afghanistan, one major problem is conspicuously missing from the discussion: the growing alienation of the country's largest ethnic group, the Pashtun tribes, who make up an estimated 42 percent of the population of 33 million. One of the basic reasons many Pashtuns support the Taliban insurgency is that their historic rivals, ethnic Tajiks, hold most of the key levers of power in the government.
 Tajiks constitute only about 24 percent of the population, yet they largely control the armed forces and the intelligence and secret police agencies that loom over the daily lives of the Pashtuns. Little wonder that in the run-up to Thursday's presidential election, much of the Taliban propaganda has focused on the fact that President Hamid Karzai's top running mate is a hated symbol of Tajik power: the former defense minister Muhammad Fahim. 
 Mr. Fahim and his allies have been entrenched in Kabul since American forces overthrew the Taliban in 2001 with the help of his Tajik militia, the Northern Alliance, which was based in the Panjshir valley north of the capital. A clique of these Tajik officers, known as the Panjshiris, took control of the key security posts with American backing, and they have been there ever since. Washington pushed Mr. Karzai for the presidency to give a Pashtun face to the regime, but he has been derided from the start by his fellow Pashtuns with a play on his name, ''Panjshir-zai.'' 
 ''They get the dollars, and we get the bullets,'' is the common refrain among Pashtuns critical of the government. ''Dollars'' refers to the economic enrichment of Tajiks and allied minority ethnic groups through an inside track on aid contracts. The ''bullets'' are the anti-Taliban airstrikes and ground operations in Pashtun areas in the south and east of the country.
 While Mr. Karzai has tried to soften the image of Tajik domination by appointing Pashtuns to nominally important positions, much of the real power continues to rest with Tajiks. For example, he appointed a Pashtun, Abdul Rahim Wardak, to replace Mr. Fahim as defense minister -- but a trusted Panjshiri, Bismillah Khan, remained an army chief of staff and kept fellow Tajiks as his top corps commanders and in other vital spots, including director of military intelligence, army inspector general and director of counternarcotics forces.
 The National Security Directorate, which oversees the civilian and military secret police and intelligence agencies, is headed by a Northern Alliance veteran, Amrullah Saleh. Michael Semple, a former adviser to the European Union representative in Kabul, told me that Mr. Saleh had appointed ''some credible Pashtun provincial directors'' but that ''the intelligence services are still basically seen as anti-Pashtun and pro-Northern Alliance because the power structure in the directorate is still clearly dominated by the original Northern Alliance group,'' and above all because ''they also have control of the prosecution, judicial and detention branches of the security services.'' 
 The Obama administration is pinning its hopes for an eventual exit from Afghanistan on building an Afghan National Army capable of defeating the insurgency. But a recent study by the RAND Corporation for the Pentagon, noting a ''surplus of Tajiks in the A.N.A. officer and NCO corps,'' warned of the ''challenge of achieving ethnic balance, given the difficulty of recruiting in the Pashtun area.'' The main reasons it is difficult to recruit Pashtuns, one United Nations official recently said, are that ''70 percent of the army's battalion commanders are Tajiks'' and that the Taliban intimidates the families of recruits. It doesn't help that many of the army units sent to the Pashtun areas consist primarily of Tajiks who do not speak Pashto. 
 Pashtun kings ruled Afghanistan from its inception in 1747 until the overthrow of the monarchy in 1973. Initially limited to the Pashtun heartland in the south and east, the Afghan state gradually incorporated the neighboring Tajik, Hazara and Uzbek areas to the north and west.
 It was understandable, then, that Pashtun leaders tried to make the last king, Zahir Shah, the president of the interim government that ruled from 2002 until the first presidential election in 2004. The king, revered by the Pashtuns, was to have limited powers, with Mr. Karzai, as prime minister, in day-to-day control. The Tajiks, however, objected, and on the eve of the national assembly that set up the interim government, the Bush administration's special envoy, Zalmay Khalilzad, sided with the Tajiks and had a bitter 40-minute showdown with the king, who then withdrew his candidacy. 
 Pashtun nationalism alone does not explain the Taliban's strength, which is fueled by drug money, Islamist fervor, corrupt warlords, hatred of the American occupation and the hidden hand of Pakistani intelligence agencies. But the psychological cement that holds the disparate Taliban factions together is opposition to Tajik dominance in Kabul. Until the power of the Panjshiris is curbed, no amount of American money or manpower will bring the insurgency to an end.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHNIC GROUPS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ARMIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); ETHNICITY (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); ELECTIONS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); POLICE FORCES (70%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (68%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (78%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2009



462 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: Egypt President to Tell U.S. Israel Must Make Overture

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Mona el-Naggar contributed reporting.

DATELINE: CAIRO 

 BODY:
In White House meetings beginning Monday, President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt is expected to tell the Obama administration that Arab nations want peace, but are unwilling to abide Mr. Obama's call to make good-faith concessions to Israel until Israel takes tangible steps like freezing settlements, an Egyptian official said. 
 As part of its effort to resuscitate the peace process, the Obama administration has asked Arab countries to make small but symbolic gestures to normalize relations with Israel, like allowing planes to fly through their airspace or improving cultural ties. The administration has also asked Israel to freeze all growth in settlements. 
 So far, neither side has agreed to Mr. Obama's proposed first steps, and so the president is expected to look to Mr. Mubarak for help in breaking the latest Middle East deadlock, regional analysts said. 
 Mr. Mubarak flew from Cairo to Washington on Saturday for his first American visit in five years, accompanied by Foreign Minister Ahmed Aboul Gheit and Gen. Omar Suleiman, chief of Egypt's intelligence service. He was scheduled to meet Monday with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and other officials, and is to meet with Mr. Obama on Tuesday.
 Mr. Mubarak will tell Mr. Obama that from the Arab perspective, the best way to build confidence is to press Israel to freeze settlements, implement an economic plan to improve life in the West Bank, ease pressure on Gaza and agree to negotiate with all issues on the table, including the status of Jerusalem and refugees, said Ambassador Hossam Zaki, spokesman for Egypt's Foreign Ministry.
 ''If they do this and engage immediately in negotiations with Abu Mazen, this is a recipe for openness and the Arabs will make the gestures needed,'' Mr. Zaki said, referring to Mahmoud Abbas, president of the Palestinian Authority. ''But they don't want to make this first step. They are demanding the Arabs make the first step. The Arabs should not make the first step. They are the occupying power. The occupation must end.'' 
 In many ways, Mr. Mubarak's visit to Washington signals a new beginning to an old script, as Arabs and Israelis argue which side should go first, Arab states revert to their old roles in the region, and the United States tempers its criticism of Egypt's political and human rights record in return for Egypt's regional cooperation. 
 During the Bush years, the region's more radical forces, those against the peace process, had the upper hand, including Iran, Syria and Hamas, the militant Palestinian group that now controls the Gaza Strip. 
 But while the dynamics of the region are always fluid, the tone, at the moment, appears to favor those in the peace camp, regional analysts said. That shift has been attributed in part to Iran being distracted by the internal political tumult over its disputed presidential election, and Mr. Obama's outreach to the Muslim world, especially his speech in Cairo, which has won the president, if not the United States, popular good will.
 ''The extremist forces now in the region are to some extent receding,'' said Abdel Raouf al-Reedy, former Egyptian ambassador to the United States and chairman of the Egyptian Council for Foreign Affairs. ''If you notice for instance Hamas, Hamas's discourse has begun to soften a bit. If you notice Syria, now Syria is actually cooperating with the United States.''
 Mr. Mubarak's visit also signals an effort to re-establish Egypt as the United States' chief strategic Arab ally after years of tension and animosity between Washington and Cairo. Mr. Mubarak had refused to visit Washington in protest over President Bush's Middle East policies, the invasion of Iraq and the public criticism of Egypt's political and human rights record. 
 The Bush administration effectively sidelined Egypt, turning more to Saudi Arabia as a regional force to counter the growing influence of Iran and push forward a peace initiative that the Saudi king initially sponsored, political analysts here said. But today, the Saudis have stepped back.
 Political analysts said that Mr. Obama was pressing Saudi Arabia to take the lead in offering so-called confidence-building measures to Israel, but the Saudis flatly refused, saying they had already produced a peace initiative endorsed by all 22 members of the Arab League.
 ''Saudi Arabia will not accept to take any steps before Israel shows that it wants peace to be its first choice,'' said Anwar Majid Eshki, chairman of the Middle East Center for Strategic and Legal Studies, a research center in Jidda, Saudi Arabia. ''President Mubarak will listen to the demands of the United States and then present the Arab point of view in this regard.'' 
 Egypt remains weighed down by domestic problems, including high unemployment, widespread poverty and uncertainty over who will replace Mr. Mubarak, who is 81 and in his 28th year in office. But the White House appears to have calculated that Egypt, as the largest Arab nation with regional goals similar to Washington's, remains the best place to turn.
 ''The United States has to have a regional power to coordinate its policies with and Egypt cannot be a regional power without the United States,'' said Mr. Reedy, the former Egyptian ambassador. ''So there is some kind of a complementary relationship.'' 
 Mordechai Kedar, a former Israeli military intelligence officer and now a lecturer at Bar-Ilan University in Jerusalem, said that the meeting between Mr. Mubarak and Mr. Obama was important, but that their discussion should focus on what Israel insists is the primary problem in the region, Iran's nuclear program and its regional ambitions. 
 ''The issue is Iran and what seems to be an American reluctance to take care of this problem, which is much more meaningful for Mubarak than Israel,'' he said. 
 Ambassador Zaki, of the Egyptian Foreign Ministry, said that the presidents would address many issues besides the peace process, including Iran, Sudan and extremism. 
 But on the peace process, he said, Egypt's opinion is unshakable.
 ''We think this huge gap of confidence requires movement from the Israelis first,'' he said. ''Then the Arabs are willing to make gestures. This is the way Arabs see it.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 24, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article last Monday about a visit to Washington by President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt misidentified the location of Bar Ilan University, where Mordechai Kedar, a former Israeli military intelligence officer, who commented on the visit's significance, is a lecturer. It is in Ramat Gan, Israel -- not Jerusalem.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt in Italy in July for a summit meeting. He will meet with President Obama on Tuesday.(POOL PHOTO BY MICHEL EULER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HAMAS (77%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); ELECTIONS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%); REFUGEES (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS (64%); IRANIAN ELECTION PROTESTS (63%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); HOSNI MUBARAK (91%); JOE BIDEN (58%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (92%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) EGYPT (98%); ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2009



463 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: In Arkansas, a Democrat Navigates the Health Fight

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

DATELINE: SPRINGDALE, Ark. 

 BODY:
Nobody got in Senator Blanche Lincoln's face about health care last week. That was because she did not let them.
 While her colleagues subjected themselves to brickbats at town-hall-style meetings, Ms. Lincoln filled the first week of the Senate recess with controlled events before respectful crowds, like business forums and civic club luncheons. The closest demonstrators got to Arkansas's senior senator were the clusters of people who waved placards from roadsides as her car zipped by. 
 The cautious scheduling, avoiding any risk of an ugly videotaped confrontation, underscored the political hazards of the health care debate for centrist Democrats like Ms. Lincoln, who faces re-election next year in a state where Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, defeated President Obama by 20 percentage points. 
 As the politics of health care become more polarized, moderate Democratic senators find themselves caught characteristically in the middle. Their ruling party is counting on their support to enact Mr. Obama's top domestic priority. But their constituents back home, in swing states like Arkansas, Indiana, Louisiana, Missouri and Nebraska, have deep reservations about the national Democratic agenda, particularly in expanding the government's role in health care and the economy. 
 Ms. Lincoln, the wife of an obstetrician and the mother of twin 13-year-old boys, might feel the consequences more immediately than her counterparts. Not only is she running in 2010, but she sits on the Finance Committee, which is struggling to draft a health care bill capable of winning bipartisan support. 
 If that effort fails, Ms. Lincoln may be left to vote on legislation crafted by more liberal committees in the House and Senate. She said she had problems with key components of those bills, but would surely face intense pressure in her party to back them. 
 Might Ms. Lincoln actually vote no? ''I wouldn't preclude myself from that, no,'' she said in an interview, adding, ''I know I'll be held accountable for that vote.''
 Arkansas has become emblematic of the centrist dilemma in the age of Obama. It is home not only to Ms. Lincoln, but also to other moderate Democrats like Senator Mark Pryor and Representative Mike Ross, who led Blue Dog efforts to lower the cost of health care legislation in the House.
 The state has voted Republican in six of the last eight presidential elections, with only a native, Bill Clinton, breaking the streak. But it has a more moderate tradition than some other Southern states: the governor, three of four House members and both legislative chambers are Democratic.
 Ms. Lincoln, a rice farmer's daughter, has already broken with her party on several important measures. While she voted for the stimulus package and the rescue of the financial system, she opposed the reauthorization of the banking infusion and the carmakers' bailout. She also opposes a Democratic initiative to help workers unionize and the House's cap-and-trade legislation to reduce industrial emissions.
 But her stand on health care could prove even more defining. Her office phones are ringing off the hook, with most callers expressing displeasure. Even at her well-mannered events, angst was evident. 
 At a Lions Club lunch in Malvern last week, Barry Ballard, 64, told Ms. Lincoln that his doctor was dropping him when he turned 65 because Medicare did not pay enough. ''Are we going to run into another government-operated program that the doctors won't support?'' Mr. Ballard asked. 
 At the moment, Ms. Lincoln does not seem to be in serious political trouble in seeking a third term. Personable and approachable, she is a formidable fund-raiser, with $3.2 million in the bank at the end of June. Although she has several announced Republican opponents, none are marquee names.
 But 2010 could be an unsettling campaign cycle for Democrats, and Ms. Lincoln's strategists recognize emerging hints of vulnerability.
 ''There's a lot of uncertainty here about how this new president's agenda will play out and how much of it this senator can support,'' said her campaign manager, Steve Patterson.
 On health care, Ms. Lincoln, 48, has been the focus of television advertising from the left and the right. Last week, the state's Republican leadership won news coverage by criticizing her for not holding open meetings, as well as for her comment to reporters in an Aug. 6 conference call that those who had disrupted such meetings in other states were ''un-American and disrespectful.''
 Ms. Lincoln quickly issued a statement saying she should not have used the term. But the state Republican chairman, Doyle Webb, accused her of ''becoming an elitist.'' 
 Ms. Lincoln responded that she had held numerous open meetings in April and July but did not schedule one for August because it had traditionally been tough to draw a crowd at summer's end. In the interview, she suggested that the raucous nature of the town-hall-style sessions had made them counterproductive. 
 ''If people genuinely wanted to have a constructive conversation, then that would be a different thing.'' she said. ''But that has not been what we've seen.'' 
 Patsy Wootton, 60, a roadside demonstrator in Springdale, where Ms. Lincoln addressed a convention of county officials on Thursday, accused the senator of hiding. ''I think she's afraid she'll end up on a YouTube video,'' said Ms. Wootton, who was holding a sign that read: ''If you think health care is expensive now, just wait til it's free!''
 The outrage of the last two weeks, Ms. Lincoln said, was not just about health care, but about growing economic insecurity.
 ''I think the pot has been stirred, and that it's dredged up a lot of things that people feel and want to express,'' she said. ''There's a real anxiousness out there among all people, not just those that choose to come and be disruptive and disrespectful.''
 To win her support, Ms. Lincoln said, a health care plan must not add to the deficit and must encourage efficiencies to slow the growth of medical costs.
 Her position on a new government health plan for the uninsured has been difficult to pin down. She wrote in an op-ed column on July 9 that insurance options should include ''a quality, affordable public plan or nonprofit plan that can accomplish the same goals.'' A month later, in an interview with a blogger, she said she ''certainly would not support a public government-funded plan'' because it was ''not a competitive choice.'' 
 Two days later, she said in an interview that she was ''open to a public plan as long as it's competitive,'' meaning it could compete for market share without government financial support. 
 Ms. Lincoln told her audiences last week that the Finance Committee would not rush the process. That, she said, was the advice she was hearing from constituents.
 ''I think they want to see health care reform,'' she said. ''But it's not just do it. It's do it, and do it right.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Blanche Lincoln, at a Lions Club lunch last week in Malvern, Ark., has avoided town-hall-style meetings on health policy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NEEMAH A. ESMAEILPOUR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); POLITICS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LIBERALISM (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (73%); BAILOUTS (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); AUTOMAKERS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (65%)

PERSON: BLANCHE LINCOLN (91%); BILL CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); MARK PRYOR (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); MIKE ROSS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (96%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2009



464 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: The Paper That Doesn't Want to Be Free

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER

 BODY:
Not long ago, when other media executives were convinced that the only way to succeed on the Web was to give away their content, The Financial Times played the eccentric.
 ''We were regarded as slightly freakish,'' says John Ridding, the newspaper's chief executive.
 Indeed, the newspaper started charging readers for access to its Web site in 2002. Now, with few signs that advertising is rebounding from a deep slump, and with other publishers moving to imitate FT.com by erecting so-called pay walls, Mr. Ridding feels vindicated.
 ''It was pretty lonely out there for a while in paid land,'' he said last week. ''But it has become pretty clear that advertising alone is not going to sustain online business models. Quality journalism has to be paid for.''
 Now The Financial Times is adding to its paid-content strategy with a plan to accept micropayments for individual articles, as an alternative to a subscription. 
 And one by one, other publishers are starting to see wisdom in the paper's ways. Rupert Murdoch, chief executive of the News Corporation, said this month that the company intended to charge for all its news Web sites. That plan would have the company's major newspapers in the United States, Britain and Australia joining their sister newspaper, The Wall Street Journal, which already charges for access to most of its site.
 Executives of The New York Times have said they are considering ways to get readers to pay for online access, though they have yet to disclose specific plans.
 That is a big change from 2007, when The Times site abandoned a pay wall for some content, concluding that it was restricting the potential for online advertising, despite the site's having attracted 227,000 paying customers. 
 Around the same time, Mr. Murdoch was saying publicly that he might drop the pay wall around the Web site of The Wall Street Journal, which the News Corporation was in the process of acquiring.
 With luxury goods companies, banks and other advertisers cutting back in this economic recession, ad revenue has fallen sharply at The Financial Times, as it has at other papers. Pearson, the London-based publisher that owns the paper, does not break out separate figures for it, but analysts say its ad revenue is probably down at least 20 percent compared with last year.
 Pearson said last month that operating profit at FT Publishing, the unit that includes The Financial Times, had fallen 40 percent in the first half of the year, with revenue down 13 percent.
 The print circulation has also fallen, with sales in June down 7 percent from a year earlier, to about 412,000 copies, according to the Audit Bureau of Circulations in Britain.
 FT.com has not attracted a huge paying audience, with about 117,000 worldwide, up from 101,000 in 2007. That is far short of the one million paying customers of The Journal's Web site.
 Yet FT.com is lucrative because it charges a premium for its content. A premium subscription to the Web site, with access to all content, costs $300 a year in the United States. Adding the print version costs $100 more. 
 Because of rate increases by FT.com, revenue from Web subscriptions has risen 30 percent over the last year, Mr. Ridding said. The Financial Times has also raised the price of its print editions.
 In another effort to generate additional digital revenue, the newspaper restricted access last year to its content through databases like Factiva and LexisNexis, requiring users to buy special licenses to read archived articles. More than 600 corporate customers, with a total of about 50,000 users, have done so.
 The price of a subscription to the databases ''wasn't reflecting the value of what we were producing,'' Mr. Ridding said. ''So we took control of the pricing,'' he said, adding that the change led to ''robust revenue growth.''
 Also last year, The Financial Times acquired Money-Media, an online provider of news for fund managers that charges a subscription fee. Last week, it acquired MandateWire, a digital provider of news on the pension fund business.
 The newspaper also recently started an online newsletter for investors in China, called China Confidential, which costs $4,138 a year.
 The growth of paid online services under the Financial Times banner shows that the paper was right to maintain pay walls at a time when other media companies were yielding to the Silicon Valley mantra that ''information wants to be free,'' said Tim Luckhurst, a journalism professor at the University of Kent in Britain and a former editor of The Scotsman.
 ''It has proved, in one niche at least, that editorial journalistic endeavor does create value,'' he said.
 For other online publishers seeking to charge readers, the big question is whether consumers would be willing to pay for general news, as opposed to specialized financial news. Some analysts doubt it, but Mr. Ridding said he thought they might.
 ''I sometimes think there's too much fatalism around -- people throwing up their hands and saying it's not possible for general publishers to charge,'' Mr. Ridding said. ''I think it is possible, and necessary, for them to charge.''
 In an effort to generate more revenue from casual users, The Financial Times plans to fine-tune its Web business, which currently gives readers 10 free articles a month before they are required to pay for access.
 Mr. Ridding said the site would add a new form of paid Web access next year involving micropayments for individual articles, something that Wall Street Journal executives are also said to be considering. That way readers would be able to buy individual articles in lieu of subscribing.
 FT.com's system is aimed at retaining infrequent readers who arrive at the site from a search engine. The goal is to keep the site accessible to a wide audience for advertising purposes. 
 Despite the downturn, advertising remains an important revenue generator for newspaper Web sites. Rob Noss, who runs the luxury group at Mindshare Worldwide, a media buying agency, said it was still unclear how readers of newspaper sites would respond to advertising if they were required to pay for access to the sites.
 ''My personal view is that if I've paid for the information, my openness to the advertising will be affected,'' he said.
 Not every digital initiative of The Financial Times involves pay walls. This fall, the paper plans to introduce a stand-alone Web version of its weekly magazine How to Spend It, a forum for luxury advertisers. Mr. Ridding said that at least at the beginning, access would be free.
 Analysts say The Financial Times could face a renewed threat from The Journal, particularly if Mr. Murdoch developed an innovative model for charging on the Web. Mr. Luckhurst, for example, thinks The Journal will package subscriptions to the paper with other News Corporation content.
 But The Financial Times is not facing the ''existential crisis'' that confronts some other newspapers, Mr. Ridding said. ''It all stems from a belief in the value of our journalism,'' he said. ''We are pretty happy with how things have developed.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Financial Times, read by business people, has gladly kept its online content behind a pay wall. Pinched by falling advertising revenue, even mainstream newspapers may follow its lead. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.B1)
 John Ridding, the chief executive of The Financial Times. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FINANCIAL TIMES) (pg.B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (89%); WEB SITES (89%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); JOURNALISM (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (64%); AUDITS (64%); LUXURY GOODS (62%)

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (96%); NEWS CORP (83%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (83%); NWS (ASX) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (96%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (83%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (69%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2009



465 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL NOTEBOOK; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: The Big Five-O

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

 BODY:
The 50th state turns 50 on Friday, and the strange thing is how wildly and jubilantly the islands aren't celebrating. There are no official parades. No King Kamehameha on a flowery float, surrounded by his court. No bonfires. No blowout concerts with fireworks, aerial acrobats and hula troupes. 
 It's not that the anniversary is being totally ignored. There's a statehood commission. There are events. On Maui this month you could have enjoyed 50-cent hot dogs and ''bouncy castles'' for the kids. On the actual anniversary, there's a conference at the convention center in Honolulu where panelists will discuss state history, the economy and the environment, then party into the night with the Platters, the Drifters and the Coasters. 
 Wait. The land of hula, ukulele and steel guitar, of Israel Kamakawiwo'ole, Don Ho and Aunty Genoa Keawe, is marking its birthday with doo-wop? Hawaii can be a low-key place, but this is extreme.
 The reasons are sad but obvious. The state is preoccupied by economic worries. Tourism is in the tank. The governor and state unions are battling over layoffs and pay cuts. Unemployment has been rising; sea levels are probably next. Underneath is the unresolved pain of Native Hawaiians, unhappy over long unsettled land claims and economic disadvantage. 
 A Honolulu newspaper columnist, David Shapiro, lamented all the ambivalence, comparing the lackluster commemoration unfavorably to the galas in Alaska, the 49th state. The commission chairman objected, saying a big party would be a waste of money. Maybe he's right. But it's too bad the state couldn't have found a better way to give the anniversary its due, given how hard the islands struggled for equality, and how joyously the victory was celebrated 50 years ago.
 It was a long fight. It took The New York Times a while to get it right. This page opposed the overthrow of the monarchy in 1893, but for decades after, the idea of adding Hawaiians and ''Asiatics'' to the union gave the editors jitters. We came around only after World War II -- when the islands bled at Pearl Harbor, rebuilt the fleet to win the Pacific war, and sent thousands of sons overseas, including the Japanese-American volunteers of the 100th Battalion, one of the most decorated units in Army history. It took Congress another decade.
 Hawaii has given a lot to the Union. It got its own native-son president in January. Only 21 states are in that club. The guy who really invented baseball is buried in Honolulu. And if you could go to any of the 50 states right now, which would it be? The state has a lot to celebrate, if it really wanted to.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); BASEBALL (70%); NATIVE AMERICANS (70%); WRITERS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); WORLD WAR II (65%); LAYOFFS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (93%) HAWAII, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009



466 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: Lowe's Earnings Drop 19% on Sales Decline

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The Lowe's Companies, the home improvement retailer, said on Monday that its second-quarter earnings fell 19 percent on disappointing sales, adding to doubts about the ability of consumers to lead the economy out of recession. 
 A revival in consumer spending is crucial to a recovery because such spending accounts for two-thirds of economic activity in the United States. Lowe's,like much of the housing and home improvement industry, has been battered by a weak real estate market, rising unemployment and weak consumer confidence.
 The company, which is the No. 2 home improvement retailer after Home Depot, said profit fell to $759 million, or 51 cents a share, from $938 million, or 64 cents a share, last year.
 Revenue fell 5 percent to $13.84 billion, from $14.51 billion last year.
 Analysts had predicted a profit of 54 cents a share on revenue of $14.35 billion. Lowe's had forecast earnings of 51 cents to 55 cents a share.
 Sales in stores open at least one year, an important retail measure known as same-store sales, fell 9.5 percent.
 Robert A. Niblock, Lowe's chairman and chief executive, said in an interview that the second-quarter results probably did not signal a shift in consumer behavior. Rather, weather was unseasonably cool and wet in the Northeast and fiscal stimulus checks a year ago helped sales more than Lowe's had expected, Mr. Niblock said.
 Lowe's results Monday were a stark contrast to the earlier quarter, when the company said it detected signs of a consumer resurgence.
 The company said it was scaling back expansion plans in 2010; it now expects to open 35 to 45 stores during the year. Lowe's also said it is taking a $48 million charge for canceling plans to open about 80 stores that had been in the pipeline in the next few years.
 For the third quarter, Lowe's predicts earnings of 21 cents to 25 cents a share, below analysts' expectations, on a 2 percent to 5 percent sales decline. Lowe's said it expects yearly sales to fall about 3 percent on earnings of $1.13 to $1.21 a share, also below analysts' expectations.
 Home Depot is set to report second-quarter earnings on Tuesday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); HOME CENTERS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RECESSION (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); HOME REMODELING (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

COMPANY: LOWE'S COS INC (98%)

TICKER: LOW (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (98%); SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (98%)

PERSON: ROBERT A NIBLOCK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009



467 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: Stocks & Bonds: Pessimism Still Grips Wall Street

BYLINE: By GERRY SHIH; Matthew Saltmarsh and Bettina Wassener contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In recent weeks, it seemed as if nothing could hold back investors trying to will a recovery into reality. Stocks gained week after week, adding up to a 42 percent rise since mid-March, despite troubling news of bank loan defaults, mixed corporate earnings reports and lukewarm forecasts from Federal Reserve Bank officials.
 Then consumer data sobered investors. 
 With signs re-emerging that battered American businesses, hamstrung by tight consumer spending, will struggle for revenue growth the rest of this year, investors sent the major markets into their steepest fall in six weeks.
 ''There's concern that the market had gone too far,'' said Nigel Gault, chief United States economist at IHS Global Insight.
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 186.06 points, or 2 percent, to close at 9,135.34. The broader Standard and Poor's 500-stock index dropped 2.43 percent, or 24.36 points, to 979.73, while the Nasdaq composite index shed 2.75 percent to 1,930.84.
 Acknowledging continuing weakness in critical parts of the economy, the Federal Reserve and the Treasury announced Monday that they were extending a program to spur consumer and business lending for several more months. The program known as Term Asset-Backed Securities Lending Facility, or TALF, had originally been scheduled to expire at the end of 2009. 
 A key part of it has been dedicated to propping up the commercial real estate market, which has recently been plagued by mounting loan defaults at small and regional banks. Colonial BancGroup, a lender based in Montgomery, Ala., that collapsed Friday, was the biggest bank to fall this year.
 ''The Fed is extending TALF because commercial real estate is still very much a trouble spot,'' said John Lonski, chief economist at Moody's Capital Markets. ''The high ranking officials only say that we've bottomed out and the recession has ended. But the equity market has already priced in the start of a recovery. There's a dichotomy between the two camps.''
 Adding to Wall Street's pessimism were jittery Asian investors who feared that a sustained weakness in American spending would threaten recovery in export-dependent countries like Japan and China.
 Markets in Shanghai and Tokyo posted their worst one-day drops in months. The Shanghai composite index plummeted 5.8 percent, taking its total decline since Aug. 4 to 17 percent and further eroding a rally that had sent it up more than 80 percent in the first seven months of this year.
 ''It's almost an Asian flu that the markets caught today,'' said Art Hogan, the chief market analyst at Jeffries & Company. ''Creeping into the conversation now is, when do we see top-line revenue growth? When is the consumer going to take over from government stimulus? But the answer is consumer data has been less than spectacular.''
 Lowe's, the home improvement chain, reported weaker earnings on Monday, which seemed to encapsulate American retailers' continuing struggle to pry open consumers' pocketbooks. The chain reported a 19 percent drop in profit from last year after sales fell $500 million short of expectations.
 Other corporate news reinforced the belief that consumers are still in poor shape.
 Bank of America and Capital One Financial said credit card defaults rose in July.
 Intel, which generates about 60 percent of annual sales from Asia, saw its shares dipped 1.7 percent and I.B.M. fell 1.4 percent after economic growth in Japan trailed forecasts.
 But there are signs that industry may be rebounding more quickly. According to data released Monday, New York State's manufacturing showed growth in August. Economists at the Federal Reserve Bank in New York ratcheted up the state's general economic index to 12.1, the highest it has been since April 2008.
 ''The manufacturing survey shows us returning to growth,'' said Mr. Gault of IHS Global Insight. ''That'll dampen some of the initial negative sentiment from overseas.''
 As stock prices sank, investors headed for the relative safety of government debt, driving up bond prices. The benchmark 10-year note rose 27/32 to 101 10/32. The yield fell to 3.47 percent, from 3.57 percent late Friday.
 The price of oil retreated again to settle at $66.75 a barrel as consumer outlook undermined future energy demand. The drop occurred despite the looming threat of hurricanes and tropical storms that could curtail supply.
 ConocoPhillips fell 3.2 percent to $42.36 after oil prices reached a two-week low.
 ''Oil prices were exaggerated because growth demand was exaggerated,'' said Fadel Gheit, the managing director of oil and gas at Oppenheimer Funds. ''Prices are still inflated.''
 Asian markets were broadly lower. The Nikkei 225, Japan's main index, dropped 3.1 percent -- its worst performance in nearly five months. The benchmark market gauges in Singapore, South Korea and Thailand also fell.
 The Bombay Stock Exchange's Sensex index and the India Nifty index each dropped about 4 percent. And the Hang Seng in Hong Kong shed 3.6 percent in its largest decline since late March.
 The sharpest declines were in mainland China, where homegrown uncertainties about the direction of bank lending have helped deflate a rally that many analysts had long warned would be unsustainable.
 ''The market in China was clearly seeing a bubble that was partially driven by massive lending by state-controlled banks,'' said Dariusz Kowalczyk, chief investment strategist at SJS Markets in Hong Kong.
 European markets, too, started the day in a gloomy mood. The major indexes in Germany and France finished 2 percent lower. The FTSE-100 in London was down 1.46 percent. 
 Following are the results of Monday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: THE DOW MINUTE BY MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
 3-MONTH TREASURY BILLS: High rate at weekly auction. (Source: The Bond Buyer) (pg.B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TERM ASSET BACKED SECURITIES LOAN FACILITY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RECESSION (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (72%); INFLUENZA (50%)

COMPANY: COLONIAL BANCGROUP INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%); MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (52%) ALABAMA, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (66%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009



468 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: This Is Reform?

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
David Brooks is off today.

 BODY:
It's never a contest when the interests of big business are pitted against the public interest. So if we manage to get health care ''reform'' this time around it will be the kind of reform that benefits the very people who have given us a failed system, and thus made reform so necessary. 
 Forget about a crackdown on price-gouging drug companies and predatory insurance firms. That's not happening. With the public pretty well confused about what is going on, we're headed -- at best -- toward changes that will result in a lot more people getting covered, but that will not control exploding health care costs and will leave industry leaders feeling like they've hit the jackpot. 
 The hope of a government-run insurance option is all but gone. So there will be no effective alternative for consumers in the market for health coverage, which means no competitive pressure for private insurers to rein in premiums and other charges. (Forget about the nonprofit cooperatives. That's like sending peewee footballers up against the Super Bowl champs.) 
 Insurance companies are delighted with the way ''reform'' is unfolding. Think of it: The government is planning to require most uninsured Americans to buy health coverage. Millions of young and healthy individuals will be herded into the industry's welcoming arms. This is the population the insurers drool over. 
 This additional business -- a gold mine -- will more than offset the cost of important new regulations that, among other things, will prevent insurers from denying coverage to applicants with pre-existing conditions or imposing lifetime limits on benefits. Poor people will either be funneled into Medicaid, which will have its eligibility ceiling raised, or will receive a government subsidy to help with the purchase of private insurance. 
 If the oldest and sickest are on Medicare, and the poorest are on Medicaid, and the young and the healthy are required to purchase private insurance without the option of a competing government-run plan -- well, that's reform the insurance companies can believe in. 
 And then there are the drug companies. A couple of months ago the Obama administration made a secret and extremely troubling deal with the drug industry's lobbying arm, the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America. The lobby agreed to contribute $80 billion in savings over 10 years and to sponsor a multimillion-dollar ad campaign in support of health care reform. 
 The White House, for its part, agreed not to seek additional savings from the drug companies over those 10 years. This resulted in big grins and high fives at the drug lobby. The White House was rolled. The deal meant that the government's ability to use its enormous purchasing power to negotiate lower drug prices was off the table. 
 The $80 billion in savings (in the form of discounts) would apply only to a certain category of Medicare recipients -- those who fall into a gap in their drug coverage known as the doughnut hole -- and only to brand-name drugs. (Drug industry lobbyists probably chuckled, knowing that some patients would switch from generic drugs to the more expensive brand names in order to get the industry-sponsored discounts.) 
 To get a sense of how sweet a deal this is for the drug industry, compare its offer of $8 billion in savings a year over 10 years with its annual profits of $300 billion a year. Robert Reich, who served as labor secretary in the Clinton administration, wrote that the deal struck by the Obama White House was very similar to the ''deal George W. Bush struck in getting the Medicare drug benefit, and it's proven a bonanza for the drug industry.'' 
 The bonanza to come would be even larger, he said, ''given all the Boomers who will be enrolling in Medicare over the next decade.'' 
 While it is undoubtedly important to bring as many people as possible under the umbrella of health coverage, the way it is being done now does not address what President Obama and so many other advocates have said is a crucial component of reform -- bringing the ever-spiraling costs of health care under control. Those costs, we're told, are hamstringing the U.S. economy, making us less competitive globally and driving up the budget deficit. 
 Giving consumers the choice of an efficient, nonprofit, government-run insurance plan would have moved us toward real cost control, but that option has gone a-glimmering. The public deserves better. The drug companies, the insurance industry and the rest of the corporate high-rollers have their tentacles all over this so-called reform effort, squeezing it for all it's worth. 
 Meanwhile, the public -- struggling with the worst economic downturn since the 1930s -- is looking on with great anxiety and confusion. If the drug companies and the insurance industry are smiling, it can only mean that the public interest is being left behind. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); LOBBYING (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); DRUG PRICES (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS ASSOCIATIONS (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (76%); MEDICARE (74%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (72%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (71%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (68%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); ATHLETES (52%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009



469 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Carmakers Make Strides in Customer Satisfaction Survey

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
For all of the turmoil that the Detroit automakers have been going through, customer satisfaction with the vehicles they build surged in this year's edition of a highly regarded study by the University of Michigan.
 The scores for all three Detroit companies rose in the 2009 American Customer Satisfaction Index, which is being released on Tuesday. 
 In terms of improvement, the Ford Motor Company, the only domestic carmaker to avoid bankruptcy and elect not to take emergency government aid, rose 5 percent, second only to Volkswagen. 
 And in the rankings by brand, G.M.'s Cadillac tied for first place with its chief competitor, Lexus, while Buick and Lincoln-Mercury placed third and fourth, meaning that domestic brands accounted for three of the top four.
 The study suggests that General Motors, Ford and Chrysler are making considerable progress in their efforts to improve their reputations, though in the overall ratings of companies, they still lag behind their Asian and European rivals. All three Detroit companies have brands that scored below the industry average, while Toyota, Honda and BMW were rated near the top.
 But they are also no longer the perennial bottom-dwellers they had been for years in the study.
 ''They showed a great deal of improvement, something that we've never seen to this extent,'' said Claes G. Fornell, a business professor at the University of Michigan who heads the customer satisfaction study. ''Until now, we haven't seen much movement in the right direction from any of the domestic carmakers. This is highly unusual.''
 Their improved performance in the study follows similar gains in other surveys that measure customer satisfaction and vehicle quality. G.M.'s Buick brand tied for first place in this year's dependability study by J.D. Power & Associates, and all three companies performed significantly better in this year's J.D. Power initial quality study.
 A more positive perception of the companies could go a long way toward helping them achieve the goals in their restructuring plans. G.M., Ford and Chrysler struggle to persuade many car shoppers -- some still holding grudges for poor-quality vehicles they drove decades ago -- to even look at their dealerships, much less to seriously consider buying one of their cars or trucks.
 The study shows that overall customer satisfaction with automobiles rose to 84 percent, the highest ever. Yet industry sales are at their lowest level since the recession of the early 1980s, with G.M. and Chrysler consistently posting some of the biggest declines every month.
 Mr. Fornell said the Detroit companies' declining market share actually helped their performance in the satisfaction study, because their most unhappy customers have defected to other brands.
 ''In most cases that's not a good thing, to increase the satisfaction of their customers by losing them,'' he said. ''But in Detroit's case, it's probably not that bad. It leaves them with a smaller, more satisfied customer base that they might be able to manage better and build from.''
 New models of cars and trucks are playing a large role in the companies' efforts to build from that smaller base of customers as they try to become profitable again. Vehicles like the Cadillac CTS sedan, which has won effusive praise from many critics, undoubtedly had much to do with that brand's top ranking.
 A Cadillac spokesman, David Caldwell, said the CTS was helping the brand win some new customers from other makes but that getting Cadillac onto more shopping lists with the likes of BMW and Lexus was ''a work in progress.''
 The study, which started in 1994, is based on interviews of 80,000 Americans each spring. The interview period for this year's study fell during the time when Chrysler and G.M. were filing for bankruptcy protection and receiving tens of billions in emergency loans from the government.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Cadillac CTS sedan has won high praise from critics, and the company said it was helping the brand win new customers. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM GENERAL MOTORS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (92%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (92%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); BRANDING (89%); MARKETING SURVEYS (89%); RANKINGS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); MARKET SHARE (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (93%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009



470 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1358 words

HEADLINE: Clash Over Rebirth of Mt. St. Helens

BYLINE: By CORNELIA DEAN

DATELINE: CASTLE ROCK, Wash. 

 BODY:
When Mount St. Helens erupted nearly 30 years ago, it flattened more than 150 square miles of forest, spewed millions of tons of mud and debris, filled the sky with ash and left at least 57 people dead. In the process, it also created an unusual outdoor laboratory where researchers have worked ever since to answer an increasingly urgent question: How do landscapes recover after violent disturbance?
 It has long been ''one of the most fundamental questions in ecology,'' said Charles M. Crisafulli, an ecologist at the Pacific Northwest Research Station, an agency of the United States Forest Service, which manages the mountain. And if, as seems likely, a warming world brings more storms, fires, droughts and floods, the research on the mountain will only grow in importance. ''Mount St. Helens allows us to evaluate things we could not evaluate anywhere else,'' Mr. Crisafulli said. 
 But now the work is caught up in a debate over management of the mountain, designated after the eruption as the Mount St. Helens National Volcanic Monument. Some say the 110,000-acre monument should be a national park. 
 Some say the Forest Service should manage it differently. ''There is a certain segment of the population who would say, 'It's been 30 years, and it's over,' '' said Peter Frenzen, whose job title with the Forest Service is monument scientist. 
 As one local resident put it in a letter to the Mount St. Helens Citizen Advisory Committee, appointed to make recommendations on the mountain's fate, ''throw out the study zone and let people recreate.'' 
 On the surface, at least, that sentiment may seem to make sense. Over the years, so many researchers have spent so much time on the mountain that some call it the most-studied landscape on earth. But if much has been learned there, much remains unknown, and the process is playing out slowly, Mr. Crisafulli and Mr. Frenzen said one day recently as they hiked into the zone.
 A few miles away, in land managed by Weyerhaeuser, a timber producer, thick stands of trees laboriously planted by hand immediately after the eruption rise 70 feet tall. But the zone is largely treeless, studded with house-size rocky chunks, called hummocks, that broke off the top of the mountain when it exploded. A few scrubby trees, like red alder, have re-established themselves, and ants, frogs, meadowlarks, beavers and other species have moved in. Still, Mr. Frenzen said, ''The plant ecology and the forest ecology are only beginning. We have only seen the opening chapter.''
 He and Mr. Crisafulli have worked at the volcano almost from the day it erupted, May 18, 1980. Mr. Crisafulli, then 22, had just joined the Forest Service as an ecologist, and Mr. Frenzen was a 21-year-old senior at the University of Washington. He had done some volcano research with one of his professors and was headed to graduate study in environmental sciences at Yale. 
 But at 8:32 a.m. that day, after weeks of small earthquakes and belching steam, the north face of Mount St. Helens fell away, the largest landslide ever recorded. And then, in what Mr. Frenzen calls ''an explosive burst of throat clearing,'' the volcano spewed steam, other gas and rock debris across the landscape, transforming it within hours into what appeared, at first, to be a dead zone buried in pumice and other debris. Shortly after, Mr. Frenzen's professor offered him a job on the mountain, he recalled, ''and it took me about 10 seconds to say yes.'' 
 At first, researchers traveled to the site by helicopter; ''they made us keep the blades turning'' to facilitate a quick escape, Mr. Frenzen recalled. But soon they were measuring conditions and tracking the first plants and animals to emerge. (The fact that some burrowing creatures had survived the blast was one of the mountain's first surprises.) Mr. Crisafulli marked off research plots that remain under study today.
 ''We have all benefited from their work'' and the work of other scientists, said Representative Brian Baird, a Democrat whose district includes the mountain and who, with Democratic Senators Maria Cantwell and Patty Murray of Washington and Representative Norm Dicks, a Democrat from a neighboring district, convened the advisory panel. ''But the access people see things a fair bit differently.'' 
 Also, Mr. Baird said, the Forest Service has struggled as firefighting costs ate into its budget. At Mount St. Helens the result has been delayed maintenance, road closings and, in 2007, the closing of the Coldwater Ridge Visitor Center. 
 ''There was no money for maintenance,'' said Jeanne Bennett, director of the Mount St. Helens Institute, a private group that works with the Forest Service on education and other projects. Another center, the Johnson Ridge Observatory, replaced it, but it is open only in the warm months.
 ''The current situation is pretty depressing from a tourism standpoint, an economic standpoint,'' said Sean Smith, policy director of the National Parks Conservation Association, a private group that favors moving the monument into the park system. According to an association report last year, the monument receives about $3.26 per acre in federal money annually. Even the least-financed monuments managed by the Park Service receive three times that, the report said. 
 But opponents of a shift say they fear the Park Service will limit even further hunters and people who use snowmobiles and other off-road vehicles. For them, study-area restrictions are bad enough. If people are allowed at all, they must keep to marked trails and they may not camp, build fires or walk their dogs. At Spirit Lake, once a prized fishing spot, they are barred altogether. The result is ''contention,'' Mr. Crisafulli and other researchers wrote in ''Ecological Responses to the 1980 Eruption of Mount St. Helens,'' a collection of research papers. 
 When the advisory committee called for public comment, Patrice Dick of Castle Rock urged them to require people seeking to conduct research on the mountain to demonstrate that the site offered them ''truly unique'' opportunities. Ms. Dick said she was ''disgusted'' by studies of, for example, the way deep-rooted plants were able to recover from the blast, a finding she called ''intuitively obvious.'' 
 ''You don't need 20,000 acres to see how vegetation comes back,'' she said. 
 While some writers called the research effort ''the highest use'' for the site, others urged that it be done elsewhere or not at all. One writer dismissed it as ''only monitoring.''
 But only diligent monitoring -- from the molecular to the ecosystem level, or ''from ants to elk,'' as Mr. Frenzen puts it -- enables researchers to draw strong conclusions about how the landscape behaves. 
 The advisory committee's tentative recommendations call for the research to continue, and for the monument to stay with the Forest Service. Paul Pearce, a committee co-chairman and a commissioner in Skamania County, which includes part of the monument, said the committee was not unanimous and would issue a formal recommendation later this summer. 
 Mr. Baird said that when the panel issues its report, he, Ms. Cantwell, Ms. Murray and Mr. Dicks would discuss its findings with the Forest Service, the Park Service and others. He declared himself ''agnostic'' on remedies but described the current situation as ''not acceptable.'' 
 As Mr. Frenzen and Mr. Crisafulli see it, the mountain still has a lot to tell about the recovery of severely disturbed landscapes. For example, immediately after the blast much of the downed timber was salvaged. Advocates of such salvage logging argued that leaving the downed wood in place would contribute to insect outbreaks and raise the risk of fire. But in the study area, ''neither broad-scale insect outbreaks nor fire occurred,'' Mr. Crisafulli and his co-authors wrote -- at least, not thus far.
 The effects of allowing or barring actions like salvage logging may not be known ''for decades or even centuries,'' they wrote. As Ms. Bennett put it, ''30 years is not very long for a forest to grow,'' adding, ''In 100 years we may have a forest out there.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IN RECOVERY: Mount St. Helens in southwestern Washington. (pg.D1)
 RARE OPPORTUNITY: Charles M. Crisafulli, right at top, hiking the mountain with Peter Frenzen, and above with a resident of the area, the Pacific tree frog. The men study how landscapes recover after violent disturbance. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEAH NASH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D3) GRAPHIC: A 30-YEAR STUDY ZONE: Since Mount St. Helens erupted in 1980, public access to much of the surrounding land has been limited or nonexistent. (Sources: U.S. Forest Service. Science.)(pg.D3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); RODENTS (77%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (73%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: FOREST SERVICE (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009



471 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Connecting Anxious Parents and Educators, at $450 an Hour

BYLINE: By SUSAN DOMINUS. 
E-mail: susan.dominus@nytimes.com

 BODY:
If you're going to do something, do it right.
 Such has been the longstanding philosophy of Suzanne Rheault, a 39-year-old mother of two who now lives with her family downtown. A Type-A -- make that A-plus -- overachiever, even by New York standards, she skated competitively as a kid, finished M.I.T. in three and a half years, and tested out of a chunk of her courseload at Columbia Business School. She conquered the marathon. 
 She logged long hours and worked on holidays for Morgan Stanley, once flying, with pneumonia and against doctor's orders, across the country for a technology conference (she paid with a burst eardrum). After marrying and having children, she kept up a grueling schedule, typically traveling two weeks a month. 
 The key to her success in picking stocks, she always felt, was extensive research. Then came the personal challenge that defied all research, her own Moby Dick: getting her daughter into private school. No Excel spreadsheet would unlock the formula that would guarantee results; all her expertise in statistics and economics failed her. 
 She particularly struggled with preparing her child for the test that many private schools rely on, the so-called E.R.B., named for the Educational Records Bureau, which administers it. She scoured the Web site Urban Baby and found anxious parents trading conflicting advice: You must prep your child for the test! You must not prep your child for the test, because the testers will know and hold it against you! She wanted to get it right; she had no idea if she would. 
 ''I didn't like that some people were in the know and some were not,'' Ms. Rheault said. Her daughter landed somewhere where she's happy, but the frustration with the system stayed with Ms. Rheault. Last fall, after once again being unable to attend her daughter's first day of school, thanks to work, and sensing that the market was about to turn, Ms. Rheault jumped ship from her employer to start her own company. It would be her mission to democratize information for New York's most competitive elite. 
 Her company, Aristotle Circle, connects school, testing and admissions experts, who are paid by the hour, with parents eager for authoritative information. So far, she is marketing expertise mostly for people applying to private schools for their children, perhaps because those people are more likely to shell out up to $450 an hour to talk to someone who knows something about what Spence likes to hear in an interview.
 Ms. Rheault tells the story of one of her experts, an admissions officer, who was treated to a fancy breakfast by an ex-boyfriend's sister who was desperate for advice. The officer felt she couldn't say no when asked; but ''honestly, I'd have rather had the money,'' she told Ms. Rheault. 
 Why should everyone pussyfoot around with expensive breakfasts and cringing favor-trading? At business school, they teach you to put a price on it. In a world that caters to some of the country's most successful financiers, it's amazing it took so long for someone to find a way to set the market value of that former PTA president at Dalton (not an actual example, but a potential one).
 In an even more controversial move, Ms. Rheault and her business partner, Suzanne Starnes (also of M.I.T.), have worked with their experts to create -- yours for $500 -- an E.R.B. prep workbook, with every element of the test in it. They don't call it intellectual enrichment, or a learning kit, or educational games; right there, on the cover of the workbook, it says it clearly: ''Pre-K and Kindergarten Standardized Test Practice.'' Whatever you think about ''pre-K'' and ''test practice'' appearing in a phrase together, you have to give Ms. Rheault credit: At least she's calling it like it is. 
 Robin Aronow, a consultant who helps parents navigate private and public school admissions, does not encourage prepping for a few reasons: She believes that it makes the kids anxious, which could hurt their scores, or that it might test them into a school they're not equipped to handle. And yes, she believes, based on experience, that if a child appears obviously prepped, that information will make its way to back to the schools. (Ms. Rheault's experts say that's not the case, and the Educational Records Bureau declined to comment.) Also, could it be cruelty to children to drill 4- and 5-year-olds? ''Well, it isn't necessary,'' Ms. Aronow said. 
 Ms. Rheault's father grew up in a housing project in Roxbury, Mass., and frequently reminds his daughter how ''absurd'' her latest project is. ''I get it,'' she said, but argued that if you're going to stay in New York and not risk the public schools, you might as well get your $35,000-a-year investment right. She feels good about a partnership the business has with the ''I Have a Dream'' Foundation, a nonprofit group that supports higher education for children in low-income communities. 
 As for prepping kids for a test, maybe Ms. Rheault's own experience informs her thoughts. She started training, seven hours a day, as a competitive ice skater when she was only 5, and look how successful she has been. 
 Even her eardrum has healed -- almost. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Suzanne Rheault, at her house last week in East Hampton, N.Y., started a school testing and admissions consultancy after leaving Morgan Stanley last year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANNIE TRITT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); INTERVIEWS (60%); PNEUMONIA (55%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EDUCATIONAL RECORDS BUREAU (55%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009



472 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: More Business as Usual

 BODY:
As Wall Street returns to profitability, it is eagerly returning to business as usual. Most notably it is preparing to pay enormous bonuses, like those that encouraged the sort of risk taking that set off the financial crisis. 
 That point was underscored in an article in The Times on Sunday by Gretchen Morgenson, which described a new study by James F. Reda & Associates, an independent compensation consultant in New York. 
 The study used proxy filings to analyze the pay plans at 191 of the nation's largest companies in the first half of 2009. Instead of seeing a greater reliance on long-term incentive programs, the report found that most companies have actually made short-term incentive pay a bigger part of the compensation package. 
 The report covered 21 financial firms. Three, including Goldman Sachs, had reported no changes to their pay policies. JPMorgan Chase, in contrast, had put more conditions on pay, generally allowing the bank to attach more performance benchmarks and to impose a longer wait before pay is awarded. 
 Ideally, banks would be free to compensate employees as they saw fit. But that must be accompanied by reforms that ensure that banks can no longer profit from primarily speculative activities or other excessively risky transactions -- including regulating the opaque derivatives markets and imposing limits on the use of borrowed money to increase profits. 
 The Obama administration unveiled a broad reform plan in June. But Congress has yet to tackle the most far-reaching issues. Meanwhile, despite the recent evidence to the contrary, Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner told The Wall Street Journal last week that he did not think the financial system was reverting to past practice, adding, ''and we won't let that happen.'' 
 In the absence of comprehensive reform, however, rules are urgently needed to ensure that pay, at least, does not invite outsized risk taking. A recent House bill largely punted on the issue. The Senate has yet to act.
 Mr. Geithner seems to think that Americans begrudge Wall Street its profits out of ignorance of the importance of healthy banks. That misses the mark. 
 They begrudge profits that come at the expense of others, like taxpayers, who do not share in them but are on the hook for the losses. Until the financial system is reformed -- to ensure that the old mistakes are not repeated -- they have every reason to be angry. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BENCHMARKING (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); LEGISLATION (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (64%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009



473 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 312 words

HEADLINE: State Sues Schwab Over Auction-Rate Securities

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
New York's attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, filed a lawsuit Monday against the brokerage unit of Charles Schwab, claiming the firm misled customers about the safety of auction-rate securities. 
 Mr. Cuomo's office has been pushing brokers and underwriters of auction-rate securities to repurchase them from investors who were left with steep losses after the market for the investments collapsed in early 2008.
 The suit against Schwab, which is based in San Francisco, is aimed at forcing the firm to repurchase the securities at face value.
 In the auction-rate securities market, investors bought and sold instruments that resembled corporate debt, with interest rates that were reset at regular auctions, some as frequently as once a week. They were sold as being as safe as cash, but the market for them fell apart last year amid the downturn in the credit markets.
 Last month, Mr. Cuomo's office notified Schwab that it was planning to file suit against it for claiming the securities were safe investments.
 In a statement Monday, Mr. Cuomo said: ''Charles Schwab owed its customers a duty to properly understand and make accurate representations concerning auction-rate securities. Today we commenced a lawsuit to remedy Schwab's repeated breach of that duty.''
 A representative of Schwab was not immediately available to comment on the lawsuit. But earlier Monday, Schwab released the letter it sent to Mr. Cuomo's office in response to the warning about the impending lawsuit. In the letter, Schwab's outside counsel said the brokerage firm itself, like its customers, had been misled by the underwriters of the securities.
 The lawyer wrote that the attorney general's office was wrongly placing blame for the collapse of the market by going after companies like Schwab instead of underwriters that had withdrawn support and stopped bidding at the auctions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (92%); LITIGATION (92%); AUCTIONS (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (77%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%)

COMPANY: CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (85%)

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009



474 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 243 words

HEADLINE: A Vital Postal System

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''It's Time to Stay the Courier'' (Talking Business column, Aug. 8): 
 I agree with Joe Nocera that Congress placed the Postal Service in a serious financial bind in 2006, when it directed the Postal Service to ''prefund'' retiree health care benefits. That mandate -- a burden shared by no other federal agency or private company -- costs the Postal Service more than $5 billion a year. 
 Mr. Nocera is mistaken, however, in suggesting that electronic communication is making the Postal Service obsolete -- and especially in calling for privatization of the world's most efficient and least expensive postal system.
 Mail volume reached its height in 2006, well after Americans began using e-mail and the Internet on a mass scale. Mail volume has slumped by approximately 18 percent since then, but the loss is almost entirely due to a recession-driven decline in business mail. Without the prefunding requirement, the Postal Service would have had a $1.2 billion surplus for its 2008 and 2009 fiscal years. 
 Mr. Nocera's call to dismantle the Postal Service relies on discredited theories that were considered and rejected during the postal reform debate earlier this decade, at the height of the outsourcing frenzy.
 The Postal Service must remain a public service if we are to honor our nation's commitment to serve every American community at uniform rates.
 William Burrus President American Postal Workers Union Washington, Aug. 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTAL SERVICE (96%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (57%); LABOR UNIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN POSTAL WORKERS UNION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009



475 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: Some New York Lawmakers Collect Pensions on Top of Their Pay

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
When Assemblyman Harvey Weisenberg retired last year, there were no sendoffs, no cakes and no serenades. 
 In fact, no one even knew he had left the Capitol, because he never did. Mr. Weisenberg, 75, a Long Island Democrat, ''retired'' last year but continued to work as a lawmaker and remained on the payroll. As a result, he earns $101,500 in salary and collects a pension of about $72,000, according to the comptroller's office. 
 Similarly, Assemblywoman Rhoda Jacobs, a 72-year-old Brooklyn Democrat, retired last year after 31 years, but continued to serve her district. She earns $104,500 and draws an annual pension of more than $71,000. And Assemblyman John J. McEneny, a 65-year-old Albany-area Democrat who retired last year but kept his seat in the Assembly chamber, now earns $94,500 and a pension of about $73,000. 
 All of them are beneficiaries of ''double dipping,'' a practice in which public servants simultaneously collect government salaries and pensions, sometimes for the same job.
 Most people who have a traditional pension put in years or decades of work at a job, then retire, leave the job and begin collecting monthly pension payments. Some companies do allow double dipping, though the practice has most likely declined during the recession and federal rules impose more restrictions on corporate pension funds.
 In Albany, veteran lawmakers can ''retire'' at 65 from their jobs and start collecting pensions, but without actually leaving their jobs, giving up their salaries or even telling their constituents. Four legislators took advantage of the rule last year.
 Mr. Weisenberg was actually a chief sponsor of legislation last year aimed at cracking down on double dipping by local governments. ''Double dipping?'' said Mr. Weisenberg, asked about the appearance created by his notional retirement. ''I don't see this as that,'' he added. ''This is something I earned.''
 Mr. McEneny explained how the system worked. ''You have to have a day without being on the payroll,'' he said. ''You take the last day of your term, New Year's Eve, and then you resign. On January 1, you come back as the newly elected assemblyman.''
 Assemblyman William L. Parment, a Democrat from Chautauqua County in western New York, was the fourth Assembly retiree last year: he now earns a $101,500 salary while drawing a roughly $66,000 annual pension.
 ''I didn't retire from the job. I took the retirement benefit that was due under pension law,'' said Mr. Parment, 67. ''Sure, people would say this is not a good system and this shouldn't be allowed.''
 In fact, the gravy train has already been curbed, if not entirely stopped. In 1995, the Legislature changed the law so that lawmakers returning to the same jobs could not collect their pensions if they earned more than $30,000. But, the rules were changed only for future generations -- in this case, lawmakers elected after 1995. 
 Other loopholes remain, including one for lawmakers who leave one local or state elected post for another. Such is the case with Senator George H. Winner Jr., a 59-year-old Elmira Republican, who retired from the Assembly after his 2004 election to the Senate. He now gets an $80,000 annual pension on top of his $89,000 salary, and also has a private law practice. 
 Mr. Winner said it would cost the state more if he truly retired because he would still be earning a pension and the state would also have to make pension contributions for his successor. ''I'm actually saving the taxpayers money,'' he said. 
 Despite Mr. Winner's argument, finding a critic of the practice is not hard. As Kenneth Adams, the president and chief executive of the Business Council of New York State, put it, ''Don't you have to stop working to collect a pension?'' 
 The retirements were revealed in data provided to The New York Times by the state comptroller's office and come amid a series of state pension scandals. 
 Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo has been investigating allegations of widespread corruption in the state pension fund under former Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi.
 That legislators are legally double dipping reinforces the degree to which such pension perks have become embedded in state and local government. 
 Hundreds of state workers have obtained special waivers allowing them to return to their jobs after retiring and to keep their full pensions. Without the waivers, they could earn only up to $30,000 in salary or be required to forfeit their pension benefits. Mr. Weisenberg's legislation made it harder to get the waivers.
 State and local elected officials, however, are not required to obtain such waivers, though they do have to be at least 65 to return to their jobs with full pensions. Eight state lawmakers are earning salaries and drawing state pensions, though only the four most recent Assembly retirees stayed in the same elected offices. 
 Legislators earning two sources of income said they accrued their pension credits in a variety of government jobs -- Mr. Parment was elected to the Assembly in 1983 but started government work in 1967 as a facilities planner for the state university system. 
 The lawmakers also point out that legislators have not gotten a pay raise in more than a decade and say they are simply taking advantage of the system after decades of work. 
 Still, at least one lawmaker has opted to pass on the double dip. 
 Assemblyman Bob Reilly, 69, a Democrat from Clifton Park, near Albany, was elected to the Assembly in 2004, having retired after 26 years as a school administrator and eight years as a county legislator. Together, he and his wife, a former teacher, have annual pensions of roughly $80,000. 
 He said '' a crusty old guy'' confronted him when he first ran for the Legislature, and started ''shouting at me about how all these politicians just want to line their pockets.'' So Mr. Reilly decided to donate his annual $79,500 salary to charity. 
 For good measure, he has sponsored legislation that would take away the pensions of public officials convicted of crimes related to their office. 
 ''If you as a public servant don't fulfill your pledge,'' Mr. Reilly said, you ''don't deserve your pension.'' The bill's fate? ''I can't get it through committee.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Assemblymen Harvey Weisenberg, left, and John J. McEneny get both salaries and pensions.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (77%); LEGISLATION (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); PENSION FUNDS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009



476 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Newsday Rejects Ad Criticizing Cablevision

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
Newsday last week rejected an advertisement from the Tennis Channel that sharply criticizes the newspaper's parent company, Cablevision, for not carrying the network.
 ''Thanks for nothing Cablevision,'' says the ad, which shows a tennis racket smashing a cable box.
 It adds: ''You've dropped the ball by preventing your subscribers from seeing Tennis Channel's round-the-clock coverage of the U.S. Open.'' It invites Cablevision customers to switch to DirecTV, Dish TV or Verizon FiOS to get access to the coverage. 
 The channel said that the ad was accepted by all the newspapers it was offered to -- the New York Times, New York Post, Daily News, Westchester-Rockland Journal News and the Record of New Jersey.
 Newsday's decision not to carry the ad raises questions about the paper's independence from Cablevision and whether it would have accepted the ad under its previous owner, the Tribune Company.
 Bob Steele, an ethics expert at the Poynter Institute, said, ''There are times when a newspaper says no to an ad because they find it objectionable on taste grounds, or find it filled with hatred for a particular group of people. But this one doesn't measure up in terms of protection because they're protecting themselves.''
 John Mancini, the editor of Newsday, would not comment and Tim Knight, the publisher, did not respond to requests for comment. But in a statement, Cablevision wrote: ''The Tennis Channel ads are nasty, unfair and intentionally misleading, and we don't think anyone should carry them.'' 
 Neither Cablevision nor Newsday would say who made the decision not to accept the ad.
 Ken Solomon, the chief executive of the Tennis Channel, said that after four years of fruitless negotiations with Cablevision, the ad was ''a court of last resort.'' He added, ''We desperately wish we weren't in this situation. This wasn't of our choosing. But at some point you have to look a bully in the eye and say, 'This isn't right.' ''
 He said the network has received ''thousands of emails'' from Cablevision subscribers wanting to know why the cable operator doesn't carry it. ''They can't get it and they get angry at us,'' he said.
 In its statement, Cablevision described Tennis Channel's leaders as ''only interested in money,'' and said it would add the channel to its lineup ''tomorrow'' if Solomon would accept a fair deal. It continued: ''No Cablevision customer is going to miss the U.S. Open on television, with the best and most significant matches available on CBS and ESPN.'' The Tennis Channel is one of the least expensive national sports networks available, costing a monthly fee of 14 to 15 cents a subscriber, according to SNL Kagan, a media research company. At that price, it costs about a dime less than the Golf Channel, and a few cents less than ESPNU and the Fox Soccer Channel.
 The Tennis Channel's decision to pick a public fight with Cablevision comes two weeks before its first-time coverage of the United States Open. Last year, the Tennis Channel and ESPN agreed to take over as the Grand Slam's cable partners through 2014, replacing the USA Network. The Tennis Channel is sublicensing rights from ESPN.
 Together, the Tennis Channel and ESPN2 plan to show an estimated 334 hours, up from 125 last year on USA. 
 Less than one-third of the Tennis Channel's planned 239 hours of coverage will be live; the rest will be replays of matches and studio programming. 
 The Tennis Channel is available in 25 million cable, satellite and telephone company households on various tiers of service. For majors like the French Open, Wimbledon and the Australian Open, to which the network has rights, the figure balloons to about 55 million. Practically all of the major providers have come to terms with the Tennis Channel with the exception of Cablevision and AT&T U-verse. Cablevision has demonstrated a tough approach to adding new channels before, most notably in a long fight over carrying the YES Network.
 Solomon said he had hoped ownership of Newsday would not make a difference in whether the paper would accept the ad because it involves a news event that takes place within Cablevision's region, which includes Long Island, Brooklyn and Westchester.
 ''We figured this was just business and simply a message to let viewers know where to find us,'' he said. ''The newspaper industry is not doing all that well, so it's a surprise they turned down this amount of money.''
 Howard Schneider, a former Newsday editor who is dean of the journalism school at Stony Brook University, said, ''It's not a felony to protect your economic self-interest unless it influences your news coverage.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SPORTS MARKETING (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (89%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); ETHICS (73%); EXECUTIVES (63%)

COMPANY: NEWSDAY INC (92%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009



477 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 SWINE FLU TAKES HEAVY TOLL 
 On Australia's Aborigines
 Swine flu is taking a disproportionately heavy toll on Australia's indigenous people, highlighting the deep inequalities between them and the white majority . PAGE A9
 ZAMBIA EX-CHIEF ACQUITTED
 Frederick Chiluba, the former president of Zambia whose government became internationally notorious for corruption during his decade in office, was acquitted on charges of stealing about $500,000 from the state. PAGE A8 
 MISSING SHIP FOUND
 The Russian government said that a cargo ship missing since late last month with its crew of 15 and $2 million worth of lumber had been found 300 miles off West Africa's Cape Verde. PAGE A7
 National
 COURT ORDERS REVISITING
 Of Death Penalty Case
 The Supreme Court ordered a federal trial court in Georgia to consider the case of Troy Davis, who is on death row in state prison there for the 1989 murder of an off-duty police officer. PAGE A13
 TEXAS JUDGE ON TRIAL
 Sharon Keller, the highest-ranking criminal judge in Texas and the woman who presides over the most active execution chamber in the country, appeared in court to face charges of denying a condemned man access to the legal system. PAGE A11
 THE MEANING OF BOONDOGGLE
 Some of the proposals for spending federal stimulus money were criticized by cable news commentators, prominent Republicans and government officials. But they are popular locally and underscore a truth that has been evident since the New Deal: the boondoggle is in the eye of the beholder. PAGE A10
 MEDICARE'S PUZZLING VACANCY
 To the puzzlement of Congress and health care experts around the country, President Obama has not named anyone to lead the agency that runs Medicare and Medicaid. PAGE A13
 New York
 FOR CITY'S POOR, 
 Still Little Trust in Banks
 Even as the number of bank branches in Manhattan has skyrocketed, the number of ''unbanked'' people -- many of them the city's poorest, living check to check -- still do not have bank accounts, and at a rate higher than the national average. PAGE A14
 Business
 SMALL CITIES PAY TO KEEP 
 Airlines From Leaving
 With airlines cutting back service in a weak economy, some cities that are too big to qualify for federal help but too small to keep the planes flying in have stepped up with ways to hang on: paying the airlines, either directly or indirectly. PAGE B1
 PITFALLS OF TREATMENT RULES
 A recent case involving treatment for diabetes, one of the nation's most pervasive illnesses, illustrates the difficulties of setting guidelines that are good for every patient. PAGE B1WALL STREET'S PESSIMISM
 In recent weeks, it seemed as if nothing could hold back investors trying to will a recovery into reality. Then consumer data sobered investors, who sent the major markets into their steepest fall in six weeks. PAGE B1
 DIGEST TO FILE FOR BANKRUPTCY
 The Reader's Digest Association announced that it would file for prearranged Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection for its United States businesses within 30 days. PAGE B2
 HIGHER SCORES FOR DETROIT
 For all of the turmoil that the Detroit automakers have been going through, customer satisfaction with the vehicles they build surged in this year's edition of the Customer Satisfaction Index, a highly regarded study by the University of Michigan. PAGE B6
 More Workers for Clunkers B6
 DreamWorks's Financing Deal B7
 U.S. Extends Credit Plan B1
 Sports
 VICK SIGNING COULD MAKE
 Eagles' Wildcat More Potent
 The addition of Michael Vick to the Philadelphia Eagles roster will provide a season-long distraction for the team off the field, but his signing could make the team's use of the Wildcat formation very potent. PAGE B11
 A TRIBUTE TO A STAR
 Richard Sandomir writes that a Michael Jordan exhibit which recently opened at the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in advance of his induction on Sept. 11, is a soulless exercise in corporate worship that was designed, installed, written, curated and paid for by the Jordan Brand, a division of Nike. PAGE B10
 WOODS BOOSTS RATINGS
 Y. E. Yang's victory over Tiger Woods in the P.G.A. Championship demonstrated anew Woods's enormous impact on golf ratings. The final round on CBS generated a 7.5 preliminary overnight rating -- up 150 percent from last year's 3.0 rating for Padraig Harrington's victory over a field that lacked the injured Woods. PAGE B13
 Jets' Ellis Suspended for Opener B11
 Arts
 TOM DELAY TO JOIN CAST
 Of 'Dancing with the Stars'
 When ABC announced the new cast for its highly rated reality series ''Dancing With the Stars,'' the name that stood out in the are-you-kidding-me sweepstakes was Mr. DeLay, the former Republican House majority leader. PAGE C1
 THE SEEDS OF A REVOLUTION
 Fred Kaplan, a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist, has tried to further whittle down the decisive decade of the 1950s into a to a single year in his new book, ''1959: The Year Everything Changed.'' Patricia Cohen, Books of the Times. PAGE C4
 MUSEUM NAMES DIRECTOR
 The Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art, the institution being built in Bentonville, Ark., by Alice L. Walton, the Wal-Mart heiress, said that it had hired Don Bacigalupi, the director of the Toledo Museum of Art, to be its new director. PAGE C3
 Science Times
 DEBATE OVER THE STUDY 
 Of Mount St. Helens
 After the violent eruption of Mount St. Helens in Washington State nearly 30 years ago, it became an unusual outdoor laboratory where researchers worked to learn how landscapes recovered after such fierce disturbances. But now the work is caught up in a debate over management of the mountain. PAGE D1
 Inside From the Cancer Foxhole D5
 Op-ed
 BOB HERBERT PAGE A17

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); H1N1 INFLUENZA (90%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (90%); INFLUENZA (89%); AIRLINES (89%); LITIGATION (77%); MEDICARE (77%); ACQUITTAL (77%); CAPITAL CRIMES (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); CORRUPTION (71%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); BANK BRANCHES (62%); DIABETES (60%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (58%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (57%); MEDICAID (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) AUSTRALIA (94%); ZAMBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); CAPE VERDE (79%); AFRICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009



478 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: Homeowners Could Lose Over Taxes

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Hard times are causing more homeowners to fall behind on their property taxes. But in thousands of cases, they are not responsible to their local governments, but to private companies that charge double-digit interest and thousands of dollars in service fees. 
 This is because in recent years struggling cities and counties have sold their delinquent tax bills to the highest bidder. It seemed a painless way to turn old debts into cash to finance schools or public services. 
 But housing advocates say the private companies may be exacerbating the foreclosure crisis, pushing out homeowners faster than would governments, which are increasingly concerned about neighborhoods becoming wastelands of abandoned properties.
 ''In the beginning, you're getting this immediate windfall of cash,'' said Anita Lopez, the auditor of Lucas County, Ohio, which sold off more than 3,000 tax liens for $14.7 million. The county includes Toledo. ''But when you think about abandoned properties, foreclosed properties -- the cost to the community is far more expensive than the short-term benefits.'' 
 Investors say the arrangement actually benefits everyone. School districts, fire departments and public parks get an infusion of cash. The investors take on a risky but potentially high-yielding investment. And taxpayers do not have to pick up the slack from scofflaw landlords or tax evaders.
 Governments, of course, can charge interest and penalties too, and they foreclose on properties for back taxes. But governments charge interest rates that are half what private investors charge -- often offering no-interest payment plans -- and are also more likely to be concerned about the long-term prospects of neighborhoods.
 In Toledo, one of the areas hardest hit by the downturn and by private lenders holding tax liens, homeowners like Richard Fix are facing foreclosure for a few thousand dollars in overdue taxes.
 Mr. Fix said he lost his job with Chrysler in January 2008 and took a lower-paying job. As he and his family struggled to pay their mortgage, credit cards and other bills, he said they fell behind on $5,900 in taxes.
 ''I'm in a no-win situation at this point,'' he said.
 With the economy faltering and property values plunging, homeowners and landlords are falling behind on their bills or abandoning their property, just as governments are facing huge budget shortfalls.
 Private investors step in and buy tax liens, paying governments upfront all or part of the value of the taxes. The investors then get the right to foreclose on the properties, taking priority over mortgage lenders, and to charge interest rates as high as 18 percent on the unpaid taxes.
 ''It beats the heck out of any certificate of deposit,'' said Howard Liggett, executive director of the National Tax Lien Association.
 Because the sales occur in a patchwork of cities and counties across more than two dozen states, there are no figures tracking the number of tax-lien sales nationwide. The liens that are sold come from cases in which homeowners pay taxes to the local government, not through their lenders. But Mr. Liggett, whose group represents tax-lien investors, said they generated about $10 billion every year. 
 In 2006, Lucas County began selling off its overdue tax certificates to a New Jersey company named Plymouth Park Tax Services, a subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase. It also operates under the name Xspand.
 The company, once run by the former governor of New Jersey, James J. Florio, was sold to Bear Stearns and then absorbed into JPMorgan after Bear's collapse last year. Today, Plymouth Park is one of the largest players in the tax-lien business.
 Plymouth Park has filed more than 1,000 foreclosure actions against delinquent taxpayers, more than any single mortgage lender in the county. But it says that it has only foreclosed on 56 of those filings. 
 Plymouth Park has bought $2 billion in tax liens across the country since 2008, and says the number of foreclosures around Toledo is an aberration. 
 All told, foreclosures in Lucas County rose to 4,093 in 2008 from 3,486 in 2007, and they are on track to be 7 percent higher this year than 2008, according to county figures. 
 Plymouth Park's president, John Garzone, said the company tried to set up payment plans with homeowners and foreclosed only as a last resort. The company said that the government would most likely have initiated many of those foreclosures on its own.
 ''Less than 1 percent of our overall investment actually becomes a foreclosed-on property,'' Mr. Garzone said. ''Our main interest is to try and get the properties back onto the tax rolls.''
 But now, many are in danger of falling off them.
 Christopher Clark, 57, lives in the Toledo home where he spent his teenage years and where he cared for his mother before she died. He said he scrapes by on $674 in monthly disability payments and assistance from friends and by selling old books and a pipe collection on eBay. 
 He amassed $6,450 in delinquent taxes over the years, a debt that was sold to Plymouth Park in 2007 and 2008. The company added $1,853 in interest charges to the original bill, and various fees, according to Mr. Clark's lawyer, Deborah Tassie, and filed for foreclosure.
 ''I'm still in denial,'' Mr. Clark said. ''I've been here through good times and bad, lousy neighbors and good neighbors. What I'm going to do, I have no idea.''
 Plymouth Park said that it charged fees related to its legal costs only, and did not charge homeowners for its own administrative costs.
 The county treasurer who arranged the tax sales, Wade Kapszukiewicz, said they were aimed at ''out-of-town land speculators'' and the most chronic tax delinquents, and were intended to avoid the elderly and disabled. 
 ''What is the alternative?'' he said. ''The alternative is to let people not pay taxes and do nothing about it.'' 
 But housing advocates in Lucas County said homeowners were overwhelmed by the fees and interest rates. Debts of $3,300 grew to $6,800. And while Plymouth Park offered a payment plan, lawyers said that many homeowners did not have enough money to make upfront payments of a $1,000 or more.
 Danyell Copeland, 36, is in court over a tax bill of less than $2,000, her lawyer said. Ms. Copeland, who works as a cook at the University of Toledo, said she had been fallen behind on her bills after her hours and overtime were cut.
 She chose to not pay her taxes so she could make her mortgage payments, she said. Now she worries about losing the two-bedroom house where she grows tomatoes and peppers in the garden, and where her niece and nephew spend the summer.
 ''This is not just a house,'' she said. ''This is a home.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Christopher Clark amassed $6,450 in delinquent taxes, a debt that was sold to a private firm. The company added $1,853 in interest to the original bill, and its fees, and filed for foreclosure.
 ''When you think about abandoned properties, foreclosed properties -- the cost to the community is far more expensive than the short-term benefits,'' Anita Lopez, an auditor in Ohio, said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); TAX FRAUD (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); COUNTIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (75%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (73%); DISMISSALS (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING (68%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (67%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (71%) OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009



479 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Extends Effort to Ease Tight Credit Into 2010

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
With banks still tightening their lending standards, and borrowers skittish about taking on debt, the Federal Reserve and the Treasury extended one of their main emergency credit programs -- the Term Asset-Backed Securities Lending Facility, or TALF -- for several more months.
 Despite signs of an economic recovery, and vast government assistance to financial institutions, the Fed reported on Monday that banks were still tightening their lending standards and did not expect to reverse course until the second half of next year. 
 In the Fed's latest survey of senior loan officers, about 30 percent of banks said they were still tightening standards for both consumer and business loans. That was a smaller percentage than the Fed's survey in April, but it meant that, on balance, banks were still clamping down as they worried about the economic outlook and tried to conserve capital.
 About 55 percent of banks said their lending standards for business loans would remain tougher than long-term average levels until the second half of 2010. A similar percentage predicted that standards for prime home mortgages would remain tougher than average for another year, and about 40 percent said mortgage standards would be stricter than average for the foreseeable future.
 At the same time, consumers and businesses are still reluctant to borrow. About 40 percent of banks reported that demand for loans by big corporations was weakening, though that was a smaller percentage than in April. More than half of banks said demand for loans from small businesses was weakening.
 On the consumer side, low interest rates have spurred demand for home mortgages, mostly by people refinancing their loans. But the Fed reported that mortgage demand increased much more slowly in July than in April -- probably because mortgage rates inched slightly higher.
 ''While banks appear more willing to lend, borrowers are less willing to borrow,'' said Paul Dales, an economist at Capital Economics. ''This may be the economic equivalent of leading a horse to water, but not being able to make it drink.'' 
 A separate report by the Treasury Department reinforces the impression that nervous banks and nervous borrowers are still holding back. In its survey of 22 big banks that received money from the government's bailout program, the Treasury said that loan originations jumped 13 percent in June but that total loan balances declined by 1 percent. 
 ''Consumers focused on paying down debt and reducing spending,'' the Treasury said, while businesses continued to ''downsize, cut costs and reduce inventories.''
 So the Fed and the Treasury announced that they would extend TALF, one of their biggest efforts to finance both consumer and business loans, by at least three more months. The program had originally been scheduled to expire at the end of 2009.
 Under the program, the Federal Reserve buys up securities backed by automobile loans, credit card debt and business debt including equipment leases and commercial real estate mortgages. 
 The program was started earlier this year as a way to fill the gap created when the capital markets stopped functioning. Though Fed officials originally thought that they might finance as much as $1 trillion in lending through it, the program has thus far financed only about $30 billion. 
 Fed officials have made it clear they want to start unwinding some of the emergency lending programs they created in response to the financial crisis last year. But they do not want to remove their temporary supports too quickly, and financial institutions had implored the policy makers to keep the program in place beyond the end of this year.
 In a joint announcement, the Fed and the Treasury said they would extend the program but they also announced pointedly that they would not expand the program to finance lending backed by additional kinds of collateral.
 Most of the program's consumer and business loans will be extended through the end of March. But the Fed said it would extend its program to buy up new commercial mortgage-backed securities through the end of next June.
 ''Conditions in financial markets have improved considerably in recent months,'' the Fed and the Treasury said. ''Nonetheless, markets for asset-backed securities (ABS) backed by consumer and business loans and for commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) are still impaired and seem likely to remain so for some time.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TERM ASSET BACKED SECURITIES LOAN FACILITY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (89%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (74%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); INVENTORIES (72%); MORTGAGE RATES (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009



480 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 328 words

HEADLINE: China to Appeal Trade Ruling on Media Products

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
China will appeal a World Trade Organization ruling that ordered it to ease restrictions on imports of movies, music and books in a case brought by the United States, a commerce ministry spokesman said Monday. 
 ''We are actively preparing the documents to appeal,'' the spokesman, Yao Jian, said at a news conference. He gave no details of the grounds for appeal, but the government last week denied that had it obstructed imports.
 The appeal will be filed within two months in line with W.T.O. rules, Mr. Yao said.
 A world trade panel concluded last week that Beijing was violating its free-trade commitments by forcing imported media products to be routed through Chinese state-owned companies. It said Beijing should allow foreign companies to import and distribute master copies of books, magazines and newspapers and to receive the same conditions and charges as Chinese companies for distributing reading materials.
 ''Chinese cultural products have a big deficit in global trade, and their competitiveness is low,'' Mr. Yao said. ''So we took measures that fit the Chinese economy and historical cultural tradition.''
 The Communist government in China views its control over content of movies, music, books and other media as a tool to protect its political power. The government is trying to build up China's state-owned film studios and other media to promote the party's views at home and abroad.
 The dispute is one of a series between the United States and China over access to each other's markets for goods ranging from tires to poultry. The United States is the world's biggest exporter of movies, pop music and other cultural goods and sees increased sales as a way to narrow its multibillion-dollar trade deficit with China.
 Suppliers face intense competition from China's thriving black market in unlicensed copies, and some complain that the Chinese government is increasing demand for pirated products by limiting access to legitimate goods.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE COURTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); APPEALS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); COUNTERFEITING (77%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (74%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (73%); POP & ROCK (73%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (73%); POULTRY (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (66%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009



481 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; SIDEBAR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: Justices to Weigh In on Corporate Culture and Its Paychecks

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 Last summer, Richard A. Posner, a federal appeals court judge, issued a surprising and prescient dissent. Executive pay is out of control, he said, and the marketplace cannot be trusted to rein it in.
 Judge Posner is a conservative with libertarian leanings, and he is a leader of the law and economics movement associated with the University of Chicago. He often relies on economic analysis in his judicial decisions, and he believes that many questions are best sorted out by the marketplace.
 But corporate America has insulated pay decisions from market discipline, Judge Posner wrote. ''Executive compensation in large publicly traded firms often is excessive,'' he added, ''because of the feeble incentives of boards of directors to police compensation.'' 
 The Supreme Court will hear the case this fall, as anger over huge bonuses paid to the executives of failing companies continues to grow. The case, Jones v. Harris Associates, may turn out to be the court's first significant statement on the corporate culture that helped lead to the Great Recession. 
 The case arose from the enormous fees mutual funds pay to their investment advisers. A three-judge panel of Judge Posner's court, the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, in Chicago, threw out a lawsuit brought by the investors in three Oakmark mutual funds who said the funds had overpaid their investment adviser, Harris Associates.
 The panel decision, written by Chief Judge Frank H. Easterbrook, another leader of the law and economics movement, said the marketplace could be trusted to regulate fees. Judge Posner, dissenting from the full court's decision not to rehear the case, said competition had not been effective in keeping the compensation under control. 
 Before last year's market collapse, the mutual fund industry held more than $11 trillion in retirement and personal savings, and it paid advisers perhaps $100 billion in fees. 
 Mutual funds are odd enterprises. They are typically formed and run by their investment advisers, which select the fund's board of directors. That board then negotiates the adviser's fees. 
 Here is how Warren Buffett analyzed the situation in his 2003 letter to shareholders: ''Year after year, at literally thousands of funds, directors had routinely rehired the incumbent management company, however pathetic its performance had been. Just as routinely, the directors had mindlessly approved fees that in many cases far exceeded those that could have been negotiated.''
 The plaintiffs in the case before the Supreme Court claimed that Harris Associates had charged their funds twice as much as it charged its unaffiliated clients, like pension funds.
 The Oakmark funds paid Harris Associates 1 percent of the first $2 billion in assets; independent clients were charged roughly one-half of 1 percent of the first $500 million. One percent of a billion dollars is nice work if you can get it.
 ''Mutual funds rarely fire their advisers,'' Judge Easterbrook acknowledged. But, he continued, ''investors can and do 'fire' advisers cheaply and easily by moving their money elsewhere.'' A 2007 study from John C. Coates IV and R. Glenn Hubbard supported this conclusion, finding that mutual fund fees are kept in check by the movement of investors' money.
 But a brief supporting the plaintiffs filed in the Supreme Court by three economists, Ian Ayres, Robert E. Litan and Joseph R. Mason, questioned that study. New research in behavioral economics, the brief said, showed that most investors had a very poor grasp of rudimentary truths about probability and a disproportionate aversion to taking losses. 
 Mutual fund investors thus tend to look at past performance rather than fees. And they have a tendency to sell winning investments too early and hold losing ones too long. 
 Even if mutual fund investors could be counted on to act rationally, the economists' brief said, they do not have ready access to the information they need to make sensible choices.
 Instead of counting on investor behavior to keep fees in check, the brief concluded, courts should look to how much advisers charged independent clients like pension funds. A supporting brief from the federal government made the same point.
 There is academic research to support this view, too.
 ''In contrast to mutual fund investors,'' Diane Del Guercio and Paula A. Tkac wrote in a 2002 study, ''pension clients punish poorly performing managers by withdrawing assets under management and do not flock disproportionately to recent winners.''
 But Judge Easterbrook questioned the value of such comparisons. The two kinds of clients, he said, may have different needs. In its brief urging the Supreme Court not to hear the case, Harris Associates added that the Oakmark funds had outperformed ''virtually every fund in their peer groups.''
 Still, the tide seems to be turning toward skepticism about outsize compensation. In April, a month after the Supreme Court agreed to hear an appeal from Judge Easterbrook's decision, the federal appeals court in St Louis allowed a suit against another investment adviser, Ameriprise Financial, to go forward. It was the first ruling in favor of unhappy mutual fund investors suing over advisers' fees since Congress imposed a fiduciary duty on advisers in 1970. 
 Judge Easterbrook said the law had only a minor role to play, requiring no more than making sure that advisers ''make full disclosure and play no tricks.'' 
 But when public sentiment, economic research and even Judge Posner argue for more vigorous judicial examination of whether compensation is fair, the Supreme Court may just agree.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (92%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); CORPORATE CULTURE (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); PENSION FUNDS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009



482 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: Small Cities Pay to Keep Air Travel

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
With airlines cutting back service in a weak economy, some cities that are too big to qualify for federal help but too small to keep the planes flying in have stepped up with ways to hang on: paying the airlines, either directly or indirectly.
 The cities, like Myrtle Beach, S.C., and Duluth, Minn., have tried various strategies to keep their lifeline to the outside world.
 Myrtle Beach, for example, has reduced landing fees, terminal rents and other fees. In addition, the city's convention and visitors bureau plans to spend $8 million -- in money raised from private businesses and in state tourism promotion money -- on a marketing campaign to attract more visitors, particularly golfers from northern states, said Bradley Dean, president and chief executive of the area's visitors bureau.
 Officials in Duluth are weighing whether to guarantee an airline that a certain percentage of seats will be filled. Once those targets are met, the city will profit. 
 ''Anymore, the airlines don't want to take the risks,'' said Brian Ryks, executive director of the Duluth Airport Authority. ''But they want all the rewards.''
 While many of these cities have struggled for years to keep their airline service, the issue has become more acute in recent months. Airlines have been cutting capacity sharply for much of the last year -- first as their costs rose with skyrocketing oil prices and then as the economy slowed, reducing demand for air travel. To save money, the airlines either eliminated service or significantly cut back on routes where they had trouble filling planes.
 But some airlines have been willing to resume service if cities agreed to shoulder most -- or all -- of the financial risk.
 The airlines confirmed their arrangements with cities, but declined to discuss the guarantee programs. Many of the cities are not part of the federal Essential Air Service program, which subsidizes service to about 100 communities.
 Henry H. Harteveldt, travel industry analyst for Forrester Research, said structural changes in the airline industry had begun to change the financial relationship between the carriers and the cities.
 The airlines have a right to ask for revenue guarantees, Mr. Harteveldt said. ''There is no responsibility to serve a market that loses money.'' 
 But, he said, some towns might have a hard time rounding up the support for guarantee programs. ''At a time when basic services are being cut back, it's hard to justify paying airlines for service.''
 The cities left behind feel the economic pain, even beyond the sting of the broader economic downturn.
 Roswell, N.M., for instance, lost airline service in 2002, said Bill Armstrong Jr., a board member of the Roswell-Chaves County Economic Development Corporation, and ''it hurt us terribly.'' He added, ''We were like nomads in the desert looking for water.''
 It took five years for Roswell to regain service, and that was only after the city offered a minimum revenue guarantee of $2.4 million over two years to American Eagle to fly from Roswell to the Dallas-Fort Worth Airport, Mr. Armstrong said. 
 The service has been so popular, he said, that $700,000 in community pledges have not been touched and the deal is being renewed next month. 
 Roswell has assembled a $360,000 fund to underpin a second program: a six-month tryout of American Eagle flights to Los Angeles International Airport. The city plans to use $40,000 from that fund to pay for a marketing campaign to persuade businesses and the public to buy seats, Mr. Armstrong said.
 ''This is the name of the game in weak economic times,'' he said. ''Communities have to do more. Airlines are hesitant to start a new service without economic support.''
 Wichita, Kan., was a pioneer in the business of paying airlines to continue service. It acted after one of its biggest businesses, the headquarters of Pizza Hut, moved away more than a decade ago, and the city was looking for a way to assure service, recalled Valerie Wise, the air service and business development manager for the Wichita Airport Authority.
 Through a combination of federal, state, local and private money, Wichita was able to guarantee revenues to some airlines to continue flights. Competition from low-budget airlines, in turn, pressured other carriers to lower prices, she said, to the benefit of business travelers, who had been paying walk-up fares of as much as $1,000.
 The city now guarantees AirTran $6.5 million a year to assure flights to the airline's hub city of Atlanta.
 The airport in Latrobe, Pa., is trying a different tack after losing its only air service last month. Delta Air Lines had flown twice a day from Latrobe to Detroit.
 The community is small but does not qualify for federal Essential Air Service subsidies, which underwrite service in rural areas, because it is within 70 miles of a large airport, in Pittsburgh. The Senate recently voted to fund the program for $175 million next year, a $39 million raise.
 So Gabriel Monzo, executive director of the Westmoreland County Airport Authority, which operates the Latrobe airport, said the authority was considering whether to offer a complete service package to attract a carrier. It is looking, he said, at ''handling ticketing and everything over and under the wing, including de-icing.'' 
 He added, ''We're telling carriers: 'Put up your kiosk, hang up your sign and we'll do the rest.' ''
 But such partnerships do not always work out. Duluth, for example, has already been burned once in trying to entice an airline to serve the manufacturing, iron ore mining and medical enterprises in and around the city. In 2004, Mr. Ryks of the airport authority said, the city put up a $1 million minimum revenue guarantee in a deal with American Eagle for flights to Chicago O'Hare. 
 But after six months, O'Hare, which was having trouble handling all its scheduled flights, required the carrier to end flights from some destinations, and Duluth was one of them.
 ''The revenue guarantee was spent and then they were gone,'' Mr. Ryks said. 
 So Duluth officials are considering a different sort of arrangement, this time with ExpressJet, a regional partner of Continental Airlines, to fly between Duluth and Chicago twice a day at a cost of $5.4 million for the first year.
 ''The plus is that with conservative figures factored in for revenues and expenses -- and a 70 percent load factor,'' he said, referring to the percentage of seats sold, ''it is estimated there would be an $800,000 profit, and that would come back to the community.'' 
 He conceded, though, ''the wild cards are the load factors, the fare levels and the fuel costs. And the community takes the upfront risk.''
 But if the airline can sell more seats, the city could make a profit on the deal because the carrier's profits and expenses are already built in. ''This way,'' Mr. Ryks said, ''we also get to share in any rewards.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dan Tompkins and his wife, Janet, before boarding a Spirit Airlines flight from Myrtle Beach, S.C., to New York.
 Spirit gets concessions from Myrtle Beach to continue serving the area. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SABREE HILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); AIR SERVICE (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); AIRPORT OPERATION (76%); TOURISM (76%); PORT AUTHORITIES (76%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (75%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%)

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (52%)

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MYRTLE BEACH, SC, USA (95%); DULUTH, MN, USA (94%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (95%); MINNESOTA, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009



483 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: Boondoggle. Just One's Name for Another's Necessity.

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
The $14.7 million for a new airport on an Alaskan island that averages only 42 flights a month. The half-million dollars for a new skateboard park in unemployment-ravaged Rhode Island. The $3.4 million for fencing and tunnels to keep Florida turtles from becoming roadkill.
 Those proposals for spending federal stimulus money were all criticized by cable news commentators, Republican officials and, in the case of the airport, the inspector general of the Transportation Department. But they have something else in common, too. They are popular locally. And they underscore a truth that has been evident since the New Deal: sometimes the boondoggle is in the eye of the beholder.
 Dan Clarion, the maintenance manager and harbor master in Ouzinkie, a town of about 170 people on an island off Alaska, said the new airport was vital for safety reasons. The island's current runway is too short, Mr. Clarion said, and its location leaves it vulnerable to dangerous crosswinds that sometimes shut down the airport, stranding islanders who rely on planes for their mail, their groceries and their access to the mainland when the seas are too high. 
 ''Many times it's the only way we can get in and out,'' Mr. Clarion said by telephone.
 The outcry that greeted Pawtucket, R.I., over its plans to spend stimulus money on a playground with a skate park at a junior high school was so fierce that city officials soon scrapped the idea and decided to spend their stimulus money on road work instead. But residents of Pawtucket had sought the skate park for a decade to lure skaters off the steps of the city's library, the granite walls by the old mill and even the steps of City Hall. So the city is building it anyway, using the original source of federal financing that it had planned to use before the stimulus law passed.
 And Florida's plan to build a wall and culverts to help turtles cross a deadly stretch of road by Lake Jackson near Tallahassee was mocked by Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, in a report he issued in questioning many stimulus projects. 
 ''Why did the turtle cross the road?'' the report asked. ''To get to the other side of a stimulus project.''
 But local advocates have sought the passage there for years, monitoring the steady stream of turtle deaths, building the temporary fence that protects turtles there now and mounting a large grass-roots campaign that eventually won state support for a more permanent ''eco-passage.''
 Of course, none of these projects are likely to stimulate much in the way of new, long-term economic activity, a goal of the federal stimulus plan, once the construction crews decamp. But neither will many of the street repaving jobs that are getting the bulk of the highway money in the stimulus bill, however badly they may be needed. 
 One of the main purposes of the stimulus is to use government spending to prop up the economy in the short term by offsetting the decline in private-sector spending. But in doing so, the Obama administration has given rise to a debate that goes back many decades.
 ''The divide hasn't really changed since the Depression,'' said Nick Taylor, an author who chronicled the fierce debates of the New Deal era over boondoggles in ''American-Made: The Enduring Legacy of the W.P.A.'' (Bantam, 2008). Mr. Taylor said many of the projects that were mocked back then as boondoggles went on to have long and productive lives. But he added that there were some truly wasteful projects back then as well, like a lake dug at a spot in North Carolina that turned out not to have a water source. 
 Before it became a bad word, ''boondoggle'' was an innocent, humble craft. It was the Boy Scouts of America who claimed credit for coining the word, to refer to the plaited leather lanyards that they made and wore around their necks. 
 That all changed on April 3, 1935, at a hearing in New York City on how New Deal relief money was being spent. A Brooklyn crafts teacher reluctantly testified that he was paid to show the jobless how to make ''boon doggles.'' The outcry was swift. ''$3,187,000 Relief is Spent to Teach Jobless to Play,'' trumpeted a front-page headline the next day in The New York Times. '' 'Boon Doggles' Made.'' 
 A new, more sinister meaning was born, and the word came to signify government make-work, later referring to wasteful government projects in general. Critics used it to criticize scores of projects, but President Franklin D. Roosevelt took a longer view. ''If we can boondoggle ourselves out of this Depression,'' Roosevelt said, ''that word is going to be enshrined in the hearts of the American people for years to come.''
 The Depression ended, but the word has not exactly been enshrined in the hearts of the people. Now, as a new administration in a new century tries to pump $787 billion into the economy with a combination of spending and tax cuts, questions about the usefulness of projects are raging as loudly as ever, even as some economists begin to credit the stimulus with averting an even worse downturn. 
 Boondoggle-phobia was a guiding principle in the writing of the bill. After a water park in Florida was mocked for seeking stimulus money while the bill was being drafted, a provision was added barring states and local governments from using their money to build swimming pools. (Swimming pools may sound frivolous, but they are also popular: the government built hundreds of them during the New Deal, including 11 of New York City's biggest, grandest pools, many of which are still in use.) 
 Another provision barred state and local governments from spending their stimulus money on zoos, which were another big recipient of New Deal money. (The National Zoological Park in Washington, which is part of the Smithsonian Institution, is apparently exempt: it is getting $11.4 million from the stimulus for repairs and safety projects.)
 Robert D. Leighninger Jr., a sociologist who wrote ''Long-Range Public Investment: The Forgotten Legacy of the New Deal'' (South Carolina University Press, 2007), recounted the story of a Works Progress Administration official in Arizona who went off in search of boondoggles, and discovered that the towns he visited seemed to like their own projects but questioned those of their neighbors. 
 ''I've been hunting all over the state for one, but everywhere I go I'm told it's in the next county,'' the official was quoted as saying in a 1936 newspaper article. ''So far I haven't been able to catch up with a real, live one.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 20, 2009

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Tuesday about federal stimulus money for projects that have been praised locally but criticized nationally omitted, in some copies, the surname of a sociologist who wrote a book about public works projects. He is Robert D. Leighninger Jr. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TURTLE CROSSING: Matt Aresco, a marine biologist, in a culvert near Tallahassee, Fla., where $3.4 million in stimulus aid was sought to help turtles navigate the area. (PHOTOGRAPH BY COLIN HACKLEY/SARASOTA HERALD-TRIBUNE)
 OUZINKIE AIRPORT: Some $14.7 million in stimulus money was sought for a new airport on an island of 170 people off the Alaska mainland. Officials said the airport was vital for safety reasons. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRADLEY ZINT/KODIAK DAILY MIRROR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (93%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); SKATEBOARDING (89%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (88%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (86%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (76%); JOURNALISM (76%); CITIES (74%); LEGISLATION (72%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (69%); CONSTRUCTION (67%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (64%)

PERSON: TOM COBURN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAWTUCKET, RI, USA (92%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); ALASKA, USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009



484 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Subsidies at Work In a Remote Airport

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY. 
E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com

DATELINE: ELY, Nev. 

 BODY:
 THE road sign where the main drag ends at the western edge of town tells you that a long, desolate haul lies ahead. ''HWY 50 -- The Loneliest Road in America.'' 
 People talk about distance here the way other people talk about the weather. Ely, population about 4,000, is 250 miles from Las Vegas, 317 miles from Reno, 260 miles from Salt Lake City and 700 miles from Denver, which is the only place that supplies commercial air service to Ely.
 ''We're the poster child for the Essential Air Service program,'' said James Adams, the manager of the optimistically named Ely Jet Center, a small service center for private aircraft, mostly propeller planes, that shares space with tiny Ely Airport, also called Yelland Field. 
 The Essential Air Service program is the only reason Ely even has a commercial airport. The federal initiative was established after airlines were deregulated in 1978 to subsidize service to rural communities that airlines would otherwise abandon. 
 The Senate recently voted to finance the program for $175 million next year, a $39 million increase. It subsidizes service to more than 100 communities -- but not without controversy. 
 Critics say that some towns are close enough to other cities with viable air service that people can easily drive the 70 miles or so to a nearby airport.
 Not so in Ely, though there is the question of costs to taxpayers. I flew roundtrip from Denver to Ely last week, and paid $603 on Great Lakes Airlines, which holds the current two-year contract until September 2010. There were three of us bound for Ely on the 19-seat twin-propeller Beechcraft 1900, and three who left the next day.
 The fare does not cover the costs. According to the Senate Appropriations Committee, each Ely passenger is subsidized by about $4,500, the highest rate in the program.
 Ely has long been a center for tourism, with the Great Basin National Park not far away. Still, the main drag in town has seen its day. 
 Many businesses are shut, though the truly peculiar Hotel Nevada and Gambling Hall, a 60-room hotel and casino with a giant neon cowboy on its facade, still does a brisk business with guests who marvel at the riot of slot machines in the lobby. 
 My room cost $50 a night. The chicken-fried steak with gravy and fries at lunch was about $10, sumptuous enough to satisfy long-distance bikers, who seemed to account for much of the hotel's clientele.
 Does it make sense to subsidize Ely's air service?
 Absolutely, insisted Mr. Adams. ''Other than a five-hour drive, it's the only way in and out,'' he said. ''There's not even bus service.''
 Ely recently lost air service for 18 months when a previous airline dropped out. ''People had to drive, or they didn't come at all,'' Mr. Adams said.
 In the year since the contract went to Great Lakes Airlines, there has not been enough traction to rebuild the local economy, he said.
 Business travel is important even in a tiny place like Ely. The old copper mine still runs just outside of town. Ely is the seat of White Pine County, where employees working for federal and state agencies bolster a tourism economy.
 But as the commercial airline system itself shrinks nationally, questions are being asked about whether air travel is primarily a business, or also a vital component of a national transportation system, with hard-to-reach communities as deserving of air service as they are of postal service.
 Dan Netcher, a project manager for the federal Bureau of Land Management in Ely, said that he depends on the commercial flight to get to regular meetings at a regional office in Denver. 
 Without that flight, he would have to drive to Salt Lake City or Las Vegas to get a flight to Denver. A two-day trip could easily become a four-day trip, he said.
 Now, he said, ''I can fly to Denver, do my job, and get back the next morning. Then I get in my pickup truck and drive to work, which takes about a minute since the office is right across the highway from the airport.''
 Like many people in town, he worries that air service will cease again once the current contract runs out in a year. ''We got what we got, and I hope we can keep it,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS GASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR SERVICE (91%); AIRPORTS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); GAMING (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (85%); DEREGULATION (74%); APPROPRIATIONS (73%); NATIONAL PARKS (71%); AVIATION REGULATION & POLICY (69%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (67%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); RENO, NV, USA (90%) UTAH, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009



485 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: President Is Named At a Sony Phone Unit

BYLINE: By KEVIN J. O'BRIEN

 BODY:
Sony Ericsson, the struggling mobile phone maker, on Monday appointed a longtime Ericsson manager as its new president.
 Bert Nordberg, a 14-year veteran of Ericsson, the leader in wireless networks, said he planned to reinvigorate the company's lineup of mobile handsets with state-of-the-art software and applications, a strategy also being pursued by competitors Apple, Nokia and Google. 
 The company, an eight-year venture based in London that is 50 percent owned by Ericsson and 50 percent by Sony, has lost 718 million euros ($1 billion) since July 2008 as its global market share has plunged to 5.1 percent through June.
 Mr. Nordberg, 53, has been in charge of Ericsson's software development efforts in Silicon Valley since 2008. In that role, he has led Ericsson's new Internet protocol and broadband division in San Jose, Calif., where the Swedish company is developing software, some of which could be sold through open-source licenses, for its networks businesses.
 ''We need to improve the product design and development processes and we need a different product portfolio to reflect what customers are asking for,'' Mr. Nordberg, a native of Malmo, Sweden, said in an interview. ''And we definitely need to strengthen our offering in the mobile Internet segment.''
 Sony Ericsson is the smallest of the major cellphone makers, trailing Nokia, Samsung, LG and Motorola, according to the research firm Strategy Analytics.
 Mr. Nordberg was Ericsson's executive vice president in charge of global sales and marketing from April 2004 through December 2007. 
 During his short tenure in California, Mr. Nordberg said it became clear that Sony Ericsson needed to reorient its own mobile phone business to reflect the growing importance of software and the mobile Internet.
 ''Since I've been living in Silicon Valley, I've seen our competitors attack this market from the I.T. and from the applications side,'' Mr. Nordberg said. ''We need to do more of that.''
 Sony Ericsson's cellphone portfolio still largely reflects Sony's traditional emphasis on camera optics and music. But Carolina Milanesi, an analyst at Gartner in London, said the company needed to diversify because those two areas ''do not help Sony Ericsson stand out anymore.''
 Mr. Nordberg said he planned to further trim Sony Ericsson's lineup of 45 mobile phones and produce phones that work better with the Internet. The company has already pared the number of devices it sells by 20 percent over the last year, he said. 
 Mr. Nordberg dismissed speculation that Sony and Ericsson were considering leaving the mobile-device business, saying Sony Ericsson had generated 17 billion Swedish kronor ($2.3 billion) in profit for Ericsson alone since it was created in 2001. 
 Mr. Nordberg will succeed Hideki Komiyama, a Sony executive who had led the venture since November 2007. Mr. Komiyama is retiring at the end of the year. Mr. Nordberg will become co-president on Sept. 1 before assuming responsibility on Oct. 15.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bert Nordberg, right, will become the Sony Ericsson president in October. Carl-Henric Svanberg, Ericsson's chief is at left. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT GALBRAITH/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (92%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (91%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (90%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (89%); MOBILE MEDIA (89%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (76%); MARKET SHARE (76%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (76%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (74%); BROADBAND (72%); NETWORK PROTOCOLS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (69%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (69%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%)

COMPANY: SONY CORP (93%); TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (92%); GOOGLE INC (58%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (54%)

TICKER: SON (LSE) (93%); SNE (NYSE) (93%); 6758 (TSE) (93%); ERIC.B (STO) (92%); ERIC.A (STO) (92%); ERIC (NASDAQ) (92%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); MSI (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (93%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); SWEDEN (71%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009



486 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1343 words

HEADLINE: Prescriptions From Obama, and Others

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 The juxtaposition of the actions of the leader of the Democratic Party, President Obama, and those of the Republican Sarah Palin says it all.
 On the one hand, there is the thoughtful Op-Ed of our president (''Why We Need Health Care Reform,'' Aug. 16) written in an attempt to reason with the American people, many of whom have reacted irrationally, without a clue as to what kind of health care reform legislation Congress is actually considering. On the Palin side, there is a Facebook page in which she fabricates and then rants about death panels.
 Frankly, I am amazed that we somehow managed to vote in an intelligent, hard-working, enthusiastic person who, despite the despicable way that he has been treated lately and despite the idiocy of the debates at the town hall meetings, remains optimistic that the American people -- even Republicans -- will eventually support something that is so obviously needed in this country, that is, health care reform. Ellyn S. Roth
 New York, Aug. 16, 2009 
 To the Editor:
 I agree with President Obama's Op-Ed article when it encourages passionate but civil debate, not what we are seeing in town hall meetings we see on television. There is no such thing as death panels in the proposed legislation or other fear-inspiring things that one is hearing about now.
 If one wants to disagree with parts of health care reform, that is fine, but stick to the facts of what is being proposed. The eventual legislation will be better as a result. Steven M. Clayton
 Ocean, N.J., Aug. 16, 2009
 The writer is a Democratic committeeman in Ocean.
 To the Editor:
 President Obama writes, ''I don't believe anyone should be in charge of your health care decisions but you and your doctor.'' If he truly believes this statement, then why has he also stated: ''Maybe you're better off not having the surgery, but taking the painkiller,'' and that physicians do unnecessary tonsillectomies because it makes them more money? 
 The president's plan proposes a national council to determine the most effective treatments for medical illnesses. But this council will necessarily draw conclusions only about the treatment of the average patient, which may not be the best treatment for the case of a particular individual. It is very difficult to believe that the president is being fully open and honest about his goals in the reform of health care delivery.
 Boadie Dunlop
 Atlanta, Aug. 17, 2009
 The writer is a doctor.
 To the Editor:
 President Obama is wrong that opponents of his plan want to do nothing. We know there are problems with the present system and suggest some possible solutions.
 To provide portability, we need to allow insurance companies to operate across state lines. Give them the option to subscribe to a set of federal standards instead of 50 state standards.
 We could address pre-existing conditions with an assigned risk fund. Insurers would contribute to a fund subsidized by the federal government. When those with pre-existing conditions apply for insurance, they would pay the normal premium and the assigned risk fund would pay the difference.
 How about those who cannot afford health insurance? Again, the assigned risk fund concept can be used. Create a fund that can be tapped to assist those temporarily unemployed or below the poverty line. Richard Centner
 Arlington, Tex., Aug. 16, 2009
 To the Editor:
 The trend goes in President Obama's favor. The 14,000 people who lose health insurance each day will become that many new supporters of health care reform, minus, of course, the consequent attrition of mortality.
 Glenn Alan Cheney
 Hanover, Conn., Aug. 16, 2009
 To the Editor:
 While there may be problems with our current health system, the proposed sweeping overhaul is too rapid and too confusing, not only for the average citizen but also even for Congress. Instead of taking a reasonable amount of time to allow the full implications of the proposed program to be absorbed by the general public, the administration has set an impossible timetable for the passage of this controversial and obviously misunderstood legislation.
 My suggestion to all parties is to take a breather and allow a suitable time for thorough evaluation of all the proposed changes, which will affect not only this generation but also ones to follow.
 Nelson Marans
 Silver Spring, Md., Aug. 16, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re '' 'Public Option' in Health Plan May Be Dropped'' (front page, Aug. 17):
 Reports that the Obama administration is about to abandon a government-run option in reforming the American health care system are deeply discouraging to everyone except the troglodytic right.
 It amounts to a near complete surrender to the forces that profit from the dysfunctional system we now have, forces that for decades have ridiculed or ignored the enormous evidence from other Western countries that a government-run alternative is essential. Where one does not exist, health care becomes, as here, selective, ruinously expensive and inefficient; ordinary human greed conquers all. Only when the profit motive is challenged by a deep sense of public ethics is there anything resembling affordable and universal health care.
 For the Obama administration to abandon, under pressure from the Republican Party and the aptly named Blue Dogs, the only system that has ever been shown to deliver universal care of any kind at a bearable cost is more than a national tragedy. It adds to the evidence given us by our responses to the economy, global warming -- virtually every major issue involving money, prejudice, class and the character of our other institutions -- that the American political system has become so twisted, over time, that it is no longer capable of rational behavior, or the rational fitting of means to ends.
 Daniel Knapp
 Mill Valley, Calif., Aug. 16, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Supposed bipartisanship is a poor excuse for the Democratic Party, elected to reform, to be folding like a lawn chair on the ''public option'' proposed by President Obama. There are no Republicans who will vote for anything that benefits the average American at the expense of big business.
 The Democratic Party seems not to notice that while it may not have the votes in the House or Senate, it has the votes of about 70 percent of the American people in favor of a public option. If this fails, there will be no significant change in health care, as we now pay dearly for it and will continue to do so.
 David Walker
 North Dartmouth, Mass.
 Aug. 17, 2009
 To the Editor:
 The argument that a public option would pose a threat to private insurers only serves to demonstrate the ultimate power of such an option to cut costs for both individuals and small businesses. 
 Joseph P. Cannavo
 Flushing, Queens, Aug. 17, 2009
 The writer is a doctor and is unit chief and medical director of the chemical dependency unit at Flushing Hospital Medical Center.
 To the Editor:
 ''Health Reform and Small Business'' (editorial, Aug. 13) shows how out of touch you are with small-business people. The presumption that proposed reform will magically lower costs for small business is based on wishful thinking, not facts. Nothing in current legislation guarantees small businesses that their costs will go down. 
 Small businesses want the ability to offer health care, but asking them to absorb additional costs under the assumption that there may be savings in the future is damaging to them and dangerous to our economic recovery. 
 To blatantly dismiss the effect a mandate would have on jobs ignores a year's worth of declining jobs reports. And to assume that small businesses are shirking their ''responsibility'' for employees' health care doesn't take into account the cost curve the average small-business owner has faced over the last decade.
 Small-business owners aren't against reform; they're against bad reform, which is what is currently being debated in Congress. Dan Danner
 President and Chief Exec., National
 Federation of Independent Business
 Washington, Aug. 13, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GERRY GREANEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); WRITERS (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EAR NOSE & THROAT DISORDERS (69%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); INSURANCE (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (57%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); SARAH PALIN (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009



487 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: Alternate Plan As Health Option Muddies Debate

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR and GARDINER HARRIS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The White House has indicated that it could accept a nonprofit health care cooperative as an alternative to a new government insurance plan, originally favored by President Obama. But the co-op idea is so ill defined that no one knows exactly what it would look like or how effectively it would compete with commercial insurers.
 What is certain is that, as a substitute for a government plan, the co-op concept disappoints many liberals and stirs little enthusiasm among insurers or Republican lawmakers.
 And as the White House signaled its flexibility, a contentious debate over the merits of a public plan versus co-ops began playing out in the Democratic Party. Aides to Mr. Obama tried to tamp down concern on the left by emphasizing Monday that the president still supported the idea of a public plan and had not decided whether to drop it. 
 Some lawmakers said the White House had sent mixed signals, confusing friend and foe alike on Capitol Hill. 
 Speaker Nancy Pelosi said Monday that House Democrats, rather than backing down, strongly supported giving people the choice of a new government health insurance plan. ''A public option is the best option to lower costs, improve the quality of health care, ensure choice and expand coverage,'' said Ms. Pelosi, Democrat of California.
 As the debate rages, lawmakers are learning that creating cooperatives -- loosely defined as private, nonprofit, consumer-owned providers of health care, much like the co-ops that offer telephone, electric and other utility service in rural areas -- will not be easy. 
 The history of health insurance in the United States is full of largely unsuccessful efforts to introduce new models of insurance that would lower costs. And the health insurance markets of many states suggest that any new entrant would face many difficulties in getting established.
 Still, proponents of health co-ops are not deterred.
 Prof. Ann Hoyt, an economist at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, who has done extensive research on cooperatives in many industries, said they could serve a useful purpose in health care -- just as credit unions compete effectively with banks, prompting them to offer higher interest rates on deposits and lower rates on loans.
 Professor Hoyt said she had been a member of the Group Health Cooperative of South Central Wisconsin since 1985, and she reported that ''the care is excellent.''
 Larry J. Zanoni, executive director of the Wisconsin plan, said: ''We are a testament to the success of a health care cooperative. But it took us over 30 years to get where we are today.''
 The idea of a health cooperative has been pushed by Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota. It has drawn support from centrist Democrats and has intrigued some Republicans.
 The government would offer start-up money, perhaps $6 billion, in loans and grants to help doctors, hospitals, businesses and other groups form nonprofit cooperative networks to provide health care and coverage.
 The co-ops could be formed at the national, state or local level. Proponents say that a health co-op might need 25,000 members to be financially viable, and at least 500,000 members to negotiate effectively with health care providers.
 Health care cooperatives could inject competition in some insurance markets around the country, economists and health policy experts said. But they would need time to buy sophisticated information technology and to negotiate contracts with doctors, hospitals and other health care providers.
 Mr. Conrad's own state demonstrates the uncertainties surrounding cooperatives. Blue Cross Blue Shield of North Dakota dominates the state's private insurance market, collecting nearly 90 percent of premiums. As a nonprofit owned by its members, the company would hope to qualify as a co-op under federal legislation, said Paul von Ebers, its incoming president and chief executive.
 Darren Huber, a spokesman for MeritCare, a not-for-profit clinic and hospital company in North Dakota, said his company would welcome greater competition among insurers.
 Any new insurer in North Dakota would probably try to take members from the local Blue Cross plan, but that would not be easy to do.
 Representative Earl Pomeroy, Democrat of North Dakota, said the proposal for cooperatives was ''a very worthy idea.'' 
 ''The market here is uncompetitive,'' said Mr. Pomeroy, a former state insurance commissioner. ''A cooperative could provide an alternative source of insurance and some interesting competition for premium dollars. A co-op could operate at lower costs, in part because it would not need to pay its executives so generously as the local Blue Cross Blue Shield plan.''
 Mr. von Ebers said Blue Cross Blue Shield of North Dakota was examining its compensation policies. ''If we wiped out the top 10 salaries in the company, it would make almost no impact on health insurance premiums,'' said Mr. von Ebers, who will be paid $500,000 a year, with incentives that could raise that to $750,000.
 Hopes for co-ops may also be tempered by the experience of Iowa, home to Senator Charles E. Grassley, the senior Republican on the Finance Committee, which is trying to hash out a bipartisan health care proposal.
 In the 1990s, Iowa adopted a law to encourage the development of health care co-ops. One was created, and it died within two years. Although the law is still on the books, the state does not have a co-op now, said Susan E. Voss, the Iowa insurance commissioner.
 Wellmark Blue Cross and Blue Shield collects about 70 percent of the premiums paid in the private insurance market in Iowa and South Dakota. 
 To become established, a new market entrant would have to offer lower prices or better services, Ms. Voss said, adding: ''Wellmark has a huge advantage. They already have contracts with practically every doctor in the state.''
 Mark C. Stewart, a lawyer in Toledo, Ohio, who represents many cooperatives, said, ''If a co-op makes a profit doing business with its patrons, it distributes the profits to the patrons in proportion to the quantity or value of business done with those patrons.''
 In a study published in March and financed in part by the federal government, Professor Hoyt and other researchers at the University of Wisconsin identified nearly 30,000 cooperatives with revenues of more than $650 billion a year. They include farm co-ops, retail food co-ops, rural telephone and electric co-ops and credit unions -- entities as diverse as Ace Hardware, The Associated Press, Blue Diamond Growers (almonds), Carpet One, Land O'Lakes (dairy products), Ocean Spray (cranberries) and Sun-Maid Growers (raisins).
 Mr. Conrad, appearing this week on ''Fox News Sunday,'' said the idea of a co-op was gaining traction. ''It's not government-run and government-controlled,'' he said. ''It's membership-run and membership-controlled, but it does provide a nonprofit competitor for the for-profit insurance companies.''
 Insurers have strenuously opposed Mr. Obama's call for a new government-run insurance plan. Karen M. Ignagni, president of America's Health Insurance Plans, a trade group, was no more receptive to the idea of co-ops on Monday.
 ''How will the cooperative be structured?'' Ms. Ignagni asked. ''What are the regulatory requirements? It may sound benign, but it may use administered prices. I'm not sure it solves any problems.''
 Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, said he saw the differences as more semantic than substantive. ''You can call it a co-op, which is another way of saying a government plan,'' Mr. Hatch said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Demonstrators in Dallas on Monday outside a building where a forum on health care was held.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA RINALDI/REUTERS)
 Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota, on Monday headed to a health care meeting.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CREDIT UNIONS (73%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (64%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

COMPANY: GROUP HEALTH COOPERATIVE OF PUGET SOUND (51%); GROUP HEALTH COOP (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); KENT CONRAD (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (93%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009



488 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM.; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 776 words

BYLINE: By LAUREN SILVA LAUGHLIN and ANTONY CURRIE

 BODY:
Test of Leverage
 In Dole's I.P.O.
 The initial public offering planned by Dole Foods is a good early test for leveraged buyouts. The fruit company filed to sell $500 million of stock to refinance debt that is the legacy of its 2003 management buyout. Many leveraged companies will be forced to follow in its wake. But Dole has the early-mover advantage and good performance on its side. 
 Dole, a purveyor of bananas, pineapples and other fruits and vegetables, was bought by its chairman, David H. Murdock, in a $2.5 billion buyout six years ago. It has $1.9 billion of net debt remaining. Mr. Murdock is selling some of his shares, but the company also intends to use proceeds from the offering to pay down part of its debt. 
 As a general rule, equity investors don't want their cash to be used to pay down debt. But as far as buyout-backed I.P.O.'s go, Dole has a few advantages. First, its earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization rose in the first half from the same period last year despite a decline in revenue resulting from lower fresh fruit sales.
 Dole also has the advantage of being taken private before the loan market got too crazy. In 2003, leveraged buyouts were financed, on average, with 4.2 times debt to earnings (before interest, taxes, etc.). By 2007, that ratio had reached 6.1 times, according to Standard & Poor's Leveraged Commentary and Data.
 Dole's loans are more creditor-friendly, too. Its senior secured maintenance covenant, which limits its borrowing, is 3.25 times earning, far less than later leveraged buyouts with covenants twice that or higher. 
 Still despite its performance, Dole paid dearly to refinance some debt this year. It issued bonds with a 13.875 percent interest rate to pay down existing notes that carried an 8.625 percent interest rate. It now has a debt-to-earnings ratio of only 4.3 times, which may help ease equity investors' concerns. But if Dole runs into trouble, it will bode especially ill for other buyouts.
 Analysis, Not Ratings 
 The asset-backed securities market is looking healthier than it has for a while. And the Federal Reserve's decision on Monday to extend its program to partly underwrite new securitizations, the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility, or TALF, should help. But the market's recovery is still no sure thing.
 Deal flow all but dried up in the United States for a few months after Lehman Brothers' demise last September. But the loan facility helped resuscitate the market, bringing average risk premiums on older deals backed by credit cards and car loans to their tightest levels since last August. 
 Granted, the industry's name is mud in many circles. But that's hardly unusual whenever a financing tool is at the center of a bubble. And the opprobrium should fade over time, especially as the crisis has forced changes on the asset-backed market.
 The industry itself is improving transparency and the crash eliminated many of the worst excesses -- as well as the misconception that securitization could magically turn any loan into a safe investment. There is now much greater recognition that players should analyze the underlying assets rather than blindly rely on ratings. 
 A greater hindrance, though, could stem from some of the government's plans for reforming securitization. For example, it has proposed mandating that banks keep asset-backed securities, including older deals, on their balance sheets. That risks soaking up much-needed capital and could make securitization less economical. JPMorgan's boss, Jamie Dimon, has already said it's unlikely the bank will use securitization to finance its credit card business once the rules change next year. 
 Meanwhile, a plan to force issuers to keep 5 percent of any deals they sell is supposed to encourage better lending standards. But it could simply increase the costs of securitization without any clear benefit.
 After all, lenders using securitization have always had skin in the game, like the requirement that they buy back any mortgage loans that are fraudulent or default quickly. It's just that in the bubble many ignored that risk. And credit card companies can rejigger the loans in their deals to protect investors -- one reason such securitizations have held together well. 
 Extending the loan facility shows that the government understands the need for securitization, which in recent years has accounted for up to half of all consumer lending. But its ideas for reining in the market could restrict its usefulness.
 LAUREN SILVA LAUGHLIN and ANTONY CURRIE 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dole will to use I.P.O. money to pay debt. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOLE, VIA BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); TERM ASSET BACKED SECURITIES LOAN FACILITY (87%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); MANAGEMENT BUYOUTS (78%); GOING PRIVATE (78%); BOND ISSUES (78%); EBITDA (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); BONDS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); SECURITIZATION (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); CREDIT BUREAUS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ASSET BACKED SECURITIES (65%)

COMPANY: DOLE FOOD CO INC (92%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%)

TICKER: DOLE (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC0179 FRUITS & TREE NUTS, NEC (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: DAVID H MURDOCK (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009



489 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (ABC) SHAQ VS Let the games begin! Shaquille O'Neal tries to prove that his athletic prowess extends beyond the basketball court by tackling a succession of different sports, and different competitors, in this new series. Each episode follows Mr. O'Neal as he goes through pregame machinations, including news conferences and interviews; trains with a coach for one week before each challenge; and negotiates a handicap with his opponent. In this premiere Mr. O'Neal (above, No. 8) prepares to take on Ben Roethlisberger (above, No. 7), the Super Bowl-winning quarterback for the Pittsburgh Steelers, in a seven-on-seven game at Ambridge High School in Pennsylvania, before a stadium filled with 7,500 spectators. Mike Goldberg and Pat Tomasulo are hosts; Charissa Thompson reports from the sidelines.
 7 A.M. (ABC) GOOD MORNING AMERICA Christina Applegate, People magazine's ''Most Beautiful Person'' of 2009, is a guest. 
 11 A.M. (NBC) THE MARTHA STEWART SHOW Noodles!Takashi Yagihashi, the Chicago-based chef, prepares two noodle recipes; K. F. Seetoh, a culinary guidebook writer and television host, cooks laksa, a spicy noodle soup popular in Malaysia and Singapore; the chef Chris Cheung reveals the art of hand-pulled noodles.
 8 P.M. (Sundance) BIG IDEAS FOR A SMALL PLANET Talking about a revolution: urban farming, immigrant farmers and healthy school lunches are among the topics broached in this discussion, which imagines a world where family farms and fresh produce exist in peace with industrial food production. The panel includes Jules Dervaes, an urban homesteader; Simran Sethi, a journalist focusing on sustainability; Katrina Heron of the Chez Panisse Foundation; the chef and journalist Louisa Chu; Mandy Davis of New Farms for New Americans; and Kristin Richmond and Kirsten Tobey of Revolution Foods.
 9 P.M. (History) THE UNIVERSE Season 4 begins with an exploration of death stars, which can explode into supernovas and, in some instances, result in a galaxy-jolting gamma-ray burst. 
 10 P.M. (Bravo) FLIPPING OUT Jeff Lewis, left, the obsessive-compulsive house flipper at center stage in this series, isn't about to let the economy get in the way of his success, or his sanity. Season 3 finds him tweaking his business approach by designing and remodeling homes for clients. Jenni Pulos, his long-suffering assistant, returns, but it doesn't take long before she causes Mr. Lewis's head to spin.
 10 P.M. (IFC) THE JON DORE TELEVISION SHOW The Canadian comic turns to an American audience and ponders life's little inconveniences, like his undescended testicle.
 10 P.M. (13), 10:30 P.M. (49) P.O.V. SHORTS PROGRAM Four short films find humor and poetry in the world's largest shopping mall (Sam Green and Carrie Lozano's ''Utopia, Part 3''), the American gray squirrel (Nicholas Berger's ''Nutkin's Last Stand''), the perfect female form (''34 x 25 x 36'' by Jesse Epstein) and a view of the skyline from the vantage point of construction workers (''City of Cranes'' by Eva Weber). 
 10 P.M. (TLC) MASTERS OF RECEPTION Robert and Jerry Frungillo began their hospitality careers as boys working in their parents' deli, then spent the next 30 years creating some of New Jersey's most over-the-top weddings -- as many as 10 ceremonies in four locations in a single day. This new series, produced by Kelly Ripa and her husband, Mark Consuelos, tags along as the Frungillos cater to the requests of anxious brides and grooms, including one couple who want a muralist to paint their reception and another who'd like their cats in attendance.
 10 P.M. (WE) THE SECRET LIVES OF WOMEN In this Season 5 premiere, tales from the mothers of murderers.
 10:30 P.M. (MTV) HOUSE OF JAZMIN Those ''Hills'' girls haven't cornered the market on fashion in Los Angeles. This new reality series trails 20-year-old Jazmin Whitley, an aspiring designer credited with six collections under her label, Li Cari, who is intent on extending her teenage years as far into adulthood as allowable. That means shopping and gossiping with her best friend and right-hand gal, Morgan; visiting her Sicilian grandparents; managing photo shoots for her younger brother, Joey; and obeying the rules of her high-strung mother, Susan, who acts as Ms. Whitley's manager. She also holds the purse strings. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); WRITERS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); BASKETBALL (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (75%); SPORTS (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); AGRICULTURE (69%); FAMILY FARMS (69%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (67%); POETRY (66%); FILM (65%); FOOD INDUSTRY (64%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (61%)

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH STEELERS (57%)

PERSON: SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (91%); MARTHA STEWART (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); MALAYSIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009



490 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: For Golf's Health, an Upset Heard Round the World

BYLINE: By LARRY DORMAN

DATELINE: CHASKA, Minn. 

 BODY:
Y. E. Yang's stunning upset of Tiger Woods in the P.G.A. Championship on Sunday added a double shot of momentum to golf's globalization movement, which had already benefited from last week's announcement that the sport had cleared a major hurdle for inclusion in the 2016 Olympic Games.
 It also provided a fitting focal point for assessing a major championship season that opened at the Masters with Angel Cabrera of Argentina winning a playoff and closed with Yang holding aloft both his golf bag and the Wanamaker Trophy. That lingering image of Yang -- the man who did not back down -- resonated with Korean audiences and may, some believe, have an almost immediate impact on the business of golf. 
 Like most sponsor-based sports industries, golf has been challenged by the global economic downturn. As the sport is seeking ways to expand its reach, it is hardly surprising that those who understand the symbiotic financial link between golf and its corporate sponsors are buoyed by a development that raises the sport's global profile.
 ''Whenever someone accomplishes a milestone that has never been reached before -- especially in sports -- it tends to inspire a generation,'' said Ty Votaw, the PGA Tour executive who is the executive director of the International Golf Federation Olympic Golf Committee. ''The impact of Y. E. Yang's win at the P.G.A. Championship will be felt immediately on the local tournament level -- an increase in hospitality sales, ticket sales, Korean media interest and coverage at the Barclays and the Presidents Cup, for instance.
 ''But the long-term impact on the game of golf globally will best be measured when the next generation of golfers recalls the time they saw Y. E. Yang win the P.G.A. Championship and were inspired to pick up the game, much like what Se Ri Pak did for women's golf in Korea 11 years ago.'' Pak, then 20, won the L.P.G.A. Championship and the United States Women's Open in her rookie season on the LPGA Tour.
 Yang, a 37-year-old from Seoul, South Korea, is an appealing character, with a back story tailored to those gauzy Olympic featurettes. A late bloomer from a modest background, Yang taught himself to play starting at age 19, pounding balls at the ubiquitous double-decked driving ranges that dot the landscape in Seoul.
 That a golfer could spring from a background so unusual at a relatively advanced age and earn a spot on the PGA Tour is storybook enough. That he could win a tour event, as he did in the spring at the Honda Classic, is surprising. That he could do what he did on Sunday has taken surprise to another level of meaning.
 ''We think you'll see an immediate jump in participation among young boys, and greater interest in funding golf programs additional to what already is in place for women because since Se Ri Pak emerged in the '90s,'' said Joe Steranka, the chief executive of the P.G.A. of America. ''The way he accomplished it, beating the No. 1 player in the world who played a solid round that would normally have gotten it done -- Yang was really impressive.''
 All this may take time to resonate with another part of the sport's diverse constituency -- pundits, romantics and, counterintuitively, people who want dominant players to dominate. To many in this group, Yang's victory over Woods was further proof that whichever stars govern major championship outcomes were misaligned in 2009.
 The story line that dominated after Cabrera's win was this: Kenny Perry, who was then 48, should have been granted his first major championship at the Masters and become the oldest winner of a major. And when Lucas Glover won the United States Open over Phil Mickelson, the sentimental favorite, the theme gathered steam.
 Stewart Cink then beat Tom Watson in the British Open, denying a 59-year-old legend his sixth major. Even normally sober observers thought it unseemly of Cink, a 36-year-old from Georgia, to ruin such a great story. 
 Now comes Yong-eun Yang, a 150-to-1 shot when the P.G.A. Championship began, a man who, his caddie said, ''does not scare easy.'' He did the unthinkable, playing the last five holes in two under while Woods played them in one over. A 37-year-old with one PGA Tour win taking down the No. 1 golfer in the world, in the stretch run at a major?
 The dreamers and poets may want to take the long view, and look back at the observation made 200 years ago by Robert Burns, whose Scottish home was right down the coastal road and just inland from where Watson let the British Open get away. 
 ''The best laid plans of mice and men,'' Burns wrote, ''oft go astray.'' 
 And sometimes the unplanned comes together, as has the list of major championship winners in 2009, and something bigger happens.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 26, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about Y. E. Yang's victory against Tiger Woods in the P.G.A. Championship referred incorrectly to the career performance of Tom Watson, who led the British Open earlier this summer before faltering. A victory would have given Watson six British Open titles and nine major championships; it would not have been his sixth major title.
An article on Aug. 18 about Y. E. Yang's surprising victory against Tiger Woods in the P.G.A. Championship misquoted ''To a Mouse,'' the poem by Robert Burns, whose Scottish home was not far from where Tom Watson let the British Open slip away earlier this summer. Burns wrote, in part, ''The best laid schemes o' Mice an' Men/Gang aft agley'' -- not, ''The best laid plans of mice and men oft go astray.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Angel Cabrera, top, thwarted a sentimental story line by winning a playoff against Kenny Perry in the Masters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW REDINGTON/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION (92%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS (90%); GOLF (90%); ATHLETES (89%); OLYMPICS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); WOMEN (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); TICKET SALES (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (53%)

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (72%) MINNESOTA, USA (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009



491 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: DreamWorks Wins Financing for Its Films

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Fourteen months after striking a financial alliance with Reliance Big Entertainment of India, the new DreamWorks Studios, run by Steven Spielberg and Stacey Snider, said on Monday that it had locked down the one thing it had been missing: money to make movies. 
 In an announcement, DreamWorks said it had completed financing arrangements that should let it begin as early as this year to shoot the first in a projected schedule of about six films annually. 
 The final piece in the three-part financing, DreamWorks said, was $325 million provided by J.P. Morgan Securities and other banks -- Bank of America, City National Bank, Wells Fargo, Comerica, Union Bank of California, Sun Trust California Bank and Trust and Israel Discount Bank.
 Reliance had already agreed to provide $325 million in equity for the company, most of whose films will be released by Walt Disney Studios, which is expected to help finance the movies' distribution.
 The bank lending might have been a relatively simple matter for a filmmaker of Mr. Spielberg's stature back when he and several colleagues began talking more than two years ago of splitting from Paramount Pictures, which had bought their company, DreamWorks SKG.
 But last year's financial collapse tested both Mr. Spielberg's bankability, and the willingness of his new Indian partners to weather what has proved to be an extremely difficult period for those who would start new Hollywood enterprises.
 ''We just let it go, without knowing what would happen,'' Anil Ambani, chairman of Reliance Big's parent company, said of his decision to maintain a commitment to Mr. Spielberg and Ms. Snider through months when debt financing was slow to materialize.
 Mr. Spielberg, who spoke during a recent briefing in New York, called the long honeymoon a positive. ''We had a year to get to know each other, to test the relationship,'' Mr. Spielberg said.
 Mr. Spielberg is expected to make his next film, based on the comic play ''Harvey,'' as a co-venture between the new DreamWorks, Disney and 20th Century Fox. Among the first films to begin shooting will be ''Dinner With Schmucks,'' a remake of a French comedy, directed by Jay Roach with Steve Carell in a lead role. The comedy will be released by Paramount, with financing from Spyglass Entertainment.
 Over three years, the J.P. Morgan-organized financing is expected to support about 20 films. Those would considerably expand the range of releases at Disney, which has been focused heavily on animated films like ''Up'' from its Pixar Animation unit, and family fare like ''G-Force,'' from the producer Jerry Bruckheimer.
 The long delay in closing the DreamWorks financing stretched nerves, and some deeply rooted Hollywood relationships, to the limit. DreamWorks at first began negotiating a deal to distribute its planned films through Universal Studios, where Mr. Spielberg and Ms. Snider have both worked, and on whose lot the company maintains its headquarters.
 But that plan disintegrated in February, when DreamWorks quietly opened talks with Disney even while bargaining with Universal continued. NBC Universal severed ties with DreamWorks with an unusually abrupt public statement, leaving Mr. Spielberg and Ms. Snider to conclude terms with their new partners.
 That happened quickly, but the struggle to find lenders continued for half a year.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 20, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about DreamWorks Studios' completion of a round of financing its and announcement of some film projects included an incorrect title for one of the movies. It will be called ''Dinner For ********,'' a Yiddish vulgarism meaning jerks, used only once in the article. The film is not ''Dinner With ********.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); ANIMATION (89%); ANIMATED FILMS (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); BEGINNING OF FILMING (72%); DEBT FINANCING (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (85%); WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (84%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (63%); COMERICA INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); UNION BANK NA (57%); ISRAEL DISCOUNT BANK LTD (56%); CALIFORNIA BANK & TRUST (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); DWA (NASDAQ) (85%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); CMA (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); DSCT (TASE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (85%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (63%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (63%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (58%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%)

PERSON: STEVEN SPIELBERG (89%); STEVE CARELL (78%); STACEY SNIDER (78%); ANIL AMBANI (58%); JERRY BRUCKHEIMER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009



492 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Sony Relies On Humor To Counter A Grim Mood

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
AH, the great comedy teams of history: Laurel and Hardy ... Burns and Allen ... Abbott and Costello ... Manning and Timberlake.
 Manning and Timberlake? As in the football star Peyton Manning and the singer Justin Timberlake? Yes, according to a humorous campaign for electronics products sold by Sony.
 Mr. Manning, the Indianapolis Colts quarterback, and Mr. Timberlake -- of 'N Sync, ''Saturday Night Live'' and digital shorts too salacious to describe here -- are being paired as a comic duo in the campaign, which the Sony Electronics division of the Sony Corporation of America is to formally announce on Tuesday. 
 Although the campaign, by the Los Angeles office of an agency named 180, takes a light-hearted tack, the rationale behind it is no laughing matter: to stimulate demand during the worst recession in decades for products like camcorders, digital books, TV sets, Blu-ray disc players, notebook computers and cameras.
 As marketers and retailers gear up for the crucial holiday shopping season, all signs point to continued sluggish sales for discretionary purchases like electronics. The most recent disappointment came last week, when the Commerce Department reported that retail sales in July declined by a seasonally adjusted 0.1 percent from a month earlier; forecasters had predicted an increase of 0.7 percent.
 Among the categories in which consumers spent less money last month was, yes, electronics.
 ''The more we keep Sony top of mind, the better we feel we will weather this economic situation and be better prepared when we come out of it for growth,'' said Stuart Redsun, senior vice president for marketing at Sony Electronics in San Diego.
 That is why the division decided to expand a campaign from last fall, he added, which featured athletes like Mr. Manning promoting the Bravia line of TV sets, to include other types of Sony merchandise and the Sony brand itself.
 ''Our brand, being a premium brand, has stood for the highest quality,'' Mr. Redsun said, ''and there's a perceived value in that'' during a downturn.
 ''When people buy something from Sony, they know it's going to last,'' he added. ''That resonates with them when dollars are harder to come by.''
 The lineup of endorsers has been expanded beyond Mr. Manning to add celebrities who are experts in other fields in which Sony sells products. For instance, Dion Beebe, a cinematographer who won an Academy Award for the movie ''Memoirs of a Geisha,'' promotes Sony Blu-ray disc players as ''the best way'' to enjoy movies in high definition.
 (In a bit of corporate synergy, ''Memoirs'' was released by Columbia Pictures, part of the Sony Pictures Entertainment unit of Sony.)
 The actress and comedian Amy Sedaris appears on behalf of Sony Reader digital books. Nigel Barker, a photographer who is a judge on the reality TV series ''America's Next Top Model,'' speaks up for Sony digital cameras like the Alpha and Cyber-shot. 
 Mr. Manning returns to promote Bravia high-definition TV sets as the best on which to watch high-definition sports. He is joined by Erin Andrews, a reporter for the ESPN cable channel owned by the Walt Disney Company.
 As for Mr. Timberlake, he is on hand to extol the virtues of Sony products for entertainment purposes, among them TV sets, Vaio notebook computers and cameras. He, too, has a previous Sony connection, in that he records for Jive Records, part of Sony Music Entertainment.
 Mr. Timberlake and Mr. Manning are to be teamed up in the television commercials that are part of the campaign, which will start in September and run through early next year. The spots all depict shoppers in stores asking panels of Sony experts questions about product features and choices. Some replies are serious, others silly.
 For instance, in a commercial for Bravia, Mr. Timberlake, seated at a table with other Sony experts, declares, ''The more sports you watch on a Sony, the better you get at sports.'' He and Mr. Manning seek to demonstrate that by playing a pick-up game of Ping-Pong. 
 As they bat the ball back and forth, Mr. Manning says, in Chinese, ''My Chinese has improved, too.'' Mr. Timberlake offers a poker-faced riposte, also in Chinese: ''Your Mandarin is shaky at best.''
 In another commercial, a shopper expresses skepticism about Mr. Timberlake's ability to recommend cameras and camcorders.
 ''Really?'' Mr. Timberlake replies as paparazzi emerge from all corners of the store, intent on capturing his image. Mr. Manning joins in, taking a photograph of himself seated next to Mr. Timberlake.
 ''Justin, Peyton and the rest lend credibility, and a lot of entertainment value,'' said William Gelner, executive creative director at 180 Los Angeles, part of the 180 division of the Omnicom Group.
 ''It's tough out there,'' he said of the economy. ''That's why we did the campaign, the reason it exists: to give people a clear reason to choose Sony.''
 The media schedule for the campaign is also being expanded from last year, Mr. Gelner said, when TV spots predominated. In addition to television, there will be print ads, radio spots, online video clips and banner ads, materials in stores and content on the Sony retail Web site (sonystyle.com). The budget is estimated at $70 million to $80 million.
 The campaign is the first to feature Ms. Andrews of ESPN since the extensive publicity she received last month after video clips surfaced online from a tape made surreptitiously of her, undressed, in a hotel room. Mr. Redsun said she would remain part of the campaign. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Peyton Manning, far left, in an unlikely game of table tennis with Justin Timberlake in a sports-themed commercial for Sony products. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); BLUE LASER DISC TECHNOLOGY (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (86%); FILM (83%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); ELECTRONICS (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (76%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (76%); ATHLETES (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); RETAIL SALES (72%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (72%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (71%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (53%)

COMPANY: SONY CORP (93%); SONY CORP OF AMERICA (57%); SONY ELECTRONICS INC (57%); SONY PICTURES ENTERTAINMENT INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INDIANAPOLIS COLTS (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%)

TICKER: SON (LSE) (93%); SNE (NYSE) (93%); 6758 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (93%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (57%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (57%); NAICS335221 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3631 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCES (57%); SIC7822 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE DISTRIBUTION (50%)

PERSON: JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (90%) INDIANA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009



493 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Christie Failed to Disclose Loan to Federal Prosecutor

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

 BODY:
In 2007, while he was New Jersey's ranking federal prosecutor, Christopher J. Christie -- now the Republican candidate for governor -- lent one of his top aides $46,000. But he failed to report the loan as required under federal and state ethics rules. 
 The aide, Michele A. Brown, borrowed the money from Mr. Christie while he was United States attorney for New Jersey and she was his executive assistant and counsel, according to mortgage records in Morris County, N.J. 
 Ms. Brown was promoted to first assistant United States attorney after Mr. Christie resigned last December to begin his campaign for governor.
 News of the loan and Mr. Christie's failure to disclose it came as a jolt to his campaign, which has endured several days of bad press after months of smooth sailing. Mr. Christie has positioned himself as a corruption fighter based on his record as a prosecutor, and he has tried to hold Gov. Jon S. Corzine responsible for corruption and ethical breakdowns in New Jersey government. Last week Mr. Corzine accused Mr. Christie of violating the Hatch Act, which bars federal prosecutors from engaging in politics, for speaking with Karl Rove about a potential run for governor.
 Maria Comella, a spokeswoman for Mr. Christie's campaign, said she could not comment as to the reason for the omission of the loan from his ethics filings.
 In an interview on the New Jersey Network, which reported the existence of the loan at 5:30 p.m. Monday, Mr. Christie said Ms. Brown asked for help when her husband, who had lost his job, ran up debt on his credit cards. Mr. Christie and his wife, Mary Pat, live a few hundred yards from Ms. Brown and her husband in the hills of Mendham, N.J.
 Mr. Christie said he received a second mortgage on Ms. Brown's home, which was in her name only, and had been receiving regular payments ever since. County records show the loan was dated Oct. 22, 2007, and carried a 5.5 percent yearly interest rate, with monthly payments of $499.22 over 10 years.
 ''I just believe that if you have friends who are in need, that you help them,'' Mr. Christie told the network, ''whether they work with you or whether they are friends of yours from outside the work realm. We were happy to be able to help, and they've been great about repaying the loan.''
 But Mr. Christie did not list the loan on his June 21, 2008, personal financial disclosure form as a member of the federal executive branch, which requires the detailing of any assets (like loans or receivables) worth more than $1,000, and any sources of income of more than $200 a year. Ms. Comella confirmed that Mr. Christie's final disclosure as a prosecutor also omitted the loan. 
 Nor did he include the loan on his candidate's disclosure with the New Jersey Election Law Enforcement Commission in April 2009. One of its catchall categories of unearned income requires the detailing of ''other income (including interest)'' of more than $100 when the total in that category exceeds $1,000. Mr. Christie listed Pfizer and three government bonds as the sources of such income, but made no mention of the loan to Ms. Brown.
 Willfully and knowingly filing a false financial disclosure statement is a fourth-degree crime in New Jersey. At the federal level, the Office of Government Ethics could merely require that an amendment be filed. But false disclosure reports have led to prosecutions: Senator Ted Stevens of Alaska, for example, was charged with failing to report gifts.
 Last year, in fact, Mr. Christie's office obtained an indictment against Dennis Oury, a Democratic lawyer in Bergen County, accusing him, in part, of filing false financial disclosure statements that omitted his stake in a company that was receiving public money. He awaits trial this fall. Mr. Christie is not the only candidate for governor to have been tripped up for not disclosing a loan he made. In 2005, Mr. Corzine revealed that he gave a former companion, Carla Katz, a $470,000 mortgage and then forgave the debt, but did not report this in his financial disclosure filings. Though he said he made no money on the loan, Republicans made an issue of the omission in that year's election. He later filed an amendment disclosing the loan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); ETHICS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE (76%); COUNTIES (75%); LAWYERS (75%); SECOND MORTGAGES (74%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); DISMISSALS (71%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (73%); KARL ROVE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009



494 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: Manhattan Hotels Fill Rooms at Rock-Bottom Rates

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
No other sector in commercial real estate is suffering as badly right now as the hotel industry.
 In June, the average occupancy rate nationwide was 54.6 percent -- by far the worst performance since Smith Travel Research of Hendersonville, Tenn., began keeping track in 1987. Distress is rampant, with increasing numbers of hotel owners surrendering control of their properties to their lenders.
 As often happens, however, the Manhattan hotel market is a special case. Hotels in Manhattan also lost business in the financial crisis. But in April, rooms began filling up, sending the occupancy rate back over 80 percent. In July, 83.3 percent of the rooms were filled, a 5.6 percent decline since last year but still the highest occupancy rate in the nation, preliminary Smith Travel data shows.
 But to attract business, Manhattan hotel operators have slashed room rates by nearly one-third since last year, to an average of just under $200 a night. ''I know I could come across sounding like the convention bureau, but New York really is a good buy right now,'' said John A. Fox, a senior vice president at the New York offices of PKF Consulting, a national research and hotel advisory firm. 
 Though bargains can be had all over the country, the national decline in room rates from June 2008 to June of this year was a much more modest 9.7 percent. Analysts say that is because room rates in most places never soared the way they had in Manhattan. Nationally, the average rate was $96.77 a night in June. 
 Manhattan's discounted rates are proving a great deal for visitors but are taking a huge bite out of hotel revenue. Revenue per available room, the standard industry measure, has fallen by one-third, Smith Travel and PKF data show. Industry specialists say a decline in room rates results in a correspondingly larger drop in profits because hotels have so many fixed costs.
 In New York, as elsewhere, luxury hotels have been affected by the outcry last fall when American International Group, the insurance giant that had to be rescued by the government, spent more than $400,000 on a corporate retreat at an Orange County, Calif., beach resort.
 Since then, business executives have been reluctant to book rooms at hotels whose names evoke images of self-indulgence, analysts and brokers say. ''What's really scaring people is the prospect of getting dragged in front of a Congressional hearing,'' said Bradley W. Burwell, a senior associate at CB Richard Ellis Hotels. Last month, the St. Regis Monarch Beach Resort, the site of the A.I.G. retreat, was turned over to its mezzanine lender, Citigroup. 
 Some hotel specialists said the so-called A.I.G. effect influenced the rate-cutting in Manhattan. President Obama singled out Las Vegas, and did not mention Manhattan, when he decried corporate junkets ''on the taxpayers' dime'' earlier this year. Yet Manhattan hoteliers interpreted his remarks as applying to all high-end hotels, said Mark V. Lomanno, the president of Smith Travel Research. ''They completely panicked,'' he said. ''They said, 'We just have to get the hotels filled.' ''
 Drastically cutting room rates is a short-sighted strategy, Mr. Lomanno said. ''I understand why it happens emotionally, but statistically speaking, they leave a lot of money on the table,'' he said. ''Of course, they need to lower their rates some, but the level of discounting is far above what they need to do.''
 Rather than adding to the demand for hotel rooms, the bargain rates simply encourage people who already planned to travel to choose a different destination, he said. 
 One problem for New York, Mr. Lomanno said, is that in many cases, the discounted rate is now lower than previously negotiated corporate rates. He said corporate meeting planners were already beginning to demand further reductions.
 Hotel specialists say that it could take years for room rates to reach their former level, which, of course, is good news for travelers. ''Once you get a $149 rate in Manhattan, it will be difficult to charge $349 for that room next year,'' said Thomas P. McConnell, a senior managing director at Cushman & Wakefield.
 Keeping occupancy high may have helped most New York hotels from experiencing the defaults that are occurring elsewhere -- at least so far. ''When you're filling 84 percent of your rooms, you should be generating enough cash flow to cover your debt service,'' said David Loeb, a managing director at Robert W. Baird & Company, a financial services firm based in Milwaukee. 
 Around the country, owners of more than 1,000 noncasino hotels, including some well-known properties on the West Coast, have defaulted on $16.8 billion in loans, and many more are expected to follow suit, according to Real Capital Analytics, a New York research company. The distressed properties include the W Hotel in San Diego and two prominent San Francisco hotels: the Renaissance Stanford Court and the Four Seasons.
 But a few Manhattan hotels have also run into trouble. Among them are the Dream Hotel, a 220-room luxury boutique hotel on 55th Street between Broadway and Seventh Avenue. In April, the owners, Hampshire Group and a partner, notified their mortgage servicer that they were unable to continue making payments on their $100 million securitized mortgage, said Frank Innaurato, a managing director at Realpoint, a credit ratings agency in Horsham, Pa.
 In December, Horizen Global, which was developing the Vu Hotel, a boutique hotel with sweeping views of the Hudson River, on 11th Avenue at 48th Street, lost control of the property to its construction lender, U.S. Bank. Renamed Ink 48 -- a reference to the building's former role as a printing house -- the hotel is scheduled to open in September, 18 months behind schedule. Despite its untested location, Kimpton Hotels and Restaurants, the managers of the hotel, had set rates at $429 a night. But for now, the hotel will offer an introductory rate of about $223, said Jorge E. Trevino, a vice president. 
 Though hotel projects that were not under construction last fall have been postponed indefinitely, several new hotels are expected to open in the next few months, including the 220-room W Hotel on Washington Street, in Lower Manhattan.
 The Surrey hotel, on 76th Street at Madison Avenue is reopening later this year after undergoing a top-to-bottom renovation that added 58 rooms, for a total of 190, said Ellen Brown, an executive vice president of Denihan Hospitality Group, the hotel's owner. She said that given travelers' skittishness about luxury brands, the upscale Surrey is likely to benefit from not having an instantly recognizable name like Four Seasons or Ritz-Carlton.
 As they cope with lower revenue, hotel operators are trying different strategies for holding down costs. Hersha Hospitality Group, which owns or manages 10 hotels in New York under brands like Hampton Inn and Candlewood Suites, no longer places newspapers outside the door and now offers breakfast from 7 a.m. to 9:30 a.m., instead of 6 a.m. to 10:30 a.m., said Neil Shah, the president. ''We're doing things on the margin to keep down costs,'' he said.
 Hotel owners have to find ways to trim expenses without alienating customers, said Ms. Brown, whose company also owns or manages eight other hotels in Manhattan, including the Benjamin Hotel on East 50th Street.
 ''Guests can be very forgiving of a hotel room that has not been recently renovated as long as it's clean, and as long as the service is good,'' she said. ''Obviously it's hard right now to keep your guests happy. It's tough for every hotel manager in this environment.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sweeping views, above, at the Ink 48 hotel on 11th Avenue at 48th Street. The Surrey on East 76th Street, below, is reopening after a renovation.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Lower Prices and Profits: Occupancy for hotel rooms has shown only a slight decline from July 2008 to July 2009, but daily rates and revenues have declined sharply.(Source: Smith Travel Research) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (96%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (90%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); LODGING (90%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (87%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); REVENUE PER AVAILABLE ROOM (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); RESORTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (77%); INSURANCE (73%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (55%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (63%); CBRE GROUP INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (63%); 8685 (TSE) (63%); CBG (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2009



495 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: Doomsayers May Be Playing Taps, but Jazz Isn't Ready to Sing the Blues

BYLINE: By NATE CHINEN

 BODY:
The crowd was robust, lively and engaged at a recent jazz gig in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, and by the looks of it most people were in their early 20s to mid-30s -- about the same age as the band members. It could have been almost any given night on the New York club scene, though you might not have had that impression, depending on your sources. 
 Over the last week or so, as Woodstock commemoration reached its happy zenith, the jazz world has been rumbling with a more panicked sort of nostalgia. What set it off was an Aug. 9 column by the critic Terry Teachout -- headlined ''Can Jazz Be Saved?'' -- in The Wall Street Journal. A longtime advocate of jazz, Mr. Teachout weighed its cultural advances against its popular decline, reaching the conclusion that ''it's no longer possible for head-in-the-sand types to pretend that the great American art form is economically healthy or that its future looks anything other than bleak.'' 
 Jazz has had more than its share of hand-wringers, and so this Chicken Little lament felt wearily familiar. But Mr. Teachout came armed with data from Arts Participation 2008, a recent survey by the National Endowment for the Arts. Conducted in partnership with the United States Census Bureau, it found that only 7.8 percent of adults in this country claimed to have attended a jazz performance last year. The figure reported in previous years -- 1982, 1992 and 2002 -- was closer to 10 percent. A demographic breakdown showed steady upticks among respondents 55 and over, and a downward trend for everyone else. (Attendance also slipped for art museums, classical concerts, the ballet and the theater.)
 Mr. Teachout wasn't the first to sound an alarm: the jazz historian Ted Gioia weighed in last month at the Web site Jazz.com. ''The most likely -- indeed the only plausible -- explanation for these numbers is that very few new fans have discovered jazz since the 1980s,'' Mr. Gioia wrote. ''The old fans continue to follow the music, but teenagers and 20-somethings have very little interest in jazz.'' 
 But there's a wealth of anecdotal evidence to the contrary, as many jazz bloggers and commentators, responding mainly to Mr. Teachout, have been quick to point out. Try dropping in one night this week at the Village Vanguard, where Jason Moran and the Bandwagon are appearing. Or head to the Stone in the East Village, which is likely to hit sweaty capacity for each set programmed by the young drummer-composer Tyshawn Sorey. Or stop by the Highline Ballroom in Chelsea on Friday night for a show by the Bad Plus. Scratch anywhere past the surface and you might begin to wonder whether the likes of Mr. Teachout and Mr. Gioia don't see young people listening because they don't know where to look. 
 You might also begin to doubt the survey itself. Consider this, from the questionnaire: ''With the exception of elementary or high school performances, did you go to a live jazz performance during the last 12 months?'' However direct it sounds, it's more nebulous than asking whether someone saw a play, attended the opera or visited a museum. As one reader put it in the online comments to Mr. Teachout's column, ''Seems to me it really depends on how you define jazz.'' Along with ''Yes'' and ''No,'' the survey provides the option of ''Don't Know,'' which in this case could actually have been a meaningful choice.
 Jazz has long been a porous genre, and the scuffle over its definition was never fought more fiercely than in the years covered by the survey. In 1982, when attendance was reported as 9.6 percent, jazz would have encompassed a fair share of instrumental R&B groups like the Crusaders, and even Kenny G, who released his self-titled debut that year. 
 In 1992, when the rate was 10.6 percent, the term included not only a class of sharp-suited bebop stewards -- the so-called Young Lions, groomed to fit an ideal set by Wynton Marsalis -- but also a strain of music well nurtured at the time by radio formats. (Kenny G released ''Breathless,'' his best-performing album, that year.) Many fans of this music would have identified their choice as a kind of jazz, to the consternation of Mr. Marsalis and others.
 The high point for jazz attendance in the survey, 10.8 percent, occurred in 2002, on the heels of ''Jazz,'' the Ken Burns film. One big subtext of the film was a conviction deeply held by Mr. Marsalis: jazz is a tradition with clear parameters, and absent certain elements it ceases to be jazz. Much the same message lies at the heart of Jazz at Lincoln Center, where Mr. Marsalis is artistic director. So in one sense Mr. Teachout is right to note that ''it is precisely because jazz is now widely viewed as a high-culture art form that its makers must start to grapple with the same problems of presentation, marketing and audience development as do symphony orchestras, drama companies and art museums.'' 
 But there's another side he ignores almost completely, perhaps because the binary that underpins his argument -- high culture versus low, or art versus pop -- finds so little traction there. For many jazz artists, especially those born after Woodstock, the music accommodates a host of influences beyond jazz. And because the terms are so hotly contested, they are often ambivalent about calling it anything, as are their fans. 
 So Medeski Martin and Wood, featured on the cover of the current issue of Down Beat, works the jam-band circuit more than jazz clubs, to great success. AlasNoAxis, led by the drummer Jim Black, has a following more in line with the noise-rock it emulates. Blackout, led by the vibraphonist Stefon Harris, has an album due out on Tuesday that opens with a Gershwin melody set to go-go rhythm. The pianist Robert Glasper and the drummer Jamire Williams have substantial side careers in hip-hop.
 Musicians like these often work just far enough on the jazz periphery for their movements to elude the tracking of a government-run survey. And if much of their output doesn't pass the jazz litmus test, that's partly the point. 
 An Arbitron survey called Public Radio Today, released last week, showed that while listening for most formats was down, jazz had gained ground with 18- to 24-year-olds. Look again at Arts Participation 2008 and you might notice that the biggest decline in jazz attendance since 2002, at 6.2 percent, was actually for respondents ages 35 to 44. The second biggest, at 4.1 percent, was for those 45 to 54, a group that includes Mr. Teachout and Mr. Gioia. 
 Mr. Teachout's piece was published the same weekend as the Newport Jazz Festival, billed this year as George Wein's CareFusion Jazz Festival 55. And at each of three stages, there were plenty of young listeners, alongside older ones. They heard the whip-smart 23-year-old drummer Marcus Gilmore, playing in the dynamic Vijay Iyer Trio; they heard Mr. Gilmore's grandfather, the indomitable 84-year-old drummer Roy Haynes, with his Fountain of Youth Quartet. (Mr. Haynes's group is another one you could catch this week, at Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola.) And for all the fans in attendance, there were others listening on the radio and online, thanks to thorough coverage by NPR. 
 Considering that live jazz is hard to come by outside of a handful of major cities, efforts like this may be the most promising news for the jazz audience. As Mr. Gioia noted, but Mr. Teachout failed to mention, the survey reported that more than 47 million Americans listen to music online every week. That's almost certainly a conservative estimate -- and it's one statistic destined to grow, across the board. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The experimental group Mopdtk performing at Zebulon, a jazz club in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, that draws a young crowd. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILLIE DAVIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%); DANCE (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); HISTORY (74%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (74%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); TRENDS (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); ADOLESCENTS (69%); CENSUS (68%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (65%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (55%); US CENSUS BUREAU (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2009



496 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 281 words

HEADLINE: More Voices in the Health Care Debate

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re '' 'Public Option' in Health Plan May Be Dropped'' (front page, Aug. 17): 
 Once more, sensible legislation is being defeated by the well-organized attacks of the right wing.
 Until something is done about the overwhelming media monopoly of the rich and powerful, almost no attempt to control costs or fight corruption has a likelihood of success. The media need only fill the airwaves with carefully worded disinformation, and they can win over half the public to almost any position, no matter how absurd.
 Len Fosberg Hamburg, Germany, Aug. 17, 2009
 To the Editor:
 ''Health Reform and Small Business'' (editorial, Aug. 13) cuts through the rhetoric to present a clear-eyed view of why health care reform is vital for the continued success of America's small businesses. Opinion research we've conducted in 16 states over the last several months echoes this conclusion and shows that small-business owners understand the current crisis and are eager for reform.
 Contrary to the Sturm und Drang heard at town hall meetings across the nation, health care reform will not kill small business. In fact, our recently released economic analysis, based on modeling done by the economist Jonathan Gruber, shows that health care reform will benefit small businesses: it will save money and jobs, and allow them to hone their competitive edge.
 Those shouting the loudest are fighting progress with fear. Cooler heads must prevail. Small-business owners want reform because it will bolster their bottom line and keep the backbone of our economy healthy and thriving.
 John Arensmeyer Founder and Chief Executive Small Business Majority Sausalito, Calif., Aug. 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (93%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); CORRUPTION (56%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2009



497 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: W.T.O. Rules Against U.S. in Dumping Case

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: GENEVA 

 BODY:
The World Trade Organization's top court rejected on Tuesday an American appeal in a long-running case on antidumping measures, clearing the way for Japan to threaten trade sanctions against Washington. 
 The final ruling by the Appellate Body of the W.T.O. in the case, which Japan started in 2004, dealt another setback to a controversial American method of dealing with unfairly priced imports.
 But it also highlighted sensitivity about antidumping measures. The measures impose additional duties on imports that are sold for less abroad than they cost at home, but can be abused for protectionist purposes.
 ''The Appellate Body has upheld our position,'' said a Japanese diplomat, who asked not to be identified. ''Basically, I think we won.''
 Japan had previously sought permission to impose up to $248.5 million a year in trade sanctions against the United States in the case, which originally turned on American duties on Japanese ball bearings.
 But the United States objected to that amount, and the question went to arbitration. The two sides then asked for arbitration to be suspended while the W.T.O. examined whether or not the United States had complied with the original ruling.
 Tuesday's 114-page decision, ruling against the United States on every count, upheld a judgment in April that the United States had failed to comply.
 Once the W.T.O. adopts the findings and April's ruling, which it is likely to do at a meeting on Aug. 31, the arbitration process on the size of Japan's retaliation can resume.
 The case turned on a controversial method known as ''zeroing'' used by the United States to calculate duties on goods imported for less than they cost in the originating country.
 The way the United States handles its antidumping measures was also at issue. Washington argued that it could continue to levy duties on goods that entered the country before a W.T.O. ruling finding such duties illegal -- a stance rejected by the court.
 The United States is the only one of the W.T.O.'s 153 members to back zeroing, which the Appellate Body has ruled against consistently. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTIDUMPING LAWS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); LITIGATION (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); TRADE DISPUTES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); IMPORT PRICES (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (72%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2009



498 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: Defying the Downturn, Charter School Construction Grows in New York

BYLINE: By ALISON GREGOR

 BODY:
In an economy where much construction has ground to a halt, charter schools are providing a minor but growing niche for the building and design industries in the New York City area. 
 According to the city, 21 new charter schools will open in September, though only two of them will be in new buildings. The state has 141 charter schools in operation, and about 100 are in the city.
 ''There's a lot of construction of charter schools going on, especially relative to the slowdown in the market,'' said David M. Umansky, the chief executive of Civic Builders, a Manhattan-based developer that specializes in charter schools. 
 Around for more than a decade, charter schools are elementary or secondary schools that receive public operating money, but have been freed from some regulations that apply to public schools in exchange for some type of accountability set forth in each school's charter.
 Mr. Umansky said much of the investment is going into historically poor neighborhoods in the South Bronx and central Brooklyn, as well as in Harlem. Because of the schools, ''the real estate investment in these markets is substantial,'' he said.
 In the Mott Haven section of the South Bronx, for instance, construction will start soon on a 54,000-square-foot charter school building.
 The New York Foundling, a nonprofit organization that serves needy children, is transforming a school building at 170 Brown Place, between East 135th and East 136th Streets, into the Mott Haven Academy Charter School at a cost of about $31 million. 
 In an unconventional arrangement, about 24,000 square feet of the structure will be used to house city social service providers who will help the elementary school's 315 students and their families.
 Signature Construction Group is handling the project, to be finished in June 2010, which includes gutting and rehabilitating a vacant century-old building and building a 32,000-square-foot glass addition with a tower.
 Signature is also building another charter school, for the South Bronx Charter School for International Cultures and Arts, only four blocks away on Bruckner Boulevard at 611 East 133rd Street. 
 School building in general has exploded in the last five years, since the School Construction Authority for New York City financed about $13 billion worth of projects, some of them charter schools. In June, an additional $11.3 billion was allocated for public school construction over the next five years. 
 While charter schools account for a relatively small amount of that money, receiving $359 million in the previous five-year budget, and $210 million in the current one, the city recently lifted a restriction that had limited construction financing for charter schools. If they plan to build in neighborhoods that need more schools because of population growth, charter schools may now apply to dip into a $3.8 billion pool of state money for school construction. 
 Some of that money is already being used to pay for construction of two charter schools in the Bronx. The buildings are also being partly financed by Carl C. Icahn, the activist investor. Typically, if a charter school accepts public money for construction, the city requires that the school raise 10 percent to 33 percent of the project's cost from private sources, Mr. Umansky said.
 Some charter schools, including the Foundling's, have chosen to forgo public financing.
 ''We didn't use public money for this reason: the city takes ownership of the building,'' said Bill Baccaglini, executive director of the New York Foundling. ''But this is not just a school. It's a community social services center. We wanted to retain ownership of the building, because we're always going to be in this business.''
 From private donors, the Foundling has raised $17 million of the approximately $19 million in cash required for construction. Rent that the Foundling receives from the city for housing the social services groups will be used to pay the mortgage for the remaining $12 million in construction costs. 
 Because it raised private money, the Foundling avoided the elaborate bidding and contract process required for public school construction. Advocates of charter schools said this can make construction cheaper. 
 More charter schools want to build their own structures, but are discouraged by the lack of financing, said James Merriman, the chief executive of the New York City Charter School Center, a nonprofit group representing the city's charter schools that works with the city's Department of Education. As a result, charter schools often lease buildings or they start operations in unused public school space, he said. That may change, however, as the city runs out of surplus space in public schools.
 ''There's an increased demand and appetite for charter schools to have their own facilities,'' Mr. Merriman said. ''You are going to see an increase in the number of charters in the city in general, going from 78 to 100 this year, and probably to 120 or 125 next year.''
 Mr. Merriman's group has been lobbying the New York State Legislature for financing. He said he had grown increasingly encouraged by President Obama's vocal support for expansion of charter schools. ''I think if we can get dedicated charter funding, we're going to see a stream of charter school buildings being built,'' he said.
 New York's growth in charter schools is being echoed in other states. Mr. Umansky's construction company, Civic Builders, recently built its first 50,000-square-foot charter school in Newark: the North Star Academy College Preparatory High School.
 Growth in the popularity of charter schools is also reflected in a recent 20,500-square-foot expansion of the 12-year-old Jersey City Community Charter School, which nearly doubled the size of the building. 
 Charter school enrollment has been growing as much as 20 percent each year in New Jersey, where more than 60 such schools operate, according to the National Alliance for Public Charter Schools, a nonprofit based in Washington. With a waiting list of 11,000 children, as estimated by the New Jersey Charter Public Schools Association, more construction is likely. 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 26, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on the Square Feet pages last Wednesday about a flurry of construction of charter schools in the New York City area misstated the source of a $3.8 billion pool of money for school construction for which a charter school is now eligible if it is built in a neighborhood that needs more schools. The money is supplied by both the state and the city, not just the state.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A rendering of Mott Haven Academy Charter School, left, and the building, at 170 Brown Place, before renovation.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PERKINS + WILL/GUENTHER 5 AND CUBELLIS)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARTER SCHOOLS (95%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (91%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CHILDREN (78%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (78%); FAMILY (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (67%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (55%); EXECUTIVES (55%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2009



499 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: Housing Starts and Producer Prices Drop

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
New figures showing a decline in wholesale prices and a drop in new-home construction highlighted how weak the economy remains, even as some optimists declare the recession to be over. 
 Producer prices fell more than expected in July as the costs of food and energy slipped, the Labor Department reported Tuesday. The 0.9 percent monthly decline came after three months of increases, and suggested that demand was weak up and down the ladder of production, from consumer goods to intermediate goods like chemicals and rubber to raw materials.
 Producer prices declined a record 6.8 percent from last July, when crude oil prices soared above $145 a barrel and pushed the costs of fuels, food and other products sharply higher. The decline in the last 12 months is the largest drop in 60 years, since the government starting keeping such records.
 So-called core prices excluding food and energy costs fell 0.1 percent, their second monthly decline of the year.
 The figures offered more evidence that inflation remained a distant concern for the American economy, even as some investors speculate that higher oil prices, rising interest rates and a weaker dollar are in the pipeline, a result of the government's enormous recovery programs. 
 On Friday, the government reported that consumer prices were unchanged in July from a month earlier and were down sharply from a year ago, reflecting the drop in gasoline and transportation costs. Economists say that there is still tremendous slack, and that wages are likely be flat over the next few months as unemployment ticks up.
 ''The economy remains weak and even as it begins to recover, the amount of excess capacity is high,'' said Peter Kretzmer, senior economist at Bank of America. 
 On Tuesday, the government reported that producer food prices fell 1.5 percent in July. Energy prices were 2.4 percent lower, after surging 6.6 percent a month earlier. The overall drop in producer prices was a pullback after a 1.8 percent monthly increase in June.
 Despite several glimmers of rising prices and increased activity in the housing market, the Commerce Department's report on housing starts and building permits showed that the market for new homes remained weak with building loans tight and so many foreclosures on the market.
 New-home construction fell a seasonally adjusted 1 percent in July from a month earlier, to an annual rate of 581,000, the government said. Building permits were down 1.8 percent, and housing completions also dropped, falling 0.9 percent for the month.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A house rising near Chapel Hill, N.C. New-home construction fell 1 percent in July from June.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GERRY BROOME/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: Producer Prices: Index of finished goods prices, 1982 =100, seasonally adjusted.(Source: Labor Department)
 Housing Construction: New private housing starts and permits authorized during the month, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace.(Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WHOLESALE PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RECESSION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); BUILDING PERMITS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); HOUSING COMPLETIONS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); STATISTICS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); INTEREST RATES (66%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (53%); BAC (LSE) (53%); 8648 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2009



500 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: The Greenback Effect

BYLINE: By WARREN E. BUFFETT. 
Warren E. Buffett is the chief executive of Berkshire Hathaway, a diversified holding company.

DATELINE: Omaha 

 BODY:
 IN nature, every action has consequences, a phenomenon called the butterfly effect. These consequences, moreover, are not necessarily proportional. For example, doubling the carbon dioxide we belch into the atmosphere may far more than double the subsequent problems for society. Realizing this, the world properly worries about greenhouse emissions.
 The butterfly effect reaches into the financial world as well. Here, the United States is spewing a potentially damaging substance into our economy -- greenback emissions. 
 To be sure, we've been doing this for a reason I resoundingly applaud. Last fall, our financial system stood on the brink of a collapse that threatened a depression. The crisis required our government to display wisdom, courage and decisiveness. Fortunately, the Federal Reserve and key economic officials in both the Bush and Obama administrations responded more than ably to the need.
 They made mistakes, of course. How could it have been otherwise when supposedly indestructible pillars of our economic structure were tumbling all around them? A meltdown, though, was avoided, with a gusher of federal money playing an essential role in the rescue.
 The United States economy is now out of the emergency room and appears to be on a slow path to recovery. But enormous dosages of monetary medicine continue to be administered and, before long, we will need to deal with their side effects. For now, most of those effects are invisible and could indeed remain latent for a long time. Still, their threat may be as ominous as that posed by the financial crisis itself.
 To understand this threat, we need to look at where we stand historically. If we leave aside the war-impacted years of 1942 to 1946, the largest annual deficit the United States has incurred since 1920 was 6 percent of gross domestic product. This fiscal year, though, the deficit will rise to about 13 percent of G.D.P., more than twice the non-wartime record. In dollars, that equates to a staggering $1.8 trillion. Fiscally, we are in uncharted territory.
 Because of this gigantic deficit, our country's ''net debt'' (that is, the amount held publicly) is mushrooming. During this fiscal year, it will increase more than one percentage point per month, climbing to about 56 percent of G.D.P. from 41 percent. Admittedly, other countries, like Japan and Italy, have far higher ratios and no one can know the precise level of net debt to G.D.P. at which the United States will lose its reputation for financial integrity. But a few more years like this one and we will find out.
 An increase in federal debt can be financed in three ways: borrowing from foreigners, borrowing from our own citizens or, through a roundabout process, printing money. Let's look at the prospects for each individually -- and in combination. 
 The current account deficit -- dollars that we force-feed to the rest of the world and that must then be invested -- will be $400 billion or so this year. Assume, in a relatively benign scenario, that all of this is directed by the recipients -- China leads the list -- to purchases of United States debt. Never mind that this all-Treasuries allocation is no sure thing: some countries may decide that purchasing American stocks, real estate or entire companies makes more sense than soaking up dollar-denominated bonds. Rumblings to that effect have recently increased.
 Then take the second element of the scenario -- borrowing from our own citizens. Assume that Americans save $500 billion, far above what they've saved recently but perhaps consistent with the changing national mood. Finally, assume that these citizens opt to put all their savings into United States Treasuries (partly through intermediaries like banks).
 Even with these heroic assumptions, the Treasury will be obliged to find another $900 billion to finance the remainder of the $1.8 trillion of debt it is issuing. Washington's printing presses will need to work overtime.
 Slowing them down will require extraordinary political will. With government expenditures now running 185 percent of receipts, truly major changes in both taxes and outlays will be required. A revived economy can't come close to bridging that sort of gap.
 Legislators will correctly perceive that either raising taxes or cutting expenditures will threaten their re-election. To avoid this fate, they can opt for high rates of inflation, which never require a recorded vote and cannot be attributed to a specific action that any elected official takes. In fact, John Maynard Keynes long ago laid out a road map for political survival amid an economic disaster of just this sort: ''By a continuing process of inflation, governments can confiscate, secretly and unobserved, an important part of the wealth of their citizens.... The process engages all the hidden forces of economic law on the side of destruction, and does it in a manner which not one man in a million is able to diagnose.''
 I want to emphasize that there is nothing evil or destructive in an increase in debt that is proportional to an increase in income or assets. As the resources of individuals, corporations and countries grow, each can handle more debt. The United States remains by far the most prosperous country on earth, and its debt-carrying capacity will grow in the future just as it has in the past.
 But it was a wise man who said, ''All I want to know is where I'm going to die so I'll never go there.'' We don't want our country to evolve into the banana-republic economy described by Keynes.
 Our immediate problem is to get our country back on its feet and flourishing -- ''whatever it takes'' still makes sense. Once recovery is gained, however, Congress must end the rise in the debt-to-G.D.P. ratio and keep our growth in obligations in line with our growth in resources. 
 Unchecked carbon emissions will likely cause icebergs to melt. Unchecked greenback emissions will certainly cause the purchasing power of currency to melt. The dollar's destiny lies with Congress.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GARY TAXALI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (68%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2009



501 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: Oil Industry Backs Protests of Emissions Bill

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS and JAD MOUAWAD. 
Clifford Krauss reported from Houston, and Jad Mouawad from New York.

DATELINE: HOUSTON 

 BODY:
Hard on the heels of the health care protests, another citizen movement seems to have sprung up, this one to oppose Washington's attempts to tackle climate change. But behind the scenes, an industry with much at stake -- Big Oil -- is pulling the strings.
 Hundreds of people packed a downtown theater here on Tuesday for a lunchtime rally that was as much a celebration of oil's traditional role in the Texas way of life as it was a political protest against Washington's energy policies, which many here fear will raise energy prices.
 ''Something we hold dear is in danger, and that's our future,'' said Bill Bailey, a rodeo announcer and local celebrity, who was the master of ceremonies at the hourlong rally. 
 The event on Tuesday was organized by a group called Energy Citizens, which is backed by the American Petroleum Institute, the oil industry's main trade group. Many of the people attending the demonstration were employees of oil companies who work in Houston and were bused from their workplaces. 
 This was the first of a series of about 20 rallies planned for Southern and oil-producing states to organize resistance to proposed legislation that would set a limit on emissions of heat-trapping gases, requiring many companies to buy emission permits. Participants described the system as an energy tax that would undermine the economy of Houston, the nation's energy capital. 
 Mentions of the legislation, which narrowly passed the House in June, drew boos, but most of the rally was festive. A high school marching band played, hot dogs and hamburgers were served, a video featuring the country star Trace Adkins was shown, and hundreds of people wore yellow T-shirts with slogans like ''Create American Jobs Don't Export Them'' and ''I'll Pass on $4 Gas.''
 The buoyant atmosphere belied the billions of dollars at stake for the petroleum industry. Since the House passed the bill, oil executives have repeatedly complained that their industry would incur sharply higher costs, while federal subsidies would flow to coal-fired utilities and renewable energy programs. 
 ''It's just a sense of outrage and disappointment with the bill passed by the House,'' said James T. Hackett, chief executive of Anadarko Petroleum, who attended the rally. He defended, as an environmental measure, the use of buses financed by oil companies and Energy Citizens to carry employees to the rally. ''If we all drove in cars, it wouldn't look good,'' he said. 
 While polls show that a majority of Americans support efforts to tackle climate change, opposition to the climate bill from energy-intensive industries has become more vigorous in recent weeks. The Senate is expected to consider its own version of the bill at the end of September.
 A public relations company hired by a pro-coal industry group, the American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity, recently sent at least 58 fake letters opposing new climate laws to members of Congress. The letters, forged by the public relations company Bonner & Associates, purported to be from groups like the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and Hispanic organizations.
 Bonner & Associates has acknowledged the forgeries, blaming them on a temporary employee who was subsequently fired. The coal coalition has apologized for the fake letters and said it was cooperating with an investigation of the matter by a Congressional committee.
 For its part, the oil industry plans to raise the pressure in coming weeks through its public rallies so that it can negotiate more favorable terms in the Senate than it got in the House. The strategy was outlined by the American Petroleum Institute in a memorandum sent to its members, which include Exxon Mobil, Chevron and ConocoPhillips. The memorandum, not meant for the public, was obtained by the environmental group Greenpeace last week.
 ''It's a clear political hit campaign,'' said Kert Davies, the research director at Greenpeace.
 In the memorandum, the president and chief executive of the American Petroleum Institute, Jack N. Gerard, said that the aim of the rallies was to send a ''loud message'' to the Senate. He said the rallies should focus on higher energy costs and jobs. ''It's important that our views be heard,'' Mr. Gerard wrote.
 Cathy Landry, a spokeswoman for the American Petroleum Institute, confirmed the contents of the memorandum, but said that the rally was not strictly an institute event and that Energy Citizens included other organizations representing farm and other business interests. 
 The House bill seeks to reduce greenhouse gases in the United States by 83 percent by 2050 through a mechanism known as cap and trade, which would create carbon permits that could be bought and sold. President Obama initially wanted these permits to be entirely auctioned off, so that all industries would be on the same footing, but the sponsors of the bill agreed to hand out 85 percent of the permits free to ensure passage of the legislation.
 The power sector, which accounts for about a third of the nation's emissions, got 35.5 percent of the free allowances. Petroleum refiners, meanwhile, got 2.25 percent of these allowances, although the transportation sector accounts for about 40 percent of emissions. That means oil companies would have to buy many of their permits on the open market, and they contend that they would have to raise gasoline prices to do so.
 But Daniel J. Weiss, a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress, a research and advocacy organization, said that refiners would be allowed to keep the value of the free allowances they received, while public utilities would be required to return the value of their permits to customers. 
 ''There is a myth out there that this is a giveaway to utilities,'' Mr. Weiss said. ''It's not true. The oil industry's goal is to block or weaken efforts to tackle global warming.''
 The rallies have opened a rift within the industry. Royal Dutch Shell, an initial supporter of climate legislation, said that it had told the institute that it would not participate in the rallies, although its employees would be free to attend if they wanted to. ConocoPhillips, meanwhile, has opposed the bill since its passage and, in a note on its Web site, encouraged employees to attend the rallies. 
 Since Mr. Obama's election, the oil industry has lost some clout in Washington. The rally on Tuesday gave voice to the feeling among employees of oil companies that their industry was being battered. 
 ''I experienced Carter's war against the industry, and I'm tired of being pushed around,'' said David H. Leland, a geological map maker for NFR Energy. ''We provide a product for a reasonable price, and we're going to be punished for doing a damn good job.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 20, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about the oil industry's backing of protests against climate change legislation misstated the number of fake letters sent to members of Congress by a pro-coal industry group, the American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity. A Congressional inquiry has determined that 13 letters -- not 58 -- sent by a public relations company, Bonner & Associates, on behalf of the coalition were forgeries. Forty-five other letters sent by the company remain under investigation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A rally against legislation to set a limit on greenhouse gas emissions in Houston on Tuesday. Oil companies bused in their employees.(pg. B1)
 Gaylene Reier, center, at the rally. Workers at her company, Anadarko Petroleum, were provided with buses to get there.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY KAREN WARREN/HOUSTON CHRONICLE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (93%); EMISSIONS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (75%); POLITICS (75%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (70%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (65%); EXECUTIVES (61%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (50%)

COMPANY: ANADARKO PETROLEUM CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (56%)

TICKER: APC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (58%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%)

PERSON: JAMES T HACKETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2009



502 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; PROPERTY VALUES; Pg. 

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: What You Get for ... $200,000

BYLINE: By MIKE POWELL

 BODY:
Jackson, Miss.
 WHAT: A two-bedroom two-bath house
 HOW MUCH: $208,000
 PER SQUARE FOOT: $113.79
 SETTING: This house is in Belhaven, one of Jackson's older residential neighborhoods. Its listing agent said the area has a friendly neighborhood feel, a characterization reinforced by its farmers' market and proliferation of neighborhood initiative groups. 
 Two main commercial streets -- State and Fortification -- intersect about five blocks from this house. Fortification Street has been the focus of an improvement and development effort, according to the listing agent. Recently the Greater Belhaven Market, a weekend farmer's market, was established. Two colleges in Belhaven, Millsaps and Belhaven, host art shows and lectures; also nearby are the Municipal Art Gallery and the Mississippi Museum of Art. Downtown -- the location of the state capitol -- is about a mile south. 
 INSIDE: One bedroom has a walk-in closet; another has two closets, one cedar-lined. A third bedroom, which opens onto the front porch through French doors, is currently used as a study and sitting room. Its closet has been converted to a bar. The living room also opens to the front porch. A fireplace is decorative. 
 OUTDOOR SPACE: A house-wide front porch with a swing, a front yard lined with azaleas and a backyard with a patio under a large pecan tree.
 TAXES: $1,376 a year if used as a primary residence, $2,513.85 if not. 
 CONTACT: Elizabeth Jackson, the Overby Company (601) 750-2740; www.theoverbycompany.com
 Chicago
 WHAT: A two-bedroom one- bath condo 
 HOW MUCH: $204,999
 PER SQUARE FOOT: $170.83
 SETTING: This apartment is on the top floor of a three-story walkup in Hyde Park, a lakefront neighborhood on the south side of the city, where President Obama and his wife, Michelle, still own a home. The neighborhood has gone through the ups and downs of post-World War I decline and urban renewal in the '50s and '60s, but has remained buoyed by the University of Chicago, which is about four blocks west of this building. 
 Fifty-Third Street, four blocks north, is the local shopping block; Harper Court, a half-block loop off 53rd, is the site of a farmers' market. Promontory Point, a man-made peninsula jutting into Lake Michigan, is under a mile away. The Lakefront Trail, a paved path for pedestrians and cyclists, runs 18 miles along the shore. 
 INSIDE: The apartment has both eastern and western exposures. In addition to two bedrooms (with closets), a bathroom, a living room and a kitchen, the unit has a sitting room overlooking a central courtyard and a formal dining room. The fireplace is not working, but could be converted to ventless gas. A private walk-in storage unit is included with the apartment; coin-operated washers and dryers are available in a communal laundry room. 
 OUTDOOR SPACE: A deck off of the kitchen overlooks the building's shared backyard. There's also a central courtyard. 
 TAXES: $2,215 a year; $484 a month in homeowner association fees
 CONTACT: Jenna Smith, Dream Town Realty (773) 793-2385; www.jennasmithhomes.com
 Fairfield, Iowa
 WHAT: A three-bedroom one-bath house on nine and a half acres
 HOW MUCH: $199,999
 PER SQUARE FOOT: $147.49
 SETTING: This house is in a rural area opposite corn and bean fields about five miles from the center of Fairfield. ''And here, if it's five miles, it's five minutes,'' the house's listing agent said. 
 Fairfield, population 10,000, is three hours from Des Moines and one and a half from Iowa City . It is home to the Maharishi University of Management, a national magnet for practitioners of transcendental meditation, as well as corn and soybean fields. 
 The town has a first-Friday art walk, a convention center, architecture by George Barber and Frank Lloyd Wright and several international restaurants around the town center. 
 INSIDE: The great room, separated from the kitchen by an island, has a wood-burning stove at its center. Two of the bedrooms are located upstairs; one is on the finished lower level (which also has a recreational room). The master has a cedar-lined closet. Laundry is on the main level. There are two decks, one in front of the house and one off the kitchen. Every window in the house has a rural view. Outbuildings include a storage shed, a horse shed and a heated two-car garage.
 OUTDOOR SPACE: The property is a mix of pasture and forest. There are fruit-bearing plum, apple and cherry trees, a fish-stocked pond and a fenced-in area adjacent to the horse shed.
 TAXES: $1,506 a year. 
 CONTACT: Tammy Dunbar, ERA Fairfield Real Estate (641) 919-2625; www.fairfieldiowarealestate.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); LAKES (67%); WORLD WAR I (50%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSON, MS, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); LAKE MICHIGAN (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2009



503 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: H.P. Tries to Keep The Ink Flowing

BYLINE: By ASHLEE VANCE

 BODY:
You've heard about the fears of a jobless economic recovery. For Hewlett-Packard, there is an even darker threat looming as the world works its way out of a recession: an inkless recovery. 
 In the last year, H.P.'s sales of printers and related supplies like ink have tumbled. The major cause for the decline remains the weak global economy. Businesses have spent less on printing products, and with unemployment high, fewer workers are around to hit the ink-burning Print button on their computer screens.
 Analysts contend that the recession has created a culture of reluctant printer users. Companies have urged workers to keep a close eye on printing costs. So they are using less paper and choosing costly color ink as a last resort. Such policies push people toward digital documents they read on mobile devices as well as their computer screens. 
 ''People have learned some of these lessons more rapidly as a result of the economic conditions than they have in the past,'' said Steve Reynolds, an analyst with Lyra Research, which follows the printing and imaging industries. ''My thought is that some of these habits will become permanent.''
 In addition, online videos, Web-based TV and social networking sites -- where consumers are spending more time -- do not lend themselves to stirring the inky rivers. ''A Twitter stream is not printable,'' Mr. Reynolds said. 
 H.P.'s printing group has long been one of the company's star performers. It accounts for nearly a quarter of overall revenue. Printer ink remains one of the most expensive liquids on the planet -- more valuable than expensive perfumes -- providing H.P. with far higher profit margins than PCs and other types of computing hardware provide. 
 On Tuesday, H.P. showed how its printer business remained vulnerable to the recession when it reported third-quarter financial results. H.P.'s printing and imaging revenue fell 20 percent, to $5.7 billion, as sales of supplies tumbled 13 percent and sales of printers fell 23 percent. 
 These latest results add to several months of sharper than expected declines from H.P.'s printing group, and the company has been scrambling to raise prices and adjust its inventory levels to offset the slump.
 ''What has been the most striking issue for investors has been the fact that printer supplies have really fallen off,'' said A. M. Sacconaghi, an analyst for the investment research firm Sanford C. Bernstein. ''There was always this belief that people keep printing like they keep eating even during recessions.''
 H.P.'s overall business has recovered as sales in China and the United States have added some stability to the technology sector, Mark V. Hurd, H.P.'s chief executive, said in an interview. 
 H.P., based in Palo Alto, Calif., reported net income of $1.6 billion, or 67 cents a share, for the quarter ended July 31, a 19 percent decline from the $2 billion in net income, or 80 cents a share, reported in the period last year. Excluding charges, H.P. earned 91 cents a share, beating a forecast of 90 cents a share from analysts polled by Thomson Reuters. 
 H.P.'s revenue declined 2 percent, to $27.5 billion, from $28 billion a year ago. 
 H.P.'s other businesses struggled during the quarter as well, with PC sales tumbling 18 percent and computer server and storage sales falling 23 percent. The company's main bright spot was its services division, which recorded a 93 percent increase in revenue to $8.5 billion on the back of the Electronic Data Systems acquisition.
 The company's shares declined 2 percent in extended trading after the announcement. 
 Although H.P. has been carefully watching printing habits change for years, Mr. Hurd said H.P. was not in danger. 
 He said people examining H.P.'s printing results needed to take into account currency fluctuations that had hurt the company, as well as costs tied to inventory adjustments. For example, such costs, Mr. Hurd said, would account for most of the 13 percent slide in printer supplies revenue last quarter. The sales of ink by companies like Best Buy, Wal-Mart and Tesco were flat to slightly down, he said.
 ''People are printing just as much as they did last year,'' Mr. Hurd said. Rather than curtailing their printing behavior, businesses and people have simply opted not to buy spare ink cartridges at the same rate as they did during better financial times, according to Mr. Hurd. 
 Still, H.P.'s printing supply revenue had grown at close to 10 percent in the three previous years, and has now fallen. And it is that sharp shift that has investors worried whether longer-term changes in behavior are at work, Mr. Sacconaghi said. 
 H.P. has spent years trying to carve out new printing businesses, while also tacitly acknowledging changes in consumer behavior, by seeking ways to make more Web content like Twitter streams and MySpace pages printable. 
 The company sells large machines like its Indigo digital presses for handling commercial printing jobs, ranging from printing magazines to billboards to labels on consumer products. 
 Digital presses produce only about 12 percent of the more than 50 trillion printed objects made each year, according to H.P. Each point of market share H.P. can gain in this large-scale printing segment could translate into vast increases in revenue. 
 H.P. has been encouraging businesses to use digital presses as money-making tools, since they are more flexible than cheaper, traditional analog presses. 
 For example, H.P. has pushed the idea that retailers like Wal-Mart could use in-store digital presses to quickly make placards offering price cuts on certain products or to tweak the placards for each store's demographics, making Spanish signs in certain regions for instance. 
 For consumers, H.P. has developed software that can manipulate Web content into a more printable format. The company's researchers have found that girls ages 14 to 24 who tend not to print much will in fact turn things like collections of photos and comments from MySpace into a foldable cube that can be shared with their friends. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Omer Gila, project manager of digital commercial printing technology at Hewlett-Packard Labs, with an Indigo digital press.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 On display at a Best Buy store, Hewlett-Packard ink cartridges, left, and PCs. Sales of both have fallen sharply from a year ago.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); RECESSION (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); PRINTING INK (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); SOCIAL MEDIA (73%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); INVENTORIES (73%); INTERNET VIDEO (71%); STREAMING MEDIA (71%); INTERVIEWS (69%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: MARK HURD (58%); STEPHEN P REYNOLDS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2009



504 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 517 words

BYLINE: By J. DAVID GOODMAN

 BODY:
SPOKES: FIXERS
 Find Lots of Work
 Heat blazed down from the sky and radiated up from the sidewalk, but Natividad Zirate, hard at work truing a bicycle wheel beneath an oversize umbrella, seemed not to notice. Business had been good, he said, since he had returned from California and started repairing bikes at Second Avenue and Houston Street in June.
 From a small black suitcase stuffed with tools, his sidewalk shop had expanded: tires, wheels and bikes leaned against a fence; his tools had found a new home in a brushed-metal delivery cart. Mr. Zirate, who is called Nat and who sleeps on the street in the West Village, recently reinvested his earnings in a pair of new box wrenches. 
 ''It's different here,'' said Mr. Zirate, 63, his hands caked with grease, his glasses unsmudged. ''There's not the same stigma of being homeless.''
 Nor is Mr. Zirate's the only sidewalk shop in the vicinity.
 On the south side of Tompkins Square Park, Peter Corbin, a k a the Bike Man, has operated a nearly full-service repair shop on and off for decades.
 ''I've got kids of former customers for customers,'' he said, navigating around piles of bike parts. ''It just keeps getting bigger.''
 Like Mr. Zirate, who has been a bike mechanic in New York intermittently since 1991, Mr. Corbin, 51, is a neighborhood fixture. 
 ''I really like the people, and being outside I can cater more to the people, not to the rent,'' said Mr. Corbin, whose wife, Charlotte, helps him move his spare parts, tools and half-completed jobs to and from their apartment on Avenue C to his corner on Avenue A. ''She works pretty hard,'' he said.
 Both men say they have a friendly relationship with the local police, but the official status of their shops is tenuous to nonexistent. Selling anything other than food on the sidewalk requires a permit from the Department of Consumer Affairs, which neither man could produce. 
 The provenance of so many spare parts also raises questions. Mr. Zirate admitted to something more than a passing interest in what he deems to be abandoned bikes -- ''rusting with lots of stuff missing'' -- and occasionally mines them for material. He says people also donate or sell him parts, but dismisses the idea they could be stolen. ''Cops have tried to set me up with hot stuff,'' he said.
 ''But they were so obvious,'' he added, indicating the pile of used tires and wheels that huddled together against the signpost. ''Look at my selection. What I'm trying to do is put bikes on the road. I'm trying to save them from the dump.'' J. DAVID GOODMAN
 SLIDESHOW: Online: a slideshow of the sidewalk mechanics and their customers.
 ALSO
 ON THE BLOG
 Retail Chains Expand: Despite the recession, the five largest chains in the city expanded in the last year, according to the Center for an Urban Future: Dunkin' Donuts, with 429 locations; Subway, with 361; McDonald's and Starbucks, both with 258; and Duane Reade, with 229.
 Pickets at Starbucks: Newly unionized Starbucks workers gathered at its regional headquarters on Monday to protest an increase in the cost of their health care coverage.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Peter Corbin working at Tompkins Square Park. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TIRES (77%); POLICE FORCES (69%); HOMELESSNESS (53%)

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (53%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (53%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2009



505 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: Pension Funds No Barometer For Comptroller

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO and RUSS BUETTNER

 BODY:
The New York city comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr., is staking his mayoral campaign on his skills as a financial manager, which he says are exemplified by his supervision of the nation's largest municipal pension system.
 But a review of how the $80 billion system has performed since he took office shows it has consistently lagged behind many of its public pension peers even as the city tripled the number of money managers it uses and the fees that it pays those firms. 
 Over the last seven years, four of the five city pension funds performed below the median for similar funds around the country. In fact, more than two-thirds of big public pension funds did better than the city's largest fund, the New York City Employees' Retirement System, according to a widely used financial yardstick compiled by Wilshire Associates, an investment advisory firm. 
 ''It's consistently below average, and that's not where you want to be,'' said Edward A. H. Siedle, president of Benchmark Financial Services, a Florida firm that audits pension plans. 
 But Mr. Thompson has benefited from his association with the pension system, collecting more than $500,000 in campaign contributions from its growing roster of money managers since he first entered the 2001 race for comptroller. In some cases, the executives gave to Mr. Thompson just months before the pension funds hired them to manage tens of millions of dollars, according to interviews and public records. 
 In an interview, Mr. Thompson, the Democratic Party's leading mayoral contender, said there was no connection between the contributions and the work that the managers received. He defended the performance of the pension funds, pointing to the turbulence in the stock market to explain some of the lackluster results. 
 ''Have we had tough years? Yes, we have,'' he said. ''But I think every public pension fund has had tough years. I think we have done better than many of them.'' For instance, Mr. Thompson pointed to the performance of the Russell 3000, a broad stock market index of the largest American companies. Since he took office, the domestic equity portfolios of the city's largest pension funds have roughly matched that of the index.
 The comptroller, who serves as the city's chief financial officer, said the managers are hired by city's five pension funds only after a rigorous analysis of their previous investment results, conducted by his staff and outside consultants, as well as interviews with the fund's trustees, who have final say over hiring. 
 ''A campaign contribution will not help anyone,'' Mr. Thompson said. ''The truth is, I don't think that any one person here, whether it's the chief investment officer, myself or someone else, can manipulate the process.'' 
 As the city confronts the economic crisis, Mr. Thompson's oversight of pension investments is a key component of his effort to sell himself as a viable mayoral candidate and a financial expert of equal stature to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, a billionaire media mogul and Wall Street veteran.
 But beyond politics, his decisions have far-reaching consequences for an army of government retirees, who have entrusted their retirement funds to his office, and for city taxpayers, who must pick up the tab if the pension funds fall short of their obligations.
 Mr. Thompson has pursued a more aggressive investment strategy than his predecessors, venturing into riskier new markets, like private equity and real estate.
 Through June, the median annual return for large public pension funds for the past seven years was 4.5 percent, according to the Wilshire Associates data. For that same period, four of the five city pension funds had returns below the median. Although the difference was less than one percentage point, that amounts to tens of millions of dollars over a long period of time. The fifth and smallest fund, the Board of Education Retirement System, was at the median. 
 Under Mr. Thompson's predecessor, Alan G. Hevesi, the city's pension funds outperformed their peers. For the seven-year period that ended in June 2001, the year Mr. Hevesi left office, the median annual return for large public pension funds was 12.16 percent, according to Wilshire. For that period, four of the city's five pension funds delivered returns above the median, records show.
 The city's pension system covers more than half a million current and retired city workers. There is a fund each for firefighters, police officers, teachers, other school workers, and a catch-all for most other employees. Each fund has its own trustees appointed by city officials, including the comptroller, and the major municipal unions.
 But the trustees, who are part time and meet about twice a month, rely heavily on the comptroller's staff, which oversees the vetting of prospective investment managers and makes recommendations to the trustees of each fund about which managers should be hired. 
 The year Mr. Thompson took office, the pension funds' combined portfolio comprised mostly stocks and bonds, with 51 percent in domestic stocks, 16 percent in international stocks and 32 percent in fixed-income investments. At Mr. Thompson's urging, the allocation of domestic stocks and fixed-income securities dropped, and investments in private equity and real estate rose last year to 7.5 percent from near zero in 2002.
 In moving money into private equity, which typically involves pooling money to purchase a single company, Mr. Thompson was following the lead of many other pension managers. The strategy offers potentially higher returns, but it also drives up costs because of the higher rates charged by private equity managers. And it generally leads to an increase in the number of managers to diffuse the higher risk. 
 During Mr. Thompson's tenure, the number of money managers for the city's pension system has risen to 229 last year, from 74 in 2002, nearly all because of newly hired private equity managers. And investment expenses, consisting mostly of fees to money managers, have surged to $310 million from $102 million. 
 Employees of about a quarter of the money management firms have contributed to Mr. Thompson's campaigns, records show.
 One of the firms that has seen its city portfolio expand in recent years is Leeds Equity, a private equity firm. It has received fees of $2.8 million since 2001, and in that time its executives have contributed $21,350 to Mr. Thompson's campaigns, records show. The firm's president, Jeffrey T. Leeds, did not return calls seeking comment. 
 Another private equity firm hired by the city is Blue Wolf Capital, which was founded by two former high-ranking aides to Mr. Thompson in the comptroller's office who had helped develop the office's private equity investment strategy.
 Executives of the company donated $9,000 to Mr. Thompson's campaign in 2007. The following year, three of the pension funds gave the company $60 million to invest. The company, which has earned $500,000 in fees for its work for the city, declined to comment.
 Rita J. Sallis, the chief investment officer at the comptroller's office, who oversees the process of reviewing money managers, said the pension funds typically follow the recommendations of the comptroller's office in their hiring.
 John J. Murphy, a former executive director of the city's largest pension fund, the New York City Employees' Retirement System, put it more bluntly: ''Anything the comptroller wants to push through, he can push through,'' he said. Mr. Murphy resigned from the fund after a personnel dispute with its trustees. 
 Mr. Thompson acknowledged that his office played a significant role in the selection of investment managers. ''I am not saying the comptroller's office does not have involvement,'' he said. ''I am saying I may not have direct involvement. My staff does.''
 New regulations that went into effect last year limit campaign contributions from firms that do business with the city, including fund managers, to $400 in mayoral and comptroller races. 
 Several of the firms said they contributed to Mr. Thompson because they respected him as a candidate, not because they sought leverage in soliciting work as a manager.
 Managers at Chicago Equity Partners have contributed $29,200 to Mr. Thompson's campaigns since 1999, a period during which the firm has received more than $7 million in fees from the city as a stock manager. The president of Chicago Equity, Patrick C. Lynch of Glen Ellyn, Ill., who has personally donated $9,900 since 2004, called the amounts contributed ''nominal'' and not tied to securing the business.
 ''I don't think it's important in getting business or keeping it,'' he said in an interview.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: As the city comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr. oversees an $80 billion municipal pension system, the nation's biggest. Mr. Thompson is the Democratic Party's leading mayoral contender.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A22) CHART: Below the Line: During Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr.'s time in office, some of New York's pension funds have fared worse than the average public investment fund.(Source: Wilshire Trust Universe Comparison Service)(pg. A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION FUNDS (93%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (92%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (88%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2009



506 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM.; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 772 words

BYLINE: By EDWARD HADAS and JEFFREY GOLDFARB

 BODY:
Mixed Data Keep
 Markets on Edge
 Stocks are having a choppy week. Most of the leading indexes are down from their recent peaks. But it's too early to say whether the markets have merely paused briefly or reached the end of their long run. Stocks in Europe and the United States are up nearly 50 percent since March. 
 One thing is clear. A collection of revolutionary fiscal, monetary and corporate policy experiments has helped stop the economic free fall that started in September. This favorable change in direction and the cash pumped into the system by these policies explain the rally. 
 But looking forward, confusion reigns. Credit is still getting tighter, according to the Federal Reserve's survey of loan officers. But the Treasury reports that loans issued by the 22 top banks receiving government aid are up 13 percent in a month. 
 There are similarly mixed signals in most countries about unemployment, production and prices. 
 Economists would like to help clarify matters, but they are largely at a loss. The crisis showed that their detailed models fell short at the heart of the crisis: how changes in financial conditions affect economic activity. 
 What's more, the models assume the existence of a simple economic pattern that presumes fairly similar cyclical distortions around fairly stable underlying economic growth rates. But the credit bubble and subsequent crisis may not fit into the plan. 
 Some economists prefer to throw out the detailed workings of inputs and outputs in favor of relying on what happened in similar situations in the past. But no one knows which, if any, past episodes are relevant. 
 There have been many recessions and many debt crises in many countries. But this time really could be different considering the near-zero interest rates, near-record peacetime government deficits and unprecedented government support for the financial system. 
 Of course, the future will come regardless of whether it is accurately predicted. But investors and experts have good reasons to keep changing their minds. There could be some more big market reversals before the trends are clear.
 Upside of UBS Case
 It looks as if everybody will win something in the UBS tax case. Compromises seem poised to afford the Swiss, the United States and UBS, one of the world's largest wealth management companies, the opportunity to claim victory as the long-running saga reaches its denouement.
 Accusations that UBS encouraged clients to avoid paying taxes had become a matter not only for the courts but also for diplomacy between the United States and Switzerland. The two countries signed a deal last week that could be announced as soon as Wednesday. But pertinent details are already trickling out.
 UBS, led by Oswald J. Grubel, is not expected to face more fines, beyond the $780 million assessed in the related criminal prosecution. The United States government will no longer block its business aspirations. 
 And with the tax case settled, the Swiss government is expected to offload its stake in the largest bank in the country. Still, the cost to the company is huge: a badly damaged franchise in private banking while local politicians seek fraud charges against its former chairmen.
 Washington's doggedness should bear bountiful fruit. It is expected to get the details of some 5,000 of the 52,000 UBS account holders suspected of dodging taxes. Early estimates suggest the disclosed customers will pay fines totaling nearly $4 billion.
 Hundreds more clients frightened of being unmasked have already come forward, and many more are expected to follow suit under a new offer of modest leniency. 
 Tax officials are reported to be collecting 40 percent of an account's value from those who confess and they are said to be seeking more than double that amount from those whom they catch themselves.
 The Swiss government emerges victorious, too, because it is not being required to change the law. Technically, the company is turning over the names of those suspected of an already illegal tax fraud, rather than tax evasion, which isn't a crime in Switzerland. 
 Even some tax cheats will find comfort in cracks created by the pursuit of middle ground. The names of 90 percent of UBS clients from the United States won't be turned over, and the ones that will be disclosed will have the right to challenge this action in Swiss courts. 
 The clients who do evade fines can find their own small victory here, too, but they will be the only ones not to crow about it.
 EDWARD HADAS and JEFFREY GOLDFARB 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: UBS, led by Oswald J. Grubel, is not expected to face more United States fines.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SEBASTIAN DERUNGS/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (84%); TRENDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); RECESSION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); DEBT CRISIS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (66%); INTEREST RATES (65%); LITIGATION (63%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (61%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (61%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (50%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (82%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (82%); UBS (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2009



507 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; LEADING OFF; Pg. 

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Strasburg Arrives at Oz and Gets a Contract

BYLINE: By LYNN ZINSER

 BODY:
What were you doing at 11:58:43 p.m. on Monday night? Sleeping? Wondering how you can have 753 channels and nothing to watch? Well, Scott Boras was putting the finishing touch on his day as the wizard behind Major League Baseball's curtain.
 The whole enterprise, a k a the draft-pick signing deadline, was about to turn into a pumpkin when Boras struck a deal with the Washington Nationals to sign No. 1 pick Stephen Strasburg for $15.1 million. While hardly chump change -- and a major league record -- it did not approach the $50 million figure Boras had waved out there after Washington picked the San Diego State pitcher No. 1. By the midnight deadline for signing him, as well as the other six first-round picks Boras commandeered, deflation/reality had taken hold. 
 Prevailing opinion from those still awake at 11:58:43 was that both sides -- Strasburg and the woeful Nats -- won in the deal, a position taken by Ted Keith on SI.com, who believes it's a step necessary for the Nats to rid themselves of that terribly sticky ''woeful'' tag and echoed by Scott Miller of CBSSports.com. Jeff Passan of Yahoo.com, however, believes Strasburg needs to be the Nationals' version of Ken Griffey Jr., who saved the Mariners franchise, to be worth the contract. And Ken Rosenthal of Foxports.com believes this should be the spur that prompts baseball and the union to fix their warped draft system. 
 The Tampa Bay Rays, however, seemed to have no appetite for a late bedtime and dropped out of trying to sign their Boras client, second baseman LeVon Washington early in the day. And last year's No. 1 pick (and Nationals' gamble), pitcher Aaron Crow, remains unsigned after a second trip through the draft.
 If all that isn't mind-boggling enough, consider the $800,000 bonus the Twins paid to the 16-year-old son of German ballet dancers. Or stay on WSJ.com and read the story of Beep Baseball, with sighted umpires, blind players and no Boras clients.
 Football's news stayed a bit on the sordid side, with Oakland Raiders Coach Tom Cable reportedly getting a jump on midseason insanity by punching an assistant coach and Eagles quarterback Donovan McNabb suggesting his team stock up on convicted and potential felons by adding receiver Plaxico Burress to the fold. Stopping by Colts training camp, the players' association chief, DeMaurice Smith, said he believed owners are gearing up for a lockout in 2012.
 College football offers a wide range of news choices, from Syracuse naming the erstwhile basketball player Ron Paulus its starting quarterback, even though he has not played an organized football game since 2005, to New Mexico State pleading with fans to donate snacks to its football team to make up for athletic department budget cuts. Yes, this falls in the category of we could not make this stuff up. Or, you may join in the sea of shaking heads over the Southeastern Conference's Big Brother attempt at keeping fans from tweeting and blogging from games, a curious policy which the conference may be backing down from amid the shaking heads.
 If you need a heartwarming story, Dave Hyde of The Ft. Lauderdale Sun Sentinel offers this one of how Miami's football team came through for its heartbroken walk-on, Chris Hayes, after his father's suicide last year.
 In a complete turn from the heartwarming, David Beckham is making depressing soccer news (again) with a red card that moved Yahoo.com's Martin Rogers to declare him an embarrassment to the M.L.S.
 Last we heard, Scott Boras had nothing to do with this. But we could be wrong. We haven't seen behind the curtain.
 Follow Leading Off on Twitter: twitter.com/zinsernyt

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); ATHLETES (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (84%); SPORTS (84%); WHEELCHAIR & DISABILITY SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (74%); BASKETBALL (72%); LOCKOUTS (69%); BALLET (60%); FELONIES (60%); DANCERS (50%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (54%) NEW MEXICO, USA (76%); FLORIDA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2009



508 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Adds Workers and Shifts as Demand Surges

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
Guess who is adding shifts and running on overtime to build more cars. General Motors. 
 Just a month after emerging from bankruptcy reorganization, G.M. is running low on cars.
 The company said Tuesday it would add shifts and run some plants on overtime so it can increase production by 60,000 vehicles by year's end in response to the demand created largely by the ''cash for clunkers'' program.
 The move mirrors one made last week by Ford, which also plans to increase production to meet demand that was heightened by the clunkers program. 
 G.M. said it would bring 1,350 idled union workers in Ontario and Ohio back to work and provide overtime shifts for about 10,000 workers. G.M. plans to increase output at nearly all of its plants in the United States.
 ''Our dealers are clamoring for more vehicles almost in every segment,'' Mark LaNeve, G.M.'s vice president for United States sales, said in a conference call Tuesday afternoon. ''We want to run lean; we're just way too lean right now. We're going to miss sales unless we put some additional production in.''
 By the end of August, the company expects to have less than 30 days' supply of the vehicles that have been most popular among cash for clunkers participants, like the Chevrolet Cobalt and Malibu sedans. 
 That is about half the industry standard. G.M. drastically cut production in the last year as sales plummeted, so even after the planned increase, fourth-quarter production will be about 22 percent less than in the final months of 2008. The company plans to build 535,000 vehicles in the third quarter, 42 percent fewer than it did in the same period a year ago.
 The recent increase in demand has caused G.M.'s inventory of unsold vehicles to fall to about 360,000 vehicles, the lowest since the company began keeping track of that figure. Several years ago, G.M.'s inventory typically consisted of well above 1 million vehicles.
 Mr. LaNeve said G.M. now expected to surpass its internal sales forecast for August by at least 50,000 vehicles. ''It will be far and away our best retail month of the year,'' he said, though G.M. might still sell fewer vehicles in the month than it did last August, which was a good month for vehicle sales just before the market collapsed in September.
 He said the added production would be needed even if sales decline as interest in the clunkers program wanes. The government program, which started in late July, gives a credit of up to $4,500 to consumers turning in an older, inefficient vehicle and buying a new vehicle with a higher fuel-economy rating. 
 On Monday, the Transportation Department said 390,283 vehicles had been traded in under the program and that $1.63 billion of its $3 billion in financing had been used.
 Edmunds.com, a Web site that gives car-buying information to consumers, on Tuesday said interest in the clunkers program was falling fast. It said vehicle purchase intent, which tracks the number of people likely to buy a car in the next 90 days, had dropped 31 percent since late July.
 ''Now that there is plenty of money in the program and the most eager shoppers have already participated, the sense of urgency is gone, and the pace of intent decline is accelerating,'' Jeremy Anwyl, the chief executive of Edmunds, said. ''Inventories are getting lean and prices are climbing, giving consumers reasons to sit back.''
 G.M. plans to bring about 800 workers back to its assembly plant in Lordstown, Ohio, which builds the Cobalt and the soon-to-be discontinued Pontiac G5, and 550 workers back to a plant in Ingersoll, Ontario, that makes the new Chevrolet Equinox and G.M.C. Terrain crossover sport utility vehicles. 
 Lordstown has been on a roller coaster since last summer; G.M. added a third shift when demand for small cars surged in response to high gas prices, then eliminated both the second and third shifts when the market for new vehicles slumped.
 Overtime work will be scheduled at a pickup-truck plant in Fort Wayne, Ind.; crossover plants near Lansing, Mich., and Spring Hill, Tenn.; and sedan plants in Fairfax, Kan., and Lake Orion, Mich. The extra work means the Lake Orion plant, which was scheduled to close for a lengthy retooling project in mid-September, will stay open until late November instead.
 Overtime work used to be extremely common at auto plants, greatly increasing workers' pay, but the carmakers have all but eliminated it in recent years as their sales plunged. 
 G.M. has been running a plant in Oshawa, Ontario, on overtime this summer to meet demand for its new Camaro sports car, which still has a waiting list of about 10,000 people.
 G.M. said it might need to schedule additional production increases in the fourth quarter.
 ''This is a very, very broad surge in demand for us across our entire portfolio,'' Tim Lee, G.M.'s group vice president for global manufacturing and labor, said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The G.M. plant last August in Lordstown, Ohio. It will gain 800 workers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAY LaPRETE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (90%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (90%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); SEDANS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (67%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2009



509 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BACK TO BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1914 words

HEADLINE: Appraisal Shift Gives Lenders More Power, and Draws Critics

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
Mike Kennedy, a real estate appraiser in Monroe, N.Y., was examining a suburban house a few years ago when he discovered five feet of water in the basement. The mortgage broker arranging the owner's refinancing asked him to pretend it was not there. 
 Brokers, real estate agents and banks asked appraisers to do a lot of pretending during the housing boom, pumping up values while ignoring defects. While Mr. Kennedy says he never complied, many appraisers did, some of them thinking they had no choice if they wanted work. A profession that should have been a brake on the spiral in home prices instead became a big contributor.
 On May 1, a sweeping change took effect that was meant to reduce the conflicts of interest in home appraisals while safeguarding the independence of the people who do them. 
 Brokers and real estate agents can no longer order appraisals. Lenders now control the entire process. 
 The Home Valuation Code of Conduct is setting off a bitter battle. Mortgage brokers, lenders, real estate agents, regulators and appraisers are all arguing over whether an effort to fix one problem has created many new ones. 
 The agents, maintaining that the changes are effectively blocking home sales by encouraging the use of inexperienced appraisers, are asking Washington to suspend the code until 2011. For their part, appraisers acknowledge that the change may have been well intentioned but contend that it has no teeth and is undermining the economics of their profession.
 ''We've been begging for years for enforcement of existing state and federal laws regulating appraising,'' said Mr. Kennedy, a leader in the appraisal community. ''We thought we were finally going to get that. But the code is doing nothing except putting ethical appraisers out of business.''
 Financial change is one of the most contentious issues in Washington, and efforts to fix even widely acknowledged problems seem stalled. The attempt to change the appraisal system is an example of how difficult it can be to adopt changes that are good in theory and also work in practice -- while simultaneously winning support from warring interest groups.
 ''The real estate industry is incredibly complex,'' said Josh Denney, a lobbyist with the Mortgage Bankers Association. ''If you take one piece and tinker with it, it causes friction throughout the process.'' 
 The Home Valuation Code of Conduct had an unusual origin. It was developed by the New York attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, who persuaded the big federal mortgage agencies, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, to adopt it. That has effectively made it national policy.
 Putting appraisals completely in the hands of lenders may sound like a good idea in principle, because it is supposed to be lenders who are putting their money at risk in a home loan.
 But the reality is that many companies that write home loans these days do not have much incentive to worry about the accuracy of appraisals. That is because the companies do not keep the loans on their own books, instead selling them to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac.
 ''The code is a formula for continued problems with fraud,'' said David Callahan, a senior fellow with the public policy group Demos who has studied appraisals. ''Appraisers have been asking for a long time for a reliable firewall between themselves and lenders, and are further from it than ever.''
 Appraisers Pressured
 Before real estate prices went out of control, appraisal work was straightforward. The appraiser examined a property inside and out, judging it against the prices that similar properties in the neighborhood were fetching. If the appraisal value matched the sales price, the lender financed the loan.
 As lending standards collapsed during the housing boom, appraisers were pressured from all sides. When the appraiser did not deliver a satisfactory price, the deal did not get done, and the broker, agent and lender did not get their fees. Homeowners also loved inflated appraisals, using them to take out as much as possible when they refinanced.
 ''I got daily calls from lenders and brokers saying, 'Here's the address. Can you get me $400,000?' '' said Mr. Kennedy, who has been in the business since 1993. 
 When he responded that it was illegal for him to supply an unsupported value -- or when he noted in his report defects that the client hoped he would ignore, like a flooded basement -- the broker or lender dropped him for a more compliant appraiser.
 Petition Notes Abuses
 The honest appraisers saw that the situation was helping to drive housing prices beyond reason. A petition they started a decade ago, just as the long boom was getting under way, warned of ''the potential for great financial loss'' to the economy if the penalties for pressuring appraisers were not enforced. The petition also complained that honest appraisers were being blacklisted. It drew 11,000 signatures.
 Regulators and lawmakers did nothing. A rising market covered all sins. Then the market turned, and the lawsuits began. 
 In late 2007, Mr. Cuomo filed suit in New York Supreme Court against the data company First American and its subsidiary eAppraiseIT for fraud.
 EAppraiseIT is an appraisal management company, which means lenders hire it to hire appraisers. This method, First American stressed in its annual report, produced ''unbiased valuations'' that benefited ''not only the homeowner and lender, but our nation's economy.''
 Washington Mutual, based in Seattle, was the biggest client of eAppraiseIT. (Mr. Cuomo could not sue Washington Mutual for jurisdictional reasons.) The suit, still in court, charges that eAppraiseIT let itself be pressured by Washington Mutual to revise appraisals upward to match the value of deals. 
 Washington Mutual collapsed last fall, the largest bank failure in the nation's history.
 Mr. Cuomo, convinced that the troubles with appraisals went far beyond a single case, began an inquiry into Fannie and Freddie's role in the buying of fraudulent mortgages. Before that investigation could be concluded, the two finance companies agreed they would buy mortgages only from lenders that abided by a new code of conduct.
 In its original draft, the code froze out brokers and agents and placed severe restrictions on lenders. They were forbidden from using their staff appraisers or an appraisal management company in which they had more than a 20 percent interest. 
 The American Bankers Association and the Mortgage Bankers Association fought the restrictions, saying they would increase costs to consumers. The lenders also argued that Mr. Cuomo had no jurisdiction over their federally chartered operations. Banking regulators, who saw their authority being usurped, agreed. 
 The final version of the code gives much greater leeway to lenders. For instance, lenders can hire their own appraisers if they ''recognize'' that complaints will be forwarded to regulators.
 The appraisal world was stunned. Dave Biggers, the chief executive of A La Mode, a maker of software for appraisers, said, ''It's like telling me I can steal as long as I 'recognize' that complaints will be directed to the police.'' 
 Benjamin Lawsky, a special assistant to Mr. Cuomo, defended the revised version. ''Our goal was always for the code to eliminate the causes of appraisal inflation while minimizing any disruptive impact on the industry,'' he said. ''We believe we accomplished this.''
 Since national lenders cannot maintain lists of appraisers in every community, they long ago began outsourcing the process to the management companies, who had claimed about 30 percent of the market before the code took effect. Now that the lenders are the ones ordering all the appraisals, the management companies are expanding their share.
 Real estate groups say the management companies, with the competition from brokers and agents eliminated, are now trying to fatten their profit margins by hiring appraisers as cheaply as possible. 
 These inexperienced appraisers, often traveling many miles to a market they do not know well, are scuttling legitimate deals, the agents claim. This argument has resonated in Congress, where 55 legislators have sponsored a bill calling for an 18-month moratorium on the code.
 Appraisal management companies and lenders say the agents' charges are not true. 
 ''We're an easy scapegoat,'' said Donald Blanchard, chief compliance officer of Lender Processing Services Inc., which works with 20,000 appraisers. ''We've yet to see any quantifiable proof as to the problems that management companies are supposedly causing.''
 The real source of trouble for independent appraisers, he suggested, is not the code but a changing economy.
 ''Appraisers want to go back to the way it used to be,'' Mr. Blanchard said. ''But it's good business for us to demand more for less.''
 Fees Decline
 Terry and Andrea Hartlieb, longtime appraisers in Fort Collins, Colo., miss the old days.
 Instead of developing relationships with brokers and agents, the Hartliebs must wait for a lender or appraisal management company to call. A year ago, they would make $350 for an appraisal that would take about five hours. Now the management companies offer as little as half that. The couple has laid off four appraisers who used to work for them.
 One recent call was about a complex property that would take additional time. Mr. Hartlieb asked for a bigger fee. The response: ''We can get it done faster and for less elsewhere.''
 Mrs. Hartlieb said, ''Buying a house is the largest expense of your life. Don't you want the best professional advice about its value, not the cheapest?''
 Appraisers might be earning less, but consumers are being asked to pay more. The cost of an appraisal is now about $500, up from $400, appraisers say, because of the management companies' share. 
 Moreover, if the goal of the code is to lessen pressure on appraisers, it is not clear that is happening. 
 A memo from U.S. Bancorp, which is based in Minneapolis, was posted recently on Appraisers' Forum, an online discussion group. The memo bluntly urged the lender's appraisers to ''try and get the value we need the first time.'' (A U.S. Bancorp spokeswoman said the memo was ''not an official document.'') 
 In an online poll of 2,250 appraisers by Working RE magazine, half the respondents said they sometimes felt that management companies were ordering them to come up with a value that would make the deal work.
 Banks and appraisal management companies say appraisers can be hypersensitive. ''To some appraisers, the fact that we call you and ask a question is pressure,'' said Mr. Blanchard of Lender Processing Services. 
 Under the code, the role of deciding what is pressure is assigned to a new entity called the Independent Valuation Protection Institute. If appraiser complaints are deemed valid, the institute is supposed to forward them to regulators. 
 Seventeen months after it was announced, the institute has no staff and no appraiser complaint hotline. All that exists is a single Web page. 
 Mr. Callahan, who wrote about the trouble with appraisals during the boom, is dismayed that the problem cannot be fixed even during the bust. 
 ''Appraisers play a key role in keeping real estate transactions honest,'' he said. ''But we as a society have done very little to support them and ensure their independence.''
 Back to Business: This series examines the battles taking place to reshape the financial industry. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Andrea and Terry Hartlieb are real estate appraisers in Fort Collins, Colo. They laid off four appraisers who used to work for them.
 Terry Hartlieb on his way to a home appraisal in Fort Collins, Colo. This year, lenders began controlling the appraisal process.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); HOME PRICES (91%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE APPRAISALS (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); ETHICS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); LOAN BROKERS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (74%); LOBBYING (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (80%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (80%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (80%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT COLLINS, CO, USA (90%) COLORADO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2009



510 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: Sony Drops Price of PlayStation 3 by $100

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
After months of speculation, Sony announced Tuesday that it was dropping the price of its PlayStation 3 game consoles by $100 in hopes of increasing sales ahead of the important holiday season. 
 Sony cut the price of the 80-gigabyte PlayStation 3 to $299, effective immediately. It also cut the price of its 160-gigabyte PlayStation 3 by $100, to $399. 
 And the company said that next month it would release a slimmer, lighter model with a 120-gigabyte hard drive, also priced at $299.
 Sales of the PlayStation 3, which was introduced in 2006 and cost as much as $600 at the time, have fallen behind other game consoles. 
 Last week, the NPD Group, a market research company, reported that American stores sold about 122,000 PlayStation 3 consoles in July, compared with nearly 203,000 Xbox 360 players from Microsoft and more than 252,000 Wii consoles from Nintendo.
 The Wii has been priced at $250 since its release in 2006, while Xbox 360 prices now range from $200 for a simple version with no hard drive to $400 for the most expensive version that comes bundled with games. The basic PS3 model remains more expensive than the least-expensive versions of its counterparts.
 Video game software makers are hoping that Sony's price reductions will help increase game sales. The industry has experienced weak sales this year because of the recession and lackluster game release schedules, which have kept consumers waiting to spend money on new titles.
 Jack Tretton, president and chief executive of Sony Computer Entertainment of America, predicted that the consumer reaction to the reductions would be ''phenomenal.''
 Console sales for the rest of the year will have to be strong, if not exceptional, for the video game industry to end 2009 on a high note. Overall sales this year are down 14 percent in the United States, the NPD Group said.
 Still, analysts anticipate that the business will pick up for the holidays, because many major game releases are planned for the fall. Analysts also expect Nintendo to join the price competition, but it may do so by keeping the price of the Wii console at $250 while including more games.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kazuo Hirai, chief of Sony's game unit, introduced a lighter PlayStation 3 on Tuesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY WOLFGANG von BRAUCHITSCH/BLOOMBERG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE CUTTING (90%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); COMPUTER GAMES (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (88%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (74%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (74%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: SONY CORP (95%); NINTENDO CO LTD (91%); SONY COMPUTER ENTERTAINMENT OF AMERICA INC (66%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%)

TICKER: SON (LSE) (95%); SNE (NYSE) (95%); 6758 (TSE) (95%); 7974 (TSE) (91%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (95%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (95%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (91%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (66%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (66%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2009



511 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Hearing Opens on Lieutenant Governor

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Lawyers for Gov. David A. Paterson faced pointed questions on Tuesday from a state appeals court panel about whether the governor had exceeded his authority when he named Richard Ravitch to the vacant lieutenant governor's post last month.
 Mr. Paterson's lead attorney in the case, Kathleen M. Sullivan, fielded skeptical and at times critical questioning from the justices, who pressed her to explain how Mr. Paterson had the power to appoint a lieutenant governor when the State Constitution gave him no explicit authority to do so. 
 The oral arguments, an animated back-and-forth that went on for more than an hour and a half, was reminiscent at times of an academic political science lecture, with references to Sir Thomas More and ancient Rome.
 At one point, Justice Thomas A. Dickerson said that one of the reasons Mr. Paterson had offered in defense of his action -- that the state needed someone of Mr. Ravitch's experience to help it survive a crippling financial crisis -- was nothing more than an attempt to subvert democracy and impose a ''utopian meritocracy'' on the people of New York.
 ''It strikes me as rather elitist to suggest that the governor's appointment of Mr. Ravitch to be lieutenant governor provides the people with a smarter, more experienced, better person,'' Justice Dickerson said. ''There simply is no authority for your position. None.''
 ''This is not Montana or New Jersey or Florida or any other state where the governor can appoint someone,'' he added.
 Ms. Sullivan responded that while it might be ideal to have an election for a new lieutenant governor, state law does not provide for it. ''We love elections, of course, you're right,'' she said. ''But that doesn't help us when we can't have an election when we have a vacancy.''
 Justice Dickerson quickly cut her off. ''This is a special office, a special office,'' he said. ''There is to be no one who is appointed to take this office.''
 Though the questions the four-judge panel was asked to resolve on Tuesday are relatively straightforward -- whether a lower court's order that barred Mr. Ravitch from exercising the powers of the office should be vacated, and whether the case brought by Republicans seeking to remove Mr. Ravitch should be dismissed -- the underlying constitutional issues have far-reaching implications.
 The case, Skelos v. Paterson, is expected to reach the state's highest court, the Court of Appeals. On Tuesday, one of the justices, Steven W. Fisher, raised the possibility that his panel might accelerate its consideration of the case, bypassing the lower court that has already heard arguments and speeding the case to the Court of Appeals. 
 Justice Fisher said he expected his panel, the Second Department of the Appellate Division in Brooklyn, to rule ''as soon as we possibly can.''
 The case is expected to clarify whether a governor can name a lieutenant governor to fill a vacancy and, in effect, select his own potential successor and presiding officer of the State Senate.
 Indeed, the justices seemed particularly concerned with the possibility that if Mr. Paterson were to leave office or die, an unelected successor of his choosing would become governor.
 ''The governor might resign, take another position, and then the state would be left with a governor never elected to anything,'' Justice Fisher said. ''This would be something that the governor could do at his own discretion.''
 Ms. Sullivan responded that while the outcome might not be palatable to Justice Fisher, it was an outcome that the Constitution allows. ''You may decide it's not a Constitution you like, but it is the Constitution we have,'' she said.
 A central argument by Mr. Paterson's lawyers is that the state's public officers law, which governs the powers, duties and qualifications for government officials in New York, allows governors to fill vacant offices when state law does not specify how the vacancy should be filled.
 But lawyers for Senate Republicans, who brought the case on behalf of Senator Dean G. Skelos, the Republican leader, have argued that Mr. Paterson used a political crisis to seize a power that the Constitution does not give him. 
 ''This is really quite simple,'' David Lewis, Mr. Skelos's lawyer, said during oral arguments. ''We have never done this.''
 He also likened the appointment of Mr. Ravitch to the Roman emperor Caligula's naming of his horse to public office.
 ''It's all well and good to say we now need it,'' Mr. Lewis said. ''But what we do when we need something, when we step aside from the Constitution because we need something, destroys the very document.'' 
 Mr. Paterson has claimed that the combination of a political crisis in Albany and an economic crisis made his actions necessary. When Mr. Paterson named Mr. Ravitch lieutenant governor on July 8, the Senate was deadlocked, 31 to 31, as Democrats and Republicans fought over the majority leader post.
 While the governor has marshaled support in briefs from the New York Civil Liberties Union and watchdog groups like the Citizens Union and Common Cause, some key players in New York politics have disputed his claims.
 Stan Lundine, who was lieutenant governor from 1987 to 1994 under Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, signed a brief supporting Mr. Skelos that reads in part, ''To the extent that there is such a crisis, this does not allow a governor to ignore the State Constitution.'' It concludes, ''While such a course/conduct may be acceptable in totalitarian regimes, it is a truism that it is not acceptable in New York.''
 But former Gov. Hugh L. Carey, in a rare public appearance, attended the arguments on Tuesday in a show of support for Mr. Paterson. ''As far as I'm concerned, this review shouldn't take place,'' he told reporters.
 In closing, Ms. Sullivan urged the court not to reject the naming of a lieutenant governor simply because no other governor had tried to do it. ''Just because the power hasn't been exercised, of course, does not mean the power does not exist,'' she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); SUPREME COURTS (79%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (74%); JUDGES (74%); CLASSICS (69%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (52%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2009



512 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: Adrian DeWind, Tax Expert and Human Rights Watch Founder, Dies at 95

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Adrian W. DeWind, an adviser to presidents and governors on tax law and an influential advocate in the human rights and nuclear nonproliferation movements, died on Aug. 7 at his home in Manhattan. He was 95.
 His death was confirmed by his daughter Penny DeWind.
 For more than 35 years, starting in 1948, Mr. DeWind was a partner and head of the tax law department at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, a New York law firm. But it was his federal government service that first brought him distinction in the field of tax law. 
 In 1951 and 1952, Mr. DeWind was chief counsel to a House Ways and Means subcommittee that found corruption in the Bureau of Internal Revenue, now the Internal Revenue Service. The investigation, which was headline news for months, led to the resignation or dismissal of high-level officials and to a major overhaul of the bureau.
 Mr. DeWind went into government service in 1942 at the behest of Randolph E. Paul, then the general counsel to the Treasury Department, and helped draft legislation for the financing of the war effort. In 1948, Mr. DeWind followed his mentor to what was then known as Paul, Weiss, Wharton & Garrison. (He was counsel to the House subcommittee while a partner at the firm.)
 Over the next 40 years, Mr. DeWind served on tax policy commissions set up by Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson and Govs. Hugh L. Carey and Mario M. Cuomo of New York. In 1976, while Mr. DeWind was president of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York, he headed a task force on taxation for the Municipal Assistance Corporation, set up to steer New York City out of the financial crisis of the 1970s. The task force created a stir when it issued a report saying that the city's tax structure was ''counterproductive, fostering an exodus of business, industry and individuals.''
 But Mr. DeWind's interests extended far beyond tax codes to an extensive list of civic activities. He was chairman of the National Resource Defense Council, a nonprofit group that focuses on environmental issues and arms control, from 1980 to 1992. As chairman of the council, Mr. DeWind signed an agreement in 1986 with the Soviet Academy of Sciences under which American and Soviet scientists established on-site monitoring of nuclear underground testing in both countries.
 ''It showed that the U.S. and Soviet governments could work together on nuclear verification,'' John H. Adams, the council's founding director, said in a telephone interview on Monday, ''and as a direct result of this work, in 1994, Clinton signed a comprehensive test ban treaty with the Soviet Union.''
 Mr. DeWind was also a founder of Human Rights Watch. Kenneth Roth, the organization's executive director, said Mr. DeWind traveled the world to monitor abuses.
 ''He reported on the treatment of dissidents from the Soviet Union to South Korea,'' Mr. Roth said. ''In the late '80s, he went to the highlands of Guatemala in the midst of a brutal government crackdown and reported on the fate of the indigenous population; the government was massacring Mayan villagers.''
 Mr. DeWind also served on the boards of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, the National Coalition Against Censorship and the Lawyers Alliance for Nuclear Arms Control. He taught at the New York University School of Law from 1947 to 1955. 
 Adrian William DeWind was born in Chicago on Dec. 1, 1913, one of two sons of Norman and Ethel DeWind. His father was a mechanical engineer. Mr. DeWind graduated from Grinnell College, in Iowa, in 1934, and from Harvard Law School in 1937.
 Besides his daughter Penny, he is survived by his brother, Norman; another daughter, Susan DeWind; two sons, John and Josh; seven grandchildren; and his companion, Judith Gutman. His wife, the former Joan Mosenthal, a psychiatric social worker who was a founder of an organization devoted to the protection of butterflies and other invertebrates, died in 1997. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX LAW (93%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); TAX CONSULTING (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COMPREHENSIVE TEST BAN TREATY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); DISMISSALS (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: PAUL WEISS RIFKIND WHARTON & GARRISON LLP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (84%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (92%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2009



513 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: MGM, Ousting Its C.E.O., Hires Turnaround Expert

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, crumbling under the weight of a $3.7 billion loan, ousted its chief executive, Harry E. Sloan, on Tuesday in favor of the turnaround expert Stephen F. Cooper, whose most recent chore was guiding the overhaul of Krispy Kreme Doughnuts.
 In a statement, the company said Mr. Cooper, who also ran Enron during its bankruptcy, would ''lead MGM's efforts to evaluate alternatives to improve its balance sheet.'' Translation: Renegotiate our debt, and fast. 
 Once the most powerful studios in Hollywood, MGM has not released a movie since ''Valkyrie'' in December and will release only one film this year, a remake of ''Fame.'' The studio pays about $300 million a year in interest and faces $1 billion in payments in June 2011. The rest of the loan is due the next year. MGM also has a $250 million line of credit that matures in April.
 A spokeswoman said Mr. Cooper, 62, was flying to Los Angeles on Tuesday morning and was unavailable to comment. MGM is owned by a consortium that includes Sony, Comcast, the private equity firm Providence Equity Partners and a handful of other investors.
 Mr. Sloan, a Hollywood veteran who took over the company in 2005 after investing about $15 million of his own money, will no longer be chairman of the board but will retain the title of nonexecutive chairman.
 ''As an investor, I firmly believe that the team will work to bolster MGM's operational and financial strengths during this challenging macroenvironment,'' he said in a statement.
 The management shake-up extended to Mary Parent, chairwoman for the company's motion picture division, and Bedi A. Singh, chief financial officer for the studio. Ms. Parent and Mr. Singh will now share an ''office of the C.E.O.'' with Mr. Cooper.
 Ms. Parent, who came to MGM last year after a successful stint at Universal Pictures, said in an interview that she was happy the entrepreneurial Mr. Sloan was remaining part of the company. At the same time, she sounded relieved to have Mr. Cooper on the way.
 ''I don't have a crystal ball, but I know that we have been given the best shot we could have with Steve,'' she said. ''I'm invigorated and excited and thrilled that he is here. He's here to craft a long-term plan.''
 Ms. Parent emphasized that she would continue to focus on movie production. ''I'm full-full-steam ahead making movies. We've got a real shot.''
 After ''Fame,'' which is slated for release on Sept. 25, MGM has two movies planned for February: a horror picture, ''The Cabin in the Woods,'' and a ribald comedy called ''Hot Tub Time Machine.'' Further out, MGM is working on ''The Zookeeper,'' a romantic comedy about a man who gets help with his love life from animals, and a remake of ''Poltergeist'' as well as the next movie in the James Bond series.
 A bright spot for MGM has been its prized library of old film titles. That unit generated about $500 million in cash in the latest fiscal year. Over all, however, DVD sales have suffered a steep decline in recent months, battered by the recession and a shift to video-on-demand services and rentals.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Harry Sloan stays on as the nonexecutive chairman of MGM.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANN JOHANSSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (89%); FILM (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (75%); PRIVATE EQUITY (71%)

COMPANY: METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER INC (98%); KRISPY KREME DOUGHNUTS INC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%); PROVIDENCE EQUITY PARTNERS INC (55%); UNIVERSAL PICTURES (52%)

TICKER: KKD (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (98%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (98%); NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (58%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (58%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (58%); SIC2051 BREAD & OTHER BAKERY PRODUCTS, EXCEPT COOKIES & CRACKERS (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (55%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (55%)

PERSON: STEPHEN F COOPER (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2009



514 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Judges Overturn Backdating Conviction

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

 BODY:
Citing misconduct by prosecutors, a federal appeals court on Tuesday overturned the conviction of the former chief executive of Brocade Communications Systems on charges related to the illegal backdating of stock options. 
 The court ordered a new trial for Gregory L. Reyes, the former chief executive.
 The sharply worded rebuke by a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in San Francisco upends the first major conviction of a corporate executive in a backdating case. 
 The discovery of widespread backdating at companies, ranging from giants like Apple to small firms like Take-Two Interactive Software, prompted regulators to investigate more than 100 companies. More than a dozen executives have been convicted on criminal charges, and several others have settled. Some cases are still pending, including charges against top executives at Broadcom and KB Home.
 The 2007 conviction of Mr. Reyes on 10 criminal counts, including conspiracy and fraud, surprised Silicon Valley, where some firms routinely used backdating to enhance employee compensation.
 In backdating, a company retroactively changes the listed grant date of options, usually to a day when the stock was at a low price. The practice allows the option recipients to reap greater gains upon exercising the options.
 Backdating in and of itself is not illegal. But accounting rules require the company to record such grants as a noncash expense. Otherwise, companies could greatly inflate their revenue through improper backdating. 
 Studies have shown that backdating was not uncommon. At hundreds of companies, options grants were listed at historical lows for their stock prices -- far too often to have been simple statistical anomalies. 
 Brocade eventually revised its financial statements from 1999 to 2004, with some quarterly profits instead becoming losses. The company, a maker of network storage equipment, paid $167 million to settle separate lawsuits brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission and investors. 
 Mr. Reyes resigned as Brocade's chief executive in 2005 after the company disclosed that it had found accounting irregularities tied to its stock-option grants. His sentence of 21 months in prison and a $15 million fine was seen as an indication of how strongly the courts felt about the severity of backdating as a crime.
 But in a 21-page opinion written by Judge Mary M. Schroeder, the appeals court found that prosecutors had misled the jury by saying that Brocade's finance department did not know that the stock options in question had been improperly recorded in the company's books. Brocade finance employees had actually told investigators that they were aware of the practice.
 ''Deliberate false statements by those privileged to represent the United States harm the trial process and the integrity of our prosecutorial system,'' Judge Schroeder wrote. ''We do not lightly tolerate a prosecutor asserting as a fact to the jury something known to be untrue or, at the very least, that the prosecution had very strong reason to doubt.'' 
 Still, she wrote, the defense lawyers for Mr. Reyes also acted aggressively, and the prosecutor's misconduct was not egregious enough to warrant throwing out the case entirely.
 Jack Gillund, a spokesman for the United States attorney's office in San Francisco, said, ''We are disappointed by the Ninth Circuit's decision, and we are analyzing the court's opinion.'' 
 Prosecutors could ask a larger appeals panel to reconsider the case, retry Mr. Reyes, or drop the charges. 
 Richard Marmaro, a lawyer for Mr. Reyes, wrote in an e-mail message, ''We're elated by the court's decision.'' He declined further comment.
 Henry Klehm III, a corporate governance lawyer at the law firm Jones Day who was not involved in the case, said the appeals court's decision was written narrowly to address the specific issue of prosecutorial misconduct in this case, and that the opinion otherwise described the case against Mr. Reyes as valid.
 ''While the prosecutor made a bad mistake in closing arguments, the court found the case overall to be strong and sent the case for a new trial,'' he said. 
 But the case against Mr. Reyes was complicated, with the jury taking seven days to deliberate. Making the prosecution's job harder was that Mr. Reyes did not benefit directly from the backdating, although the value of his own holdings grew artificially because Brocade did not properly expense the options in question.
 The case of Mr. Reyes took several twists and turns. One Brocade employee, Elizabeth Moore, recanted her testimony that the finance department was unaware of the backdating.
 In its Tuesday ruling, the appeals court also upheld the conviction of Stephanie Jensen, Brocade's former vice president for human resources, but ordered her to be resentenced.
 Last year, she was sentenced to four months in prison and given a $1.25 million fine for helping Mr. Reyes in the backdating scheme, but the court found that the trial judge had improperly enhanced her sentence because of actions by her defense attorney.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 21, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about the overturning on appeal of the conviction of Gregory L. Reyes, former chief executive of Brocade Communications Systems, on charges relating to the illegal backdating of stock options misstated the reason for an accounting rule that requires the options be recorded as a noncash expense. The rule is to guard against the possible inflation of a company's profit, not its revenue.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gregory L. Reyes, the former chief executive of Brocade Communications Systems, and Stephanie Jensen, a human resources executive.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAUL SAKUMA/A.P.)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); MISCONDUCT (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); BACKDATED STOCK OPTIONS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); CRIMINAL FINES (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); SENTENCING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); JUDGES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); SECURITIES LAW (75%); LEGAL ETHICS (73%); CONSPIRACY (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%)

COMPANY: TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE INC (71%); BROCADE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS INC (58%); KB HOME CORP (56%); BROADCOM CORP (56%)

TICKER: TTWO (NASDAQ) (71%); BRCD (NASDAQ) (58%); KBH (NYSE) (56%); BRCM (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (71%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (71%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (58%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (56%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (56%)

PERSON: MARY M SCHROEDER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (72%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2009



515 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Laurels? Western Democrats Talk Momentum

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
When President Obama won three Western states in last year's election -- Colorado, Nevada and New Mexico -- Democrats were quick to proclaim that this region, long identified with Republicans, was undergoing a transformation. And when Western Democratic leaders gathered in Denver last week to take stock of where the party stood, there was cause for optimism.
 In 2000, Democrats held three Senate seats in what is known as the New West -- the eight Western states that are not along the Pacific. Today, there are seven Democratic senators from the region. There are also 17 Democratic representatives in the House, up from six in 2000. And Democrats went from having no governors in 2000 in this part of the country to five in 2008; one, Janet Napolitano of Arizona, has since joined Mr. Obama's cabinet and was replaced by a Republican. 
 ''This is happening in real time,'' said Jill Hanauer, president of Project New West, the organizer of the gathering of Western Democratic leaders who met here to discuss how to consolidate the party's gains. 
 For all that, even party leaders say it is far too early to declare the West the New East. That Western Democrats even called the meeting reflects their concern that their gains are fragile and that the party needs to expand its appeal to Western voters, who have historically been estranged from a Democratic Party that long drew its primary influences from other parts of the country.
 ''Western Democrats have enjoyed stunning successes over the last three years,'' said Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, whose aides were involved in arranging the conference. ''But this is no time to rest on our laurels. That is why we are here in Denver.''
 Mr. Reid did not mention it, but Mr. Obama's first months in office -- with his economic stimulus package, his ambitious health care proposal and especially his energy bill -- have not made the party's task any easier. Indeed, some Western Democrats are concerned that all the activity in Washington will fuel the image of Democrats as advocates of big government, not a particularly helpful association in this part of the country.
 Two questions hanging over the conference were how long lasting the gains would be and whether Democrats might have hit a ceiling. Mr. Obama's aides, who last year singled out the West as increasingly favorable ground for him, are well aware of this. 
 That is one reason Mr. Obama spent last weekend visiting four Western states -- holding town-hall-style meetings to discuss his health care proposal, visiting two national parks and spending a few hours trout fishing with Jim Messina, his deputy chief of staff, who grew up in Montana and Idaho and is an outdoors enthusiast. And it is why Mr. Obama's cabinet contains a fair representation of Westerners, including Ken Salazar, a former senator from Colorado, as interior secretary, a job that touches directly on the concerns of many people in the region.
 The changes in this part of the country reflect the large growth in population -- particularly in Nevada and Arizona -- including a big jump in Hispanic voters, who have increasingly been in the Democratic camp. This has resulted in changes that were evident in all the Democratic elected officials on hand, from members of Congress and governors to members of state legislatures, where Democrats have also posted gains.
 ''Remember 2003?'' said Representative John Salazar of Colorado, Ken Salazar's brother. ''In 2003, when I announced I was running from Colorado's Third District and traveling in Mesa County, I was looking for a few Democrats. And I encountered three.''
 Mr. Salazar won that election in 2004 and is now serving his third term in Congress. 
 Mr. Messina noted that in the 2004 presidential election, the Democratic nominee, Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, did not win any of the 44 electoral votes in the New West against President George W. Bush. By contrast, Mr. Obama won 19 of those votes in 2008. 
 Mr. Messina asserted that Mr. Obama would also have won Arizona had he not been running against Senator John McCain of Arizona, a claim many Republicans privately agree with. And Mr. McCain won Montana by just three percentage points. Mr. Messina argued that both Arizona and Montana would be in play if Mr. Obama ran for re-election in 2012.
 ''We are on the move here,'' Mr. Messina said, ''and we are making substantial gains in part because we learned how to talk the right politics -- and in part because we showed up.''
 Mr. Messina argued that while Democrats faced challenges here, they were in a position to consolidate and expand on the gains they had made. Beyond expressing confidence about their chances in Montana and Arizona in the 2012 presidential race, Democrats expect that Congressional redistricting after 2010 will add four House seats in the West.
 ''And those seats will be in play,'' Mr. Messina said. ''You look at where we made inroads, and there are still more inroads to make.''
 ''We're not saying the West is Democratic,'' he said. ''They are by definition purple. They are swing states. You have to have an ongoing battle to win them.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A protester in Montana. Some Democrats worry that President Obama's early agenda may curb the party's appeal in the West. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANNE SHERWOOD/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); NATIONAL PARKS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JANET NAPOLITANO (58%); HARRY REID (58%); JIM MESSINA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (92%) WEST USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2009



516 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: Go to Aisle 2 for a Good Dressing-Down

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON

 BODY:
YOU know things are really bad at retail when even Trinny and Susannah have put the brakes on their personal shopping.
 People, we are talking about Trinny Woodall and Susannah Constantine here. These two slavishly stylish women have built a mini-empire in England out of television programs and books based on their ability to coax even the dowdiest of fashion-phobes into the mall for a new set of clothes, while simultaneously delivering waspishly cutting remarks about their wardrobes. They are the Patsy and Edina of the makeover genre.
 And still, Ms. Constantine was saying on Tuesday, ''I've got a husband who says you cannot spend any more money on clothes, and a partner who says you've got to consider our image.'' An angel and a devil were sitting on the cap shoulders of her white Prada dress (which was ancient, by the way, with the bodice unbuttoned and a bad tear on the left sleeve). She hadn't bought anything new in months, she said, not even while filming a new makeover series, their first set in America. Ms. Woodall, also in Prada (also many years old and, if my eyes were not mistaken, bearing the hint of a red-wine stain at the waist), confessed that she has scaled back her purchases by 80 percent. 
 It's like Karl Lagerfeld giving up Diet Coke: too implausible to contemplate.
 So we went shopping. I met Ms. Woodall and Ms. Constantine at the Zara store on Fifth Avenue and 42nd Street. They are an intimidating pair, unafraid to cause offense with zingers that would make a drag queen blush. Ms. Constantine, blond and busty and, frankly, impertinent, gave me the once over, pointing to my hair, ''straight''; my blazer, ''straight''; my shoes, ''straight''; and then a serpentine gold band I wear on my right middle finger, ''gaaaaaay.'' With that cleared up, I was granted permission to enter the dressing room with the gals, an honor bestowed only upon men of honorable intention and negligible interest. 
 And what a sight that was. There, in a corner, was Sarah Jampol-Auerbach, a 25-year-old New Yorker who sells Broadway comedy-club tickets in Times Square, one of those people on the sidewalk who's always asking, ''Do you like comedy?'' Ms. Jampol-Auerbach, standing under at least 15 outfits that were hanging from the walls, hooks and curtains, looked shellshocked. She had been approached by the producers of the new show (''Making Over America With Trinny and Susannah,'' beginning Friday on TLC) to serve as guinea pig for an upcoming segment of ''Live! With Regis and Kelly'' to promote the long-awaited arrival of Ms. Woodall and Ms. Constantine in America. 
 ''I think I'm high,'' Ms. Jampol-Auerbach said. There was a leopard-print dress on the floor. ''I'm still kind of thinking, 'What did I just do?' ''
 Ms. Woodall, the taller, flat-chested one (her breast obsession is a running gag on the show, which she repeated here, noting, ''It's so much easier to shop if one is flat-chested''), whisked Ms. Jampol-Auerbach, who, it was determined, needed a new bra, out of the dressing room. British tourists were lining up to have their pictures taken with the duo. I asked Ms. Constantine how they determine what is wrong with a subject's clothes so quickly.
 ''I guess it's like a doctor diagnosing swine flu or common cold,'' she said. ''For the majority of women, we can pick out an outfit without her trying it on.''
 American audiences may not be accustomed to the directness of Ms. Woodall and Ms. Constantine, who are the hosts of the original British version of ''What Not to Wear'' that began in 2001. This country's version of that show, starring Clinton Kelly and Stacy London, approaches its makeover subjects with a gentle caress, whereas Ms. Woodall and Ms. Constantine pull neither punches nor slaps. The first episode of ''Making Over America'' demonstrates Ms. Constantine's fondness for a hands-on inspection of a woman's dimensions, Ms. Woodall's impressive range of unprintable synonyms for breasts, and both women's unsparing fashion judgments, which always seem to sound more withering when delivered with a British accent:
 ''You've worn a T-shirt that immediately says 'Look at my thighs,' '' Ms. Woodall tells Jennifer Staggs, a cheerleading coach, in that episode.
 ''I would probably say you are a brick shape,'' Ms. Constantine tells her.
 ''You're between a brick and a cello,'' Ms. Woodall adds.
 There was some concern at TLC that they might be too much, said Dean Slotar, the executive producer, who has worked on the British and American versions. ''But in the end,'' he said, ''we had no bad responses from the subjects. I think it's now O.K. to touch women's breasts on American television.'' Still, TLC bleeped some of those synonyms.
 You might call Ms. Woodall and Ms. Constantine ruthless, but they are not heartless, as they typically address their subjects' underlying body issues and attempt to rebuild their confidence, beginning with more flattering clothes. And they are well aware that the recession is having a profound impact on the way consumers, including themselves, are relating to their wardrobes. They have become proponents of recycling by restyling and even mentioned value.
 ''I'm 45,'' Ms. Woodall said. ''For the first time, when I'm buying something, I'm thinking it either has to be instant grat or something I can wear when I'm 60. The things I was wasting the most money on were in between.''
 Ms. Constantine added, ''The recession has been good for us because we've had to be much more creative.''
 This brings us back to Ms. Jampol-Auerbach, who still needed a new bra, so we headed to Bloomingdale's.
 On the fourth floor, Ms. Constantine took a deep look down Ms. Jampol-Auerbach's pink T-shirt, then turned her around, lifted it from behind and pulled the strap of her bra back by about a foot to demonstrate its ill fit. This was on the sales floor. 
 Ms. Constantine selected a few styles for her to try on. I was called back into the dressing room to gauge Ms. Jampol-Auerbach's progress. She was standing in a black lace bra and Spanx, and, honestly, what crossed my mind was how much nicer the women's dressing room was than the men's. It was like a scene out of ''The Women.'' 
 ''You can look at a woman's breasts and you see whether they go outwards or downwards,'' Ms. Constantine said. ''It depends on how gravity is treating them for picking a bra.''
 Earlier Ms. Jampol-Auerbach had acknowledged that she had no interest in fashion but that she had learned important lessons during her time under the Trinny and Susannah microscope: how much appearances can change perceptions and how small changes can make a difference. ''You don't need to spend a lot of money on clothes,'' she said. ''You can be smart about it.''
 Even Ms. Woodall and Ms. Constantine were moved to buy. Ms. Constantine selected a camisole from Yummie Tummie made with a stretch panel at the waist, and Ms. Woodall had a handful of lace Hanky Panky thongs in colors that are evidently hard to find elsewhere. Ms. Jampol-Auerbach selected a style from Elle Macpherson's intimates collection. 
 ''I've never heard of her before,'' she said. 
 Actually, she had never been inside Bloomingdale's, and I had never been inside the women's changing room at Bloomingdale's, so it is fair to say that, thanks to Ms. Woodall and Ms. Constantine, we had each gained a new perspective on shopping. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NEW IN TOWN: Susannah Constantine, left, and Trinny Woodall with British tourists. (pg.E1)
 SHOPPING ELECTRO-THERAPY: If Trinny and Susannah didn't take Manhattan by storm, they did cause a small one giving Sarah Jampol-Auerbach (in pink below) a makeover. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH HANER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); PERSONAL SHOPPER SERVICES (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); CRIME CLEARANCE RATES (70%)

PERSON: REGIS PHILBIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); ENGLAND (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



517 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: Deal on Names Cracks Secrecy At Swiss Banks

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING; Julia Werdigier contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In the latest setback to Switzerland's tradition of banking secrecy, UBS, one of the nation's largest banks, agreed on Wednesday to turn over information on more than 4,400 American clients suspected by the Internal Revenue Service of using Swiss accounts for tax evasion.
 The agreement is likely to unnerve American customers of UBS who do not know if their names will be divulged, and could deter others from opening Swiss accounts in the future. 
 Whether the deal will change the Swiss banking industry's culture of secrecy remains to be seen. Smaller Swiss banks say they are confident that they can blunt its effects and continue to profit by finding new, more elaborate ways to protect the privacy of clients. But American authorities have made clear that their pursuit of tax evaders will not stop at UBS. 
 The 4,450 accounts at UBS that are covered under the new agreement held over $18 billion at one point, according to the I.R.S. commissioner, Douglas Shulman, who called the deal ''a major step forward in piercing the veil of bank secrecy.'' 
 UBS will give the names to the Swiss tax authority, which will forward them to the I.R.S. Under a new tax treaty with Switzerland, it could take more than a year for most of the names to be disclosed. In coming weeks the bank will start to notify clients, who can appeal the disclosure in Swiss courts.
 It is not clear how UBS will decide which clients to unmask, though American officials have said that they are interested only in the biggest accounts -- some containing hundreds of millions of dollars -- and accounts that made use of offshore entities and sham corporations.
 The agreement is another victory for the I.R.S. and the Justice Department in the long-running case against UBS, which in February paid $780 million and admitted to criminal wrongdoing in selling offshore banking services that enabled tax evasion. Larger Swiss banks like UBS and Credit Suisse have curtailed banking services for wealthy Americans in response to the increased scrutiny.
 Some smaller, centuries-old private Swiss banks, however, are stepping up their efforts to attract American money, given the importance of foreign clients to the nation's financial institutions. 
 Executives at smaller Swiss banks and trade groups say they are increasingly working with Swiss financial and legal companies to set up offshore entities as a way to shield assets from prying regulatory eyes. They have also been reassuring clients that their accounts will remain confidential.
 Sebastian Dovey, a managing partner at Scorpio Partnership, a wealth consulting firm in London, said that ''we have not seen huge amounts of movement'' of American money out of Swiss banks.
 The current penalty for this type of failure to disclose assets is up to 50 percent of the highest annual balance of each account for each of the last three years -- an amount that can quickly wipe out an investor and still leave him owing taxes and interest. 
 Investors who come forward before Sept. 23 face a reduced penalty, of 5 percent to 20 percent, depending in part on whether the wealth was inherited. They will also be hit with the penalty just once, on the highest balance in the accounts during the last six years.
 The Justice Department has opened criminal investigations of 150 UBS clients, and is likely to bring more indictments on top of the four it brought in recent months. Only clients who are prosecuted are likely to have their names become public.
 The landmark settlement is expected to provide a road map for the I.R.S. as it tries to clamp down on tax evasion by Americans who use offshore accounts.
 Smaller Swiss banks are still helping clients hide billions of dollars through complex structures in offshore havens in the Caribbean, Panama, Luxembourg, Singapore and Guernsey in the English Channel. The crackdown is casting a spotlight on the network of lawyers, accountants and advisers who help underpin the Swiss private banking industry by steering clients to such banks.
 An American official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly, said this week that the Justice Department was preparing criminal cases against some of the Swiss agents and intermediaries who set up offshore entities for clients and funnel their money to private banks. They take a referral fee in the process -- sometimes up to 50 percent, according to a former UBS private banker. 
 A little-known I.R.S. program, the Offshore Identification Unit, is helping to build a map of this world. It recently began tracking all disclosures of wealthy Americans who, unnerved by the UBS situation, have come forward to declare their assets and account details, often naming the private banks and intermediaries they used. 
 Glimpses of the network were revealed last month when one UBS client, Jeffrey P. Chernick, of Stanfordville, N.Y., pleaded guilty to criminal charges of evading taxes on $8 million he put into UBS accounts in the Cayman Islands and Zurich. Mr. Chernick worked with and received advice from a Swiss lawyer and a bank executive at a small private bank in Zurich, neither of them UBS employees, according to court records. 
 Many intermediaries still extol the advantages of Swiss accounts, including Swiss political and economic stability, its European base and its high level of client service -- and the fact that Switzerland has not traditionally considered tax evasion to be a crime.
 Micheloud & Cie, which has offices in Lausanne and other Swiss cities, offers to help clients set up accounts at the biggest private banks in Switzerland. Its Web site describes such accounts as ''the ultimate symbol of wealth, personal achievement and privacy,'' and advises clients on how to set up numbered accounts with code names like ''Octopussy'' and ''Cello.'' 
 The firm says it will not accept clients who are citizens of various countries that it considers undesirable, including Albania, Uzbekistan, Nigeria -- and now the United States. But it also assures prospective clients that ''Swiss bank secrecy is not lifted for tax evasion, even upon the request of a foreign government.'' 
 Other countries have also pressured Switzerland in recent months for names of suspected tax cheats, including Germany and Italy. The attention has left Swiss bankers perturbed about demands that they ensure that their clients pay their taxes.
 ''The American authorities are trying to use the banks as guardians of the clients' conscience, which is not really what we're here for,'' said Michel Y. Derobert, secretary general of the Swiss Private Bankers Association in Geneva, a trade group of traditional private banks. ''Priests are better for that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Swiss president, Hans-Rudolf Merz, center, with Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf, the justice minister, right, and Micheline Calmy-Rey, the foreign minister, in Bern on Wednesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PASCAL LAUENER/REUTERS)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAX FRAUD (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TAX TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); SHELL CORPORATIONS (63%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (92%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (58%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (92%); UBS (NYSE) (92%); CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERN, SWITZERLAND (78%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) UNITED STATES (95%); SWITZERLAND (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



518 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: Seattle Mayor Is Trailing in the Early Primary Count

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: SEATTLE 

 BODY:
The earthquake that damaged the elevated highway running between this city's glassy downtown and its waterfront happened in 2001, the same year Greg Nickels was elected mayor. Eight years later, after several seismic studies and two complicated terms in office, it remains unclear what will become of the old road -- and of the mayor.
 On Wednesday, Mr. Nickels, a Democrat who has become prominent nationally for his support of environmental issues, was in danger of losing his bid for a third term as early returns in a mayoral primary here showed 75 percent of voters saying they wanted someone else. 
 Ballots were still being received in the vote-by-mail race but with more than half counted, Mr. Nickels, who raised and spent far more money than his competitors, was running a close third among seven candidates. Only the top two finishers advance to the general election in November.
 Perhaps the most surprising of the top two early leaders was Mike McGinn, a neighborhood activist and local Sierra Club leader who built his low-cost campaign around opposition to one of the mayor's signature accomplishments, an agreement finalized in January to replace the earthquake-damaged freeway. The $4.2 billion plan, approved by the state, would open downtown to Elliott Bay and views of the Olympic Mountains by demolishing the 56-year-old highway, called the Alaskan Way Viaduct, and building a two-deck tunnel. 
 Mr. McGinn, who favors replacing the viaduct with a less expensive surface-level boulevard and expanded transit services, has won support from both fiscal conservatives and environmentalists.
 ''Seattle citizens are very leery of big expensive projects like this,'' Peter Steinbrueck, a former city councilman whose family has a long history in local politics, said of the tunnel. In an advisory vote in 2007, Seattle voters strongly rejected a version of the tunnel proposal. The long vulnerable viaduct, damaged by the magnitude 6.8 earthquake centered about 40 miles southwest of Seattle, remains open.
 Yet while Mr. McGinn, who raised about $80,000 compared with about $560,000 raised by Mr. Nickels, has benefited by using the tunnel issue against the mayor, Mr. Nickels's poor showing had to do with issues ''much deeper and broader'' than a single controversy, Mr. Steinbrueck said. Mr. Steinbrueck noted that Mr. Nickels was not regarded as particularly personable and that he had struggled to retain support among the city's active neighborhoods groups, many of whom viewed him as too supportive of downtown growth. 
 ''He has never been a popular mayor,'' Mr. Steinbrueck said.
 Mr. Nickels, the current president of the United States Conference of Mayors, has emphasized his environmental positions in making his name nationally, including leading an effort to have cities reduce their carbon emissions. Yet he has struggled at home on several fronts recently. 
 When record snow fell on Seattle last December, the hilly city was paralyzed for days as major streets went without plowing at the peak of the holiday shopping season. The other vote leader so far, Joe Mallahan, an executive with T-Mobile who has little political experience, has used the storm response as part of his argument that the mayor is an ineffective manager. 
 Sandeep Kaushik, a spokesman for the Nickels campaign, blamed broader concerns about the economy for the mayor's poor showing and said the campaign was ''cautiously optimistic'' that he would survive the primary. 
 Mr. Kaushik also rejected the idea that Mr. Nickels had been indifferent to critics in the viaduct and other debates.
 Instead, Mr. Kaushik said, ''This is one of the things that Mayor Nickels has done differently: He has said it's important to have that discussion and debate, but once that has taken place, we need to make a decision and move forward.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Greg Nickels of Seattle was hugged by supporters Tuesday after he thanked them and his opponents in the primary.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN BERNER/SEATTLE TIMES, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); POLITICS (75%); EMISSIONS (71%); CONSERVATISM (68%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (67%); APPROVALS (66%); US PRESIDENTS (50%); MOUNTAINS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (96%) WASHINGTON, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



519 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Education; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Adding Layers of Skills to a Science Background

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
In good times or bad, the pace of technological change never seems to let up. This relentless engine of innovation, economists agree, is the wellspring of the nation's long-run prosperity. But it presents a daunting challenge to science and technology professionals who are trying to stay ahead, seeking a career that is unlikely to become outsourced, automated or obsolete. 
 The sour economy has only intensified those pressures. So colleges across the country are reporting a surge in applications since last fall, up as much as 50 percent, for continuing education programs intended for people with science and engineering backgrounds. The offerings, in classroom settings and online, range from short courses of a few days to graduate degree programs that span years. 
Some students want refresher courses, educators say, but most are trying to broaden their appeal by adding business and communications skills or by learning how to apply their technical talents in promising fields like renewable energy, transportation and health care.
 ''Technical expertise by itself is not sufficient, and that is more true now than it has ever been,'' said Bhaskar Pant, executive director of professional programs at Massachusetts Institute of Technology's school of engineering.
 The technology workers most in demand in the future, according to James E. Spohrer, a researcher and director of university programs for I.B.M., will be ''T-shaped people.'' Such people, Mr. Spohrer explains, possess a deep knowledge in one technical discipline topped off by a wide portfolio of skills, from project management to industry expertise, that makes them more valuable to employers.
 Katherine Heningburg, 28, an electrical engineer at General Dynamics in Scottsdale, Ariz., wants to become one of those broadly skilled technologists. Ms. Heningburg, who designs computer circuits for communications systems, is taking online courses from Arizona State University to earn both a master's degree in engineering and an M.B.A.
 The added skills, she said, should prepare her to lead project teams, a step into management. ''My goal is to bridge the gap between the business and technical side,'' Ms. Heningburg said. ''And this will give me the ammunition I need to be marketable within my company, in my industry and beyond.''
 In many schools, hybrid courses that apply computing to business problems are increasingly popular among continuing education students. These blended courses are in new academic niches like knowledge services, data analytics and services science, which combines technology with business processes. These hybrid disciplines apply computing to businesses as diverse as online advertising and food distribution.
 ''All the business knowledge and data analytics is further up the economic ladder than pure technology alone,'' said Ram Akella, a professor of information systems and technology management at the University of California, Santa Cruz. ''That work is not going to go offshore.''
 Sometimes, a return to school is a smart way to restart a science career. That was the motivation for Mark Spencer, 53, when last fall he began M.I.T.'s Career Re-engineering Program. 
 Mr. Spencer has a Ph.D. in chemistry and for more than a decade was a scientist at NASA's Ames Research Center in Moffett Field, Calif., specializing in atmospheric chemistry and climate modeling. But in 1995, Mr. Spencer, an avid amateur photographer, decided to pursue a long-held desire to try another career. He moved back to his home state, Massachusetts, and set up a photography studio.
 MR. Spencer did well for years, as both the owner of a small business and as a photographer, winning a string of professional awards. Yet, he explained, the intellectual stimulation of photography waned over time, and the deep recession reduced sales of his business by 40 percent.
 So Mr. Spencer immersed himself in courses at M.I.T. two days a week last fall and, as part of the program, started an internship this year at a technology and research firm, Agiltron. One division of the company does contract work for the government, and shortly after he arrived Mr. Spencer was asked to help prepare a contract proposal on deadline. He was hired the next day, well before the M.I.T program was over.
 ''I didn't get my full money's worth,'' he joked.
 Mr. Spencer said he found the M.I.T. course work useful and stimulating. But like others, Mr. Spencer also pointed to the networking benefits of rejoining a university community and the value of the program as a sign to employers that you are motivated and willing to make an entrepreneurial investment in yourself.
 ''If my resume started by saying I had run a photography studio for the last 15 years, there's no way I would have gotten in the door,'' Mr. Spencer said. ''Having that M.I.T program at the top of the resume really was crucial.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CHANGE OF FOCUS Mark Spencer, who has a doctorate in chemistry, left NASA to be a photographer, then refreshed his credentials at M.I.T. so he could return to the technology field. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); ONLINE SCHOOLS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); DISTANCE LEARNING (76%); OUTSOURCING (76%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (75%); EXECUTIVES (71%); COMPUTER BASED TRAINING (70%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (69%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (69%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%)

TICKER: GD (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (53%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



520 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Education; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: For Outsiders, Opening Doors To Health Care

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
Health care may be a costly drag on the economy, but it's still a great place to find a job. 
 Midcareer managers and other workers have been migrating to health care jobs for years, of course. Now, with the recession, the lure is even stronger. Hospitals, which employ more than four million people, added 135,000 jobs last year and 19,400 more in the first half of 2009, even as millions of American workers wound up unemployed.
''The demand for talented leaders in health care is only going to go up,'' predicted Jane Groves, a senior vice president at Integrated Healthcare Strategies, an executive search and consulting firm in Kansas City, Mo. ''All that demand can't and shouldn't be filled by people already working in health care.'' 
 Frank Pinkowsky worked as a manager at DuPont for 24 years before taking a position as senior vice president for human resources at the Guthrie Clinic in Sayre, Pa. ''Don't underestimate the value of what you learned working for someone else,'' he advised. 
 Colin Ward, a 37-year-old Baltimore hospital executive, also successfully switched careers, leaving ESPN after eight years of producing sports broadcasts. ''I felt like I wanted to be contributing in some other way,'' he said. 
 After 11 months of graduate classes in the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health and a year as a paid apprentice at a Baltimore hospital, he had a master's degree in health science and management. 
 Mr. Ward stayed at the hospital, Lifebridge Health, for three more years and in 2007 moved to his current post at the Greater Baltimore Medical Center in Towson, Md., as director of corporate strategy. Still a big sports fan, he produces Ravens football games for WBAL radio on weekends. 
 The Hopkins school, which also offers a three-year master's of public health degree, is the largest of dozens of accredited graduate and undergraduate programs in hospital management. Many managers with experience in fields like human resources, finance and marketing find a welcome in health care, with a little studying up. Online courses, books, journals and professional magazines provide material.
 The American College of Healthcare Executives, based in Chicago, offers several online pages of career tips, including a two-year-old salary summary at www.ache.org. The Association of University Programs in Health Administration also lists contact information for many schools at www.aupha.org.
 ''We just recently recruited a vice president for human resources from the supermarket industry,'' said Mike A. Helm, a senior executive at Sutter Health, a hospital chain with 45,000 employees in Northern California. Sutter hires 20 to 30 executives a year. 
 Health care does, of course, have its own jargon and a host of complex challenges. Managers have to know how to deal with doctors, nurses and professional groups, as well as with regulators. 
 ''There are tons and tons of regulations, and the burden is growing,'' said Dr. Steven A. Wartman, president of the Association of Academic Health Centers, a nonprofit group whose members are both research and health sciences universities that include hospitals. 
 The Obama administration's $19 billion 10-year campaign to promote electronic medical records opens another huge opportunity, said Dr. Blackford Middleton, a technology research expert at Partners Healthcare in Boston. An estimated 40,000 to 160,000 additional health information professionals could be needed, he said. 
 Dr. Middleton is helping to develop an executive education course at the nonprofit American Medical Informatics Association and a certificate course at the Harvard School of Public Health. online, and the National Library of Medicine at the National Institutes of Health sponsors some informatics fellowships.
 The industry trade association, known as Himss for the Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society, offers an array of online courses that can help technology workers move into health care. Last month, Himss established its eLearning Academy, which, it says, ''offers round-the-clock, on-demand access,'' allowing students to work at their own pace on subjects like clinician-focused use of information technology, I.T. customer service to the health care user, and health care I.T. strategic planning.
 James Platts, 30, chose a more formal academic setting for his training in health care management and completed the joint master's program in business and public health at the University of California, Berkeley. He now works on health-related projects in the San Francisco office of the Boston Consulting Group. 
 He came to Berkeley in 2006 from the White House, where he was a junior-level staff member at the National Economic Council for two years. A Harvard graduate in economics, he also put in two years at Nasdaq, studying financial and economic data. 
 ''I thought it would be fun and interesting from a health care perspective to live in California for a few years,'' Mr. Platts said, referring to California's large-scale health care issues and solutions. 
 Graduates of the Berkeley program are hired at an ''average salary somewhat over $100,000,'' said Kristi Raube, director of the joint health management program there. Tuition has tripled since 2007, to $35,893 for California residents and $45,093 for out-of-state students pursuing the joint master's degree. 
 ''Of course, nobody knows what will happen with health reform,'' Dr. Wartman noted. One possibility could be pressure to cut costs by freezing hiring and squeezing out management jobs at hospitals and health insurers. 
 But, he said, ''there is a very strong push to cover more people, with a lot of implications for growth in the health care work force.'' Other drivers of growth, Dr. Wartman said, include ''the continued march of science and technology, as well as uninvited developments such as new diseases.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A NEW ARENA: Colin Ford, director of corporate strategy at the Greater Baltimore Medical Center, chats with Eileen Shearer, a nurse. A former ESPN producer, Mr. Ford took graduate courses in public health before changing fields. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAY PAUL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: RECESSION RESISTANT: Hospitals added over 156,000 jobs between December 2007 and June 2009. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); HUMAN RESOURCES (89%); SPORTS (87%); SPORTS & RECREATION (87%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (74%); ACCREDITATION (72%); DISTANCE LEARNING (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); ONLINE SCHOOLS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (65%); SPORTS FANS (65%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (65%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (64%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (62%)

COMPANY: SUTTER HEALTH (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8069 SPECIALTY HOSPITALS EX. PSYCHIATRIC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (92%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%) MARYLAND, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



521 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ENTREPRENEURIAL EDGE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: Angel Investors Become a Little Less So

BYLINE: By JAMES FLANIGAN. 
This column about small-business trends in California and the West appears on the third Thursday of every month. E-mail: jamesflanigan@nytimes.com

 BODY:
ENTREPRENEURSHIP is as vibrant as ever in the American economy, but the capital that finances new companies is still in retreat. Venture capital is running at the lowest levels in more than a decade, and angel investors, who invest in far smaller companies than venture capital funds do, are holding back, too. 
 The reasons for the cutbacks begin with the recession. Angel investors -- typically individuals with more than $1 million who join together to back start-up companies -- have seen their net worth decline. And these days, many angels find they need to offer additional support to companies they've backed in previous years, rather than take on new commitments. 
 Then too, payoffs seem farther away. ''The exit strategies are more difficult, public offerings are really not available, and acquisitions of small companies by large ones are fewer these days,'' said Alfred E. Osborne Jr., senior associate dean of the Anderson School of Management at the University of California, Los Angeles, and a founder of its entrepreneurship program. 
 The clouded environment has not dampened the energy of people wanting to start a business, but it has caused some angel groups to take a look at the cost of coaching entrepreneurs and listening to their pitches. Some groups have started levying fees on entrepreneurs for guidance on finance and introductions to sources of capital. 
 For example, FundingPost.com, a network of venture and angel investors, holds meetings between entrepreneurs and investors, charging for the get-togethers and for prepping entrepreneurs in the art of presenting their stories to venture and angel groups. 
 Recently, FundingPost held its first event in Los Angeles and drew more than 100, including 16 angel and venture investors and 18 hopeful entrepreneurs, who paid $350 for a two-hour tutorial. Start-up companies that wished to make a 20-minute presentation at the meeting had to pay $2,000. 
 ''The fees go toward salaries for the staff, legal fees, accounting, etc.,'' said Joe Rubin, a director of the company, which is based in New York. 
 John Babcock of Rustic Canyon Partners, an early-stage venture capital company in Santa Monica, Calif., didn't find any attractive prospects at the session and was not pleased that entrepreneurs were charged. ''You shouldn't have and don't need to pay to talk to me,'' Mr. Babcock said. 
 But John Stefani, chief executive of the Zipz Shoes Company in Irvine, Calif., was happy to pay $350 for the event. He met potential investors and was later contacted by two angels, including a representative of the Fat Cat Club, a group based in Dallas of 100 angels who meet quarterly to review investments in start-up firms.
 Zipz Shoes got its start at a family barbecue, Mr. Stefani explained, when one mother mentioned that her children changed clothes often and wanted shoes to match their outfits. That barbecue was six years ago, and Mr. Stefani and three other family members -- his father, Jerry, a retired entrepreneur in flooring and carpeting businesses; John Stefani's brother Brian; and his sister Terri -- invested $100,000 to develop interchangeable shoe tops put on by zippers so styles can be changed frequently.
 ''We made some mistakes along the way,'' said John Stefani, ''but now we have the product right, and we know it's ready for broad commercial distribution.'' The family's investment has grown to $1.5 million, and they want to raise $1 million to $2 million more to support commercial marketing of the zippered shoes. 
 Maverick Angels is another group that charges for its support. John Dilts organized Maverick Angels three years ago in Westlake Village, Calif., a community straddling Los Angeles and Ventura Counties. His idea was that start-up companies would benefit from training and guidance and that angel investors would benefit from vigorous due diligence of potential investments.
 Accordingly, Maverick charges entrepreneurial applicants $495 for eight-hour ''boot camps'' and, after some preliminary screenings, charges them another $1,000 each for introductions to the angel investors. The fees ''cover expenses of 60 to 90 days of due diligence and preparation of the companies,'' Mr. Dilts, a former Silicon Valley patent lawyer, explained. Maverick Angels has 25 members and is forming new chapters.
 One company that received help from the Maverick model is Voice Genesis, which developed an application that allows cellphone users to check e-mail and reply by voice transmission rather than text. Voice Genesis raised $1.65 million from venture and angel investors in 2004 and 2005, according to its founder, Mark J. Marriott. He credits Mr. Dilts, who arranged angel financing, with ''advice that was absolutely key to my success in raising capital.''
 Still, most angel capital groups do not charge entrepreneurs sizable fees. The Angel Capital Association, which includes more than 330 groups in the United States and Canada, stipulates that fees for applicants be nominal and charges for presenting to investors be $500 or less.
 The Pasadena Angels, for example, a nine-year-old group of 105 members who examine 250 applicants a year and have backed 60 companies with investments of $1 million or more, charge ''no fees to entrepreneurs for applying, presenting or mentoring,'' said Joe Platnick, a Pasadena Angels director. The group covers its expenses partly by charging $1,000 a year in membership dues. Pasadena Angels recently helped back Jirbo.com, a Los Angeles company that develops game applications for iPhones, with $5 million. 
 With or without fees, with or without the recession, angel groups continue to see a flood of entrepreneurial applicants. Maverick Angels examines 80 proposals a month. The New Vantage Group in Vienna, Va., which manages accounts for several angel funds, receives more than 100 applicants a month, closely screens eight to 10, and invests $250,000 or more in some 24 companies a year. 
 ''Angels are a pretty select people, barely 1 percent of the investing public,'' said John May, managing partner of the New Vantage Group. ''They are people who invest in strangers.'' This year, New Vantage's member funds backed Latista Technologies, a maker of software programs that can constantly update blueprints on construction sites.
 ''We're also seeing a new kind of applicant, distressed properties,'' Mr. May said. ''Companies that may have had their loan called or credit line reduced with the words 'through no fault of your own' are looking to angels.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 27, 2009

 CORRECTION:
The Entrepreneurial Edge column on Aug. 20, about reduced investments in business ventures by angel investors, misstated the investment activity of the New Vantage Group in Vienna, Va. The group invests in four to six companies a year -- not 24, which is the number of companies it typically examines each year to determine its investments.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Stefani of Zipz Shoes paid to attend a conference for start-ups, and it may have paid off. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (95%); VENTURE CAPITAL (93%); STARTUPS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (79%); FINANCING ROUNDS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); ACQUISITIONS (53%)

COMPANY: RUSTIC CANYON PARTNERS LP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



522 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 528 words

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

 BODY:
FOR MATH TEACHER,
 Only Subtractions
 Imagine: After leaving a job at Goldman Sachs, turning down a teaching job in Philadelphia and securing a spot in New York City's vaunted Teaching Fellows program, you are eager to teach children the wonders of geometry and algebra. You send your resume to dozens of schools, go to the Bronx to give a sample lesson, and impress the principal enough so that she wants to hire you.
 But she cannot. Budget cuts have led to a teacher hiring freeze for all but a few subjects in New York City. For all others, the principal, like all her colleagues throughout the city, must hire from a pool of teachers already on the payroll. 
 You might be frustrated and angry enough to confront Chancellor Joel I. Klein and demand an explanation. That's exactly what Arah Lewis, 28, the former Goldman employee, did after hearing Mr. Klein speak on Wednesday at the annual new-teacher orientation held at La Guardia High School on the West Side of Manhattan.
 ''I don't know an organization that would go out and recruit people and expect them to change their lives and then say, 'You can't work here,' '' Ms. Lewis told the chancellor, who looked rather shocked. ''I hear your speech, and it's inspiring, and I appreciate that, but there are people here who want to teach, and we can't. It doesn't make any sense.''
 Though she remained composed, her voice broke, as she neared tears.
 ''I could probably go back to the corporate world -- I have contacts there -- but I want to teach,'' she added. ''I want to teach where I'm from. I want to do this, and I have a principal who wants me to do it, but she can't hire me.'' 
 Ms. Lewis said that until the freeze is lifted, she expects to be a full-time substitute teacher at the school, Middle School 337, in Soundview, at a lower salary, without health benefits.
 Although the hiring freeze has been lifted for most special education and science teachers, and new schools have somewhat more flexibility, roughly half of the city's teaching fellows are without jobs.
 The fellows program was created in 2001 by Chancellor Harold O. Levy as a way to attract nontraditional candidates. The freeze is also a way to deal with the nagging problem of finding work for those in the so-called absent teacher reserve pool, a group of teachers who have lost their jobs because of declining enrollment or because their schools were closed for poor student performance. The more than 1,700 teachers in the pool continue to collect their salaries.
 ''I know the problems, and I agree -- we have to find a way to fix it,'' Mr. Klein said.
 ''Please e-mail me directly and follow up,'' the chancellor told Ms. Lewis. 
 Later, he issued a statement calling the reserve pool policy ''untenable.'' ''The city needs a policy like Chicago has, one that gives teachers a fixed period to find a position while continuing to earn their salary,'' he said.
 But for Ms. Lewis, as he ended the conversation, he offered a hug, but made no promises.JENNIFER MEDINA ALSO
 ON THE BLOG
 VIDEO: Hard Choices for Grads: Video of new graduates considering the next step in a bad economy, from graduate school to a different field.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chancellor Joel I. Klein (PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); GEOMETRY (78%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); SUBSTITUTE TEACHERS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); DISMISSALS (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); BUDGETS (71%); BUDGET CUTS (56%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



523 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ROOMS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Cuts of Meat, With a Side of Culture

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

 BODY:
''Stick your hand in there,'' said Jeffrey Ruhalter, offering the business end of a recently gutted chicken. ''That bird was breathing three hours ago. Feel that warmth? That's life.''
 It was not long after dawn, and Mr. Ruhalter -- 54 and looking eerily like Steve Buscemi might if he were a long-haired butcher -- was pacing behind his meat counter at the Essex Street Market, on the Lower East Side, reverently discussing living creatures, an odd topic given that so many dead ones surrounded him on the shelves. 
 ''Do you know what a butcher really is?'' he asked, steepling his hands as if in prayer. ''A butcher is a member of your family who makes sure that what goes into your children's stomachs is fresh, healthy and precisely what they need to survive.'' 
 Epistemology had Socrates, and religion had Aquinas, but the great philosopher of the meat purveying business may be Mr. Ruhalter, an advocate for decency in eating and a fourth-generation butcher who construes his occupation in almost Platonic terms. 
 There is no such thing, in his world, as a butcher who simply sells you sirloins on a Wednesday afternoon. A butcher gets involved in his community: He lectures (as Mr. Ruhalter does on New York City history); he welcomes food tours (does that, too); he writes recipe books (ditto); teaches classes on how to carve animals (a few times every week); hosts art shows at his counter (one of which attracted the director of the Guggenheim Museum); even stars in his own pending reality show on TV (more on that to come).
 ''There's no such thing as 'just being a butcher' anymore,'' he says, adding a pair of air quotes -- and the funny thing about this radically expansive vision of the job is that it's usually expressed in the three feet between his carving counter and his display case, a space not only as tight, but as spartan, as a phone booth. 
 As if to prove that a butcher should never be contained behind his counter, Mr. Ruhalter suddenly leaves his shop, Jeffrey's Meat Market, walks straight into traffic -- the cars come screeching to a halt -- then strolls into the new hotel across the street, taking a croissant from the buffet and sitting among the diners eating breakfast to relate the story of his recent ''recession dinners.'' 
 ''I walked right in, like I did now, and told the guy, 'I want to feed 100 people here, for free -- you provide the space, I'll provide the steaks.' '' (Long story short: It happened.) ''Community. That's what I mean.''
 It's a notion of the butcher's trade fashioned over more than 50 years, beginning when Mr. Ruhalter was a child accompanying his father to the meatpacking district on West 14th Street. The memories (of big men pushing him on handcarts through hook-hung sides of beef) have given him a density, a sense of authenticity, that his customers seem to hunger for, even more than for his delectable cuts of meat. 
 ''I'm a piece of antiquity kept alive,'' he says, which, of course, is what TV is hoping to catch. The show will follow Mr. Ruhalter not only behind his counter, but also on his various excursions through the neighborhood -- the strangest of which came when he suddenly cut a thick steak from a short rib, speared it with a fork, walked outside and down the block to a nearby pizzeria, then, without a word to anyone -- including the baffled staff -- stepped behind the counter and gently laid the steak down sizzling on the grill.
 ''Help yourself to a beverage from the cooler,'' he casually suggested. 
 ''By the way, how do you like your meat?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The tools and raw materials of the trade at Jeffrey's Meat Market on the Lower East Side. Above the carving counters are portraits of the shop's owner, Jeffrey Ruhalter, 54, a philosophizing fourth-generation butcher.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMALS (78%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (76%); MEAT STORES (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); RELIGION (69%); REALITY TELEVISION (64%)

COMPANY: SPARTAN AS (63%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2599 FURNITURE & FIXTURES, NEC (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



524 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: Priority Test: Health Care Or Prisons?

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
At a time when we Americans may abandon health care reform because it supposedly is ''too expensive,'' how is it that we can afford to imprison people like Curtis Wilkerson?
 Mr. Wilkerson is serving a life sentence in California -- for stealing a $2.50 pair of socks. As The Economist noted recently, he already had two offenses on his record (both for abetting robbery at age 19), and so the ''three strikes'' law resulted in a life sentence.
 This is unjust, of course. But considering that California spends almost $49,000 annually per prison inmate, it's also an extraordinary waste of money. 
 Astonishingly, many politicians seem to think that we should lead the world in prisons, not in health care or education. The United States is anomalous among industrialized countries in the high proportion of people we incarcerate; likewise, we stand out in the high proportion of people who have no medical care -- and partly as a result, our health care outcomes such as life expectancy and infant mortality are unusually poor.
 It's time for a fundamental re-evaluation of the criminal justice system, as legislation sponsored by Senator Jim Webb has called for, so that we're no longer squandering money that would be far better spent on education or health. Consider a few facts:
 The United States incarcerates people at nearly five times the world average. Of those sentenced to state prisons, 82 percent were convicted of nonviolent crimes, according to one study.
 California spends $216,000 annually on each inmate in the juvenile justice system. In contrast, it spends only $8,000 on each child attending the troubled Oakland public school system, according to the Urban Strategies Council.
 For most of American history, we had incarceration rates similar to those in other countries. Then with the ''war on drugs'' and the focus on law and order in the 1970s, incarceration rates soared. 
 One in 10 black men ages 25 to 29 were imprisoned last year, partly because possession of crack cocaine (disproportionately used in black communities) draws sentences equivalent to having 100 times as much powder cocaine. Black men in the United States have a 32 percent chance of serving time in prison at some point in their lives, according to the Sentencing Project.
 Look, there's no doubt that many people in prison are cold-blooded monsters who deserve to be there. But over all, in a time of limited resources, we're overinvesting in prisons and underinvesting in schools.
 Indeed, education spending may reduce the need for incarceration. The evidence on this isn't conclusive, but it's noteworthy that graduates of the Perry Preschool program in Michigan, an intensive effort for disadvantaged children in the 1960s, were some 40 percent less likely to be arrested than those in a control group.
 Above all, it's time for a rethink of our drug policy. The point is not to surrender to narcotics, but to learn from our approach to both tobacco and alcohol. Over time, we have developed public health strategies that have been quite successful in reducing the harm from smoking and drinking. 
 If we want to try a public health approach to drugs, we could learn from Portugal. In 2001, it decriminalized the possession of all drugs for personal use. Ordinary drug users can still be required to participate in a treatment program, but they are no longer dispatched to jail.
 ''Decriminalization has had no adverse effect on drug usage rates in Portugal,'' notes a report this year from the Cato Institute. It notes that drug use appears to be lower in Portugal than in most other European countries, and that Portuguese public opinion is strongly behind this approach.
 A new United Nations study, World Drug Report 2009, commends the Portuguese experiment and urges countries to continue to pursue traffickers while largely avoiding imprisoning users. Instead, it suggests that users, particularly addicts, should get treatment.
 Senator Webb has introduced legislation that would create a national commission to investigate criminal justice issues -- for such a commission may be the best way to depoliticize the issue and give feckless politicians the cover they need to institute changes.
 ''There are only two possibilities here,'' Mr. Webb said in introducing his bill, noting that America imprisons so many more people than other countries. ''Either we have the most evil people on earth living in the United States, or we are doing something dramatically wrong in terms of how we approach the issue of criminal justice.''
 Opponents of universal health care and early childhood education say we can't afford them. Granted, deficits are a real constraint and we can't do everything, and prison reform won't come near to fully financing health care reform. Still, would we rather use scarce resources to educate children and heal the sick, or to imprison people because they used drugs or stole a pair of socks? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); SENTENCING (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); PRISONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); COCAINE (85%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); DRUG POLICY (77%); CRIMINAL LAW (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (75%); EDUCATION FUNDING (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (73%); CHILDREN (73%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (72%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (70%); ARRESTS (66%); HISTORY (64%); RACE & RACISM (61%); INFANT MORTALITY (52%)

PERSON: JIM WEBB (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



525 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: The Big Draw Of a GPS Run

BYLINE: By MALIA WOLLAN

 BODY:
THREE years after moving to Brooklyn from Poland, Tomasz Berezinski awoke after a night of inebriety with a headache and decided his life must change. He started running, bought a GPS device and turned his body into a brush and the city into his canvas.
 ''I felt bad for my body,'' said Mr. Berezinski, who works as a designer for a rug company. ''I was overweight. I was drinking too much and I felt too much like an office person.'' 
 Since that morning almost a year ago, Mr. Berezinski, 40, has run three marathons, lost 16 pounds and taken to creating huge drawings by following routes through city streets in the shape of faces, dogs and anything else that strikes his fancy. After planning a route, he traces it on foot or bicycle carrying his GPS device to record his progress. Then he uploads the ''drawing'' he has made to a map-sharing site called everytrail.com.
 Part sport, part art, GPS drawing lets runners, walkers, cyclists and hikers imagine themselves anew -- not just as a collection of burning muscles, sweaty armpits, forward motion; not just as people endeavoring to crest a hill or lose five pounds. Instead, they are neo-cartographers, jumbo-size doodlers and bipedal pencils, mapping their track lines across cities, roads and farms, and sharing them online.
 The Global Positioning System, or GPS, is made up of more than two dozen orbiting satellites transmitting location information to GPS receivers in cars, on bikes, in GPS-enabled fitness watches and increasingly in smart phones like the iPhone and BlackBerry. Some 240 million smart phones containing GPS receivers will be shipped in 2009, up 6 percent from last year despite a flailing economy, according to the market research firm ABI Research. ''By 2013 every phone, except the most basic models, will be GPS-enabled,'' said Dominique Bonte, the company's practice director of telematics and navigation.
 New GPS software applications like MotionX GPS, RunKeeper and MapMyRun for smart phones make it easy for users to track and share routes on dedicated Web sites and social-networking sites like Twitter and Facebook, making GPS devices viable drawing tools much like a pencil on paper or a stick in sand.
 Pedaling the rectangular city blocks in San Francisco, Vicente Montelongo, 32, a graphic artist, realized the street layout lent itself to the pixeled shapes of vintage 1980s video game characters like Pac-Man, Q*bert and Donkey Kong. Back home with a printed-out Google map and a pencil, he drew Pac-Man chasing a ghost over in the Sunset District and then set out on his bike, iPhone in tow, GPS mapping application on. After riding 8.6 miles in an unwavering line, he uploaded the GPS track data from his phone, and had his picture. 
 ''It's a good way to get exercise and see the city,'' said Mr. Montelongo, who is working on a series of GPS drawings based on the beloved video games of his youth. ''You end up going on these streets that you would never otherwise go down.''
 Like Mr. Berezinski, Mr. Montelongo shares his maps on everytrail.com. The iPhone is the fastest growing GPS tool of the site's user base, according to Joost Schreve, the site's founder. ''But if you look at the quality of the maps, the best trips still come from traditional GPS devices,'' he said, noting that the iPhone tends to draw less precise lines and to lose its signal under trees and near large buildings.
 Jeremy Wood, an artist based in London, coined the term ''GPS drawing'' nearly a decade ago and continues to maintain gpsdrawing.com, a Web site compiling his and other GPS-produced images from around the world. Whenever he leaves his house, Mr. Wood takes his GPS device with him. He has mapped all of his movements since 2004 and views GPS drawing as an extension of a long-standing human tradition. 
 ''People have been doing this for centuries, making big drawings so they could be seen by the gods,'' he said, citing the ancient Nasca geoglyphs in Peru as an example. 
 But these modern-day geographers of the imagination use their gadgets and their moving bodies to convey more personal fancies, causes, memories and doodles writ large.
 After uploading a video of herself to YouTube running in a London park wearing a Garmin GPS watch and spelling out, ''Hello I am running in the 2009 Flora London Marathon for ICYE UK; please sponsor me atjustgiving.com/jennys--run,'' Jenny Rice, 23, raised $3,700 for a primary school in Uganda.
 Last fall, researchers from the University of Arizona took members of the school's nutrition club to a football field with GPS units to walk outlines of images with fitness and health-related themes -- a carrot with a bushy top, a flexed bicep, a fish. As part of a $1.5 million grant from the Department of Agriculture, the researchers plan to use GPS drawing to help fight obesity by luring children into fitness with technology. 
 Ellen Worthing, an avid hiker and self-described ''bushwhacker,'' recently took her DeLorme GPS unit down the road from her house in Baltimore to Fort McHenry National Monument, where a bombardment by the British Navy in 1814 inspired a young American poet to jot down the words that would become the country's national anthem.
 Ms. Worthing, 47, a software saleswoman, walked a zigzagging line across the fort's manicured lawns. ''When I look at the aerial image of the fort, I see something that the history buffs and the rangers don't see,'' she said. ''I see a pretty flower.'' 
 She described her newly finished GPS drawing as ''a kindergarten drawing'': a big flower, spiky grass, an explosive sun and billowy clouds. 
 Tourists peered at her nervously while she walked her catawampus path in the grass. ''They probably thought I was up to no good,'' she said. When onlookers asked what she was doing, she ignored them -- civility a small sacrifice for the sake of a clean line. ''You can't stop,'' she said. ''It messes up the track. You get this blob of data points.''
 She likes that with a GPS device she can reimagine a landscape so imbued with history, patriotism and war. ''Do we need to see what the U.S. Park Service wants us to see?'' she asked. ''Or can we see what we want to see?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ART PATH: Vicente Montelongo, above left, bikes in the Mission District. His GPS drawing, left, of a character in Atari 2600 ''Pitfall!'' game. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 RUNNING MAN: Tomasz Berezinski running in Brooklyn, and, right, one of his GPS drawings. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.E6) MAP: STREET SHAPES: Tomasz Berezinski's GPS drawing ''Queens Ugly Face Project.'' (pg.E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); SMARTPHONES (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (88%); SOCIAL MEDIA (86%); HIKING (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TELEMATICS (77%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (76%); VISUAL ARTS (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (74%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (74%); CYCLING (73%); MARATHONS (72%); COMPUTER GAMES (72%); GEOGRAPHY (72%); WALKING & JOGGING (70%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (66%); MARKET RESEARCH (65%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (62%); RUNNING (58%)

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (53%); GOOGLE INC (52%); FACEBOOK INC (52%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (53%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (53%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (52%); FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (53%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



526 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING THE AMERICAS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 89 words

HEADLINE: Brazil: Complaint On U.S. Policy

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Brazil said it would file a complaint at the World Trade Organization against the United States over its antidumping methodology on orange juice shipments. Brazil disputes the use of a method that considers the difference between the price of a product in its home country and in the United States, except when the product is sold at a higher price in the United States. The practice is used by the Commerce Department and hurts Brazil exports, the ministry said, adding that W.T.O. has condemned the practice on several occasions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTIDUMPING LAWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (87%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



527 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: Reactions Mixed to Settlement of Westchester Desegregation Suit

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

DATELINE: CHAPPAQUA, N.Y. 

 BODY:
The median household income in this woodsy hamlet is $198,000 a year, and a typical home costs close to $1 million. It is not surprising, then, that the idea of Chappaqua's becoming a site for housing people of modest income -- as a way to draw more black and Hispanic residents to the area -- gets a mixed reaction here.
 While residents were generally supportive of such a plan, some raised questions about how easily inexpensive land could be found for the new apartments that would be needed. Others feared higher taxes to support an influx of new school students. But cultural disparity was a frequent theme among those who expressed any reservations. 
 ''Children are children, and they can be mean,'' said Bill Ward, 54, an accountant. ''If a child has less fancy clothing to wear, they're going to be put outside the group.''
 Chappaqua, part of the town of New Castle, and two dozen other prosperous, mostly white suburbs will have to grapple with just such issues in coming years. 
 Under a desegregation settlement announced last week, Westchester County must spend more than $50 million over seven years to build or find 630 homes in overwhelmingly white locales for families who earn up to $53,000 as renters and $75,000 as homeowners. The settlement requires the county to aggressively market the homes to black and Hispanic residents of the New York City area, but it set no firm racial quotas. An additional 120 homes for people with moderate incomes will have to be developed in localities that have somewhat greater concentrations of black and Hispanic residents.
 Many residents ambling in and out of Chappaqua's library last week said they liked the idea of racial and economic variety in their town, but voiced some concerns. The housing plan is ''a great idea'' in theory, said Carol Kornheiser, 61, a market researcher. But she wondered how children from moderate-income families would cope with the signs of wealth all around them, including a high school parking lot dappled with expensive cars.
 ''I think it's hard to be in a town where your kid doesn't have what other kids have,'' she said.
 She also questioned whether modest earners could thrive in the suburbs if they could not afford a car or two for driving to work and ferrying children to play dates and sports practices.
 ''It's hard to do the fetching,'' she said. ''You need two cars.''
 Exactly how the settlement would affect a locale like Chappaqua is still sketchy; the county has 120 days to produce a detailed blueprint. The settlement also needs to be ratified by the Board of Legislators, though board leaders said they expected it would be. The county executive, Andrew J. Spano, made an appeal on Monday for ratification, telling legislators, ''Do not make us the symbol of racism.''
 Along with questioning where moderately priced properties for new apartments could be found -- town officials say pockets of land are available -- some residents brought up New Castle's zoning rules, which often require that homes be set on broad acreage, as a possible barrier. Some asked whether taxes would go up so the hamlet's vaunted schools, which this year threatened to lay off 21 teachers in a flagging economy, could absorb another classroom or two. 
 Craig Gurian, executive director of the Anti-Discrimination Center, the nonprofit group that filed the lawsuit accusing the county of having lied on federal applications about its efforts to integrate housing, rejected residents' misgivings and said some were stereotyping.
 ''Are people really saying that only those who have two cars should live in Chappaqua?'' he said. ''I think the focus ought to be in every community on how to make people feel welcome.''
 Addressing other doubts, he said the settlement obligates Westchester to take legal action against municipalities that resist by citing factors like zoning that does not allow for multiple-family dwellings. The penalties for failing to obey the terms of the settlement could surpass $180 million, county officials said.
 Roughly 1 percent of Chappaqua's residents are black, and 3 percent are Hispanic. The ranks of the prominent are fairly diverse -- Bill and Hillary Clinton have a home there, as does the singer and actress Vanessa Williams -- but there are few low-income minority residents. Most older Westchester suburbs are almost fully developed, so finding building sites poses a challenge. 
 Barbara S. Gerrard, supervisor of New Castle, said developers had expressed interest in some Chappaqua sites for moderate-income housing, including a spot near the train station's arched steel and stone bridge, which is undergoing rehabilitation. Another possible downtown site is near the firehouse.
 ''We want affordable housing to come to New Castle,'' Ms. Gerrard said. ''We have people who work in town who can't afford to live here.'' 
 She said she did not expect opposition to the likelihood of a proportion of those homes going to members of racial minorities who live outside Chappaqua, not just local volunteer firefighters and municipal workers, who were favored in past developments for moderate earners. 
 ''I think it's a good idea for people to be exposed to all kinds of lifestyles, and there's quality and worth in everyone,'' she said. ''I live by that, and the town board espouses that.''
 Michael B. Kaplowitz, vice chairman of the county legislature, said some legislators fault the new settlement because, without a requirement that a proportion of residents be black and Hispanic, it ''guarantees no diversity in housing.'' The county built 1,700 apartments for modest earners under a voluntary plan drafted in the mid-1990s, but preference has often been given to municipal workers and the elderly, who mirror their communities' racial makeup.
 Chappaqua has long been debating a proposal for 32 apartments for municipal workers and 24 for people 55 and over in a 278-condominium project called Chappaqua Crossing, planned for the former Reader's Digest complex. It is not clear if those homes could be included in the new settlement.
 Marge Perlin, the library's circulation director and a Chappaqua resident since 1994, said she was looking forward to having more nonwhite residents. 
 ''These people baby-sit in our houses, service our gardens -- we know these people by name,'' she said. ''They already mix with us. Why shouldn't they live with us?'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chappaqua is among the Westchester suburbs that are likely to be affected by a desegregation settlement announced last week.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (89%); FAMILY (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); RACE & RACISM (77%); COUNTIES (76%); SUBURBS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



528 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; MONTHS TO LIVE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5115 words

HEADLINE: At the End, Offering Not a Cure but Comfort

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

 BODY:
Deborah Migliore was pushed into a small conference room in a wheelchair, looking kittenish in red and white pajamas and big gold hoop earrings. Her weight was down to about 90 pounds, from 116, her face gaunt, her sad eyes droopier than ever. 
 Dr. Sean O'Mahony had been called in to tell her the bad news: she was sicker than she realized, and the prognosis did not look good.
 ''What's the cancer I have?'' Mrs. Migliore, a 51-year-old former cocktail waitress, asked jauntily. ''I have no idea.''
 ''Carcinoid,'' Dr. O'Mahony replied. 
 ''I don't want to lose my hair,'' she said, laughing nervously.
 ''Currently, there are no established cures,'' the doctor said. ''Think very carefully about what treatments you do and don't want to have as these issues arise.''
 It was what doctors in the end-of-life business call ''firing a warning shot,'' but Mrs. Migliore did not seem to hear the bullet whizzing past.
 ''It's more or less, I want to be alive again,'' she interjected. ''Going here, going there. My husband, I want to be able to do things for him.''
 Part psychoanalyst, part detective, Dr. O'Mahony had to listen to the cues and decide what to do next.
 Most doctors do not excel at delivering bad news, decades of studies show, if only because it goes against their training to save lives, not end them. But Dr. O'Mahony, who works at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx, belongs to a class of doctors, known as palliative care specialists, who have made death their life's work. They study how to deliver bad news, and they do it again and again. They know secrets like who, as a rule, takes it better. They know who is more likely to suffer silently, and when is the best time to suggest a do-not-resuscitate order.
 Palliative care has become a recognized subspecialty, with fellowships, hospital departments and medical school courses aimed at managing patients' last months. It has also become a focus of attacks on plans to overhaul the nation's medical system, with false but persistent rumors that the government will set up ''death panels'' to decide who deserves treatment. Many physicians dismiss these complaints as an absurd caricature of what palliative medicine is all about.
 Still, as an aging population wrangles with how to gracefully face the certainty of death, the moral and economic questions presented by palliative care are unavoidable: How much do we want, and need, to know about the inevitable? Is the withholding of heroic treatment a blessing, a rationing of medical care or a step toward euthanasia? 
 A third of Medicare spending goes to patients with chronic illness in their last two years of life; the elderly, who receive much of this care, are a huge political constituency. Does calling on one more team of specialists at the end of a long and final hospital stay reduce this spending, or add another cost to already bloated medical bills? 
 Dr. O'Mahony and other palliative care specialists often talk about wanting to curb the excesses of the medical machine, about their disillusionment over seeing patients whose bodies and spirits had been broken by the treatment they had hoped would cure them. But their intention, in a year observing their intimate daily interactions with patients, was not to limit people's choices or speed them toward death. 
 Rather, Dr. O'Mahony and his colleagues were more subtle, cunning and caring than their own words sometimes suggested. 
 An Escort for the Dying
 They are tour guides on the road to death, the equivalent of the ferryman in Greek myth who accompanied people across the river Styx to the underworld. They argue that a frank acknowledgment of the inevitability of death allows patients to concentrate on improving the quality of their lives, rather than lengthening them, to put their affairs in order and to say goodbye before it is too late.
 Dr. O'Mahony, 41, went to medical school in his native Dublin, straight out of high school. He intended to go into oncology. But during training at a prominent cancer hospital in New York, he changed his mind as he saw patients return to the hospital to die miserable deaths, hooked to tubes, machines and chemotherapy bags until the end. 
 ''In Ireland, and I think most other places, it would be very much frowned upon,'' he said.
 Sandy-haired, a wiry marathon runner, Dr. O'Mahony is the sixth of eight children; his father is a university professor devoted to preserving Gaelic as a second language, and his mother a painter. When he was 3, his brother, who had cerebral palsy, died at age 4. His awareness of his parents' helplessness, burnished through years of family conversations, helped steer him to palliative care, he said.
 Dr. O'Mahony entered the field a decade ago, shaped by an almost messianic movement that began as a rebuke to traditional medicine but has become more and more integrated into routine hospital practice. 
 As medical director of Montefiore's palliative care service, he helps train fellows, supervises research projects and manages the pain, often with powerful drugs like fentanyl, methadone and morphine, of patients with a range of illnesses, like cancer and AIDS. 
 He consults on questions with ethical, moral and sometimes religious overtones, like whether to remove life support. He acts as a troubleshooter with recalcitrant patients, like an elderly man who was sneaking cigarettes (they negotiated a schedule of when he could get out of bed to smoke), and advises the terminally ill and their families.
 Dr. O'Mahony favors crisp button-down shirts, but no white coat. His bedside manner ranges from gentle amusement to studied neutrality; he eerily resembles the unemotive Steve McQueen of ''Bullit.'' 
 His coolness is his armor. ''I do not feel obligated to be sort of eternally involved with the experience of death,'' Dr. O'Mahony said. ''It's not healthy to be there all the time.''
 But the danger is that ''death gets to be banal,'' he said.
 ''Do you know that poem by Dylan Thomas?'' Dr. O'Mahony asked with a faint smile. ''After the first death, there is no other.''
 But How to Tell Her
 He had seen many deaths before he met Debbie Migliore. She left her home in the Bronx at 19 to pursue the one talent she knew she had, looking good in a bikini. 
 Old photographs show her flaunting a saucy smile and a mane of black hair. ''I used to be a topless dancer, excuse the expression,'' she said. She worked at clubs in Manhattan and upstate, and was married twice before meeting Joe.
 It was a marriage of opposites. Joe had always been socially awkward and studious, a nerd, he said with a touch of defiance. He went to New York University part time, got a culinary degree and worked as a chef in a casino. Finally, he got a job with the New York City parks department as a horticulturist. Working with plants suited him, because he worked more or less alone.
 He had embraced his solitude so completely that when he met Debbie he had been thinking of becoming a priest.
 They met 12 years ago through a personal ad she had put in The New York Post, and married almost instantly. Joe's mother had spotted the ad, which said, roughly, ''Likes to dance.'' 
 Debbie's big regret was never having children, after a hysterectomy in her 30s; Joe would have liked a large family but accepted that it was too late.
 Her health started to fail soon after they married. Over the last decade, she suffered two strokes and developed an autoimmune disorder. Three or four years ago, doctors found a tumor in her lung, which was attributed to a neuroendocrine cancer known as a carcinoid tumor. She was treated through surgery and radiation. Apart from a dry cough, her husband said, ''she was wonderful.'' 
 In March, she broke her arm while turning a mattress. While repairing the arm, doctors found more cancer, and Dr. O'Mahony was called in to talk about her uncertain future.
 They met at Morningside House, the Bronx nursing home where she was recovering from surgery, joined by Mr. Migliore, social workers, nurses and a physical therapist. For about an hour, Dr. O'Mahony asked open-ended questions, looking for clues as to how much she knew and how much she wanted to know.
 ''What are your biggest concerns?'' was his opening move. 
 ''First of all, the food is terrible,'' Mrs. Migliore said. She was trying to fatten up with spaghetti -- the thought of other food disgusted her, which is often a sign of deteriorating health. But the pasta was cold, she said.
 One leg would not support her weight. Her back hurt; she would like a massage. ''I get annoyed when things are not my way,'' she said. ''And I cry too much.''
 ''Well, it's hard for most of us not to have control over things,'' Dr. O'Mahony said.
 ''Aside from the food,'' he pressed, ''what are the things that concern you?''
 ''I want to get better,'' Mrs. Migliore said.
 ''What's your understanding of the status of the tumor?'' Dr. O'Mahony asked.
 ''The doctor that took it out, he was just amazed,'' she said. ''He says, 'Oh, Debbie, I did a good job.' I said, 'Yes, you did.' ''
 Dr. O'Mahony tried to remind her that she still had cancer. ''One of the frustrating things about this illness is the way it can pop up in different parts of the body,'' he said.
 Mr. Migliore joined in, asking whether there was a way to slow the growth of the cancer.
 ''The treatments that are available for it can provide some local control, and they can slow the progression of the illness,'' Dr. O'Mahony replied.
 ''But there is no way of knowing it, right?'' Mrs. Migliore asked, astutely, apparently registering the equivocation in the doctor's tone.
 Then Dr. O'Mahony fired his warning shot: ''There are no established cures.'' And Mrs. Migliore fired back with her wish to be ''alive again.''
 Picking up on her cue, Dr. O'Mahony asked, ''What gives you strength?'' She liked to shop, she said. Perking up, she chided her husband for forgetting to bring the Victoria's Secret catalog.
 ''You sit home and watch 'I Love Lucy,' '' Mr. Migliore said. ''Do you think 'I Love Lucy' cares if you wear a $400 outfit or a $22.95?''
 The meeting ended on a lighthearted note, and Dr. O'Mahony never returned to the prognosis that the nursing home staff thought Mrs. Migliore would want to know.
 Beyond Mrs. Migliore's hearing, he said: ''People giving very concrete estimates of survival can in essence cause as much harm as good. I think she was signaling to us quite a lot that it was important to her to be able to go home, to walk, to be able to promote her self-image, to shop for clothes.''
 He predicted that her disease would progress, perhaps rapidly, through a series of crippling events.
 But he said he had learned from mistakes early in his career that it was not always helpful to presume to have answers, to mark a spot on the calendar. He said he would rather focus on things he really could help with, like making sure Mrs. Migliore was getting enough pain medication.
 But before leaving, he made sure that she had a health care proxy -- her husband -- who would make decisions for her if she became incapacitated. He knew it would be harder to get one later.
 Palliative care doctors are taught to lead by example. Dr. O'Mahony's proxy is his companion, an oncologist himself. 
 But Dr. O'Mahony does not press hard for a written advance directive, sometimes called a living will, in which patients can specify treatments -- like cardiopulmonary resuscitation, breathing machines, dialysis, transplantation, blood transfusion, antibiotics, and food and water delivered through a tube -- that they would or would not want if they were unable to speak for themselves. ''The mere fact of putting words on paper may be very distressing,'' he said. 
 Perfecting the Technique
 Delivering a grim prognosis used to be something that doctors figured out how to do on their own, or did not do at all. 
 Now ''Breaking Bad News'' is a standard part of the curriculum at many medical schools, including the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, the school affiliated with Montefiore. 
 In an experimental role-playing exercise, fourth-year medical students were given 10 minutes to tell an actress, Susan Telcher, that her mammogram indicated a high likelihood of breast cancer. During one session, led by Dr. Charles Schwartz, a wisecracking internist and psychiatrist armed with a stopwatch and a Coke, not every student proved to be a natural. 
 The students, most in their late 20s, often had a hard time getting beyond medical jargon. One of them, who planned to become a pediatrician, failed to read the handout on the patient, with disastrous results. She spent most of her 10 minutes sneaking peeks at the clinical notes, trying to divine the problem, while the actress blithely chattered on about how well she had been feeling.
 A student named Paul (most asked to have their last names withheld for fear of harming their careers) told Ms. Telcher that her mammogram had revealed a ''finding.''
 ''You've got to get that cancer word out there early and often,'' Dr. Schwartz admonished.
 Students often excuse a poor performance by saying they would have behaved differently in real life. But ''the data is, they do what they do,'' said Dr. Schwartz, who conducts the training with Dr. Sharon Parish, an associate professor of clinical medicine at Einstein.
 In his experience, physicians who themselves have signed advance directives are more comfortable talking to their patients about dying.
 But Dr. Nicholas Christakis, an internist and social scientist at Harvard who has studied end-of-life care, has found that doctors are generally bad at making prognoses. The better they know a patient, the worse they are at prognosticating, possibly, Dr. Christakis has theorized, because they view death as a personal failure. Most predictions are overly optimistic, he has found, and the sicker the patient, the more likely the doctor is to overestimate the length of survival.
 In one study by Dr. Christakis, doctors who privately believed that patients had 75 days to live told them they had 90; the actual median survival period was 26 days.
 ''Go to the bathroom mirror, look yourself in the mirror and say, 'You're dying,' '' Dr. Christakis said. ''It's not easy.''
 Lessons Learned
 Along the way, Dr. O'Mahony has picked up the wisdom of the trade. He has learned that older people tend to take bad news better than younger people.
 That patients with advanced cancer generally go into a sharp decline three months before death, but those with dementia, heart disease or diabetes may have a bad month and then get better, making their prognosis trickier.
 That people who do not have family or friends, or are alienated from them, are more likely to want to hasten death than those with more social support.
 That patients who are agreeable by nature may not admit that they are in pain.
 That people who blame their self-destructive behavior for their illness are less likely to ask for help, and that hard-charging professionals sometimes would rather not manage their own illness.
 That people can know in their darker moments that the prognosis is grim, yet at other moments imagine they will go back to being their old selves.
 And Dr. O'Mahony knows that the family is sometimes best at delivering bad news, as in the case of Eddie Ascanio.
 Mr. Ascanio, a 52-year-old limousine garage attendant, arrived in Montefiore's emergency room last spring, in the last stages of head and neck cancer. 
 The palliative care staff immediately called a meeting of Mr. Ascanio's family members to determine whether they realized he was near death. 
 Mr. Ascanio was too angry about being in the hospital to attend the meeting. His sister, Helen Wilson, who had taken on the role of family anchor while her husband, a plumber, served time for bank robbery, told the doctors she had brought her brother to Montefiore because she was unhappy with his treatment at another hospital.
 ''Listen, I need to know what's going on with my brother; he's losing massive weight, not eating,'' she said she had begged the previous doctor. ''Something is not right.'' 
 Two doctors on Dr. O'Mahony's team listened quietly, and she seemed relieved just to be able to talk things through. When one of the doctors asked if she wanted to take her brother home to die, she said, ''That probably will make him very happy. We'll set him up in my daughter's bedroom.''
 Her nephew, Tony, balked. ''Is that to say there isn't even a 1 percent chance of recovery?'' he said.
 Mrs. Wilson answered before the doctors could. ''The cancer's spread too far, Tony,'' she said. Mr. Ascanio died four days later, in his niece's bedroom, surrounded by stuffed animals and his family.
 Lagging on Hospice Care
 While palliative care is available to give patients a chance to die without being tormented by excessive medical care, statistics suggest that in New York, the world center of academic medicine, aggressive treatment is still the rule.
 At Montefiore, only 12 percent of dying patients from 2001 to 2005 entered hospice care, for an average of 4.9 days, during their last six months of life, according to the latest data from the Dartmouth Atlas of Health Care.
 At Mount Sinai, it was 14 percent of patients for 4.6 days; at NewYork-Presbyterian, 15 percent for 5.2 days; and at New York University Medical Center, 20 percent for 6.7 days, according to the Dartmouth data.
 Nationally, nearly 32 percent of dying patients had hospice care during the same period, for an average of 11.6 days.
 In New York, hospice is ''brink-of-death care,'' said Dr. Ira Byock, the director of palliative medicine at Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon, N.H., and the author of ''Dying Well.''
 While treatments that try to extend lives produce more fees for doctors and hospitals, they may be given for reasons besides money. ''Many clinicians don't want to send the message that they're giving up on their patients,'' said Dr. David Goodman, a co-author of the Dartmouth Atlas. ''They see palliative care as diminishing hope.''
 Dr. O'Mahony suggested that family finances also played a part in decisions on hospice care, because Medicare typically covers only a few hours a day of such care at home. 
 The health care bill being discussed in the House would ensure Medicare reimbursement for consultations about end-of-life treatment between patients and their doctors, nurse practitioners or physician assistants every five years, or more often in the case of a life-threatening change. 
 The bill would help validate the work of palliative care doctors, who often work on salary and whose services are often subsidized by the rest of the hospital because they do not generate much revenue.
 But the provision has fueled criticism. Former Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska has raised the specter of ''death panels'' that would rule on whether to treat defenseless patients like her son Trig, who has Down syndrome. While there is nothing in the House bill to suggest that such panels would exist, the end-of-life language became so radioactive that several members of the Senate Finance Committee said they would not include it in their version of the bill.
 The Congressional Budget Office estimated that the proposal would cost $2.7 billion over 10 years. 
 There was no estimate of savings at the other end, from patients forgoing expensive tests and treatment. A few studies have found that hospital care for patients who get palliative care consultations costs thousands of dollars less than care for those who do not. But some of these studies have been conducted by advocates, and they have looked at hospital costs after the fact, rather than using randomized controlled trials, the gold standard in medical research.
 The author of one study, Dr. Edmond Bendaly, an oncologist in Marion, Ind., said cost studies had been hampered by the ethical and practical difficulties of signing up dying patients for trials that might provide disparate care. But he said the research so far showed a ''strong signal'' of savings from palliative care. 
 Dr. O'Mahony and his colleagues are well aware of the ethical debates over the boundaries between proper conduct and euthanasia. ''We're not vested in having patients refuse treatment,'' Dr. O'Mahony said. ''We are there to support patients and their families.''
 Families sometimes worry that by refusing treatment for a patient -- especially food and water, which are so closely associated with comfort and love -- they are approaching euthanasia. 
 Deep sedation, to the point of unconsciousness, may also be used to relieve intractable suffering, and it ''has caused almost as much distress and debate in the palliative care-hospice world as euthanasia has,'' said Dr. David Casarett, a palliative care doctor at the University of Pennsylvania, who is leading a national evaluation of end-of-life care at Veterans Affairs hospitals. 
 ''Is it used to end a life, or up until the end of life?'' Dr. Casarett said, summarizing the debate. Among those who use it, he said, the consensus is that ''we would never sedate with the goal of hastening death.''
 Palliative care doctors talk about the difference between prolonging life and prolonging death.
 ''So it's not euthanasia,'' said Dr. Desiree Pardi, who went into palliative care after learning that she had breast cancer, and is now the director of the service at the Weill Cornell Medical College of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital. ''It's just sort of letting them die completely naturally. It's hard to explain to a lay person, because we know we need food and liquid to live. But we don't need them to die. We're just feeding whatever is killing them.'' 
 In the political wars over end-of-life care, advocacy groups for the disabled are often as adamant as religious groups in challenging measures that could be seen as hastening death. ''Health care providers encounter people at a time of crisis; they see the worst happening,'' said Diane Coleman, the founder of an advocacy group for the disabled, Not Dead Yet. ''They don't see them get through it and say, 'Even with my functional losses, I'm still having a good time.' ''
 A Resistance Among Doctors
 Palliative care still goes against the core beliefs of many doctors.
 In a teaching session one day last winter, Dr. Lauren Shaiova criticized a group of idealistic young residents for sending a 42-year-old patient with end-stage liver disease and a lifetime of drinking to a nearby hospital for a liver transplant.
 Dr. Shaiova is a friend of Dr. O'Mahony's -- he marched in her wedding procession -- and is chief of palliative care at Metropolitan Hospital, a city-run hospital serving the poor and working class of East Harlem.
 She is also Dr. O'Mahony's counterpoint, demonstrative and impulsive where he is cautious and unemotional. Married to a hospice doctor, with three young children adopted from Russia, Dr. Shaiova, 50, would be a rebel and something of a nonconformist in most settings. She plays a harmonium for chemotherapy patients and chants a Buddhist prayer before staff meetings. She says that her husband once confided to her, as they were lying in bed one night, that he was not afraid to die. Her Russian grandmother in Brighton Beach has made a do-not-resuscitate order, and so has she.
 Dr. Shaiova's older brother, Michael, a car mechanic, was shot in the head on a street in Chicago, their hometown. She heard the news from emergency room doctors who called to ask about ''harvesting'' his organs.
 ''Harvest?'' Dr. Shaiova recalled thinking. ''I'm growing beans? Nobody was willing to say he was brain-dead.''
 Now, facing the abashed residents in their white coats, she reviewed the history of the patient, who was living in a single-room-occupancy hotel: He was agitated and confused, and had alcoholic brain damage. He could no longer walk. To qualify for a transplant, he had to be alcohol-free for six months. 
 ''We had done a day's work on him -- got the D.N.R., treated his pain, arranged for hospice,'' she said. The receiving hospital, she believed, was part of the conspiracy of denial, only too happy to get the payment for accepting the patient, who ended up dying before he could be evaluated.
 But, several residents objected, the man kept asking for a liver transplant. It seemed unprofessional, even inhumane, to refuse.
 ''They say when a person is drunk or out of it, he tells the truth,'' one resident said. ''His options should not stop.''
 ''Was it really a viable option for him?'' Dr. Shaiova demanded.
 ''Maybe we should take it as a last wish,'' the senior resident said, from the back of the room.
 Dr. Shaiova said they should have realized the patient would never survive. ''Doctors are the worst predictors,'' she said after the session.
 Asked how she deals with the death of her patients, Dr. Shaiova said, ''I play the harmonium.''
 Her Final Days
 In early June, Dr. O'Mahony went to Ireland on vacation. He was looking forward to seeing his mother, Kathrina, 74. She had received a diagnosis of breast cancer in 1995. The cancer returned in 2006, and she was told it was not possible to remove all of the tumor. 
 She had recently painted over the image of her body on a PET-CT scan, used to confirm the presence of a local recurrence of cancer. ''I got her the scan,'' Dr. O'Mahony said gleefully. 
 While Dr. O'Mahony was away, Mrs. Migliore received radiation to try to shrink a tumor that the doctors said could wrap around her spine and paralyze her. She would return from the treatments -- administered every day for 29 days, her husband said -- in a stupor. ''Most of these doctors are convinced they're doing the right thing,'' he said. ''It's just that I don't want to have a walking wife who's in zombieland, you know?''
 He was taking things a day at a time, and taking sedatives. ''I'm on 350 milligrams of Zoloft every day, so I feel pretty good,'' he said.
 When Dr. O'Mahony returned, he learned that Mrs. Migliore had been admitted to Montefiore a few days earlier, as cancer infiltrated her bone marrow and she became dehydrated. He scheduled a bedside conference his first day back. 
 Mrs. Migliore could no longer walk, or even sit up on her own. She was checked in to Room 954A North. Her window had a panoramic view of the Bronx, with Calvary Hospital, which cares for terminal cancer patients, in the foreground, its red-brick bulk marked by three crosses.
 Dr. O'Mahony and Mr. Migliore stood side by side at the foot of the bed. Mrs. Migliore looked incorporeal, so slight she melted into the bedsheets.
 ''So we're just here to see how you're doing today,'' Dr. O'Mahony began.
 ''Well, I want to go home; that's all I want to do,'' Mrs. Migliore said. ''I do not want to stay here.''
 ''O.K,'' her husband answered, sniffling.
 ''So when are you taking me home?'' Mrs. Migliore said.
 ''Well, we just need to get you a little bit stronger, O.K.?'' Mr. Migliore said. ''That's what we're here to discuss. We're here to tell you what's going on.''
 ''How are you doing?'' Mrs. Migliore asked her husband, her voice softening.
 ''I'm doing O.K.,'' he said.
 Growing agitated, Mrs. Migliore said that a woman at the nursing home had tried to marry her. She said that she objected that she was already married, and that she was locked into a room in what seemed to be a funeral home. She said she had thrown china plates out the window in a vain bid to be rescued. It sounded like an elaborate parable about the bride of death, and her husband could not convince her that it was all in her head.
 Turning to a visitor, she kept asking, ''Are you pregnant?'' as if she wished she herself could be.
 Dr. O'Mahony adjourned the conversation to a conference room, leaving Mrs. Migliore alone.
 Mr. Migliore immediately asked how much time his wife had left.
 ''I can't give a definite response in terms of the number of days or weeks,'' Dr. O'Mahony said. 
 Mr. Migliore said another doctor at the hospital had estimated four to six months.
 Dr. O'Mahony gave his standard warning: It is hard to go from prognostic estimates based on large populations to individual cases. Nonetheless, he conceded that she was getting much worse. 
 Mr. Migliore said he did not think he could take care of her at home and proposed she go to Calvary. ''How do we convince her this is the right decision?'' he asked. 
 ''During these times when her thinking is impaired, you are her voice,'' Dr. O'Mahony replied.
 Two days later, Mrs. Migliore was across the street at Calvary. Her husband tacked photos of their wedding to the bulletin board. Within a few days, her speech had deteriorated to ''baby talk,'' as her husband put it, and she was eating little more than Italian ices. 
 She turned 52 on June 30, and her husband managed to feed her a spoonful of birthday cake. He was thrilled when she said it tasted like excrement. For that moment, she sounded like herself.
 Much of the time, she was heavily sedated to stop her from screaming. She was given morphine for pain and haloperidol, an antipsychotic, for delirium, which can be a side effect of advanced cancer and opiate drugs. ''She seems terrified,'' Mr. Migliore said.
 He said the staff had asked if they should disconnect the tube feeding her sugar and water. ''Then what, she starves to death?'' Mr. Migliore said. ''I can't. I can't, even though I'm the proxy.'' A fatal injection, if that were possible, seemed more merciful to him. ''The way things are going now at this point,'' he said, ''I'm hoping God takes her tonight. Living like this is barbaric.''
 He got his wish three days later. ''She never asked me, 'Am I going to die?' '' he said, so he never had to do what he feared most: give her an answer.
 Mrs. Migliore died on July 3, after eight days at Calvary, less than four months after Dr. O'Mahony fired his warning shot. He had several conversations with her before she died, a luxury that other types of doctors might not have. But he never told her directly that she was going to die.
 Asked why, Dr. O'Mahony said that Mrs. Migliore had appointed her husband as her surrogate, and that she had responded to open-ended questions with a focus on the details of her everyday life, rather than a desire to foresee the future. He saw that as a road map for his approach to her prognosis.
 ''Patients sometimes will be very explicit about wanting that information very, very clearly delivered,'' he said. ''Whereas other people don't.''
 Dr. O'Mahony has not spoken to Mr. Migliore since his wife died, and he does not expect to. Once the ferryman has delivered his patients across the river, he rarely looks back.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sean O'Mahony, a palliative care doctor, with a patient, Deborah Migliore, in the Bronx.(pg. A1)
A LIFE'S WORK IN DEATH: Dr. Sean O'Mahony seeing a patient with Dr. Ahashta Johnson, a palliative care fellow, in the pain clinic at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx.(pg. A16)
GOODBYES: Joseph Migliore at the coffin of his wife, Deborah. She spent her last days at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx, which cares for terminal cancer patients.
TOGETHER: The Migliores, she outgoing and he reserved, married in 1998.
 AT HOME: Helen Wilson and her daughter Ashley in the room where Mrs. Wilson's brother, Eddie Ascanio, 52, died.(pg. A17)(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Last Days: Hospice or Hospital?: New York teaching hospitals rank near the bottom nationally in usage of hospice care at the end of life.(Sources: Dartmouth Atlas of Health Care, using Medicare data)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PALLIATIVE CARE (89%); DEATH & DYING (88%); LIVING WILLS (73%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (70%); PSYCHOLOGY (68%); HEALTH CARE RATIONING (63%); AGING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



529 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1797 words

HEADLINE: Faded Glory: Polishing Flint's Jewels

BYLINE: By GORDON YOUNG

 BODY:
ERIN CAUDELL is house-hunting in Flint, Mich., a city with a rapidly shrinking population, thousands of vacant structures and a 28.6 percent unemployment rate.
 Ms. Caudell, 31, a horticulturalist, has focused her search on Carriage Town, the neighborhood where she leases a blue two-story house with pink and purple trim that she shares with three friends, paying $300 a month for her rent and utilities. Ms. Caudell hopes to find a home that won't cost more than $50,000, including renovation expenses. 
 She's drawn to the affordable prices, historic architecture and sense of community in Carriage Town, just across the river from the city's downtown. Ms. Caudell, who grew up in nearby Burton, also likes the easy commute to her job as an outreach program coordinator with the Ruth Mott Foundation, where she promotes urban gardening and local beautification. 
 ''I love old houses,'' she said. ''I want the character and the history you can't get from a new cookie-cutter house.'' 
 But she has one concern that is surprising given Flint's well-documented economic malaise: she is worried that Carriage Town will become too gentrified.
 ''I don't want to live in an area that's like a suburb,'' Ms. Caudell said. ''I don't want Carriage Town to become the hip neighborhood. I like it the way it is now.'' 
 In a city that is synonymous with faded American industrial and automotive power, Carriage Town's success is both unexpected and inspiring. A persistent group of long-term urban homesteaders -- along with newer arrivals eager to live near a downtown showing signs of life -- has restored dozens of Victorian-era houses and buildings in the last 20 years. While many Flint neighborhoods feel all but abandoned, in Carriage Town home ownership has increased 10 percent over the last decade, according to Census data. 
 In a worldwide recession, development projects with more than $47 million in public and private financing are in progress or recently completed in the 30-square-block Carriage Town area, including the conversion of the derelict Berridge Hotel into lofts and the ongoing renovation of the long-vacant Durant Hotel into 93 apartments and commercial space. There are even plans for a neighborhood grocery store.
 But there's no denying that Carriage Town is a work in progress, and that those who call it home must deal with challenges like speculators, abandoned houses and lack of code enforcement by the cash-strapped city. 
 While it is racially and economically diverse, there are few African-American homeowners. Many empty houses sit beside pristinely restored homes. Residents also remember AutoWorld and other once-promising redevelopment failures immortalized two decades ago in Michael Moore's film ''Roger & Me.''
 Ken Van Wagoner owns two houses and runs the Good Beans Cafe, which has served as the primary gathering spot for Carriage Town residents since it opened in 2000.
 ''I'm excited about all the new projects, but I'm also a little wary,'' he said. ''I can't help wondering if it will all last. In the same breath, I want Carriage Town to succeed more than anybody.''
 Seven years ago, Rebecca Fedewa and Nathan Murphy paid $90,000 for a property that takes up five city lots. Standing near the hot tub on the back deck of their two-story cornflower-blue house, the couple can take in their herb and vegetable garden, compost heap and the various fruit trees and berry bushes they planted in the yard, where their two dogs have plenty of room to run. 
 ''I grew up in Lansing, and when I told people I was moving to Flint they were like, 'Are you kidding me?' '' said Ms. Fedewa, 36, the executive director of the Flint River Watershed Coalition. ''But we never had a lot of apprehension about moving here. When we lived in various suburbs, we were never engaged in our community at all.'' 
 They decided to buy in part because she liked being able to walk to her office in downtown Flint. They haven't been disappointed.
 ''Now we know everybody,'' she said. ''You have a hard time getting your yard work done because people stop by to talk. You really feel like you're part of something.''
 Mr. Murphy, a 38-year-old environmental policy analyst with the Michigan Senate Democrats who commutes to Lansing, says he sometimes gets surprised reactions when he tells people he lives near downtown Flint. He likes to respond that he has a half-acre of land and can still walk to the Soggy Bottom Bar.
 ''The entire time we've been here, the state has drifted through a recession year after year, yet things have slowly gotten better in Carriage Town,'' Mr. Murphy said. ''Now the rest of the country has caught our recession, but the big projects are starting to come through here and it seems like things are picking up faster than ever.''
 Carriage Town was once a thriving residential and manufacturing area, home to the carriage-making industry. But by the 1980s, it had the highest crime rate in a city consistently ranked among the most dangerous in the country, as well as a decaying collection of historic structures.
 The ill-fated AutoWorld theme park played an unexpected role in spurring Carriage Town's revival. Anticipating that the neighborhood could become a tourist attraction, the city helped restore Water Street, which had a few dilapidated carriage factories and a crumbling brick building considered the birthplace of the General Motors Corporation.
 When AutoWorld closed soon after it opened in 1984, Carriage Town's recovery was largely left to residents committed to saving housing stock that included Queen Annes, Greek revivals and American foursquares. 
 David White and Nick Hoffman were among them. The couple had been in their first Carriage Town home, a battered Queen Anne, for only a few days in 1983 when yelling woke them up. They watched several men hustle the manager of a nearby apartment building through the darkened street.
 ''They were literally dragging him along by his necktie,'' Mr. White said. ''They stuffed him into the trunk of a car and roared off around the corner. We had no idea what to do. We didn't even have phone service yet. I remember thinking, 'What have we gotten ourselves into?' ''
 When the manager reappeared the next day, his arm in a sling, Mr. White drew on the ample reserves of optimism demanded of anyone trying to improve Flint at the time. ''Well, at least he didn't die,'' he thought.
 He and Mr. Hoffman quickly realized they needed to save more than their house, which was once owned by Charles W. Nash, a president of G.M. and the founder of Nash Motors.
 ''All of a sudden, we became community activists,'' he said. ''We had a lot to fight: the prostitutes, the drug dealers, the petty thieves and the slumlords.''
 They helped create a neighborhood association, organized huge yearly cleanups and eventually rehabbed several different homes. 
 Michael Freeman, who has lived in the neighborhood for 15 years, credits the two men with saving Carriage Town. ''David and Nick were very persuasive in convincing new people to buy in the neighborhood,'' he said. ''They laid the groundwork for everything that's happening now.'' 
 Mr. Freeman was a 24-year-old AmeriCorps volunteer when he and his partner, Perry Compton, bought their first house in Carriage Town in 1994.
 Their battle-scarred, 3,850-square-foot Carpenter Gothic home was just a block from the site of an old dairy once run by Mr. Freeman's family. The couple loved the architecture, the historical connection and the price -- $25,000. 
 ''We signed a purchase agreement two weeks after wespotted it,'' said Mr. Freeman, now a senior program officer at the local field office of L.I.S.C., a national nonprofit group that helps local residents transform distressed neighborhoods and has helped finance various Carriage Town projects. ''Fortunately, I was young and stupid. There's been some agony, but that's what wine is for, right?'' 
 Their house -- a 12-room home built by a transplanted New York businessman in 1872 -- had been chopped up into five apartments. Mr. Freeman and Mr. Compton lived in one unit and rented out the rest to cover the mortgage, restoring parts of the home as tenants moved out. They connected with a third-generation plasterer who taught Mr. Compton the trade before he died. The pair became experts in everything from faux finishes to boiler repair.
 Today, after $100,000 worth of restoration, the house has elaborate plaster work and a 1790 fireplace salvaged from a London hotel. The yard is lush; Mr. Freeman returned home one evening to find a deer nibbling at his lilac bushes. 
 ''The neighborhood is so radically different now,'' he said. ''I have to laugh when I hear the things some of the newcomers complain about. They don't realize what it used to be like.''
 Locals point to the renovation of the Berridge Hotel as an important element in Carriage Town's upswing. When its 99 rooms were renting for $19 a night, the Berridge was well known as a haven for people plying the drug and sex trades, and as housing of last resort for some of Flint's poorest citizens, including recent parolees.
 ''The residents basically had the private-sector equivalent of a jail cell,'' said Dan Kildee, chairman of the Genesee County Land Bank and the county treasurer. ''They didn't have a bathroom, they didn't have a sink and they didn't have a kitchen. It was a living situation that forced them out onto the street and into the neighborhood on a daily basis. It wasn't good for the residents and it wasn't good for Carriage Town.''
 The bank cobbled together $6.2 million from 18 different sources to transform the Berridge into 17 apartments, now almost all rented, and to renovate the Tinlin House, a Craftsman-style four-unit apartment building next door. The project was completed last December. 
 ''The new Berridge is a monumental change,'' said Mr. Hoffman, who is no longer living with Mr. White, although both remain involved with the neighborhood. Mr. Hoffman runs the Carriage Town Antiques Center and owns Hoffman's Deco Deli and Cafe with two sons from an early marriage. 
 Working behind the deli counter, Heath Hoffman, his son, added, ''We get everyone in here from college kids to church ladies now.''
 Despite all the changes, residents new and old display a fierce devotion to their neighborhood. 
 ''We're very passionate about Carriage Town, and we don't give up,'' said Leanne Barkus, 43, who moved from Ann Arbor in 2000 to buy a two-story house for $63,000, and later acquired a pair of adjacent lots.
 ''I knew everyone within a month of moving in,'' Ms. Barkus said. ''If I need a jump for my car in the winter, I've got 20 people I can call. Four neighbors have my house keys. Whoever thought you could have that in Flint?''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 10, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A map on Aug. 20 with an article about the preservation of historic houses in the Carriage Town neighborhood of Flint, Mich., gave incorrect boundaries for the area. They are Fifth Avenue on the north, North Saginaw Street on the east, the Flint River on the south, and Begole Street and Atwood Stadium on the west.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: RENEWAL: In economically hard-hit Flint, Mich., the Carriage Town neighborhood is on the upswing, with renovations of Victorian-era houses like this 1872 one owned by Nick Hoffman.(pg. D1)
IN TRANSITION: Not all of Carriage Town is in good shape: a deteriorating 1892 Queen Anne-style house, left, sits across the street from another just like it that has been restored. A few blocks away, one of the first homes saved, center, once owned by Charles W. Nash, was restored in the 1980s by David White and Nick Hoffman, who owns a cafe in the area, right.
HOMESTEADERS: Clockwise from below left: Michael Freeman and Perry Compton bought their Carpenter Gothic for $25,000 in 1994
after $100,000 inrestoration work, it now has a sweeping staircase and elaborate plasterwork, much of it done by Mr.Compton. Erin Caudell, above, hopes to get a place for no more than $50,000, including renovation.
 TRANSFORMATION: Nick Hoffman lives in a restored Victorian house, above, which he and David White bought for $16,000 in the 1990s.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. D7) MAP (pg. D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); POPULATION DECLINE (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (78%); HORTICULTURE (77%); CENSUS (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (64%); GARDENING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLINT, MI, USA (90%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



530 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Government Jobs Have Grown Since Recession's Start, Study Finds

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
While the private sector has shed 6.9 million jobs since the beginning of the recession, state and local governments have expanded their payrolls and added 110,000 jobs, according to a report to be issued Thursday by the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government.
 The report, based on an analysis of federal jobs data, found that state and local governments steadily added jobs for eight months after the recession began in December 2007, with their employment peaking last August. State and local governments have since lost 55,000 jobs, but from the beginning of the recession through last month they gained a net of 110,000 jobs, the report found, in part because of the federal stimulus program. 
 Government jobs are always more stable than private sector jobs during downturns, but their ability to weather the current deep recession startled Donald J. Boyd, the senior fellow at the institute who wrote the report. 
 ''I am a little surprised at the fact that state and local government has remained as stable as it has in the nation as a whole, given the depth of the current recession,'' Mr. Boyd said in an interview. 
 The report offered several possible explanations for the disparity between the private and public sectors. It noted that there can be a short lag between an economic downturn and the time it hits states in the form of lower tax collections, and an even longer delay before the problems hit local governments in the form of reduced state aid and lower property tax collections.
 It pointed to the slow pace of decision-making in many states, and the power yielded by politically influential unions. But it also noted that the demand for many government services rises in a recession, and said that billions of dollars of federal stimulus money sent to states helped them avert layoffs.
 The expansion, coming as many states and localities are raising taxes, troubled Tad DeHaven, a budget analyst for the Cato Institute, a libertarian research group in Washington. ''That is disturbing,'' Mr. DeHaven said. ''Basically what you have is your producers in society losing their jobs and looking for work, and their tax burden isn't necessarily going down -- and as a matter of fact they are likely to face tax increases going forward -- and government growing.''
 States are likely to cut more jobs this year. Many have already imposed furloughs on their workers, reducing their pay, and with states facing record declines in tax collections, several are planning to cut their work forces. The report noted that some hard-hit states had already made deep cuts, led by Arizona, which cut its state government employment by 8.6 percent from the spring of 2008 to this spring.
 The disparity between the public and private sector job market is striking in places like Boise, Idaho. Since the recession began, the area's unemployment rate has more than doubled, to over 10.1 percent in June, as big employers, especially in the technology sector, shed workers. The Boise area lost 20,000 jobs in the year ending in June, the Idaho Labor Department said, and saw real gains only in government, which had an increase of 1,400 jobs, mostly in the public schools. 
 Jon Hanian, a spokesman for Gov. C. L. Otter, a Republican in his first term, said jobs in state government outside of education were declining. The new state budget, which took effect last month, cuts agencies across the board by 5 percent, Mr. Hanian said, but lets agencies decide whether to impose furloughs, cut wages or eliminate positions. 
 Kerry Korpi, the director of the research and collective bargaining department at the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, a union representing government employees, said the public sector often lagged behind the economy in both downturns and recoveries. Ms. Korpi said that a growing number of government jobs were being eliminated now, and that many government workers had been forced to take pay cuts and pay more for benefits. And she noted that government workers were providing services that are needed in a downturn. 
 ''At a time like this,'' she said, ''it's really hard to lay people off at your unemployment office or your food stamp office, where they're having trouble keeping up with what they've got.''
 The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal research group in Washington, recently reported that 30 states had raised taxes since January, and that at least 40 states were furloughing workers or eliminating jobs through attrition or layoffs. Many are cutting vital services, the center said.
 ''Crunch time is still to come for the states,'' said Jon Shure, the deputy director of the center's state fiscal project. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: Public Versus Private in Hard Economic Times: While the private sector has lost 6.9 million jobs since the current recession began, state and local government employment has increased, adding 110,000 jobs. Here is a look at how employment has fared in this recession and in previous ones.(Source: The Rockefeller Institute of Government) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); RECESSION (95%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (93%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); TAX INCREASES (86%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); TAX RELIEF (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); INTERVIEWS (66%); PROPERTY TAX (65%); TAX LAW (65%); US LIBERTARIAN PARTY (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOISE, ID, USA (79%) IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



531 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Education; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: An Education in Risk Management Can Offer a Leg Up

BYLINE: By JENNIFER SARANOW SCHULTZ

 BODY:
Asri Sergici hasn't just been looking for a full-time job since his yearlong quantitative research internship at a financial firm ended in May. He has also been studying for the financial risk manager certification exam, which is given in November. 
 ''After what's going on in the financial industry, risk management jobs have become more popular,'' said Mr. Sergici, 31, who lives in Boston and already has an M.B.A. and a master's in finance from the Carroll School of Management at Boston College. He hopes the certification will help him secure a quantitative risk management role at a financial institution, he said, adding, ''A certification gives you credibility.'' 
Job seekers with substantial work experience no doubt have an edge in the changing and highly competitive financial industry. But certain educational credentials can help displaced professionals set themselves apart and stay competitive as firms' needs evolve.
 ''There are so many demands from firms now for credentials that give people legitimate claims to knowledge and expertise,'' said Peter Deragon, head of the North America financial services practice at Stanton Chase International, an executive search firm. 
 While recruiters agree that securing a chartered financial analyst designation or an M.B.A. can never hurt, knowing which other certifications and what kind of continuing education to pursue can be tricky. 
 Among the hot areas now are positions related to minimizing risk, as firms try to mitigate the chances of another financial crisis. Risk in general is a relatively new focus, and the openings range from business, credit and operational risk to product and technology risk. ''Risk is everywhere,'' said Jeanne E. Branthover, head of the global financial services practice at Boyden Global Executive Search.
 Recruiters say obtaining financial risk manager or professional risk manager certifications is an option for those looking for broad risk management knowledge, while the credit risk certification is an option for professionals with backgrounds in credit and lending. Business schools are also adding to their risk-related continuing education offerings, which can make obtaining the certifications easier and can provide extensive networking opportunities. 
 This year, the Stern School of Business at New York Universitystarted offering an executive master's in risk management in partnership with the Amsterdam Institute of Finance. During the program, which lasts a year and costs 42,000 euros, or about $60,000, students meet 10 times for multi-day sessions and study subjects including risk metrics, credit risk and liquidity risk. The course covers about 75 percent of what one is required to know for the professional risk manager certification, said Ingo Walter, a professor of finance at Stern. 
 Stern also offers a less technical three-day executive education session on integrated risk management. Columbia Business School and the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University are among other institutions that offer similar programs, which range in cost from $3,750 to $10,000.
 Another area becoming more important as financial firms prepare for more government regulation is compliance, and recruiters expect compensation for such positions to increase. ''Any role within compliance is in hot demand right now,'' said Timothy Holt, a managing partner at Heidrick & Struggles International, an executive search firm. 
 Risk certifications provide some compliance training, and law degrees are always a great entry into compliance roles. But some specific compliance designations and courses can help, too. These include the American Bankers Association's certified regulatory compliance manager designation and the certified regulatory and compliance professional designation, from the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority Institute at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. Both organizations also offer shorter training courses that don't lead to certification but can enhance a resume.
 Financial companies are hiring for their wealth management departments and training programs and are looking for employees who know how to generate revenue and already have clients, said Danny Sarch, the founder of and a recruiter for Leitner Sarch Consultants, an executive search company. Those with the certified financial planner or certified investment management analyst credentials are good candidates for those opportunities, he said. 
 Positions related to cash and balance sheet management -- such as controller, accountant and treasurer -- are also available, recruiters say, and candidates would benefit from a certified public accountant or certified treasury professional certification.
 In many cases, just passing the C.P.A. exam can be enough, even without the work experience required for licensing. ''It shows that you took the initiative and that you are qualified because you passed,'' said Steve Shapiro, a recruiter for the executive search firm JSB Partners in New York. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SILVER LINING: Graduate students at N.Y.U.'s Stern School of Business in a course on risk management, an increasingly popular field in the aftermath of the financial crisis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RISK MANAGEMENT (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (89%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (89%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON COLLEGE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



532 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: Key Index In China Falls on Fear Of a Bubble

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY and BETTINA WASSENER

 BODY:
As the United States lurches toward recovery, many investors are looking to China to help lift the global economy and stoke financial markets. 
 But fears that China's muscular expansion could weaken turned the country's main stock index into a bear market Wednesday, clouding some of those hopes.
The Shanghai composite index closed down 4.3 percent, capping a string of sell-offs that has pushed the market down by 20 percent in just two weeks. By midday Thursday, the index was rising, climbing more than 2 percent. 
 Investors have grown increasingly worried that an asset bubble may be forming in China, fueled by a $586 billion economic stimulus package and an even more aggressive state-directed lending program that has led banks to filter hundreds of billions of yuan into infrastructure projects.
 The mass of easy cash has helped China's giant economy expand at a 7.1 percent clip this year, and propelled a 90 percent rise in the Shanghai market. Now, economists worry that the government's quick fix has been tilted too heavily toward investment, rather than consumption, setting the stage for unbalanced growth, a surge in bad loans and mounting government debt.
 ''If you are worried about the pace of recovery, you are looking to see where growth is going to be,'' said Quincy Krosby, a market strategist at Prudential Financial. ''To have a pullback is normal,'' she said. ''The question you have to worry about is, 'Is the Shanghai market a harbinger?' '' 
 The plunge in the Shanghai market, which has given up a third of its gains this year, appeared to attract the government's attention. China's three influential official financial newspapers on Wednesday published bullish comments and sought to talk up the market. The State Council, China's executive branch, later urged banks to provide more loans to smaller firms to support their development, Reuters reported.
 Economists say Chinese banks, having helped fuel a recovery, must now think about reining in aggressive lending. The central bank called last month for tighter supervision of loans, and China's Banking Regulatory Commission ordered banks to lift their reserve ratios for bad loans by January. 
 Investors around the world have also taken notice. Wall Street and indexes in London and Frankfurt are flat or have fallen since early August. 
 Markets in New York fell at first on Wednesday as the declines in China reverberated, but recovered to finish higher as oil prices and energy stocks surged. The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 61.22 points at 9,279.16. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 6.79 points, to 996.46, and the Nasdaq closed 13.32 points higher at 1,969.24.
 In many ways, the sell-off on the Shanghai stock exchange represented a natural correction after the buildup that preceded it. ''I see this as long overdue, very much so. It's a healthy development,'' said Stephen Davies, chief executive of Javelin Wealth Management in Singapore.
 After China's state-owned banks began to slow lending, many investors cashed in on gains, which explains the market's downward movement. 
 ''China is a very domestic-driven market,'' Mr. Davies said. ''I don't think there is any danger of spillover to other markets beyond the fact that this is prompting some investors to take profits, and to step back and think about how to deploy their resources going forward.''
 Markus Rosgen, the head of regional strategy at Citigroup in Hong Kong, said, ''Many international investors tend to believe that there is one story in town -- China. But the world is not coming apart at the hinges again.''
 In the United States, the Treasury's 10-year note rose 15/32, to 101 14/32. The yield fell to 3.45 percent, from 3.51 percent late Tuesday.
 Following are the results of Wednesday's Treasury auction of 70-day cash management bills: 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A string of sell-offs has pushed the Shanghai composite index down 20 percent in two weeks and cost it a third of this year's gains. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EUGENE HOSHIKO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.B9) CHART: THE DOW MINUTE BY MINUTE: A string of sell-offs has pushed the Shanghai composite index down 20 percent in two weeks and cost it a third of this year's gains. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) (pg.B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BANKING IN CHINA (87%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); INFRASTRUCTURE (55%)

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (54%)

TICKER: PRU (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (54%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (54%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (54%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) EAST CHINA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



533 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1360 words

HEADLINE: New York Seeks to Shore Up Factories in Its Shrinking Garment District

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
New York's garment center, once the heart of an industry that employed hundreds of thousands of workers and produced most of the clothing in the United States, is in danger of extinction.
 For decades, cheaper foreign competitors and rising rents forced many of the sewing and cutting rooms and the button and zipper shops that once thrived on the side streets south of Times Square to close, shrink or move as mass production shifted to China, India and Latin America.
 Now, even the remaining factories and shops that make the couture coats, dresses and other apparel for glamorous fashion designers like Nicole Miller, Yeohlee Teng, Anna Sui and Nanette Lepore are in jeopardy. Owners say they are caught in a vise between declining retail sales and landlords eager to find better-paying tenants.
 Some city officials and industry leaders worry that if manufacturing is wiped out, many of the designers who bring so much luster to New York will leave, along with the city's claim to be a fashion capital rivaling Paris and Milan. The damage would be undeniable, given that the industry's two big annual events -- Fashion Week in September and February -- attract enormous numbers of visitors and generate hundreds of millions of dollars in economic activity. 
 ''If you don't have production in the garment center, there would be no reason for designers and suppliers to cluster in the district,'' said Barbara Blair Randall, executive director of the Fashion Center Business Improvement District. ''We're down to 9,000 jobs.''
 The Bloomberg administration is now considering designating one or more large buildings in the garment center solely for manufacturing and related businesses. For 22 years, the city has protected the garment district through special zoning that restricts building owners -- from 34th to 40th Street, between Broadway and Ninth Avenue -- from converting factory space to offices, which command higher rents. Landlords have long railed against the restrictions, and their complaints have gained traction with the Bloomberg administration.
 But even as the city weighs whether to do away with the zoning restrictions, city officials, union leaders, designers, property owners and manufacturers are devising other ways to save the garment center with a proposal that would have been unthinkable even a decade ago. But city officials say the industry has shrunk to a point where it could be reasonably consolidated in a few buildings, rather than several blocks. 
 ''It's not mass production,'' Deputy Mayor Kevin Sheekey said of the garment center. ''Clearly, what's occurring is much smaller and more high-end compared with the actual production that used to exist. The idea is, we want to keep garment manufacturing in the garment district.''
 The effort to shore up the garment center comes as Manhattan's other blue-collar districts -- printing, fur, meatpacking and fish -- have disappeared, overrun by white-collar offices, residential development and expensive retailers.
 Initially, city officials had wanted to quickly rezone the garment center, much as they had revamped the adjacent Hudson Yards district in 2005, and move the remaining clothing manufacturers to Brooklyn or Queens. They argued that the current zoning restrictions had failed to stem the loss of manufacturing jobs in the district, which have hovered around 9,000 in recent years, from 16,000 in 1995.
 But a group of industry shop owners formed an organization called Save the Garment Center and resisted, as did the unions, arguing that moving sewing shops to Queens or Brooklyn would mean the end of the industry.
 The shop owners soon enlisted some high-end fashion designers who manufacture most of their clothing at the center's factories. The designers' orders are more likely to be 3,000 or 4,000 pieces, not the production runs of 100,000 pairs of jeans that are now typically sent to China. 
 ''Sustaining some form of the industry contributes to our status as a fashion capital of the world,'' said Ms. Teng, the designer. ''Access to manufacturers is profound. After all, fashion is about timing.''
 Andrew Ward, director of designer development at the Garment Industry Development Corporation, a nonprofit group of shop owners and union officials, estimated that only 5 percent of the clothing sold nationally is made in the United States, mostly in New York City and Los Angeles. But because those products are generally more high-end, they represent 24 percent of total national sales, he said.
 Anthony Lilore, who owns a design house on West 38th Street featuring an organic clothing line called Restore Clothing, said he manufactured 95 percent of his clothing in the garment center, where he can walk to sample rooms, pattern makers and factories to oversee production quality. 
 Chen Zheng owns New World Fashion, a sewing room on 37th Street, near Seventh Avenue, where 28 employees, most Chinese, stitch together coats, dresses and tops for the designer Nanette Lepore. Her production order this month is for 3,700 pieces, down from 4,000 a year ago. In order to help pay his rising rent, Mr. Zheng said, he recently sublet 15 percent of his space to a yoga studio.
 At his factory on the same street, Rodger Cohen pointed to the shirring machines that were steadily gathering and stitching a long roll of hammered silk fabric for a high-fashion dress order and lamented the machines he had tossed away.
 Mr. Cohen, president of Regal Originals, a pleating and stitching shop, said he was forced to cut the size of his factory in half last month and dispose of the aging machines that he no longer had room for. ''No one else is going to open a shop today,'' he said. ''It made me sick to throw them away.''
 City officials and industry leaders, including the Fashion Center Business Improvement District and the Council of Fashion Designers of America, have started to coalesce behind the proposal, from the unions Unite Here and Workers United, to designate one or more buildings for clothing production, while eliminating the zoning restrictions. 
 To stem the proliferation of budget hotels in the district, Mr. Sheekey has agreed to a proposal from Unite Here requiring developers to obtain a special permit for hotels in the garment center, and possibly other industrial areas.
 Under the proposal, a nonprofit organization would operate and subsidize the designated buildings, charging viable rents for manufacturers: $16 a square foot, for example, instead of the $35 frequently paid by architects and small companies in the area. In turn, the nonprofit group would be financed through a small tax on property owners within the district.
 City officials say that they are looking for a 300,000-square-foot building, but the unions and others say that as much as one million square feet of dedicated space is needed for the industry to prosper and expand.
 ''We need very broad-based support,'' said Ms. Randall of the Fashion Center Business Improvement District. ''We need to know that the majority of owners approve.''
 It is unclear how most landlords view the proposal, which would entail some sort of tax assessment. But Eric Gural, a managing director of Newmark Knight Frank, a real estate company that owns five buildings in the garment center, favors the idea. Lifting the zoning restrictions, he said, would immediately increase the value of the properties, far more than any tax to preserve manufacturing. ''The bang for your buck is enormous,'' he said.
 Still, some shop owners and designers worry that city officials are not intent on preserving enough space for manufacturing. They also question whether the companies that move into the designated manufacturing sites would have an unfair advantage over workshop owners who are paying higher rents in the district.
 ''We need the mayor's support to enforce the existing zoning laws as they were intended,'' said Ms. Lepore, who makes 80 percent of her clothing line in the garment center. ''Without the garment center, young designers cannot survive. If we fail to protect this district today, New York will not be the fashion capital of the world tomorrow.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At Regal Originals, a small factory in the garment district, pleating patterns are designed and made by hand on large sheets of heavy paper.(pg. A20)
Freshly made blooms drying at Shmalberg Flowers, which specializes in floral decorations.
 Left: At Regal Originals, Ignacio Dominguez reveals a steam-pleated fabric. Right: The designer Nanette Lepore, center, said, ''Without the garment center, young designers cannot survive.''(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A25) MAP: Many landlords complain about the district's zoning.(pg. A25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (90%); FASHION DESIGN (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ZONING (88%); HAUTE COUTURE (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); APPAREL MFG (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); FASHION SHOWS (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%); RETAIL SALES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); CHINA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



534 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Education; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: Sustainability Field Booms on Campus

BYLINE: By KATE GALBRAITH

 BODY:
After 25 years in the high-technology industry, Bob Gressens sensed a growing excitement over environmental issues -- and a new business opportunity. He followed his instinct, quit his job and went back to school.
 ''I want to give the next 15 years or whatever to sustainability,'' he said. ''To give back.''
In May, Mr. Gressens, who lives in San Francisco, began taking courses on topics as diverse as green building and sustainability management at the extension school of the University of California, Berkeley. He also signed up for additional coursework at a continuing studies program run by Stanford. If all goes well, he will find a job with an electrical utility, or elsewhere in the clean-technology field, after finishing his courses. 
 Mr. Gressens's trajectory will sound familiar at educational institutions across the country, whose continuing education arms have seen a striking influx of students interested in the relatively new field of sustainability. At Harvard's extension school, enrollment in environmental courses has soared by more than 70 percent in two years, according to the university, which has responded with new offerings in fast-changing fields like carbon neutrality and environmental economics.
 Berkeley recorded a similar surge: three years ago, the sustainability studies office offered just five courses; today it includes 60 courses over a wide-ranging curriculum. Since 2006, enrollment has grown to more than 400 students per semester, from 55.
 ''In spite of the recession, we're seeing strong interest in subject areas such as sustainable buildings, transportation, energy, economic policies and, of course, LEED,'' said Pat Rose, the media relations manager of the Berkeley extension school, referring to Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design, a certification system established by the United States Green Building Council. Being ''LEED certified'' has become important for professionals in fields including architecture and law; Mr. Gressens will be taking the LEED exam this fall.
 The Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education is just starting to survey whether colleges are offering continuing education courses related to sustainability, and not all are doing so. However, ''we do have a sense from our members that these types of courses have increased in the past few years,'' Paul Rowland, the group's executive director, said in an e-mail message.
 Many sustainability-focused continuing education programs offer certificates to students completing a certain number of courses. (At least four courses are needed for a certificate at Berkeley, for example, and 10 full-day workshops at the University of Oregon's sustainability leadership program.) A few offer degrees, including the Harvard extension school, which confers a master's in sustainability and environmental management.
 Courses at Berkeley generally cost hundreds of dollars; at Harvard, they may reach $950 for noncredit attendees. 
 Business schools are also burnishing their sustainability credentials. A few, like Duquesne University's business school in Pittsburgh and, as of this fall, City University of Seattle, offer M.B.A.'s in sustainability. Every two years, the Center for Business Education at the nonprofit Aspen Institute ranks the top M.B.A. programs with a social or environmental bent. The public management program at Stanford's Graduate School of Business tops the 2007-8 list; the next survey is due out in October.
 For homeowners who want to learn about energy-saving options, some institutions offer hands-on programs. The College of Continuing and Professional Education at California State University, Long Beach, has scheduled a three-hour workshop for later this month; attendees take along their utility bills for discussion. At the University of Colorado at Boulder, the continuing education arm offers workshops in straw-bale building and green remodeling. (This fall, its sustainable practices program, in conjunction with the university's business school, will offer a program in sustainable management.)
 Many universities are directing their programs toward managers, but another booming niche -- occupied mainly by community colleges -- involves training renewable energy technicians. Christine Real de Azua, a spokeswoman for the American Wind Energy Association, said more than 100 such programs were in operation around the country, at least 80 created in the last two years.
 Amid all the growth, experts warn prospective students to take a hard look at the value for money offered by the courses. At some schools, ''there is a very large gap between the theory that they're teaching and the actual requirements of the field,'' particularly the financial and technical aspects of sustainability, said Nick Ellis, a managing partner at Bright Green Talent, an environmentally oriented executive search firm in San Francisco. He advises asking prospective schools about their placement rates in various green industries.
 Mr. Gressens, 53, said he was happy with what he was learning at Berkeley and Stanford. And he cited another advantage of the courses: the students. 
 At Berkeley, ''you have people whose passion is to save the planet,'' he said. ''There are others who are just looking to make a buck. So that makes things interesting.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BACK TO CLASS: Bob Gressens signed up for continuing education at two universities to learn more about clean technology. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); GREEN BUILDING (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); BUSINESS LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); CURRICULA (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



535 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 RUSSIA MAY RETHINK 
 Arms Deal to Iran
 The Israeli president, Shimon Peres, said that his Russian counterpart, Dmitri A. Medvedev, had promised to reconsider Russia's plans to provide advanced surface-to-air missiles to Iran, a deal that Washington has also sought to halt. Page A10
 A TASTE OF PAKISTAN'S ANGER 
 A big part of President Obama's strategy for Afghanistan and Pakistan involves convincing the Pakistani people that the United States is their friend. But as American officials discovered, making that case is not easy. News Analysis. PAGE A11
 A CABINET OF LOYALISTS
 President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran submitted a list of proposed cabinet members that would shore up his inner circle of loyalists and remove the ministers who criticized him during a political confrontation last month. PAGE A14
 National
 UNIVERSITY RELEASES RECORDS
 Of Gunman's Mental Health
 Records released by Virginia Tech said the gunman who in 2007 committed the nation's worst campus killing spree was interviewed several times by university health officials more than a year before his attack. PAGE A18
 TEXAS JUDGE TAKES STAND
 The highest-ranking criminal judge in Texas, accused of denying a condemned man the chance for a last appeal hours before he was put to death, was called to the witness stand. PAGE A19
 New York
 SYRIAN MAN CHARGED 
 In Plot to Sell Weapons
 Federal prosecutors in Manhattan accused a former member of the Syrian military of plotting to sell high-powered weapons to Colombian terrorists in exchange for nearly a metric ton of cocaine. PAGE A21
 Business
 JUDGE RULES AGAINST BANK
 In Loan Modification Case
 A federal judge in Manhattan has rejected an argument by Countrywide Financial seeking certain protections from investor lawsuits under new legislation intended to encourage modifications of home loans. PAGE B1
 OIL PUSHES MARKET SURGE
 A steep plunge in China's main stock index clouded hopes among investors looking for signs of a recovery. But the markets in New York managed to recover and finish in positive territory as oil prices and energy stocks surged. PAGE B1
 TIME WARNER ON YOUTUBE
 Time Warner and YouTube said they had signed an agreement that would make short clips of various television shows available on the popular video-sharing Web site. PAGE B3
 GIVING SLOGANS A BACK STORY
 ''Art & Copy,'' a documentary to be released on Friday, takes some advertising campaigns that are most indelibly seared into the American consciousness and examines their paths to becoming pop culture phenomena. Advertising. PAGE B3
 Sports
 MARTINEZ TRANSITIONS
 From Star to Role Player
 The Pedro Martinez, who signed with Philadelphia on July 15, is a stripped-down version -- no longer a clubhouse mascot, an ace or a projected savior. Within the Phillies' deep rotation, Martinez can blend in as well as anyone with three Cy Young awards can. PAGE B16
 PLAYER INDICTED IN ASSAULT
 A grand jury indicted Chicago Blackhawks forward Patrick Kane on misdemeanor charges of assault and theft in what prosecutors said was an attack on a cab driver last week in Buffalo, his hometown. PAGE B17
 Arts
 EAT, PRAY, LOVE.
 Then Get Married.
 ''Committed: A Skeptic Makes Peace With Marriage'' is Elizabeth Gilbert's memoir of the tumultuous year that came 18 months after her mega-best-selling spiritual travelogue, ''Eat, Pray, Love,'' leaves off, as well as a meditation on wedlock. PAGE C1
 A Reggae Artist's Benign Side C5 
 Home
 RENOVATING INTERIOR DESIGN
 Amid Tighter Budgets
 In a business where tradition can squelch creative ways of doing things, the economy is encouraging experimentation among interior designers. PAGE D1
 Thursday Styles
 FASHION RETURNS 
 To the '80s
 Consumers are in for a flashback -- at least they are if they have any firsthand recollection of Adam Ant or Culture Club or ''Working Girl'' or, for that matter, the Reagan White House. PAGE E1
 Op-ed
 NICHOLAS KRISTOF PAGE A23
 GAIL COLLINS PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMS TRADE (90%); LITIGATION (87%); JUDGES (87%); FILM (84%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); WITNESSES (70%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (68%); TERRORISM (67%); BASEBALL (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (65%); LEGISLATION (64%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (62%); OIL & GAS PRICES (62%); SPORTS AWARDS (60%); COCAINE (50%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%)

PERSON: SHIMON PERES (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); ISRAEL (92%); SYRIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



536 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Education; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: More White-Collar Workers Turn to Community Colleges

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
When Wendy Scarbrough lost her job after 10 years as a television news producer for NBC, she decided it would be smart to pursue a new career and to improve her skills. 
 At a job fair, she learned about a course that she was sure would make her more marketable to employers. Within weeks, she was enrolled in that course, in project management, at Northern Virginia Community College, alongside 15 other laid-off workers.
It felt a little odd enrolling at a community college, Ms. Scarbrough said, because she already had a bachelor's degree from Michigan State University. Still, she said, not only were the instructors knowledgeable, but also the course involved visits from prospective employers, and she was able to polish her skills in budgeting, personnel management and other areas. 
 ''I learned a lot,'' she said. ''It also helped me psychologically after looking for a job for a year and feeling discouraged. It gave me a new direction and has certainly been helpful for networking.''
 Ms. Scarbrough, 39, is among hundreds of thousands of white-collar workers who are taking advantage of the nation's nearly 1,200 community colleges, with their low-cost courses and local campuses. 
 Many of those workers are unemployed and eager to improve their skills or study for new careers in fields like nursing or information technology. Many students at community colleges have jobs and want to increase their skills to become more valuable to their employers and improve their chances for a raise. These students often take courses like desktop publishing, Web-site design and quality control.
 And many white-collar workers also take continuing education courses in subjects like cooking or public speaking for fun or self-improvement. 
 Community college officials say their continuing education programs attract not only many students with bachelor's degrees, but also some with master's degrees and even doctorates.
 ''In today's economy, degrees matter, but degrees matter even more with certain skill subsets,'' said James B. Jacobs, president of Macomb Community College in Michigan. ''Sometimes people with an engineering degree come to a community college, and what they may be lacking is three or four courses in information technology. They might want to use certain computer languages. Our continuing education courses provide the necessary skills for which someone will then get a job.''
 Community colleges were founded as a low-cost first step in post-high-school education for those who might not be able to afford or qualify for four-year colleges. Many students earn a two-year associate's degree and land jobs; many others move on to four-year colleges for a bachelor's degree.
 Increasingly, though, community colleges offer a broad range of continuing education courses to nontraditional students who may not be seeking a degree. 
 In a speech at Macomb Community College in Warren, Mich., in July, President Obama said community colleges were pivotal to his goal of getting millions more Americans to further their educations, to improve their skills as well as the nation's competitiveness.
 ''Continuing education used to be personal enrichment, primarily, but it has moved steadily toward work force development,'' Mr. Jacobs said. ''People would go to classes to learn to cook Chinese food to impress their friends and relatives or to learn interior decorating. Those courses have been transformed and have become areas for a lot of people coming out of white-collar jobs.
 ''They now take culinary programs to help open a restaurant,'' he continued. ''They learn not just how to cook, but how to buy and how to run a restaurant.''
 Scott Nordquist, 45, enrolled in a two-year occupational therapy program at Macomb. Mr. Nordquist had been laid off by DuPont after 18 years as an automotive paint technician, often traveling to Japan and Mexico to help automakers perfect their painting operations. With the problems of the auto industry, he said, ''I knew I needed a specific degree with a specific discipline.'' 
 After completing community college, Mr. Nordquist, who already had a bachelor's degree, found an occupational therapy job at Henry Ford Macomb Hospital in Clinton, Mich. ''It was something I really wanted to do,'' he said. ''Now I make sure that people who had a stroke or hip replacement or knee replacement know how to bathe themselves and how to get dressed.''
 His new job pays $35,000 a year, down from the $50,000 he earned at DuPont, Mr. Nordquist said, acknowledging that the good times in the auto industry are over.
 At Macomb, Mr. Nordquist's courses cost about $225 each, less than a twentieth the cost at many private four-year colleges. DuPont paid for Mr. Nordquist's classes as part of his severance package, but many laid-off workers receive federal, state or county aid for their tuition. He said he chose his new field partly because college officials told him employers were hungry to hire occupational therapists.
 Julian L. Alssid, executive director of the Workforce Strategy Center, a nonprofit public policy agency in New York, said: ''If community colleges really want to serve people in need, they have to have a very good handle on what are the needs in the economy. They have to focus on the areas where there are opportunities, and they have to work with employers in those sectors.''
 At the Borough of Manhattan Community College, La-Dana Jenkins teaches a popular job search course. Laid-off workers, many from the finance industry, are taught how to improve their chances of finding work. ''I tell people, 'Make sure you have a clear plan of action,' '' Ms. Jenkins said. ''You need to let people know you're looking for work and what type of work. Don't just say, 'I need a job.' '' 
 Ms. Scarbrough, despite her newfound expertise in project management, has not yet found a job. She is looking in public relations and community management. 
 But a classmate, Marc Vivian, 43, found a job right after the course ended, doing information technology work for a federal contractor. He had often managed teams of I.T. workers and was sure that obtaining official certification in project management would help with future employers. ''The course really fit my wheelhouse,'' Mr. Vivian said. ''It was perfect.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HANDS ON: Community colleges are increasingly focused on retraining workers. After 18 years as an automotive paint technician at DuPont, Scott Nordquist, far left, studied to become an occupational therapist, helping patients like Richard McQuaide at Henry Ford Macomb Hospital in Clinton, Mich. At Northern Virginia Community College, above, laid-off workers study project management. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO CONSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (93%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (93%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (87%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (71%); ENGINEERING (70%); HIGH SCHOOLS (66%); DESKTOP PUBLISHING (64%); QUALITY CONTROL (64%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



537 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1479 words

HEADLINE: Renovating an Industry

BYLINE: By KIMBERLY STEVENS

 BODY:
PHOEBE HOWARD, an interior designer in Atlanta and owner of four retail stores in the South, admits that clients are buying less these days, doing smaller jobs and taking their time with projects. 
 For Mrs. Howard, 51, that has necessitated being more aggressive and more creative, trying to make her work accessible to a larger range of people. She has started hosting more in-store parties and events and is writing a blog, www.mrshowardpersonalshopper.com, with the help of a young employee. She didn't know what a blog was until a few months ago, but now, she says, she plans to get acquainted with Twitter and Facebook.
 Mrs. Howard has been pleasantly surprised by the response. And at a time many shops are closing, she opened her latest one on Aug. 6, in Charlotte, N.C. ''I find myself trying things I thought I would never try,'' she said. ''Even if I'm feeling a little bit stressed or worried, I act like I'm having a good time. The attitude is contagious.'' 
 In a business where tradition can squelch creative ways of doing things, it is often difficult to introduce fresh ideas, but the economy is encouraging experimentation. Designers who say they are doing well in the recession are taking risks and changing what has been a very conservative business. And while luxury items and services are the first to go in hard times, these new approaches are benefiting customers who are finding design more accessible and less expensive. 
 In a recent survey, the American Society of Interior Designers reported that 65 percent of its members said they were taking smaller projects than they once had, compared with 50 percent who said that in 2008. Of course, there have always been designers who offer relatively inexpensive services, but they haven't been those whose work is shown in shelter magazines or shops frequented by wealthy customers. Now designers of status are reaching out.
 Two years ago, Betsy Burnham, 47, a Los Angeles-based interior designer, added a service called Instant/Space (instantspacedesign.com). For a flat fee (a living room plan is about $1,500), Ms. Burnham creates a master plan on line, including resources and unlimited phone advice. There are no budgets, fees and markups -- just a creative design plan.
 Ms. Burnham said she came up with the idea when she saw the economy trending down; it is an alternative to the traditional full-service designer who comes to your house, expects a large budget and spends the next few years with you. But when she started it, her colleagues sneered.
 ''Designers are a snobby group,'' she said. ''I got a lot of funny looks and catty comments behind my back. Now, I have designers telling me they wish they had thought of it first.''
 For those who have used her site, it has provided access they could not have achieved in a booming economy.
 ''It was like having a really great friend with fabulous style who was willing to share their thoughts and ideas about your space in great detail,'' Molly Clark Kircher said. She used the Instant/Space service in her home in Walloon Lake, Mich., as well as a weekend house in Montana. Ms. Kircher said accessibility and ease attracted her to the service -- and the fact that she got a high-end designer in a place where they are few and far between.
 ''Being in a small town in the Midwest, there weren't a lot of designers I knew of with a style I really loved,'' she said.
 Many designers are testing new concepts and taking risks they never thought they would take. Celerie Kemble, 36, a designer with offices in both New York and Palm Beach, said she recently worked on a project she never would have taken a few years ago. She decorated the lobby and other public spaces in 200 West End, a luxury condo building on the Upper West Side, and gave design services to the first 10 buyers, paid for by the developer. ''I really felt like it was risky because typically I don't design building lobbies, and I was being handed a clientele that really wasn't picking me -- they were being handed to me,'' she said.
 As it turned out, though, ''I ended up meeting amazing people, gaining more clients from the project, and it has kept the jobs flowing through my office,'' she said. 
 Niche businesses like color consultation, art hanging and personal shopping for specific rooms are popping up across the country as designers try to gain an edge. Kimba Hills, 56, a designer and owner of the shop Rumba in Santa Monica, Calif., wanted to reach people who needed a second pair of eyes but not a costly long-term relationship with a decorator. She came up with Speed Design, a concept that is both educational for the client, and fast. She goes to a client's house, assesses what should be kept or sold, offers advice and resources to change a room instantly, and typically finishes in less than a month. Her fastest turnaround so far has been three days.
 ''It's really more about teaching a client how they can reinvigorate a room by changing the placement of the furniture, maybe hanging the art on the wall differently, or simply have a few tired chairs reupholstered.''
 Ms. Hills is known in the design world for her expertise in local art and her eclectic array of midcentury collectibles; she sells through 1stdibs.com, a site that many top decorators use to buy items for their clients. 
 The economy has also pushed some back-burner ideas to the forefront. ''I had a crazy idea for a business in my back pocket,'' said Lindsey Dann Miller, 29, a designer who has been in the business for about 10 years. ''And when the economy shifted I decided to put all my energy into it.'' In January she started a site called formerfurniture.com, based in Los Angeles. On the site, she showcases a variety of designer and trade pieces that are slightly worn or have come directly from high-end furniture companies. Although Former Furniture ships anywhere, she buys only locally, for quality control. The pieces are inspected in person, photographed and put up for sale.
 ''I started the site with a handful of designer pieces and half of my own living room furniture, and I was shocked at the response,'' she said. She now has close to 600 pieces on the site, including a Ralph Lauren queen-size bamboo bed valued at $2,400, and listed at $750, and an apothecary chest ''once owned by a top-notch Hollywood TV and film producer'' valued at $2,100 and listed at $1,000. Her sister Courtney Mack, 31, has come on as a partner to help her with the growing venture.
 ''The business offers designers a way to get rid of furniture that their clients aren't interested in anymore with complete anonymity,'' Ms. Miller said. ''It's possible to purchase pieces on the site for a third or even half of what people paid.'' 
 Designer tag sales, pop-up stores, auctions and weekend events that mix shopping with picnics and cocktail parties are another way designers are reaching a different clientele. A recent Venice, Calif., designer tag sale attracted hundreds of people who paid $10 at the door to rub elbows with design-world stars and buy discards and extras from local designers. Anjelica Huston stopped by, and the free designer consultation area was packed all day.
 Nathan Turner, 36, a Los Angeles-based interior designer, hosted a Spring Bazaar in June with a number of designers selling their wares and offering advice. ''It was a way to bring a variety of people together to sell things at a lower price point, which is a real draw right now,'' he said.
 He noted that openness to change is essential. ''If you're not flexible right now, you're simply being silly.'' Clients who used to have their homes decorated by designers now prefer a consultant rather than a designer with an open-ended budget, he said. 
 Many designers have decided to stop worrying about what their peers think and simply focus on the client. Frank Fontana, 35, the HGTV host of ''Design on a Dime,'' runs a high-end interior design business, Frank Fontana Designs, in Chicago. He said other high-end designers looked down on him for his TV persona, snickering behind his back when shopping for expensive items at the Chicago Merchandise Mart and snubbing him at parties. ''If you buy into it, you'll be a goner,'' he said.
 ''A lot of people in my position would never put themselves out there like I am, but again, we all get up in the morning and put our pants on one leg at a time,'' he said. His tip to other designers: Do as much viral marketing as you can because it's free. ''That means blogging, Twittering, Facebooking and Myspacing your heart out,'' he said. 
 Mr. Fontana is optimistic about the changes and believes that designers who try to connect with clients will do fine. 
 ''I don't buy into any sort of snobbery,'' he said. ''I don't care what business you're in, everyone is suffering. And if you get creative, this recession can make you a millionaire.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOEBE HOWARD: Is hosting more in-store parties, is blogging and has expanded her retail chain in the South.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ARMANDO BELLMAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
BETSY BURNHAM: Created a consultation service offering clients online plans of their rooms.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
LINDSEY DANN MILLER: Started a Web site that sells slightly worn high-end furnishings at a discount.(PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. D1)
BY DESIGN: Lindsey Dann Miller, with notepad, at left, and her sister Courtney Mack take a sofa's dimensions at a client's home
above, Betsy Burnham's Instant/Space kit provides clients with swatches and resource materials.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (90%); INTERIOR DECORATING (89%); BUDGETS (87%); TRENDS (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (76%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); SOCIAL MEDIA (71%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (57%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (77%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (71%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



538 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: Did Chuck Do His Job?

 BODY:
It is hard to believe that an investment brokerage that pulls in $4.5 billion a year in revenue would portray itself as a mere victim of the financial crisis. That is what Charles Schwab is doing, after New York's attorney general, Andrew Cuomo, accused the company of having misled investors about the safety of the complex auction-rate securities it sold them. 
 The brokerage, which promises investors ''remarkable investing insight,'' is arguing that its experts, too, were duped when the market for the securities failed. 
 Mr. Cuomo has now sued Schwab to force it to buy back about $100 million worth of securities it sold to all sorts of investors. His office argues that Schwab's brokers and sales managers sold auction-rate securities as being virtually as safe as short-term money market instruments, promising that investors could withdraw their money every week without fail. It says Schwab failed to warn investors that their money could be stuck for a long time if weekly auctions failed to attract buyers. 
 In February of 2008, as financial panic spread and banks and investors pulled their money out of all sorts of securities, the auctions collapsed, preventing many investors from getting access to their money. Since July of last year, Mr. Cuomo has been pressing banks that underwrote these bonds, including Citibank and UBS, and the brokers that sold them to clients, to repurchase the securities. He has reached settlements with many, including one with TD Ameritrade for $450 million.
 The attorney general has tapes on which Schwab brokers tell clients things like ''getting out is something as easy as just selling it,'' according to the complaint filed before the State Supreme Court. One Schwab fixed- income specialist testified that investors ''probably didn't know that here is a product that you might not be able to sell. It wasn't conveyed by myself or the financial consultant because we didn't know either.''
 Schwab argues that it, too, was misled by underwriters who promised to support the market and did not. And it says it is wrong to hold it accountable for failing to reveal risks that it says were unknown at the time -- auctions had rarely failed in the past. In a statement, Schwab said it ''had no more idea that the entire market for ARS could fail'' than did the ''regulators charged with overseeing the ARS market and regulating the firms that manufactured them and ran the auctions.'' 
 Whether Schwab knew that risks were mounting or not, it clearly failed in its task to explain all the risks inherent in the securities it sold. That is its job. If Schwab is going to urge American investors to ''talk to Chuck,'' those clients should be able to count on Chuck to explain all the pros and cons of the investments he peddles. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TESTIMONY (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); SECURITIES BROKERS (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); SALES MANAGEMENT (69%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (65%)

COMPANY: CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (91%); TD AMERITRADE HOLDING CORP (54%)

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (91%); AMTD (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



539 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: Filipinos Lament How Far They Haven't Come

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

DATELINE: MANILA 

 BODY:
When former President Corazon C. Aquino died this month, Filipinos filled the streets in mourning and in celebration of the golden moment in 1986 when she led them in a peaceful uprising that some called a revolution.
 The nation's dictator, Ferdinand E. Marcos, had fled as masses of people faced down his tanks, and democracy was restored after 20 years of repressive rule. Mrs. Aquino, the opposition leader who became president, ushered in wide-ranging political reforms.
 But the weeks since Mrs. Aquino's death at the age of 76 have been a period of self-examination and self-doubt among many Filipinos, as they consider how little has really changed since then.
 ''The legacy is the mess we are in,'' said F. Sionil Jose, 84, the nation's most prominent novelist, pointing to continuing poverty, inequality and political disarray as evidence that the nation failed to capitalize on its moment of possibility. 
 ''We have a word for it -- sayang -- 'what a waste,' '' he said.
 In schools, coffeehouses, rice fields, churches and offices around Manila and in the countryside, there seemed to be a shared sense that the people of the Philippines had failed themselves.
 ''We thought all we needed to do was remove the dictator and do nothing about it,'' said Teresita I. Barcelo, president of the Philippine Nurses Association. ''We thought the problem was just the dictator. I say the problem is us. We did not change.''
 Sister Dory Reyes, 61, a former Roman Catholic nun and teacher in the farming town of Santa Maria, said: ''The poverty is still there. The corruption is still there. Unemployment is still there. I don't see improvement.''
 The Philippines, with a population of 92 million, is one of the most vibrant nations in Asia, with a flamboyantly free press and a creative, assertive body of independent organizations and interest groups.
 But it has not managed to tame its Communist and Muslim insurgencies or its restive military, which seems constantly to be plotting coups. Human rights groups say abuses by the military have returned to the levels of the Marcos years.
 And the political arena sometimes seems more like a form of mass entertainment than a place of governance.
 Since Mrs. Aquino left office in 1992, there have been three presidential elections, two attempts at impeachment, two apparent attempts to stay in power through constitutional change, one popular uprising that ousted an elected president and another that failed.
 ''We keep coming up with new ways to describe the country,'' said Sheila Coronel, director of the Stabile Center for Investigative Journalism at Columbia University in New York, who for years was a leading journalist in the Philippines.
 ''Democracy in decay, a nonfunctioning democracy, a challenged democracy,'' Ms. Coronel said, listing some of the epithets. ''There was a time when the phrase 'illiberal democracy' was fashionable.''
 Almost nothing in the Philippines escapes politics, and Mrs. Aquino's funeral procession on Aug. 5 has been widely seen as a protest against the unpopular incumbent president, Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, whose term is scheduled to end next May.
 ''When Cory's term ended, she did not seek to extend her stay,'' said Consolacion Paje, 53, a housewife, as she stood in the rain with tens of thousands of people to view the funeral cortege, referring to Mrs. Aquino by her common nickname. ''That's what makes her different from Gloria. Cory was honest. She had integrity.''
 Mrs. Arroyo is barred from running for a second six-year term as president. But the nation is transfixed by the possibility that she could amend the Constitution and stay in power as prime minister in a parliamentary system, a concern she sought to tamp down last month during her state of the nation address. 
 Despite constant attacks on her, Mrs. Arroyo is a ferocious politician, and she has already used her majority backing in Congress to turn aside attempts at impeachment. 
 With so much energy expended on political theater, not much progress has been made in improving lives in a nation where 30 percent of the population lives below the poverty line.
 ''Things get harder and harder every year,'' said Ernesto Policarpio, 74, a farmer in Santa Maria, 20 miles northeast of Manila, who sells snacks and supplies from a stall by his rice field for extra income.
 He paused to sell a single cigarette to a young man who lighted it with a lighter hanging from a string.
 ''But here in the province you don't feel the hard times as much as in the city,'' he said. ''Here if you have nothing to eat you can always go to the neighbor and ask for food.''
 Mr. Policarpio said he had worked abroad for a while, as many Filipinos have, earning $2,000 a month as a security guard in Los Angeles until the economy stumbled and he headed home.
 Eight million Filipinos work overseas, or 25 percent of the country's work force, its leading export. They send home about $17 billion a year, accounting for 13 percent of gross domestic product in 2007, according to the World Bank.
 Before the financial crisis, the Philippine economy was growing by an average of more than 5 percent a year, World Bank figures show. But even that was not fast enough to outpace some of the world's worst corruption or a birthrate that will bring the population to an estimated 101 million by 2015.
 Many families here depend on remittances from abroad, and an overseas job can be one of the highest ambitions for the upwardly mobile.
 ''I'm optimistic,'' said Danica Canonigo, 16, a high school student in Santa Maria. ''I'm looking forward to another future in another country.''
 This umbilical connection to the outside world may come in part from the history of the Philippines, which was an American colony for half a century, until 1946, after spending 400 years as a colony of Spain.
 ''We are not yet a nation,'' said Mr. Jose, the novelist. ''This is the whole problem. We have all the trappings of a modern state, but we are not yet a nation.''
 The Philippines remains a collection of fiefdoms and oligarchies and political dynasties that include the children of Mr. Marcos and of Mrs. Aquino. She was herself elected as the widow of a prominent politician, Benigno S. Aquino Jr.
 ''I'm for Noynoy,'' said Win Rico, 25, who serves coffee at a Starbucks outlet in Santa Maria, referring to Senator Benigno S. Aquino III. Mr. Aquino's name has become a hot item in next year's presidential election maneuvers since his mother's funeral.
 ''I think Noynoy is a person who will put our country first,'' Mr. Rico said, ''the same as his father and his mother.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mourners of former President Corazon Aquino in Manila flashed her trademark L hand sign for Laban, or ''fight.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY LUIS LIWANAG FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (77%); COUPS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); WRITERS (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); RELIGION (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (66%); NEWS REPORTING (66%); JOURNALISM (66%); CORRUPTION (63%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); NURSES & NURSING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (93%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) PHILIPPINES (97%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



540 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Shall We Dance?

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
Although this has certainly been a tough August on many counts, it is important to remember the little moments of pure joy. One of which was hearing the news that Tom DeLay is going to be a contestant on ''Dancing With the Stars.''
 I know. It takes very little to make some people happy. 
 Reality TV plus politics -- this could be the start of something big. Right now in Congress we have six senators who are supposed to be coming up with a health care plan, and all we've got is conference calls and gridlock. What if we locked them in a house together and made them compete every day for valuable prizes? Don't miss the final episode, where the winner gets to decide whether or not there's a public option. 
 DeLay's entry into the world of competitive TV dancing is also the answer to two critical problems facing the American economy. One is a serious celebrity shortage. This is something I really didn't see coming. But the proliferation of low-cost reality shows on television has drained the nation's hitherto-robust supply of slightly famous people to the point that last year's ''Celebrity Apprentice'' featured a woman whose claim to fame was opening briefcases on ''Deal or No Deal.''
 It's understandable that the producers of, say, ''Celebrity Rehab With Dr. Drew'' might have to make certain compromises in their quest to find people who are willing to go on camera during cocaine withdrawal. But under normal circumstances, when I hear the word ''celebrity'' on television, I am expecting to see at minimum the co-star of a canceled situation comedy or a lesser Baldwin brother. 
 Yet on the new lineup for ''Dancing With the Stars,'' the alleged stars include a professional snowboarder and the son of George Hamilton. Entertainment industry, you can do better. Eliot Spitzer seems to have time on his hands, and I'm sure Mark Sanford will be available soon.
 Then we'll be ready for ''The Boys of Prayer House,'' in which the philandering congressmen who used to hold Bible study classes in that C Street row house hold a reunion, and vie to see who can achieve spiritual rebirth while hanging from a pole in a backyard endurance test.
 Turn enough disgraced politicians into reality show contestants and you also solve the looming crisis over what to do with the nation's large supply of repudiated elected officials. This is a serious matter. Within the next year I'll bet you that in New York alone, we will have enough state senators under indictment to fill a small stadium, and none of them have any marketable job skills whatsoever. As I see it, it's going to be ''Wipeout'' or food stamps.
 DeLay, you may remember, had to quit his job as majority leader when he was charged with conspiring to violate campaign finance laws. He does not seem interested in returning to his former career as a bug exterminator, and he refers to himself as ''president of a strategic political consulting firm,'' a Washington synonym for semi-employed.
 But I understand he is a really nifty dancer.
 DeLay first entered the ''Dancing With the Stars'' culture back in 2006, when he urged fans to wipe out the evil that was a fox-trotting Jerry Springer and vote for the country singer Sara Evans as a representative of ''good American values.'' This was shortly before Evans quit the show in order to devote more time to her new divorce suit against her husband, a former Republican Congressional candidate who she claimed cheated on her, drank excessively and watched porn in the family home. 
 Evans has since found happiness with a former University of Alabama quarterback. But this does bring us to an important tip: When citing someone as a potential role model, always keep your commendations narrow:
 ''Sara Evans's last album is an example of good American values.'' 
 ''John Edwards's comment about poverty on Dec. 10, 2005, is an example of good American values.''
 ''Rod Blagojevich's hair is an example of good American barbering.''
 We are bringing up the former governor of Illinois because of his pioneering role in the melding of disgraced politicians and reality television. Unfortunately, Blagojevich's attempt to compete on ''I'm a Celebrity, Get Me Out of Here'' was quashed by an unsympathetic judge who apparently did not appreciate the fact that the man was only a half-step away from making a living as an Elvis impersonator.
 And now, Tom DeLay, an excellent example of good American waltzing.
 ''Headed to the studio for my first rehearsal and to meet my partner. Hope it's not Nancy Pelosi :),'' DeLay twittered with the wry sense of humor we have come to know and love. The new site had only 1,489 followers as of Wednesday. It hasn't been up long, but he had better get cracking. One of his competitors, the recycled reality show star Kelly Osbourne, has more than 110,000. 
 He needs to step up his game. A lot is riding on this. Sarah Palin is so, so ready for TLC. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); REALITY TELEVISION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (88%); INDICTMENTS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (71%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (71%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (71%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (70%); COCAINE (64%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (61%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (60%); RELIGION (60%); CONFERENCE CALLS (55%); SNOWBOARDING (50%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (56%); MARK SANFORD (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



541 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: Decorating's Answer to Online Dating

BYLINE: By AUDREY TEMPELSMAN

 BODY:
ALTHOUGH the economy has made it easier to gain access to high-end interior designers, it can still be hard to find the perfect fit. One route is to connect with a new online venture called Decorati Design Advisors (decorati.com/designadvisors), begun in May by Shane Reilly, a San Francisco interior designer and founder of Decorati, a decorating Web site. 
 The new service matches interior designers with people shopping for help with projects large or small. Decorati customers choose from six project categories, then complete an online form describing budget, needs and whether a local designer is preferred (although e-decorating renders location irrelevant). Photographs can also be attached. 
 A selection process that is ''part algorithm, part human intervention,'' according to Ms. Reilly, helps the Decorati staff cherry-pick 100 designers from their database of 20,000. (The site plans to begin charging designers a $200 to $500 annual membership fee in September.) ''It's like a dating game,'' she said.
 The staff then sends an e-mail message notifying the designers that they are a potential match and outlining the project's specifications. The first five designers to pay the $10 lead fee have access to the customer's contact information. Customers can then chose which designer they want to work with. The leads, which typically sell out in an hour, are being snatched up by some of the most established names in interior design.
 The New York designer Amy Lau, for example, a frequent presence in top national decorating magazines, bought a lead for a three-room apartment renovation in Manhattan. ''To do a living room, a kitchen and a master bedroom is not something that I would particularly look to take on'' under normal circumstances, Ms. Lau said. But in this faltering economy, she said, she is more receptive. ''In a world where everything's up and down, it just provides that many more choices,'' she said.
 Some designers express frustration with the impersonal element that the Internet introduces, particularly with small projects that the client wants completed quickly.
 Shirley Parks, a Mill Valley, Calif., interior designer, bought a lead to find eight new dining chairs for Paul Schneider, 66, a computer consultant in the same town, and was hired for the job. Ms. Parks suggested they meet so she could understand his ''goals, who you are, what you want,'' she said. 
 But Mr. Schneider shied away from an intimate -- not to mention expensive -- relationship. ''He told me: 'No, we don't need to meet. Let's just keep e-mailing and we'll tell you what we want, and you'll go get it for us,' '' she said. 
 Through e-mail messages and phone calls, Ms. Parks selected a set of clear acrylic and steel chairs from Janus et Cie, a California furniture retailer, but found the process dispiritingly disconnected.
 ''As a designer, it's our job to come up with ideas they wouldn't have ever come up with and to understand their style better than they even understand it themselves,'' she said. ''The client is going to miss out on that if they keep the designer at arm's length.''
 But Mr. Schneider thought that the low-cost, low-commitment project was the perfect ''trial balloon'' for building confidence. ''We have ideas that we'd like to pursue, if our 401(k)'s inflate a bit more -- again,'' he said. ''I wouldn't hesitate now to go and talk to Shirley and say, 'This is what we'd like to do next.' '' 
 In fact, he said, he is thinking of hiring Ms. Parks for a larger project: renovating his large open-plan living room. ''It's like you can't paint one wall -- once you start, you've got to keep going.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (91%); ONLINE DATING SERVICES (90%); INTERIOR DECORATING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



542 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Education; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1535 words

HEADLINE: Betting on Your Future

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
For many workers who have been displaced by the downturn, who have seen their salary or retirement income slashed or who fear the worst is yet to come, going back to school is looking more and more appealing. 
 They can see the handwriting on the wall, and some of it is compelling. Jobs in health care are expected to continue to increase. (Hospitals hired nearly 20,000 workers in the first half of 2009, in the depths of the recession.) Green-energy companies are making ambitious plans. Risk managers are needed in the aftermath of the financial crisis. Demand is high for engineers and scientists who have added management and business skills to their portfolios.
In response, community colleges, four-year colleges and universities, for-profit technical schools, professional organizations and everything in between are expanding their course offerings and retooling their curriculums. 
 ''We are out in the trenches on a daily basis, meeting with local committees around work force development, attending a lot of local and national conferences, doing everything we can to try to be ground zero of impacting change for individuals looking to get new skills or upgrade or enhance their skills,'' said James Whitten, the vice president for economic and work force development at Suffolk County Community College on Long Island. 
 The federal stimulus program and local government initiatives have helped fuel a surge of courses and of students, from Ivy League campuses to huge public universities. In some cases, tuition is reduced or subsidized.
 For many people, investing in education or retraining starts with tough choices. Should a human resources manager in retailing who wants to move to health care seek a master's degree in public health? Or would it suffice to take a series of short courses or workshops from a professional organization? 
 ''Simply because you get a certificate doesn't necessarily mean much to employers,'' said Charles R. Hickox, dean of continuing education and outreach at Eastern Kentucky University and incoming vice president of the Association for Continuing Higher Education. ''As a consumer you need to look at the quality of programming and how well it ties into the local economy.''
 A good first step is to determine which industries and professions are expanding -- and how well someone might fit into them.
 Studies from government agencies and labor groups show that some of the greatest job growth is expected in health care, education and environment-related work. Education or re-education is crucial to many of the industries and professions expanding the most, the studies found.
 Within each of these areas a range of positions is likely to be available. 
 To help workers figure out which positions and skill sets are most in demand and best for them, the Department of Labor maintains the O*Net Web site, which has a vast database of information about jobs within each industry. It shows which are in highest demand, what kind of training, work experience and education are typical for each position, the expected salary and other information. There is even a way to search for jobs by the skills they require (for example, skills of persuasion, knowledge of systems analysis, fluency in Microsoft Excel and so on).
 Of course, if you're uncomfortable with numbers and dread doing arithmetic, you probably shouldn't apply for jobs in financial engineering or risk management, no matter how many jobs are expected to be available. Employer demand matters, but so do students' aptitude, interests and priorities.
 Yet many displaced workers may discover that their experience and skill sets can be transferable in ways they did not realize. 
 Financial analysts, for example, might find their expertise makes them valuable in the educational field, where math and science instructors are in short supply. Managers in communications may find their interpersonal skills useful in health care management. 
 In many industries, a prospect's competence is the chief credential. In other industries, a degree or certification is also necessary, and may give applicants a leg up in a competitive labor market.
 ''Health care is so structured,'' said Suri Duitch, director of adult and continuing education for the City University of New York. ''There is a huge amount of oversight, and a lot of rules around qualifications. Same with education. Other fields are not that way, though.''
 How do you know what kinds of credentials you do, or don't, need?
 Many universities with continuing education programs offer advice and guidance on the entry requirements for various professions. Always remember, though, that many institutions are trying to raise their enrollments and may be unrealistically optimistic about the labor markets or their own programs' value to potential students.
 ''One thing people looking into more education can do is to talk to prospective employers and their human resources departments,'' Dr. Hickox said. ''Ask the H.R. reps: 'Would a certificate in ''whatever'' be worthwhile? Would I be employable in your company?' ''
 While human resources representatives may be loath to endorse or criticize a particular program outright, they may be willing to say a particular school's training program has proved to be more or less aligned with their company's needs. 
 Employers may also disclose which training programs have established relationships with local companies. 
 ''It's critical to have this dialogue with local employers,'' said Patricia Malone, director of corporate training and education at Stony Brook University, part of the State University of New York. The university now does extensive research, she said, to make sure its career-related programs meet the needs of local employers and current students. 
 ''Years ago we had an I.T. certification program, but we could never get job placement information about our graduates,'' she said. ''We took people with no background or skills in the area, and it turned out if they didn't have the work experience to go along with their new certification, they spent $12,000 to $14,000 on the certification but couldn't ever get placed in the job. It was a big waste of money for everyone.''
 Local departments of labor can help guide students toward training resources. They can often answer questions, for example, about which students, if any, enrolled in training programs are still eligible to receive unemployment benefits, and which kinds of training programs qualify. Guidelines vary by state. Right now only a small percentage of benefit claimants are in training programs, according to the National Employment Law Project.
 Labor department officials are also likely to be up to speed on which continuing and adult education programs are receiving government support. 
 ''If I hadn't raised my hand at the unemployment benefits orientation and asked what was available for people like me, I wouldn't have known about this program,'' said Anthony Cinalli, 48, a former finance industry professional who was recently hired by a small computer services firm. He found the position after completing a government-subsidized project management program at Stony Brook. ''I also probably wouldn't have a job today.''
 Keeping track of where students end up in the job market is a good way to evaluate a program, continuing education professionals say. 
 ''When looking at a specific institution, you want to know what's their history,'' said Ms. Duitch, at the City University of New York. ''If there's a certification exam at the end of the program, for example, how many people pass? What are their success rates?''
 Many private institutions do not release this data even if they have it. Public institutions are more likely to disclose this information, in large part because their financing sources might require it.
 A sense of what a program's students are like -- their experience, backgrounds, ages, educational attainment -- can also be useful in determining whether a program is likely to be a comfortable fit. 
 Some programs cater to midcareer professionals. Others, like the bioscience and biotechnician program offered jointly by Hunter College and SUNY Downstate Medical Center, enroll mostly recent college graduates or college seniors. Some focus on full-time students; others, working adults. 
 Remember, too, that the best labor economists in the world may get their projections for the job market wrong, a program may turn out to not suit your needs and other expectations could fall flat. 
 Even so, retraining or taking courses demonstrates your initiative and helps provide an impressive answer when employers ask what you have been doing during your weeks, months or even years of unemployment. 
 ''We try to help people make informed decisions,'' said Anthony R. Davidson, dean of the division of programs in business at New York University's School of Continuing and Professional Studies. ''Sometimes you'll get students who say something like, 'I want to do a program in advanced Web technologies, and I really want to go into ballet.' We try to help them realize that they need to rethink at least one of those statements to reach their goals.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.F1)
 BACK TO SCHOOL: Local departments of labor can help guide students toward training resources and answer questions about how programs might affect unemployment benefits. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.F7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TUITION FEES (77%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (77%); CURRICULA (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (75%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (74%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



543 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 297 words

HEADLINE: Deere Links Weak Sales To Worldwide Economy

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Deere & Company posted a 27 percent decline in quarterly profit Wednesday as the slumping global economy continued to depress sales of its tractors, bulldozers and other products. 
 Deere, the world's largest maker of farm equipment, also trimmed its sales projections for 2009, saying it expects the biggest single-year sales decline in at least 50 years, but reiterated an annual profit forecast of $1.1 billion. Cost cuts and relatively healthy agricultural equipment sales in North America are expected to bolster results. 
 Deere, which also makes construction and forestry equipment, has faced dwindling demand as farmers and other customers rein in spending in response to poor economic conditions and weaker crop prices. Tight credit markets in some countries have made it difficult for potential buyers to finance purchases of the company's products.
 Deere said it earned $420 million, or 99 cents a share, in the period, down from $575.2 million, or $1.32 a share, a year earlier. Revenue in the period, which ended July 31 and was the third quarter of Deere's fiscal year, fell 24 percent, to $5.89 billion from $7.74 billion.
 Stock in Deere, which is based in Moline, Ill., fell $1.31, or 2.91 percent, to $43.78 a share.
 During the quarter, Deere combined its agricultural equipment and its commercial and consumer equipment businesses, resulting in the voluntary departure of 800 employees. That led to a charge of $16 million in the quarter and an expected charge of $85 million in the current quarter.
 Equipment sales were hurt by lower crop prices, sagging construction activity and currency exchange rates. The decline was steepest outside the United States and Canada, where sales fell 37 percent. Equipment sales in the United States and Canada slid 16 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Frank Sieroslawski with a John Deere tractor in Hampshire, Ill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); EXCHANGE RATES (50%); CURRENCIES (50%)

COMPANY: DEERE & CO (95%)

TICKER: DE (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333112 LAWN & GARDEN TRACTOR & HOME LAWN & GARDEN EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3524 LAWN & GARDEN TRACTORS & HOME LAWN & GARDEN EQUIPMENT (95%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



544 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 225 words

HEADLINE: Outlooks Rise As 2 Retailers Beat Estimates For Earnings

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
BJ's Wholesale Club, the warehouse club chain, said Wednesday that wet weather and weak consumer spending hurt its second-quarter earnings, but the results beat analysts' estimates and the company raised its full-year profit outlook. 
 BJ's said it earned $35.1 million, down from $36.5 million, a year earlier. Earnings rose to 64 cents a share from 61 cents a year earlier, when the company had more shares outstanding. Revenue fell 5 percent, to $2.57 billion, from $2.7 billion.
 BJ's chief executive, Laura J. Sen, said low prices remained a draw for consumers trying to stretch their budgets. And despite lower prices for meat, milk and other items, the company increased its sales of food.
 BJ's also benefited from more cost controls and improved margins during the quarter.
 BJ's, based in Natick, Mass., said it expected solid profit margins for the year and raised its full-year earnings forecast to $2.46 to $2.56 a share, from $2.44 to $2.54 a share.
 Separately, the specialty retailer Limited Brands, owner of Victoria's Secret and Bath and Body Works, said its second-quarter profit fell 27 percent, but cost-cutting helped it earn more than Wall Street had expected, and it raised its yearly outlook.
 Profit fell to $74.3 million, or 23 cents a share, from $102 million, or 30 cents a share, a year earlier, the company said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (91%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (55%)

COMPANY: BJ'S WHOLESALE CLUB INC (92%); VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (55%); BATH & BODY WORKS LLC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (92%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (92%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (55%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (55%)

PERSON: LAURA J SEN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



545 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Film Executive to Lead Academy That Bestows Oscars

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

DATELINE: BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. 

 BODY:
Tom Sherak, a veteran film executive who was long associated with 20th Century Fox and then Revolution Studios, was named president of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences in a changing of the guard that followed an unusually active tenure by Sidney Ganis, a film producer whose four-year run in the presidency expired on Tuesday.
 Mr. Sherak was voted into office by the academy's board of governors at a meeting here on Tuesday evening. 
 At the same time Tom Hanks was elected first vice president, while the producer Kathleen Kennedy and the writer Phil Robinson were elected vice presidents. Hawk Koch, also a producer, was elected treasurer; and John Lasseter, creative director of Walt Disney Studios animation operations, was elected secretary.
 The academy's governing board elects a president annually from among its own members. The officers serve for a year and are permitted up to four consecutive terms.
 In a phone interview on Monday Mr. Sherak promised to keep up the pace of change.
 ''We read, we understand, we get the ratings that aren't going up,'' said Mr. Sherak, who as a governor had joined Mr. Ganis in advocating a plan under which the academy hopes to boost its awards show by doubling the number of best-picture nominees to 10. ''We understand we can't keep doing what we used to do.''
 Though little known to the public, Mr. Sherak is one of the film industry's longest-serving executives. He made his mark as a top marketing and distribution officer at Fox at a time when the studio was turning ''Die Hard,''''Wall Street,''''Working Girl'' and other films into a series of hits. He later joined Joe Roth and others in starting Revolution as a major independent venture and has recently been working as a consultant for Marvel Studios, whose comic book-inspired films include ''Iron Man'' and a planned sequel.
 Revolution, which released films in a venture that included Sony Pictures, had a mixed record and wound down its operations after turning out about 40 films, which included box office hits like ''Anger Management'' and critical successes like ''Blackhawk Down'' but also a number of disappointments, most notably ''Gigli,'' with Ben Affleck and Jennifer Lopez.
 Mr. Ganis, during his four years, became known for some bold strokes that sometimes jolted the academy and the film business but appear also to have strengthened its position in Hollywood. 
 Perhaps the strongest of those measures came in June, when Mr. Ganis surprised the film business with an announcement that the academy would increase its field of best-picture nominees, mimicking a system that was used more than half a century ago.
 The revision promises to shake up this year's Oscar race by brightening the nomination prospects both for popular films like ''Up'' and for smaller movies like ''The Hurt Locker,'' even as it creates a bind for companies that may now find themselves pressed to spend heavily on a wider range of contenders.
 In an interview shortly before the board vote on Tuesday, Mr. Ganis said his proudest achievement was repositioning the academy as less a show business organization than an advocate for world film.
 ''This academy is not about Hollywood and not even about America,'' said Mr. Ganis. ''It's about international filmmakers and filmmaking.''
 In recent years revised rules slowly shifted the academy's membership toward actors, filmmakers and others from foreign countries and the independent film world. As that change began to tell in the Oscar voters' choices -- they have favored international and independent fare like this year's best picture, ''Slumdog Millionaire'' -- Mr. Ganis and his peers fought to keep the ceremony's domestic television ratings up by using the broadcast to celebrate popular films that were getting no awards.
 Ratings were up about 13 per cent to 36.4 million viewers for the Feb. 22 broadcast on ABC, although that remained well below the record 55 million viewers in 1998.
 In keeping with his bent toward the international, Mr. Ganis was a primary advocate of the academy's plan to build a grand museum of world film. 
 The group has completed the acquisition of several blocks of land in Hollywood but has delayed the start of major fund-raising because of the soft economy.
 ''If it weren't for the economy, we all hoped you would see shovels in the ground,'' Mr. Sherak said. ''That has to be put on hold right now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tom Sherak, new president of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.(PHOTOGRAPH BY REED SAXON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ANIMATION (73%); WRITERS (70%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (92%); WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (84%)

ORGANIZATION: ACADEMY OF MOTION PICTURE ARTS & SCIENCES (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (84%)

PERSON: TOM HANKS (79%); JENNIFER LOPEZ (56%); JOHN LASSETER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



546 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM GERMANY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: Before Election, Not a Voter Was Stirring

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KULISH

DATELINE: BERLIN 

 BODY:
The German public followed the 2008 United States presidential election with surprising ardor, starting even before the Iowa caucuses. Yet, with less than six weeks to go before the parliamentary election that will decide if Angela Merkel remains as chancellor, the campaign is arousing surprisingly little passion or curiosity among voters.
 At a time of economic and financial upheaval, with unemployment expected to climb rapidly through the rest of the year and as the most fragile of recoveries in the export-oriented German economy remains threatened by the vicissitudes of the unstable global economy, political commentators have been at a loss to explain why. 
 The voter apathy is well documented. The polling company Forsa said that 84 percent of the more than 1,000 people they surveyed recently found the election boring. Of those, 38 percent said the campaign was ''absolutely not interesting and exciting,'' versus 46 percent who found it somewhat uninteresting and unexciting. Only 1 percent found it ''very interesting and exciting.'' 
 What interest there has been has tended toward the silly-season variety. Indeed, the candidate generating the most excitement at the moment is Horst Schlammer. Unfortunately for his supporters, Mr. Schlammer will not be on the ballot because he is a Borat- or Bruno-style fictional character played by the comedian and best-selling author Hape Kerkeling, whose campaign film will be released in theaters on Thursday. According to a poll by the magazine Stern, 18 percent of those surveyed said they could see themselves voting for the Schlammer character.
 Meanwhile, the political story that refuses to die is not about policy or electoral tactics but the scandal over the health minister's use of her official car while on vacation, which became an issue last month when the vehicle was stolen in Spain. The car was recovered but new revelations of previous jaunts have kept the minister, Ulla Schmidt, and her Social Democratic Party on the defensive rather than working to chip away at the double-digit lead of Mrs. Merkel's Christian Democrats.
 It is unclear if the Social Democrats could find traction with such a disengaged populace even without the distraction. ''It's amazing the way the people and the press are sitting it out as much as the politicians,'' said Matthias Bauch, 25, out for a walk near the Spree River here on Wednesday. ''You really did hear more about the U.S. presidential election than our own Bundestag race.''
 Analysts point to a variety of factors dulling voter interest. Surveys show that most people are convinced that Mrs. Merkel is going to win re-election on Sept. 27. Many others complain that after nearly four years of governing in a coalition together, it is hard to tell the Christian Democrats and the Social Democrats apart, not to mention harder for them to attack each other when they have supported the same programs. 
 On a more philosophical level, many here say, a tacit agreement just to stay the course is very much a product of the pragmatic German middle class's desire for consensus, compromise and calm, particularly in a time of economic peril.
 Maxim Biller, a German novelist, said that although large problems lurked in the background -- the inability to integrate immigrants and their children, for example, or right-wing radicalism, particularly in the former East Germany -- most voters ultimately were satisfied with what they had, including the cushion from the shock of the economic crisis provided by the state. ''Everyone just wants to be left in peace, and frankly things are going well for them. Somehow, it functions,'' Mr. Biller said.
 The election battle could certainly heat up in the final stretch. August is always a placid, if not downright comatose, time in Germany, where long vacations mean little business gets done. Mrs. Merkel herself only recently returned from her getaway in the Italian Alps. 
 The streets of the capital are half empty, and those people remaining are largely tourists. The footraces at the track and field world championships in the rebuilt Olympic Stadium have caught the attention of Germans more than the political horse race struggling to get up to speed in the background. 
 While the sprinter Usain Bolt grabbed 10 million viewers on Sunday night with his record-breaking 100-meter dash, the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung noted on its front page this week that a mere 800,000 had tuned in to watch Mrs. Merkel's challenger, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, make his appeal to voters on the same night. The newspaper poked fun at Mr. Steinmeier, who is not known for the campaigning prowess of his mentor, former Chancellor Gerhard Schroder, by observing that it was evident he had taken no performance-enhancing drugs.
 Mrs. Merkel enjoys a significant advantage over Mr. Steinmeier in personal as well as party popularity, and a survey released Wednesday by the Allensbach Institute found that 40 percent of those surveyed trusted Mrs. Merkel to handle the continuing economic crisis, compared with just 9 percent expressing that confidence in Mr. Steinmeier. That was roughly twice the gap in the December survey, when 30 percent backed Mrs. Merkel and 14 percent supported Mr. Steinmeier.
 Rather than engage her rival, Mrs. Merkel has decided to remain above the political fray -- what little there has even been up to this point -- by running what Der Spiegel called ''an election campaign that is in fact a non-campaign.'' Though hardly an approach that generates headlines, the role of the silent stateswoman thus far appears to be working. 
 ''I find a more reserved election campaign very agreeable,'' said Gabi Sommer, 46, who described herself as generally a Green Party voter but satisfied over all with the chancellor. But she, too, noted the lack of enthusiasm among voters. ''There's just no belief that anything is going to change,'' she said.
 ''The parties look more and more the same,'' said Norbert Lange, 55, of Berlin. ''Horst Schlammer looks better and better.'' He quickly made clear that he was well aware that Mr. Schlammer was only a creation of the comedian Mr. Kerkeling, and that the H.S.P., short for Horst Schlammer Party, was not a realistic option.
 The film, ''Isch Kandidiere,'' which is a phonetic rendering of the character declaring, ''I campaign,'' follows Mr. Kerkeling in a wig, mustache and fake teeth as he tries to become chancellor, meeting with real politicians like the state premier of North Rhine-Westphalia, Jurgen Ruttgers, and celebrities like the German rapper Bushido along the way.
 Among his positions, candidate Schlammer advocates changing the national animal from an eagle to a bunny rabbit and state-financed plastic surgery. But with slogans delivered in his character's broad accent like, ''I promise nothing, but I keep my word,'' and ''Conservative, free-market and left, there's something for everyone,'' Mr. Kerkeling's satire can sound dangerously close to average Germans' sober assessment of their real politicians.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Horst Schlammer, a character played by Hape Kerkeling, polls well though he is not on the ballot.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL GOTTSCHALK/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); WRITERS (70%); BESTSELLERS (65%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (63%); VEHICLE THEFT (63%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (58%); EXPORT TRADE (56%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) IOWA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



547 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: Bernanke, a Hero to His Own, Can't Shake Critics in Congress

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, no longer looks sleep-deprived. 
 He still works seven days a week, but earlier this month he took two days off -- for the first time in two years -- to attend his son's wedding. And he often gets home for dinner and even out to baseball games every few weeks. 
 As central bankers and economists from around the world gather on Thursday for the Fed's annual retreat in Jackson Hole, Wyo., most are likely to welcome Mr. Bernanke as a conquering hero. In Washington and on Wall Street, it would be a surprise if President Obama did not nominate Mr. Bernanke for a second term, even though he is a Republican and was appointed by President George W. Bush. 
 But the White House has remained silent. And despite Mr. Bernanke's credibility in financial circles, both he and the Fed as an institution have come under political fire from lawmakers in both parties over the handling of particular bailouts and the scope of the Fed's power. 
 He has been frustrated that many in Congress do not give the Fed what he believes is enough credit for what it has accomplished. Indeed, Mr. Bernanke has met privately with hundreds of lawmakers in recent months to explain the Fed's strategy.
 Fellow economists, however, are heaping praise on Mr. Bernanke for his bold actions and steady hand in pulling the economy out of its worst crisis since the 1930s. Tossing out the Fed's standard playbook, Mr. Bernanke orchestrated a long list of colossal rescue programs: Wall Street bailouts, shotgun weddings, emergency loan programs, vast amounts of newly printed money and the lowest interest rates in American history.
 Even one of his harshest critics now praises him. 
 ''He realized that the great recession could turn into the Great Depression 2.0, and he was very aggressive about taking the actions that needed to be taken,'' said Nouriel Roubini, chairman of Roubini Global Economics, who had long criticized Fed officials for ignoring the dangers of the housing bubble.
 But Mr. Bernanke is hardly breathing easy. Unemployment is still at 9.4 percent, and the central bank's own forecasts assume that it will remain that high through the end of next year. Even if all goes according to plan, Fed officials said, Mr. Bernanke's current popularity could sink if the recovery proves slower than many people expect. 
 While the White House keeps mum about Mr. Bernanke's future, the leading Democratic candidates to replace him include Lawrence H. Summers, director of the National Economic Council; Janet L. Yellen, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco; Alan S. Blinder, a Princeton economist and former Fed vice chairman; and Roger Ferguson, another former Fed vice chairman.
 Mr. Bernanke faces two major challenges. On the economic front, the Fed has to decide when and how it will reverse all its emergency measures and raise interest rates back to normal without either stalling the economy or igniting inflation.
 On the political front, Mr. Bernanke is trying to defend the Fed's power and independence as the White House and Congress debate plans to overhaul the system of financial regulation. 
 Democrats like Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, contend that the Fed was too cozy with banks and Wall Street firms as the mortgage crisis was building. House Republicans, and some Democrats, complain that the Fed already has too much power. 
 ''Why does the Fed deserve more authority when institutionally it seemed to have failed to prevent the current crisis?'' asked Senator Dodd last month. 
 The political battle over President Obama's plan to overhaul financial regulation has put Mr. Bernanke in an awkward position. 
 Fed officials support the administration's proposals to put them in charge of systemic risk like the growth of reckless mortgage lending or the misuse of financial derivatives. But they chafe at the plan to shift the Fed's consumer-protection functions, which protect people from deceptive and unfair lending practices, to a new agency. 
 Mr. Bernanke has avoided publicly criticizing the White House's call for an independent consumer regulatory agency. While acknowledging that the Federal Reserve did nothing to stop mortgage practices during the housing bubble, Mr. Bernanke has argued that the Fed has since written tough new protections for both mortgage borrowers and credit card customers.
 ''We think the Fed can play a constructive role in protecting consumers,'' he told the House Financial Services Committee last month.
 Mr. Bernanke and other Fed officials now concede they failed to anticipate the full danger posed by the explosion of subprime mortgage lending. As recently as the spring of 2007, Mr. Bernanke still contended that the problems of the housing market were largely ''contained'' to subprime mortgages. When panic over mortgage-backed securities began spreading through the broader credit markets in late July 2007, Fed officials initially refused to cut interest rates.
 By December 2007, Mr. Bernanke became increasingly convinced that the economy itself was in trouble but policy makers were unable to reach agreement and decided not to reduce interest rates. 
 At a meeting on Jan. 21, 2008, the Fed slashed the benchmark federal funds rate by 0.75 percent, to 3.5 percent, the biggest one-time reduction in decades. Nine days later, officials cut the rate again, down to 3 percent.
 As the credit crisis deepened, Mr. Bernanke urged Fed officials to devise proposals that had never been tried before. They responded with a kaleidoscope of emergency loan programs to a wide array of industries. 
 ''He has had tremendous courage throughout this episode,'' said Frederic S. Mishkin, a professor at Columbia University's business school and a former Fed governor. 
 Amid the chaos, Fed and Treasury officials made numerous mistakes. Their original idea for the $700 billion to buy up bad mortgage assets held by banks has yet to get off the ground. 
 But economists say Mr. Bernanke's most important accomplishment was to create staggering amounts of money out of thin air.
 All told, the Federal Reserve has expanded its balance sheet to $1.9 trillion today, from about $900 billion a year ago. Analysts now caution that Mr. Bernanke's job is only half complete. He will eventually have to reel all that money back. He has already laid out elements of the Fed's ''exit strategy,'' but Fed officials have been careful to say it is still too early to pull back any time soon. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ben S. Bernanke (pg. A1)
 Ben Bernanke has won plaudits, even from some early critics, for his bold steps as Federal Reserve chairman, but a slow recovery could hurt his chances of staying on.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BAILOUTS (88%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (67%); HOUSING BUBBLE (67%); BASEBALL (56%); HISTORY (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (60%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (60%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (94%); ROGER W FERGUSON JR (58%); NOURIEL ROUBINI (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



548 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'MY ONE AND ONLY'; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Hitting the Highway To Find a New Husband

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
In ''My One and Only,'' a good-natured screwball road film set in 1953, Renee Zellweger plays Ann Devereaux, a fading Southern belle who drags along her two teenage boys on a nationwide husband-hunting expedition. Crinkling her eyes, smiling coyly and perambulating with seductive flounces, Ann could be a cousin of Blanche DuBois. She belongs to a breed of aggressively glamorous women whose syrupy wiles modern feminism has rendered quaint, and Ms. Zellweger inhabits her fully.
 The journey begins when Ann returns to the New York apartment she shares with her husband, Dan (Kevin Bacon), a handsome society bandleader, and catches him in flagrante delicto with another woman. Mr. Bacon's suave lothario, with his lascivious grin, is instantly recognizable as the kind of reptilian ladies' man who just can't help himself. 
 Stomping out of the house, Ann empties a safe deposit box; scoops up her sons, George (Logan Lerman) and Robbie (Mark Rendall), who are half-brothers; and, in a baby-blue Cadillac Coupe de Ville paid for in cash, embarks on a trip that takes them from New York to Los Angeles, with stops in Boston, Pittsburgh and St. Louis. 
 The movie, directed by Richard Loncraine from a screenplay by Charlie Peters, is a fictionalized account of incidents in the early life of the actor George Hamilton. As embodied by Mr. Lerman, the 15-year-old George, who narrates the movie, is an earnest aspiring writer who bears some physical resemblance to the oleaginous charmer Mr. Hamilton later became, minus the famous suntan. 
 Slender, curly-headed Robbie is an effeminate, fashion-obsessed mama's boy with Hollywood stars in his eyes who dwells in a cocoon of innocence. The homophobic insults lobbed by strangers encountered during the trip go over his head. 
 The film's wistfully jaunty tone is established by an elaborate title sequence of vintage radio and magazine ads. ''My One and Only'' aspires to be a contemporary version of a Preston Sturges comedy. But for all its charm, this lighthearted travelogue is less an inquiry into the soul of America than an affectionate period piece set in economically leaner times, decades before communications technology revolutionized the concept of personal space. The movie conveys an older notion of the country as a land of open roads where you can thumb a ride: a place where you can still get romantically lost and found. 
 As Ann visits old beaus and meets new ones, each more pathetic than the last, ''My One and Only'' coheres as a series of amusing, loosely connected character sketches. Ann's first candidate for savior, Wallace (Steven Weber), is a Boston businessman in dire financial straits who rifles through her purse in a hotel restaurant and disappears while she is powdering her nose. 
 The second, Harlan (Chris Noth), an Army doctor, is an anti-Communist zealot who intimidates George with his authoritarian attitude. Her reunion in Pittsburgh with Charlie (Eric McCormack), a rich former beau with a young girlfriend, gives Ann the first inkling that her shelf life as a beauty at whose feet men fall helplessly besotted may have expired. A friendly overture to a stranger in a hotel bar gets her arrested for solicitation. 
 In need of cash, Ann takes a job at a paint store, where her charm draws business and lands her the attention of its wealthy owner, Bill (David Koechner), a serial bigamist and crackpot. The movie's wittiest speech is Bill's lecture to George about how the fluctuating body temperature of women necessitates bringing a sweater to every date. In another moneymaking scheme -- transporting hitchhikers for cash -- Ann and her sons are robbed at gunpoint. 
 George eventually loses patience with his mother and remains for a while in the spartan house of Ann's penny-pinching, desperately jealous sister, Hope (Robin Weigert). All the while, he longs to return to New York, where he eventually ends up leaving a class speechless with his account of how he spent his summer vacation.
 A half-century ago a regular feature of Reader's Digest was the series ''My Most Unforgettable Character,'' whose contributors reminisced about larger-than-life personalities who had crossed their paths. ''My One and Only'' includes about a dozen worthy candidates.
 ''My One and Only'' is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). It includes mild sexual situations. 
 MY ONE AND ONLY
 Opens on Friday in New York and Los Angeles. 
 Directed by Richard Loncraine; written by Charlie Peters; director of photography, Marco Pontecorvo; edited by Humphrey Dixon; music by Mark Isham; production designer, Brian Morris; produced by Aaron Ryder and Norton Herrick; released by Herrick Entertainment. In Manhattan at the Paris Theater, 4 West 58th Street, at Fifth Avenue. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes. 
 WITH: Renee Zellweger (Ann Devereaux), Kevin Bacon (Dan Devereaux), Logan Lerman (George), Mark Rendall (Robbie), Chris Noth (Dr. Harlan Williams), Steven Weber (Wallace), Eric McCormack (Charlie), Robin Weigert (Hope) and David Koechner (Bill).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Renee Zellweger plays a fading and wounded beauty who takes her feminine wiles on the road in ''My One and Only.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL GRAY/RUNAWAY HOME PRODUCTIONS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); FILM GENRES (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (71%); CELEBRITIES (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); WRITERS (65%); RESTAURANTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: My One and Only (Movie); My One and Only (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009



549 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: Taking a Chance on an Aqueduct Casino

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''Rotten in Ozone Park'' (editorial, Aug. 13) expressed concern over the gambling operator selection process, specifically that the public has no way of knowing how developers plan to make over the decaying Aqueduct racetrack. 
 As one of the bidders, with a majority of our team hailing from New York, we have reached out to those interested in our plan in a variety of ways. We have met with community leaders, the news media, local residents and elected officials on numerous occasions and continue to make ourselves available. 
 Gambling at Aqueduct is not only about reviving the racetrack -- it is also about creating construction and permanent jobs for local residents; invigorating New York's beleaguered horse-racing industry; and redeveloping an eyesore into a mixed-use facility for the enjoyment of all New Yorkers. Reams of documents are currently under review in Albany, and we find no fault with the process thus far. We are confident that our proposal will be selected as the best for New York.
 Richard Mays Chairman Aqueduct Entertainment Group New York, Aug.
 13, 2009
 To the Editor:
 While I am in agreement with The Times that the Aqueduct racetrack is in need of a makeover, I firmly believe, after lengthy study, that permitting a bustling video lottery terminal parlor there is the best solution anyone has offered to date for developing that site.
 The benefits of an Aqueduct ''racino'' are many. Opening a video lottery gaming center there would help produce the financing for the renovations everyone would like to see. It would also help crimp the outward flow of New York dollars to casinos in New Jersey, Connecticut and Pennsylvania in this increasingly competitive gambling market. This is not to mention the thousands of stable jobs that would be created for the people of the metropolitan New York region.
 There would also be positive consequences for those seeking to protect and preserve green space in New York, as the enhanced purses that would result would yield new incentives for horsemen and breeders operating here now and stimulate the economic vitality of upstate New York. Still another very important benefit would be the reliable stream of new state lottery revenue, which would be earmarked for public school education.
 In 2001, after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, the New York State Legislature authorized an Aqueduct racino amid the sharp downturn in the state and national economy. Joblessness in New York is even higher now. Certainly, developing Aqueduct is not a magic wand to cure all of our economic ills. But it is clear that the pluses easily outweigh any minuses cited by The Times.
 John D. Sabini Schenectady, N.Y., Aug. 13, 2009
 The writer is chairman of the New York State Racing and Wagering Board and chairman of the New York State Thoroughbred Breeding and Development Fund.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); HORSE RACING (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); HORSE & PONY PRODUCTION (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (74%); HORSES (74%); WRITERS (73%); LOTTERIES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (60%); TERRORISM (60%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009



550 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1374 words

HEADLINE: New York Paid To Lobby Itself, Group Claims

BYLINE: By RAY RIVERA

 BODY:
In late 2006, as the Bloomberg administration girded for what promised to be a bruising rezoning fight over the Willets Point section of Queens, it enlisted the help of Claire Shulman, the former Queens borough president.
 At a meeting in City Hall that December, Ms. Shulman and Daniel L. Doctoroff, then a deputy mayor, agreed to form a nonprofit group with city and private money. Its primary purpose, Ms. Shulman said, would be to lobby on behalf of the mayor's plan to turn the long-neglected area near the New York Mets stadium into a thriving hub of shops, hotels, condominiums and a convention center. 
 The group, the Flushing Willets Point Corona Local Development Corporation, eventually received hundreds of thousands of dollars in public and private money, and spent much of it to help push through the plan through the City Council.
 It hired the Parkside Group, one of the city's best-known lobbying firms. It brought in the Glover Park Group, the powerful political consulting firm, to bolster its media campaign. And Ms. Shulman, as the organization's president, made countless personal appeals, promising to meet with every member of the City Council as it prepared to vote on the plan last fall. 
 ''That was the whole idea,'' Ms. Shulman said in an interview. ''The idea I had with Dan Doctoroff was that we would help the city do what the mayor wanted, to clear Willets Point and develop it in the best interest of the city, and that's what we've been trying to do.'' In other words, Ms. Shulman added, ''We lobbied the city for the city.'' 
 Local development corporations like Ms. Shulman's have been around for decades. Ranging from tiny neighborhood groups to giant quasi-public agencies like the city's Economic Development Corporation, these loosely regulated organizations are designed to encourage businesses and industry to invest in local areas. 
 But one thing they are not supposed to do is lobby.
 State law says local development corporations are not permitted to ''influence legislation by propaganda or otherwise.'' Ms. Shulman's group eventually reported spending $450,000, roughly half its total budget, on lobbying, city records show. 
 Half the group's revenues came from the Economic Development Corporation, which is also barred from lobbying. The other half came from corporate sponsors, including the Mets organization, which has long eyed the property, and several developers and construction firms that are expected to vie for lucrative redevelopment contracts when the city puts out requests for proposals in coming months.
 Last November, the City Council voted 42 to 2 in favor of the plan, which authorizes the city to use eminent domain to remove the various auto repair shops and salvage yards that occupy the 62-acre portion of Queens. A group of business owners is suing to stop the city.
 The group, known as Willets Point United, has asked Andrew M. Cuomo, the state attorney general, to investigate the organization's lobbying efforts. 
 ''They knew what they were doing,'' said Gerald Antonacci, the leader of Willets Point United and the president of Crown Container, one of the area's more than 250 companies that will be required to move when construction begins. ''This was all planned out. They knew she was hiring lobbyists. This wasn't a mistake.''
 The attorney general's office is reviewing the complaint. In recent months, the office has been looking into lobbying by local development corporations, and has identified a ''small but not insignificant set'' of groups that appear to be improperly lobbying, said a person briefed on the attorney general's initial review. 
 The administration of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg says that it never encouraged Ms. Shulman to lobby and that the $450,000 it gave to the group was not used for that purpose. 
 ''The city regularly partners with local organizations that promote growth and economic development,'' said David Lombino, a spokesman for the Economic Development Corporation. In the case of Ms. Shulman's group, he added, ''we are funding a scope of work that includes public outreach, organizing community support and proposing and advocating for area improvements.'' 
 Andrew Brent, a Bloomberg spokesman, pointed to a letter Mr. Doctoroff sent Ms. Shulman three weeks after their first meeting. It outlined the goals of her group, including conducting and leading ''outreach, public relations and marketing efforts'' to support the proposed redevelopment in Willets Point, but it never mentioned lobbying elected officials. 
 Mr. Doctoroff, who left the administration at the end of 2007 to run the mayor's financial news and data company, Bloomberg L.P., did not respond to requests for comment made through the company and the mayor's office. 
 Ms. Shulman, borough president from 1986 to 2001, provides a starkly different account. ''We hired lobbyists from the time we began, because we were told it was something we were supposed to be doing,'' she said. 
 Ms. Shulman, an 83-year-old veteran of Queens politics, seemed a natural ally for the city. After retiring from office, she remained well regarded in the community and continued to serve on various boards. And she had long had her sights on Willets Point.
 As borough president in the early 1990s, Ms. Shulman rejected as shortsighted a city economic development study that said development would flourish on its own if the city provided sewers and basic services to the area.
 Instead, she proposed her own plan, which included a pavilion for international trade. 
 But like various redevelopment plans dating back to the era of Robert Moses, who unsuccessfully sought to turn the area into a park and parking lot for the 1964 World's Fair, her vision went unrealized. 
 Her lobbying for this latest plan became an issue this year when the city clerk's office, which regulates lobbyists, fined her group a record $59,090 for failing to register her activities with its office. But the issue of whether the group should have been lobbying at all went unaddressed.
 Even now, Ms. Shulman is not sure her group did anything wrong. 
 In its 2007 federal tax returns, the group claimed it had spent no money on lobbying. The group has hired a lawyer to help it comply with all laws and regulations. 
 The border between what is legally acceptable advocacy of a position and what is illegally trying to influence legislation is often blurry. But critics of the Bloomberg administration's aggressive and varied development ambitions say these neighborhood groups are increasingly crossing the line. 
 In a recent example, the Coney Island Development Corporation, essentially a subsidiary of the Economic Development Corporation, hired three buses to carry people to a hearing last month on the mayor's proposal to revitalize 19 blocks of the Coney Island amusement district. Officials say the buses were open to those who favored or opposed the plan, but council members say it was clear that most riders were supporters.
 ''I don't ever remember L.D.C.'s lobbying council members or elected officials the way they have been to promote Bloomberg projects,'' said Councilman Tony Avella, a Queens Democrat who is chairman of the Council's subcommittee on zoning and franchises and who is a candidate for mayor.
 The Coney Island group also paid more than $182,000 to Yoswein New York, another of the city's major lobbying firms, to help promote its efforts to help the mayor gain public approval for his redevelopment plan, records show. ''We do public relations as well, and for this client we were hired to do marketing and public relations,'' said Jamie Van Bramer, who handled the account for Yoswein. ''We did no lobbying on this one at all.'' 
 Likewise, the Glover Park Group, which received at least $30,000 from the Flushing Willets Point organization, said it focused on ''press relations,'' not lobbying. Harry Giannoulis, president of the Parkside Group, which lobbying records show got $125,000, said Ms. Shulman hired it to lobby, among other duties. 
 ''We didn't want to do anything improper,'' Ms. Shulman said. ''We have been working very hard to try to do something that is in the best interest of the city, and we did what we thought was correct.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 25, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Friday with an article about a local development corporation that lobbied on behalf of New York City's plan to revitalize the area around the new Mets stadium misidentified the man shown in his waste transfer business. He is David Antonacci, a member of Willets Point United, a business owners' group trying to stop the plan. He is not Gerald Antonacci, David's brother and the president of Willets Point, who is quoted in the article. (The brothers run Crown Container, one of the area's more than 250 companies that will be required to move when construction begins.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gerald Antonacci, the leader of the Willets Point United community group, seeks an inquiry into the lobbying efforts of another group, which was led by Claire Shulman, left, in scarf.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 NYC-TV) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); LOBBYING (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ZONING (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); EMINENT DOMAIN (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); CONDOMINIUMS (75%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); SPONSORSHIP (71%); LEGISLATION (71%); BASEBALL (70%); AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); LITIGATION (66%); COMPANY REVENUES (60%); SUITS & CLAIMS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009



551 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 5416 words

HEADLINE: THE LISTINGS

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.comart. 
 Museums
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'THE TREASURE OF ULYSSES DAVIS,' through Sept. 6. Ulysses Davis (1914-1990) was a Savannah, Ga., barber who whittled and carved wooden sculptures in his shop when business was slow. Organized by the High Museum of Art in Atlanta, this show is by far the largest presentation of Mr. Davis's sculpture to be seen outside Savannah and the first to reveal the full scope of his imagination. His best-known works, carvings of historical figures, take a backseat to hybrid beasts and hydra-headed figures. It makes clear that he wasn't just a patriotic folk artist, or an African-American artist affirming his heritage, or an inward-looking, visionary artist. He was all of these, which is to say that no single cliche of ''outsider'' art quite fits him. 45 West 53rd Street, Manhattan , (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg)20090820 
 ASIA SOCIETY: YANG FUDONG: 'SEVEN INTELLECTUALS IN A BAMBOO FOREST,' through Sept. 13. Presented in its five-hour entirety for the first time in a United States museum, Mr. Yang's hypnotic five-part black-and-white movie, ''Seven Intellectuals in a Bamboo Forest,'' tracks the dreamlike meanderings of a group of fashion-model-pretty young people, from a breathtaking mountain summit to a busy city where the disjunctive imagery becomes increasingly surrealistic and comical. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street , (212) 288-6400, asiasociety.org. (Ken Johnson)20090820
 BRONX MUSEUM OF THE ARTS: 'LIVING AND DREAMING,' through Sept. 13. This annual exhibition presents works by young artists who have completed a preparatory program for careers as professionals. Most look as if they could use a few years more of seasoning, but a handful appear to be artists to keep an eye on. The highlights include Eva Davidova's surreal videos; Meredith Drum's enigmatic, low-budget sci-fi film; Nathan Bennett's walk-in room resembling a set for a Stanley Kubrick space odyssey; and Jeffrey Hargrave's mock-racist caricatures. 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, Morrisania , (718) 681-6000, bronxmuseum.org. (Johnson)20090820
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM OF ART: 'LIGHT OF THE SUFIS: THE MYSTICAL ARTS OF ISLAM,' through Sept. 6. ''What's in your head -- throw it away! What's in your hand -- give it up! Whatever happens -- don't turn away from it.'' That's how a 10th-century Persian spiritual master defined the Islamic devotional practice known as Sufism. Countless other definitions have been proposed since, almost as many as for Islam itself. And variety -- paintings, ceramics, mosque lamps, books -- is what you find in this tiny, exquisite show in the Brooklyn Museum's newly reinstalled Islamic galleries. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Holland Cotter)20090820
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: PATRICIA CRONIN: 'HARRIET HOSMER, LOST AND FOUND,' through Jan. 24. The contemporary New York artist Patricia Cronin channels the life and art of the 19th-century American sculptor Harriet Hosmer (1830-1908) in a show of watercolor depictions of Hosmer's works, both those that survived and those no longer traceable. Ms. Cronin has also published the watercolors -- including her ghost images of missing works -- in a scholarly book that stands as a Hosmer catalogue raisonne. The result is a complex package: a total work of art that is a historical document of the careers of two artists and a homage by one woman to another. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Cotter)20090820
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'REFLECTIONS ON THE ELECTRIC MIRROR: NEW FEMINIST VIDEO,' through Jan. 10. Q: What is feminist video? A: A good way to reduce overcrowding in museums. Unless, that is, you are referring to this entertaining exhibition of recent videos by nine artists featuring the creators themselves as performers. Works by Klara Liden, Kate Gilmore, Cathy Begien and the team of Harry Dodge and Stanya Kahn are variously funny, dark and poetic. Starring in antique-looking, silent-movie-style commercials, Shannon Plumb is a wonderfully agile physical comedian. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Johnson)20090820
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'YINKA SHONIBARE MBE,' through Sept. 20. This is an important show for Mr. Shonibare, a British-Nigerian artist who emerged in the late 1990s and was made a member of the Order of the British Empire in 2005. His sculptural tableaus, which revolve around Victorian-era costumes made from 20th-century fabrics associated with Africa, are riotously colorful; their themes of frivolity and excess feel current. But with few exceptions, Mr. Shonibare serves his post-colonialism straight up. The show is rescued by smart integration with the permanent collection: a kind of scavenger hunt through the museum's American period rooms, where Mr. Shonibare's figures of children at play inhabit historical settings. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20090820
 COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM: 'FASHIONING FELT,' through Sept. 7. Tribute is paid to the world's oldest textile (no loom required) in all its sturdy, cosseting, beautiful, shape-shifting, dye-friendly majesty. The show includes contemporary furnishings, garments, jewelry and room dividers, as well as two large installation works. The felt runs from raw to cooked -- that is, furry to gossamer -- and in some of the most intriguing instances it is mated with lacquer, plastic, LED lights, metal or coral beads, as well as silk, linen or cotton. There are episodes of frivolity. A few earlier works -- including a Mongolian runner and a saddle blanket -- reunite function and decoration and distort familiar motifs in wonderful ways. 2 East 91st Street , (212) 849-8400, cooperhewitt.org. (Roberta Smith)20090820
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'THE SWEENEY DECADE: ACQUISITIONS OF THE 1959 INAUGURAL,' through Sept. 2. What did they get, and when did they get it? This perennial yardstick of a museum's sensitivity to new art is quite useful in this show. All 24 paintings and sculptures date from the 1950s and were acquired by the Guggenheim within a year or so of their making, and many were part of the first exhibition in Frank Lloyd Wright's spiral building. They constitute a mixture of the good, the bad and the innocuous, as well as European, Asian and American. But they also attest to the vision of James Johnson Sweeney, the Guggenheim's second director, who steered the museum away from its founding obsession with ''nonobjective painting'' and into the broad, challenging terrain of art after 1950. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street , (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Smith)20090820
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'AVEDON FASHION: 1944-2000,' through Sept. 20. The first museum retrospective devoted to Richard Avedon's fashion photography exudes a contagious joie de vivre. With postwar Paris as a stage set, Avedon made fashion photography new by adding movement and then narrative to his images, along with ironic self-awareness and a buoyant exuberance. The best of his early images are as perfect as the best work of Jackson Pollock or Jasper Johns from this period, and as profoundly representative of it. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street , (212) 857-0000, www.icp.org. (Smith)20090820
 THE JEWISH MUSEUM: 'THEY CALLED ME MAYER JULY: PAINTED MEMORIES OF A JEWISH CHILDHOOD IN POLAND BEFORE THE HOLOCAUST,' through Oct. 1. Introducing the reluctant painter and accidental memoirist Mayer Kirshenblatt, now 92, who has devoted the last two decades to documenting life between the wars in and around the provincial city of Opatow (Apt in Yiddish), Poland. Wrought with irresistible detail and folk-art dispatch, the paintings begin with his mother's kitchen and reflect an omnivorous curiosity about everyday everything, aided by an apparently photographic memory. Labels pick up where the paintings leave off; words and images combine in a marvel of a book accomplished in collaboration with the artist's daughter, a folklorist whose career choice was shaped by her father's stories. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, , (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Smith)20090820
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'AFGHANISTAN: HIDDEN TREASURES FROM THE NATIONAL MUSEUM, KABUL,' through Sept. 20. The 200 pre-Islamic objects in this important and moving show date from the Bronze Age to the first century A.D. They dropped from sight during the country's recent turmoil, which was deadly for both people and artwork alike. Courageous curators were their salvation; the rediscovery of the pieces was a moment of national thanksgiving. Consisting of vessels, sculpture, architectural ornaments, jewelry and furniture decoration made of bronze, stone, glass, ceramic, ivory, gold and gemstone, they attest to an astounding cosmopolitanism and diverse cultural heritage. Once, many trade routes led through Afghanistan, and proof of its former centrality is both dazzling and heartening. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20090820
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'LIVING LINE: SELECTED INDIAN DRAWINGS FROM THE SUBHASH KAPOOR GIFT,' through Sept. 7. This almost supernaturally beautiful exhibition presents 40 mostly small drawings by Indian miniaturists of the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries. Rendered with amazing skill, the subjects include bearded aristocrats and bejeweled women; hunting scenes; wild animals and mythic beasts fighting; and gods, goddesses and demons ascending and descending. The art of drawing does not get much better than this. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20090820
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'TIBETAN ARMS AND ARMOR FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION,' through fall 2010. The paradox of militant Buddhism inspired the Metropolitan's fascinating 2006 exhibition ''Warriors of the Himalayas: Rediscovering the Arms and Armor of Tibet.'' Now Donald LaRocca, the museum's arms and armor curator, has created a follow-up installation of 35 objects from the Met's collection (including 5 acquired in 2007). This time the focus is on defense rather than offense: examples of horse and body armor, dating from the 15th through the 20th centuries, outnumber swords, guns and spears. Most of these objects have seen more ceremonial than military action. All of them equate supreme craftsmanship with defense of the body and Buddhist principles. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20090820
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'ROXY PAINE ON THE ROOF: MAELSTROM,' through Oct. 25. An awesome spectacle awaits visitors to the museum's roof garden: a gnarly thicket of trees and branches extending 130 feet from one end of the open-air deck to the other and rising 29 feet overhead. It looks as if a tornado had ripped through Central Park and deposited its gleanings here -- except that it is all made of shiny metal pipe, as if all that wood had been transformed by someone with a stainless-steel Midas touch. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20090820
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'PAGES OF GOLD: MEDIEVAL ILLUMINATIONS FROM THE MORGAN,' through Sept. 13. This quietly compelling show assembles ''orphan'' leaves (illuminated pages separated from medieval manuscripts and sold, individually, to collectors). Organized geographically, the show allows a comparison of illumination styles in England, Italy, Spain and other countries and regions. It also highlights the figures who created and participated in the market for single leaves. They include an Italian abbot, an English art historian and a mysterious artist known as the Spanish Forger. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street , (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Karen Rosenberg)20090820
 MUSEUM OF BIBLICAL ART: 'SCRIPTURE FOR THE EYES: BIBLE ILLUSTRATION IN NETHERLANDISH PRINTS OF THE 16TH CENTURY,' through Sept. 27. Abounding in sex, violence and supernatural happenings, the Bible has been a great source of inspiration for visual artists. This superb show features pieces by some of the biggest names in the history of Western printmaking. Woodcuts and engravings by Lucas van Leyden and Hendrick Goltzius alone would make a visit to the museum worthwhile, but among the 79 works on view there are lots more wildly imaginative and technically amazing feats of printmaking. 1865 Broadway, at 61st Street , (212) 408-1500, mobia.org. (Johnson)20090820
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'RON ARAD: NO DISCIPLINE,' through Oct. 19. The first large American survey of this Israeli-born, London-based designer proves some of the virtues but many of the vices of its subtitle. Rambunctious, installed to poor advantage and ultimately inconclusive, it demonstrates with only mediocre results Mr. Arad's ambition to extend the design discipline into architecture and sculpture. There are too many toys for rich people here, along with evidence that when Mr. Arad sticks closest to functional design, he also comes closest to art. You have to set limits to transcend them. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20090820
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'COMPASS IN HAND: SELECTIONS FROM THE JUDITH ROTHSCHILD FOUNDATION CONTEMPORARY DRAWINGS COLLECTION,' through Jan. 4. The Modern's largest gift of drawings -- a windfall of 2,500 works by 650 artists -- started out as a kind of stunt and matured without becoming a triumph. Initially a yearlong shopping binge in pursuit of a ''cross section'' of drawing at a certain moment, it also tried to fill decades-old gaps in the Modern's drawing collection, often with works by familiar names. These dominate the sampling of the gift: a lackluster exhibition of 354 works by 177 artists that emphasizes the Modern's ambivalence about moving beyond the Minimalism/Post-Minimalist canon, and its tendency to pick big or hot names over truly great drawings. The bottom line? Connoisseurship matters. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20090820
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'WHAT WAS GOOD DESIGN? MOMA'S MESSAGE, 1944-1956,' through Nov. 30. With 102 objects and excellent labels, the Modern explores its role as arbiter of postwar American design, when, channeling the Bauhaus, it deemed good, affordable design a human right. Its campaign included exhibitions titled ''What Is Good Design?,'' design competitions and use of the MoMA seal of approval by selected department stores. Signature items like the Eames storage unit and the Chemex coffee maker mingle with surprises like a back-to-basics chair of string and wood by, of all people, Alexey Brodovitch, Harper's Bazaar's influential art director. The prevailing sense of beauty, restraint and economy is an implicit rebuke to today's inane material excesses. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20090820
 NEUE GALERIE: 'FOCUS: OSKAR KOKOSCHKA, WORKS FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION,' through Oct. 5. More a taste whetter than a substantial introduction, this exhibition presents six of the Expressionist portraits that made Kokoschka's reputation in the pre-World War I era and about 40 works on paper. The early paintings of eminent Viennese citizens still pack a considerable psychological punch. The gaunt, hollow-eyed ''Martha Hirsch (Dreaming Woman)'' projects an eerie, erotic charm, while her male counterparts resemble zombies and mad professors. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street , (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Johnson)20090820
 NEW MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART: 'DOROTHY IANNONE: LIONESS,' through Oct. 18. High priestess, matriarch, sex goddess: the self-taught American artist Dorothy Iannone has been called all these things and more. Now, at 75, Ms. Iannone is having her first solo show at an American museum. It includes just a smattering of early work: four paintings, one sculpture, an artist's book and a series of wooden cutouts. It is complemented, however, by an exhibition at the Anton Kern Gallery in Chelsea that spans the 1960s to the present. Both shows deliver an invigorating shock to an art world lulled, as of late, by the tasteful, conservative and blue-chip. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street , (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20090820
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'LEANDRO ERLICH: SWIMMING POOL,' through Oct. 24. From P.S. 1's first-floor hallway you step onto a wooden deck that surrounds a small, fully equipped swimming pool. Glowing lights built into the aqua walls light up watery depths below the gently churning surface. A flight of stairs leads to a lower level and a magical surprise. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)20090820
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'JONATHAN HOROWITZ: AND/OR,' through Sept. 14. Andy Warhol's grandchildren, numerous beyond count, have cashed in on his rich and radical legacy to see what further possibilities it might yield. Such is the case with the New York artist Jonathan Horowitz in this smart, crisply edited retrospective. The works evoke the media-saturated art of the 1970s, the neo-Conceptualist consumer art of the 1980s and the identity art of the 1990s, landing in a Never-Neverland era, in which analog is poised to turn to digital, and Doris Day and Paris Hilton have equal currency. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Cotter)20090820
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'DAN GRAHAM: BEYOND,' through Oct. 11. This beautifully installed retrospective pays tribute to an influential artist who doesn't necessarily call himself that, and it tends to bear him out. Most impressive are a series of early Conceptual artworks involving surgically precise uses of language and magazines; a series of deadpan, Minimalist-inspired photographs of New Jersey architecture; and ''Rock My Religion,'' an imaginative video about the roots of rock 'n' roll. The video installations and walk-in glass-and-mirror pavilions -- admired because they are interactive -- quickly grow tedious or gimmicky. The many artists who claim Mr. Graham as precedent may surpass him, but there is more than one way to be important. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Smith)20090820
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'SADIE BENNING: PLAY PAUSE,' through Sept. 20. A new stop-action animation by this former film prodigy uses an avalanche of simple, almost naive gouache drawings, sometimes tinted with color, to prowl the margins of urban society. The result is low-key with undercurrents: a picture of the everyday sublime riddled with suggestions of longing, otherness and the difficulties of connection. Solveig Nelson has provided its beautifully accurate (yet largely electronic) soundtrack of city sounds, whether a subway singer or squirrels rifling through a garbage can, people talking in a bar or gates being called in an airport. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Smith)20090820
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'CLAES OLDENBURG: EARLY SCULPTURE, DRAWINGS, AND HAPPENINGS FILMS' AND 'CLAES OLDENBURG AND COOSJE VAN BRUGGEN: THE MUSIC ROOM,' through Sept. 6. This pair of exhibitions leans heavily on the Whitney's sizable collection of Oldenburg and Oldenburg/Van Bruggen drawings, some of which were shown in 2002. But they also include newly restored, never-exhibited films of Mr. Oldenburg's Happenings and a major kinetic sculpture, ''Ice Bag -- Scale C'' (1971), brought back to life by conservators. A centralized gallery of early drawings and soft sculptures defines Mr. Oldenburg's epicurean branch of Pop, with works like ''Giant BLT (Bacon, Lettuce and Tomato Sandwich)'' and ''French Fries and Ketchup'' (both 1963), served up on low, platterlike pedestals. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Rosenberg)20090820
 Galleries: Uptown
 'SELF-PORTRAITS,' through Sept. 4. Nine well-known artists coyly toy with self portraiture. In a 1984 photograph, John Coplans has his aged, hairy back turned to the camera. In photographs from 1979, 1981 and 1985, Cindy Sherman appears to play characters in different cinematic melodramas. A lacy pattern of thick black paint almost completely hides Rudolf Stingel's face in a small 2007 painting, and Martin Kippenberger, wearing oversized Picasso-style briefs, has a blue balloon floating in front of his face in a painting from 1988. Skarstedt Gallery, 20 East 79th Street , (212) 737-2060, skarstedt.com. (Johnson)20090820
 Galleries: 57th Street
 'LIVE FROM NEW YORK...,' through Sept. 5. Subjects in this exhibition of photographs by various artists of famous musicians performing or hanging out in New York include Billie Holiday; Frank Sinatra; Sonny and Cher in hippie-cowboy outfits; Marilyn Monroe singing ''Happy Birthday'' to the president; Bob Dylan and George Harrison in a duet onstage; the Ramones outside CBGB; and, most famously, John Lennon in a sleeveless New York T-shirt. Bonni Benrubi, 41 East 57th Street , (212) 888-6007, bonnibenrubi.com. (Johnson)20090820
 'PAUL JENKINS IN THE 1960S AND 1970S: SPACE, COLOR AND LIGHT,' through Sept. 25. While seriously overhung, this exhibition affords a rare, extensive look at the work of an artist who borrowed from Abstract Expressionism and then Color Field painting to devise flowing, billowing veils of color that dazzle with their formal acrobatics and luminous, jewel-toned hues. Working with his well-known ivory knives, Mr. Jenkins makes his colors leap, overlap and splinter, pitting them against whiplash lines and stark white backgrounds that increase their luminosity. His paintings have frequently been too gorgeous for their own good, which means that they can verge on slick. But the selection here shows him at the height of his powers. D. Wigmore Fine Art, 730 Fifth Avenue , (212) 581-1657, dwigmore.com. (Smith)20090820
 Galleries: Chelsea
 'GLITZ & GRIME: PHOTOGRAPHS OF TIMES SQUARE,' through Sept. 12. This group show's 24 photographs, dating from 1945 to 2009, chronicle the highs and lows of Times Square, a place that embodies the spirit of American commercial culture at its most seamy and manically exuberant. Yancey Richardson, 535 West 22nd Street , (646) 230-9610, yanceyrichardson.com. (Johnson)20090820
 ANNA MOLSKA: 'THE WEAVERS'; through Sept. 5. The New York gallery debut of this young Polish artist consists of a short film that transfers the setting of an 1892 German play about an uprising by exploited weavers to a Silesian coal mine. A rough-edged form of collage results, as the dialogue and voice-over don't match the images. The piece evokes 19th-century realist painting, but the point is made without getting heavy-handed: in many parts of the world labor conditions have not advanced much since the Industrial Revolution. Broadway 1602, 1182 Broadway, at 28th Street , (212) 481-0362, broadway1602.com. (Smith)20090820
 'NAKED!,' through Sept. 19. Although it includes some images of men, a more accurate title for this entertainingly lubricious show would be ''Naked Women of Childbearing Age.'' A big part of the show's appeal is its wacky eclecticism. The 44 works range from a 1626 painting of the river god Alpheus chasing the nymph Arethusa, by Moyses van Uyttenbroeck, to Mel Ramos's 2007 sculpture of a voluptuous woman emerging from an open banana peel. Paul Kasmin Gallery, 293 10th Avenue, at 27th Street , (212) 563-4474, paulkasmingallery.com. (Johnson)20090820
 'PHASE TWO'; through Oct. 25. For a glimpse of the future of contemporary art, or at least a slice of that future, spend some time with the second round of exhibitions at X Initiative. Each of the three largest provides immersion in the work of a young, promising European artist working in time-based mediums. Luke Fowler's films about artists and eccentrics push the documentary form into art. Keren Cytter's visceral videos wreak havoc with numerous cinematic genres and a few from television. Tris Vonna-Michell combines slide projections and recordings of his rapid-fire spoken-word performances to trace his experiences in ways both random and crazily obsessive. ''Today and Everyday,'' a beguiling if conceptually daring group show, is also on view, along with works by Seth Price and Fritz Haeg. X-Initiative, 548 West 22nd Street , (917) 697-4886, x-initiative.org. (Smith)20090820
 SCOTT REEDER: 'PAINTER,' through Aug. 29. Mr. Reeder paints amusing, cartoonish images with a refined, brushy touch; an acute feel for color; and a kind of twisted reverence for Bonnard, Picasso and other godfathers of Modernist painting. ''Suicidal Shape (Study in Red),'' in which a blank pink canvas is suspended by a hangman's noose in an empty watermelon-red room, makes fun of the tortured-artist cliche while nodding to Matisse's ''Red Studio.'' Daniel Reich Gallery, 537A West 23rd Street , (212) 924-4949, danielreichgallery.com. (Johnson)20090820
 'SUMMER PICTURES'; through Sept. 12. When it comes to painting, the fashion designer Isaac Mizrahi knows what he likes and then some. His group show of works by friends and one relative transcends such connections and explores issues like landscape, still life, breakfast and color -- especially color. The artists include Jane Freilicher, Maureen Gallace, Wayne Thiebaud, Maira Kalman and Adrianne Lobel (a theatrical designer). Their work looks fresh and diverse, like a party of people who don't know one another, but end up getting along famously. Julie Saul Gallery, 535 West 22nd Street , (212) 627-2410, saulgallery.com. (Smith)20090820
 'SEXY AND THE CITY,' through next Friday. A salon-style hanging of 29 mostly black and white pictures, this noirish selection of obliquely erotic photographs includes Merry Alpern's grainy, voyeuristic view of a woman in her underwear from a series called ''Dirty Windows''; Alvin Baltrop's distant shots of anonymous men having sex on the West Side piers in the late 1970s and early '80s; and Nan Goldin's image of a drag queen out on the street in a huge rococo wig. Yossi Milo Gallery, 525 West 25th Street , (212) 414-0370, yossimilo.com. (Johnson) 20090820
 Public Art
 'PLOT/09: THIS WORLD & NEARER ONES,' through Sept. 20. The big draw in the city's first quadrennial of public art -- an exhibition of 19 site-specific works organized by Creative Time on Governors Island -- is the beautiful, haunted, car-free island itself. Standouts among the uneven melange of artworks include videos by Guido van der Werve, Adam Chodzko, Judi Werthein and the ingenious Bruce High Quality Foundation. Outdoors, beyond the dark rooms, Susan Philipsz, Teresa Margolles, Tue Greenfort, Mark Wallinger and especially Klaus Weber also add substance. But the degree of site-specificity fluctuates wildly, and the concept as a whole is inadvertently called into question. (212) 206-6674, creativetime.org. (Smith)20090820
 Out of Town
 'DOVE/O'KEEFFE: CIRCLES OF INFLUENCE' through Sept. 7. Exhibitions with fresh takes on the early American modernists don't happen every day. This one delves into the give and take between the shy, retiring Arthur Dove (1880-1946) and the iron-willed Georgia O'Keeffe (1887-1986) -- a bond of friendship and mutual respect that is little known today, despite the fact that the two were something like the Pollock and de Kooning or Johns and Rauschenberg of the between-the-wars period. His work was crucial to the formation of her style; her early (Dove-influenced) watercolors inspired him to take up the medium at the end of his career. Their similarities and differences make for a lively dialogue and shed new light on one source of the organic abstraction that has figured centrally in American art ever since. Sterling and Francine Clark Art Institute, 225 South Street, Williamstown, Mass. , (413) 458-2303, clarkart.edu. (Smith)20090820
 ZOE LEONARD, through Sept. 7. Always an exceptionally moving artist, though only sporadically visible, Zoe Leonard has an exhibition at Dia:Beacon, an hour and a half north of the city. It is different from some of her earlier shows: cooler and less intimate, documentary in form, broadly social in scope. At the same time, it shares a sensibility with what has come before, one attuned to realities of constant change, which as often as not means loss. Dia:Beacon, 3 Beekman Street, Beacon, N.Y. , (845) 440-0100, diaart.org. (Cotter)20090820
 NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART: 'THE ART OF POWER: ROYAL ARMOR AND PORTRAITS FROM IMPERIAL SPAIN,' through Nov. 1. Drawn from the Royal Armory in Madrid, one of the oldest and greatest repositories of armor in the world, this exhibition presents full suits of armor, as well as individual helmets, shields, swords and armor for horses. There are portraits of 16th- and 17th-century Spanish kings in armor, too, and three spectacular tapestries. But it is the extraordinarily sumptuous metalwork, produced not for warfare but for ceremonial occasions, that is the main attraction. National Mall, Fourth and Constitution Avenue NW, Washington , (202) 737-4215, nga.gov. (Johnson)20090820
 PEABODY ESSEX MUSEUM: 'THE GOLDEN AGE OF DUTCH SEASCAPES,' through Sept. 7. What with all those cataclysmic storms, shipwrecks, sea battles and marauding pirates in 17th-century Dutch marine paintings, it's a wonder anyone dared venture off land at all. There are periods of calm in this show of 72 expertly rendered seascapes, but the overall impression is harrowing. Nautical history buffs will be in heaven. East India Square, 161 Essex Street, Salem, Mass. , (866) 745-1876, pem.org. (Johnson)20090820
 Last Chance
 'MAURIZIO CATTELAN IS DEAD: LIFE AND WORK, 1960-2009'; closes on Sunday. A mock survey of the career of Mr. Cattelan, an international scenester known for his sculptures of Pope John Paul II struck down by a meteor and other outrages, this indifferently produced show is mainly in the form of a timeline with extensive biographical texts and photocopied images. It is surprisingly entertaining if you like to read on your feet, and it raises some good questions about art-world anthropology. Mr. Cattelan, by the way, is still with us. Triple Candie, 500 West 148th Street, Hamilton Heights , (212) 368-3333, triplecandie.org. (Johnson)20090820
 'JOHN CURRIN: WORKS ON PAPER: A FIFTEEN YEAR SURVEY OF WOMEN'; closes on Friday. This show of drawings by the well-known figure painter John Currin begins in the late '80s and ends in 2003, the year the artist, on the cusp of a Whitney survey, left the Andrea Rosen Gallery for the Gagosian empire. With loans from more than 50 people and institutions, this show is a pointed reminder of how careers are carefully shaped by dealers as well as by artists (most crucially in the early stages). But mostly the exhibition is a celebration of Mr. Currin's various female archetypes: hobos, matrons, muses, mannerist nudes and, of course, women with scandalously large breasts. Andrea Rosen, 525 West 24th Street, Chelsea , (212) 627-6000, andrearosengallery.com. (Rosenberg)20090820
 FRICK COLLECTION: 'PORTRAITS, PASTELS, PRINTS: WHISTLER IN THE FRICK COLLECTION'; closes on Sunday. This summer's refurbishment of the Frick's East Gallery, where four full-length portraits by James Abbott McNeill Whistler (1834-1903) normally hang, has occasioned a small celebration of Whistler's art. The four portraits have been moved into the Oval Room, where they are joined by a seascape; etchings and pastels of Venice are on view in the Cabinet Room. Both displays reinforce a suspicion about Whistler: that despite his oft-professed regard for the abstract qualities of music -- all those ''symphonies,'' ''arrangements'' and ''nocturnes'' -- he had a rare talent for conveying specific places and personalities. 1 East 70th Street, at Fifth Avenue , (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Rosenberg)20090820
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'PEN AND PARCHMENT: DRAWING IN THE MIDDLE AGES'; closes on Sunday. This quietly ravishing exhibition ventures where few shows have gone before, with 50 rarely seen works. They prove medieval drawing to be vital, diverse and essential to the medium's Renaissance blossoming. They reveal the medium untangling from manuscript illumination and Christianity in general -- although not without first reveling in some astounding Psalters, gospels, epistles and a saint's life or two. It re-embraces antiquity and provides a framework for speculative (read, secular) thought. The show ends with the visionary drawings of Opicinus de Canistris, a 14th-century Italian cleric who diagrammed his own notion of the relationship between the earthly and spiritual church. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20090820

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 'The Sweeney Decade: Acquisitions of the 1959 Inaugural': Karel Appel's ''Two Heads (Deux Tetes)'' (1953) is among the work featured in an exhibition celebrating the 50th anniversary of the Guggenheim, closing Sept. 2. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SOLOMON R. GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM, KAREL APPEL FOUNDATION/ARTISTS RIGHTS SOCIETY (ARS), NEW YORK/BEELDRECHT, AMSTERDAM)(C18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); SCULPTURE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); FILM (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); HISTORY (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); MOUNTAINS (66%); SCIENCE FICTION & FANTASY FILMS (65%); RELIGION (62%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) GEORGIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009



552 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2702 words

HEADLINE: After 30-Year Run, Rise of the Super-Rich Hits a Sobering Wall

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT and GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
The rich have been getting richer for so long that the trend has come to seem almost permanent.
 They began to pull away from everyone else in the 1970s. By 2006, income was more concentrated at the top than it had been since the late 1920s. The recent news about resurgent Wall Street pay has seemed to suggest that not even the Great Recession could reverse the rise in income inequality.
 But economists say -- and data is beginning to show -- that a significant change may in fact be under way. The rich, as a group, are no longer getting richer. Over the last two years, they have become poorer. And many may not return to their old levels of wealth and income anytime soon.
 For every investment banker whose pay has recovered to its prerecession levels, there are several who have lost their jobs -- as well as many wealthy investors who have lost millions. As a result, economists and other analysts say, a 30-year period in which the super-rich became both wealthier and more numerous may now be ending. 
 The relative struggles of the rich may elicit little sympathy from less well-off families who are dealing with the effects of the worst recession in a generation. But the change does raise several broader economic questions. Among them is whether harder times for the rich will ultimately benefit the middle class and the poor, given that the huge recent increase in top incomes coincided with slow income growth for almost every other group. In blunter terms, the question is whether the better metaphor for the economy is a rising tide that can lift all boats -- or a zero-sum game.
 Just how much poorer the rich will become remains unclear. It will be determined by, among other things, whether the stock market continues its recent rally and what new laws Congress passes in the wake of the financial crisis. At the very least, though, the rich seem unlikely to return to the trajectory they were on.
 Last year, the number of Americans with a net worth of at least $30 million dropped 24 percent, according to CapGemini and Merrill Lynch Wealth Management. Monthly income from stock dividends, which is concentrated among the affluent, has fallen more than 20 percent since last summer, the biggest such decline since the government began keeping records in 1959.
 Bill Gates, Warren E. Buffett, the heirs to the Wal-Mart Stores fortune and the founders of Google each lost billions last year, according to Forbes magazine. In one stark example, John McAfee, an entrepreneur who founded the antivirus software company that bears his name, is now worth about $4 million, from a peak of more than $100 million. Mr. McAfee will soon auction off his last big property because he needs cash to pay his bills after having been caught off guard by the simultaneous crash in real estate and stocks. 
 ''I had no clue,'' he said, ''that there would be this tandem collapse.''
 Some of the clearest signs of the reversal of fortunes can be found in data on spending by the wealthy. An index that tracks the price of art, the Mei Moses index, has dropped 32 percent in the last six months. The New York Yankees failed to sell many of the most expensive tickets in their new stadium and had to drop the price. In one ZIP code in Vail, Colo., only five homes sold for more than $2 million in the first half of this year, down from 34 in the first half of 2007, according to MDA Dataquick. In Bronxville, an affluent New York suburb, the decline was to two, from 17, according to Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage. 
 ''We had a period of roughly 50 years, from 1929 to 1979, when the income distribution tended to flatten,'' said Neal Soss, the chief economist at Credit Suisse. ''Since the early '80s, incomes have tended to get less equal. And I think we've entered a phase now where society will move to a more equal distribution.''
 No More '50s and '60s
 Few economists expect the country to return to the relatively flat income distribution of the 1950s and 1960s. Indeed, they say that inequality is likely to remain significantly greater than it was for most of the 20th century. The Obama administration has not proposed completely rewriting the rules for Wall Street or raising the top income-tax rate to anywhere near 70 percent, its level as recently as 1980. Market forces that have increased inequality, like globalization, are also not going away.
 But economists say that the rich will probably not recover their losses immediately, as they did in the wake of the dot-com crash earlier this decade. That quick recovery came courtesy of a new bubble in stocks, which in 2007 were more expensive by some measures than they had been at any other point save the bull markets of the 1920s or 1990s. This time, analysts say, Wall Street seems unlikely to return soon to the extreme levels of borrowing that made such a bubble possible.
 Any major shift in the financial status of the rich could have big implications. A drop in their income and wealth would complicate life for elite universities, museums and other institutions that received lavish donations in recent decades. Governments -- federal and state -- could struggle, too, because they rely heavily on the taxes paid by the affluent.
 Perhaps the broadest question is what a hit to the wealthy would mean for the middle class and the poor. The best-known data on the rich comes from an analysis of Internal Revenue Service returns by Thomas Piketty and Emmanuel Saez, two economists. Their work shows that in the late 1970s, the cutoff to qualify for the highest-earning one ten-thousandth of households was roughly $2 million, in inflation-adjusted, pretax terms. By 2007, it had jumped to $11.5 million.
 The gains for the merely affluent were also big, if not quite huge. The cutoff to be in the top 1 percent doubled since the late 1970s, to roughly $400,000. 
 By contrast, pay at the median -- which was about $50,000 in 2007 -- rose less than 20 percent, Census data shows. Near the bottom of the income distribution, the increase was about 12 percent. 
 Some economists say they believe that the contrasting trends are unrelated. If anything, these economists say, any problems the wealthy have will trickle down, in the form of less charitable giving and less consumer spending. Over the last century, the worst years for the rich were the early 1930s, the heart of the Great Depression.
 Other economists say the recent explosion of incomes at the top did hurt everyone else, by concentrating economic and political power among a relatively small group.
 ''I think incredibly high incomes can have a pernicious effect on the polity and the economy,'' said Lawrence Katz, a Harvard economist. Much of the growth of high-end incomes stemmed from market forces, like technological innovation, Mr. Katz said. But a significant amount also stemmed from the wealthy's newfound ability to win favorable government contracts, low tax rates and weak financial regulation, he added.
 The I.R.S. has not yet released its data for 2008 or 2009. But Mr. Saez, a professor at the University of California, Berkeley, said he believed that the rich had become poorer. Asked to speculate where the cutoff for the top one ten-thousandth of households was now, he said from $6 million to $8 million. 
 For the number to return to $11 million quickly, he said, would probably require a large financial bubble.
 Making More Money
 The United States economy experienced two such bubbles in recent years -- one in stocks, the other in real estate -- and both helped the rich become richer. Mr. McAfee, whose tattoos and tinted hair suggest an independent streak, is an extreme but telling example. For two decades, at almost every step of his career, he figured out a way to make more money.
 In the late 1980s, he founded McAfee Associates, the antivirus software company. It gave away its software, unlike its rivals, but charged fees to those who wanted any kind of technical support. That decision helped make it a huge success. The company went public in 1992, in the early years of one of biggest stock market booms in history.
 But Mr. McAfee is, by his own description, an atypical businessman -- easily bored and given to serial obsessions. As a young man, he traveled through Mexico, India and Nepal and, more recently, he wrote a book called, ''Into the Heart of Truth: The Spirit of Relational Yoga.'' Two years after McAfee Associates went public, he was bored again. 
 So he sold his remaining stake, bringing his gains to about $100 million. In the coming years, he started new projects and made more investments. Almost inevitably, they paid off. 
 ''History told me that you just keep working, and it is easy to make more money,'' he said, sitting in the kitchen of his adobe-style house in the southwest corner of New Mexico. With low tax rates, he added, the rich could keep much of what they made.
 One of the starkest patterns in the data on inequality is the extent to which the incomes of the very rich are tied to the stock market. They have risen most rapidly during the biggest bull markets: in the 1920s and the 20 years starting in 1987. 
 ''We are coming from an abnormal period where a tremendous amount of wealth was created largely by selling assets back and forth,'' said Mohamed A. El-Erian, chief executive of Pimco, one of the country's largest bond traders, and the former manager of Harvard's endowment. 
 Some of this wealth was based on real economic gains, like those from the computer revolution. But much of it was not, Mr. El-Erian said. ''You had wealth creation that could not be tied to the underlying economy,'' he added, ''and the benefits were very skewed: they went to the assets of the rich. It was financial engineering.'' 
 But if the rich have done well in bubbles, they have taken enormous hits to their wealth during busts. A recent study by two Northwestern University economists found that the incomes of the affluent tend to fall more, in percentage terms, in recessions than the incomes of the middle class. The incomes of the very affluent -- the top one ten-thousandth -- fall the most. 
 Over the last several years, Mr. McAfee began to put a large chunk of his fortune into real estate, often in remote locations. He bought the house in New Mexico as a playground for himself and fellow aerotrekkers, people who fly unlicensed, open-cockpit planes. On a 157-acre spread, he built a general store, a 35-seat movie theater and a cafe, and he bought vintage cars for his visitors to use.
 He continued to invest in financial markets, sometimes borrowing money to increase the potential returns. He typically chose his investments based on suggestions from his financial advisers. One of their recommendations was to put millions of dollars into bonds tied to Lehman Brothers.
 For a while, Mr. McAfee's good run, like that of many of the American wealthy, seemed to continue. In the wake of the dot-com crash, stocks started rising again, while house prices just continued to rise. Outside's Go magazine and National Geographic Adventure ran articles on his New Mexico property, leading to him to believe that ''this was the hottest property on the planet,'' he said.
 But then things began to change.
 In 2007, Mr. McAfee sold a 10,000-square-foot home in Colorado with a view of Pike's Peak. He had spent $25 million to buy the property and build the house. He received $5.7 million for it. When Lehman collapsed last fall, its bonds became virtually worthless. Mr. McAfee's stock investments cost him millions more. 
 One day, he realized, as he said, ''Whoa, my cash is gone.''
 His remaining net worth of about $4 million makes him vastly wealthier than most Americans, of course. But he has nonetheless found himself needing cash and desperately trying to reduce his monthly expenses. 
 He has sold a 10-passenger Cessna jet and now flies coach. This week his oceanfront estate in Hawaii sold for $1.5 million, with only a handful of bidders at the auction. He plans to spend much of his time in Belize, in part because of more favorable taxes there. 
 Next week, his New Mexico property will be the subject of a no-floor auction, meaning that Mr. McAfee has promised to accept the top bid, no matter how low it is. 
 ''I am trying to face up to the reality here that the auction may bring next to nothing,'' he said. 
 In the past, when his stock investments did poorly, he sold real estate and replenished his cash. This time, that has not been an option.
 Stock Market Mystery
 The possibility that the stock market will quickly recover from its collapse, as it did earlier this decade, is perhaps the biggest uncertainty about the financial condition of the wealthy. Since March, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has risen 49 percent. 
 Yet Wall Street still has a long way to go before reaching its previous peaks. The S.& P. 500 remains 35 percent below its 2007 high. Aggregate compensation for the financial sector fell 14 percent from 2007 to 2008, according to the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association -- far less than profits or revenue fell, but a decline nonetheless. 
 ''The difference this time,'' predicted Byron R. Wein, a former chief investment strategist at Morgan Stanley, who started working on Wall Street in 1965, ''is that the high-water mark that people reached in 2007 is not going to be exceeded for a very long time.''
 Without a financial bubble, there will simply be less money available for Wall Street to pay itself or for corporate chief executives to pay themselves. Some companies -- like Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase, which face less competition now and have been helped by the government's attempts to prop up credit markets -- will still hand out enormous paychecks. Over all, though, there will be fewer such checks, analysts say. Roger Freeman, an analyst at Barclays Capital, said he thought that overall Wall Street compensation would, at most, increase moderately over the next couple of years.
 Beyond the stock market, government policy may have the biggest effect on top incomes. Mr. Katz, the Harvard economist, argues that without policy changes, top incomes may indeed approach their old highs in the coming years. Historically, government policy, like the New Deal, has had more lasting effects on the rich than financial busts, he said.
 One looming policy issue today is what steps Congress and the administration will take to re-regulate financial markets. A second issue is taxes.
 In the three decades after World War II, when the incomes of the rich grew more slowly than those of the middle class, the top marginal rate ranged from 70 to 91 percent. Mr. Piketty, one of the economists who analyzed the I.R.S. data, argues that these high rates did not affect merely post-tax income. They also helped hold down the pretax incomes of the wealthy, he says, by giving them less incentive to make many millions of dollars.
 Since 1980, tax rates on the affluent have fallen more than rates on any other group; this year, the top marginal rate is 35 percent. President Obama has proposed raising it to 39 percent and has said he would consider a surtax on families making more than $1 million a year, which could push the top rate above 40 percent.
 What any policy changes will mean for the nonwealthy remains unclear. There have certainly been periods when the rich, the middle class and the poor all have done well (like the late 1990s), as well as periods when all have done poorly (like the last year). For much of the 1950s, '60s and '70s, both the middle class and the wealthy received raises that outpaced inflation.
 Yet there is also a reason to think that the incomes of the wealthy could potentially have a bigger impact on others than in the past: as a share of the economy, they are vastly larger than they once were.
 In 2007, the top one ten-thousandth of households took home 6 percent of the nation's income, up from 0.9 percent in 1977. It was the highest such level since at least 1913, the first year for which the I.R.S. has data. 
 The top 1 percent of earners took home 23.5 percent of income, up from 9 percent three decades earlier. 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 24, 2009

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Friday about evidence of the reversal of a 30-year trend of wealthy people becoming wealthier misstated the acreage of the Hawaiian estate recently sold by John McAfee, a software designer whose net worth has plummeted. It is 5.34 acres, not 534.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John McAfee is auctioning off this property in New Mexico to pay bills. His worth has fallen to about $4 million from a peak of about $100 million.
Mr. McAfee, who made his fortune in antivirus software, bought the property to have a place to fly open-cockpit planes with his friends.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRIS RICHARDS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A16) CHART: For Decades, the Richest Pulled Away : For most of the last 30 years, the incomes of the richest have risen rapidly.
But Since 2007, They Have Become Poorer (Sources: Thomas Piketty and Emmanuel Saez from I.R.S. data
Bureau of Economic Analysis, via Haver Analytics
 Capgemini and Merrill Lynch Wealth Management)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); AFFLUENT MARKET (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); DIVIDENDS (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); LEGISLATION (67%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (66%); ANTIVIRUS SOFTWARE (50%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CAPGEMINI SA (52%); WAL-MART STORES INC (51%); GOOGLE INC (51%)

TICKER: CAP (PAR) (52%); WMT (NYSE) (51%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (52%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (52%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (52%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (51%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (51%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (53%); BILL GATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009



553 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 537 words

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
UNEMPLOYMENT
 Rises in City
 New York City's unemployment rate rose to 9.6 percent last month, surpassing the national unemployment rate for the first time since the recession began, the State Labor Department said on Thursday. 
 The number of unemployed New Yorkers rose to 402,200, tying the highest total for any month in the 33 years on record, set in July 1992, in the midst of the last long and deep recession in the metropolitan area, the figures show.
 The July 2009 rate, up from 9.4 percent in June, was the highest for the city in more than 12 years. The rise came as unemployment rates for the rest of the state and the nation dipped from their recent peaks: The state's unemployment rate fell to 8.6 percent, from 8.7 percent in June, and the national rate slipped to 9.4 percent from 9.5 percent. 
 Statewide, there were more than 835,000 unemployed residents, New York's labor commissioner, M. Patricia Smith, said in a speech that was posted on the department's Web site and its new Facebook page. State officials also have begun using Twitter to send out brief messages about the job market and services for the unemployed.
 Ms. Smith said she wanted to invite people to share their opinions about the unemployment benefits and job-searching help the state provides. By midafternoon Thursday, the department had 52 followers on Twitter and 32 Facebook fans.
 James Brown, an analyst for the Labor Department, said the latest data indicate that the recession could take longer to run its course in the city. ''Although the national economy is showing some signs of bottoming out, the outlook for the city's economy remains weak into 2010,'' Mr. Brown said.
 Mr. Brown said that construction employment bounced back in July and, though erratic, has been ''somewhat stronger than the economic news would suggest.'' On the other hand, he said, the financial, professional and business services sectors ''were weak in July, continuing a yearlong trend.''
 Barbara Byrne Denham, an economist with Eastern Consolidated, a real estate investment firm in Manhattan, said there was cause for hope: ''I think we'll still see job losses for the next few months, but they will be small and will show that New York's economy is relatively healthy.'' 
 In the rest of the state, the number of private-sector jobs increased by 14,000, the first gain since August 2008, the department said. Peter A. Neenan, director of the department's Division of Research and Statistics, attributed the increase to the inflow of federal stimulus funds to construction projects and summer-jobs programs. PATRICK McGEEHAN 
 ALSO
 ON THE BLOG
 Not Quite Under Cover: At the 59th Street-Columbus Circle subway stop, riders are now getting a sneak peek at the most important aesthetic dividend of the four-year renovation project: an enormous, joyously vibrant mural designed by Sol LeWitt before his death in 2007.
 Paid Sick Days Proposed: The City Council introduced legislation on Thursday mandating that large employers give workers the ability to earn least nine paid sick days per year, while small businesses who have fewer than 10 employees would earn five sick days. The move could affect as many as one million workers in the city.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A mural awaiting installation at a subway station. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID W. DUNLAP/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (94%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); TRENDS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); SOCIAL MEDIA (71%); CONSTRUCTION (67%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (66%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009



554 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 244 words

HEADLINE: Holcim Profit Falls 51% in First Quarter

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
ZURICH, Aug 20 (Reuters) - Holcim, the world's second largest cement maker, raised its cost-cutting target as it posted a 51 percent drop in first-half net profit due to weak construction demand in Europe and the United States. 
 Net profit for the period fell to 527 million Swiss francs ($490 million), but this was ahead of the average estimate of 489 million Swiss francs in a Reuters poll.
 The group said it was now aiming to cut fixed costs by 600 million francs in 2009 after previously targeting cuts of 375 million francs.
 ''Holcim's strong footprint in the emerging markets partially offsets the negative EBITDA development in the mature markets,'' the group said in a statement.
 ''In Europe and North America, the government stimulus programmes will have a positive impact on demand building up gradually over the next year,'' it said.
 The economic downturn has caused property prices to slump, choking off growth in the construction industry, especially in maturer markets, but more resilient demand in emerging markets has helped Holcim to cope with the slowdown.
 Larger French rival Lafarge cut its 2009 forecast for the global cement market when it posted a sharper-than-expected fall in second-quarter net profit last month, while Germany's Heidelberg Cement has said it expects its sales and operating profit to fall in 2009.
 Holcim trades at nearly 16 times expected 2010 earnings, while Lafarge trades at 12 times, according to Reuters data.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); CEMENT MFG (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); EBITDA (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); CEMENT & CONCRETE PRODUCTION (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%)

COMPANY: HEIDELBERGCEMENT AG (58%)

TICKER: HEI (FRA) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS327320 READY-MIX CONCRETE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS327310 CEMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3273 READY-MIXED CONCRETE (58%); SIC3241 CEMENT, HYDRAULIC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ZURICH (92%) EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009



555 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Switzerland Sells Stake in UBS for $1.1 Billion More Than It Paid Last October

BYLINE: By MATTHEW SALTMARSH and JULIA WERDIGIER

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Switzerland became the first European economy to dispose of its holding in a distressed domestic bank on Thursday, selling its 9 percent stake in UBS at a profit of more than $1 billion only a day after agreeing to release information to the United States on clients suspected of evading taxes.
 The Swiss government gave 6 Swiss billion francs, or $5.6 billion, to UBS in October to help shore up the bank in exchange for debt convertible into common stock. On Thursday, the government said it had sold its 332.2 million shares to institutional investors at 16.50 Swiss francs ($15.38) each. Including a payment of 1.8 billion francs ($1.68 billion) that the government is receiving from UBS, the proceeds total about 7.2 billion francs ($6.7 billion). 
 The Swiss government said Thursday that its net gain was equivalent to an annualized rate of return of about 32 percent. 
 ''They are substantially in the money,'' Guy de Blonay, a fund manager at Henderson New Star in London, said. ''It looks pretty good.''
 The sale puts other governments with troubled banks in the spotlight. At the height of the financial crisis, government interventions on both sides of the Atlantic helped to avoid a collapse of the credit system -- especially after the failure of Lehman Brothers in September -- as traditional financing dried up. Now that markets have started to recover, attention is turning to exit strategies.
 In the United States, several financial firms -- including American Express, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase and Morgan Stanley -- have already bought back warrants from the Treasury Department, which the government received as part of its $700 billion bailout plan. 
 Some analysts said that several deals yielded a profit for taxpayers, with Goldman Sachs calculating a 23 percent annualized return for the government on its $1.1 billion warrant purchase. But analysts have said that other firms, like Morgan Stanley, paid less than the full value of their warrants. 
 A report by the Bank for International Settlements, released in July, found that the overall amount of resources committed to bank bailouts in 11 countries -- including France, Germany, Japan, the Netherlands, Switzerland, Britain and the United States -- was 5 trillion euros, or $7.1 trillion.
 The bank, based in Basel, Switzerland, said interventions were most significant in countries like Britain -- outlays reached 44.1 percent of gross domestic product there -- and in the Netherlands. The British government has said that it does not want to be a long-term investor in its largest banks and expects to sell the stakes as soon as possible, with pressure to sell at a profit growing before a general election within the year.
 ''The U.K. government would love to get out and wave some pound notes at the voters,'' Gordon Scott, a banking analyst at Fitch Ratings in London, said. ''The markets have recovered a bit, but we're not yet there for them to make a profit.''
 Daniel Gros, director of the Center for European Policy Studies in Brussels, said there was no blanket model for divestment, and no fixed timetable.
 In cases like UBS where governments supported investment banks, the governments should soon be able to exit profitably, Mr. Gros said. Those companies have been helped by stronger interbank lending and the rise in asset prices.
 Other cases, where governments supported deposit-taking institutions like Northern Rock and Royal Bank of Scotland in Britain, Fortis in the Netherlands and Commerzbank in Germany, are more complex. 
 ''The problems at these banks tend to be slower to come to the surface and show up on the balance sheet,'' Mr. Gros said. ''It may take years to have an idea of how large the losses are.''
 The report by the Bank for International Settlements said governments should start preparing an exit strategy ''right now,'' but that those plans should be put in play only when there was a ''virtuous circle'' for banks of ''mutually reinforcing increase in capital and borrowing, on the one hand, and lending and profits on the other.''
 Britain, for example, took a 43 percent stake in the Lloyds Banking Group last year and owns 70 percent of the Royal bank of Scotland, whose shares rose this month -- meaning the government would book a profit by selling now.
 But British Financial Investments, which manages the holdings for the government, has said that it may take years to sell the stake.
 The Swiss government had said on several occasions that it wanted to sell its UBS stake as soon as justifiable, but that UBS had to be on solid ground first. The government and regulators now judge that to be the case after its deal with the United States government and after a capital increase in June that lifted the bank's Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial strength, to 13.2 percent, from 10.5 percent at the end of March.
 ''People were afraid that the government would hold the stake and try to influence the business strategy,'' said Mathias Bueler at Kepler Capital Markets in Zurich. ''That concern is now resolved.''
 The sale of the Swiss stake, Mr. Bueler added, also calmed investors' concerns that UBS would become uncompetitive with American banks. 
 France participated in a cross-border bailout of Dexia and injected funds into large domestic lenders. A French official, granted anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly, said there were advantages to waiting. The French government, he said, is earning interest on its assets and would like to retain leverage to make sure credit is flowing. The finance ministry would like to see durable signs of a recovery before considering an exit, he said.
 In Germany, the government hinted Thursday that it was too early to discuss selling its stakes. The government is reorganizing Hypo Real Estate, a major mortgage lender. Chancellor Angela Merkel said in February that the bailout of Hypo must be ''as justifiable and cheap as possible for taxpayers.'' 
 The Netherlands does not foresee disposing of its core holdings until at least 2011. First, it needs assurance that the banks' stability is guaranteed, that they can stand alone in a competitive market and earn back the taxpayer's investment, said Lies Weitenberg, spokeswoman for the Dutch finance ministry. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A branch of UBS in Zurich. One analyst said Switzerland's sale of the stake looked ''pretty good.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY WALTER BIERI/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMMON STOCK (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); TAX FRAUD (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (70%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (56%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (54%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (52%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (92%); UBS (NYSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (91%); BK (NYSE) (85%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); AXP (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BASEL, SWITZERLAND (79%); ZURICH (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (52%) SWITZERLAND (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009



556 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'POST GRAD'; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 368 words

BYLINE: By JEANNETTE CATSOULIS

 BODY:
When someone as fetching as Alexis Bledel can't get a job -- or a decent movie role -- then we are officially in the depths of economic recession. As Ryden Malby in ''Post Grad,'' Ms. Bledel works her ''Gilmore Girls'' charm to the hilt, but no amount of cerulean-eyed sparkle can transcend this level of thudding mediocrity. 
 A promisingly perky opening informs us that Ryden is an ambitious cookie with her future meticulously mapped. But when her dream job at a Los Angeles publishing company goes south, Ryden is forced to return home to her Comedy Writing 101 family: the D.I.Y.-nut dad (poor Michael Keaton), the long-suffering mom (a restrained Jane Lynch), the weird kid brother (Bobby Coleman) and the inappropriate oldster (a painfully frozen Carol Burnett). Rounding out the formula is the hometown boy with the fruitless, flaming torch (the wonderful Zach Gilford from ''Friday Night Lights''). No wonder Ryden is drawn to the hot Brazilian neighbor with the slept-in stubble (Rodrigo Santoro): so are we.
 A weightless dramedy directed (by Vicky Jenson) without a single imaginative shot or fresh idea, ''Post Grad'' groans with the familiar: the pop-propelled job-hunting montage, the fallback position with Dad (complete with humiliating uniform). More troubling is a play-safe message to young women that cautions security over risk, comfort over long-held dreams and the nice American boy over the dangerously sexy foreigner. Note to the writer Kelly Fremon: Is Ryden postgraduation or postmortem? 
 ''Post Grad'' is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). Squishy writing and a squished cat. 
 POST GRAD
 Opens on Friday nationwide. 
 Directed by Vicky Jenson; written by Kelly Fremon; director of photography, Charles Minsky; edited by Dana Congdon; music by Christophe Beck; production designer, Mark Hutman; produced by Ivan Reitman, Joe Medjuck and Jeffrey Clifford; released by Fox Atomic. Running time: 1 hour 29 minutes. 
 WITH: Alexis Bledel (Ryden Malby), Zach Gilford (Adam Davies), Rodrigo Santoro (David Santiago), Jane Lynch (Carmella Malby), Fred Armisen (Guacanator Pitchman), Bobby Coleman (Hunter Malby), Carol Burnett (Grandma Maureen) and Michael Keaton (Walter Malby).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTENT RATINGS (89%); COMEDY FILMS (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); WOMEN (77%); WRITERS (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); MOVIE RATINGS (73%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (73%); PUBLISHING (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Post Grad (Movie); Post Grad (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009



557 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 SMELTER IN CHINA POISONS MORE THAN 1,300 CHILDREN
 The mass lead poisoning, China's second in the past month, came from a newly opened and unlicensed manganese smelter in southeastern Hunan Province. Two owners of the smelter were detained. PAGE A4 
 CHINA'S MILITARY ON THE WEB 
 China unveiled its Defense Ministry's new Web site, another step by the country's famously secretive armed forces to give outsiders a peek at their operations, or at least the view they want to offer. PAGE A6 
 MYANMAR CONTROLS BORDER
 For the first time in at least a decade, Myanmar's government controls most of its own border with Thailand, where it has been fighting ethnic Karen rebels. PAGE A6 
 LOST SHIP'S CREW IN MOSCOW
 The eight men suspected of hijacking a cargo ship that disappeared three weeks ago were being questioned, along with the crew, over the ship's disappearance. PAGE A6 
 RETIREMENT COMMUNITY OF 1
 Homebridge Village, in Witham, England, has 58 units, but just one tenant, thanks largely to the poor economy. Witham Journal. PAGE A6 
 WHERE U.S. AND CUBA UNITE
 The season's first tropical storms have begun. The storms are one of the few topics on which the governments regularly engage. PAGE A12 
 Congo's Militias Lure Ex-Rebels A4
 U.S. Force to Stay in Philippines A9
 A Tradition Fades in Japan A10
 Obituaries
 ANDRe PROKOVSKY, 71
 A former principal dancer with the New York City Ballet, he performed and choreographed around the world. PAGE A21 
 National
 IMMIGRANT'S DEATH BARES DIFFICULTY OF AN OVERHAUL
 Felix Franklin Rodriguez-Torres was the third inmate to die at a privately run immigration jail in Eloy, Ariz., for lack of adequate medical care. His case, and many similar to it, have spurred demands for an overhaul of immigration detention. PAGE A12 
 DRUG CARTEL INDICTMENTS
 Federal authorities announced indictments against 10 men they called powerful Mexican drug cartel leaders who organized the smuggling of billions of dollars of drugs into the United States. PAGE A13 
 DOUBTS ON BIPARTISAN BILL
 President Obama expressed doubt that bipartisan health care legislation could be reached because he suspected the Republican leadership was intent on defeating his signature domestic priority. PAGE A18 
 THREAT LEVELS AND '04 VOTE
 Tom Ridge, the first secretary of homeland security, asserts in a new book that he was pressured by advisers to President George W. Bush to raise the threat level just before the 2004 election. PAGE A19 
 Kennedy Weighs Succession A12
 Lutherans Consider Gay Pastors A13 
 New York
 GROUP SAYS CITY AGENCY PAID TO LOBBY COUNCIL
 Business owners fighting the city's revitalization plan for the area around the Mets stadium in Queens have asked the attorney general to investigate spending by a group that lobbied for the plan. PAGE A23 
 SAVING THE TREES THEY CAN
 After a storm scythed through Manhattan, felling and damaging thousands of trees, an arboreal trauma team went to work. PAGE A23 
 Business
 MOST BANKS ARE FAILING THE OLD-FASHIONED WAY
 Seventy-seven banks have been closed by the government so far this year. Most of the failures had nothing to do with exotic financial products. Banks are going broke because they made bad loans. High & Low Finance by Floyd Norris. PAGE B1 
 SOVIET-ERA INFRASTRUCTURE
 A devastating breach in Russia's largest hydroelectric dam reminded Russians and foreign investors alike of the dangers posed by this country's largely Soviet-era infrastructure. PAGE B1 
 NATURAL GAS PRICES PLUMMET
 Natural gas prices fell to $3 per thousand cubic feet, a price last reached in 2002. An Energy Department report showed a record amount of gas in storage. PAGE B1 
 U.S. INDICTS 2 SWISS MEN
 The Justice Department indicted a Swiss private-banking executive and a Swiss lawyer, accusing them of selling tax evasion services. The move opens a new front in Washington's challenge to Switzerland's tradition of bank secrecy. PAGE B1 
 Google Rivals Oppose Settlement B2 
 Judge Dismisses Biovail's Suit B2 
 Dollar General Files for Offering B2 
 Clunker Plan to End Monday B3
 Increase in Jobless Claims B7
 Sports
 MEMPHIS MUST ERASE ITS '08 FINAL FOUR SEASON
 Memphis's trip to the 2008 Final Four will be wiped from the record, and the team will have its 38-2 record expunged, after the N.C.A.A. ruled that Derrick Rose had played the season while academically ineligible. PAGE B9 
 Bolt Beats Own 200 Record B9
 Dolphins Add Glitz and Glam B9 
 Weekend
 ONLY AT THE FRINGE FESTIVAL IS WALL ST. STILL CELEBRATED
 Among the 200-plus low-budget plays at downtown theaters as part of this year's New York International Fringe Festival is a straight-faced and romantic portrait of Wall Street. PAGE C1 
 TARANTINO'S AVENGERS
 Like Quentin Tarantino's other films, ''Inglourious Basterds'' is a testament to his love of cinema. Unlike his other films, this one stars a most delightful Nazi. A review by Manohla Dargis. PAGE C1
 Op-ed
 PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POISONINGS (90%); LOBBYING (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); DANCE (86%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (86%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (85%); LEAD (78%); LEAD POISONING (78%); HIJACKING (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); SMUGGLING (75%); BORDER CONTROL (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); WEB SITES (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (71%); WEATHER (71%); DANCERS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); DANCE COMPANIES (69%); BALLET (69%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (68%); PRISONS (68%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (68%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (67%); HEALTH CARE LAW (67%); LEGISLATION (66%); CHOREOGRAPHY (64%); PRISON PRIVATIZATION (63%); CARTELS (62%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (61%); INDICTMENTS (61%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CENTRAL CHINA (88%); HUNAN, CHINA (73%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); MYANMAR (92%); JAPAN (79%); THAILAND (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009



558 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: With War a Distant Memory, Miller Time Comes to Vietnam

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
IT'S Madison Avenue's version of ''It's a Small World'': A brewer founded in South Africa and based in London is about to sell a beer in Vietnam with a campaign from a Baltimore agency that celebrates the American way of life.
 The brewer is SABMiller, which is introducing to the Vietnamese the Miller High Life brand sold by its Miller Brewing Company unit. A campaign scheduled to begin on Friday carries the theme ''It's American time, it's Miller time.'' 
 The campaign -- which is to include ads on television, in print, outdoors and online as well as promotions -- is based on a popular campaign for Miller High Life in the United States during the 1970s and 1980s, known as ''Miller time'' and ''Welcome to Miller time.''
 The addition to the slogan of the phrase ''It's American time'' reflects the increasing appeal in Vietnam of products that originate in the United States. For instance, the Coca-Cola Company has invested more than $160 million in Vietnam since returning to the country in 1994, and its bottler there operates three plants to make soft drinks like Coca-Cola -- the best-selling soda in Vietnam.
 Research among the Vietnamese found that ''an American brand means quality,'' Sally Brophy, president for marketing at SABMiller Vietnam in Ho Chi Minh City, said in a telephone interview.
 ''And Americana is extremely aspirational,'' she added, in that ''there's an inherent ease of life and joy'' that the Vietnamese see in the United States. 
 All that may surprise older Americans with memories of the Vietnam War, which is often referred to as ''the American War'' in Vietnam. But Vietnam has a median age estimated at 25, meaning the war is something most know only from history books. 
 ''Vietnam is a very young and growing country, population-wise, economy-wise,'' said Ms. Brophy, who joined SABMiller there earlier this year.
 ''There's almost no negative to America,'' she added. ''They've moved on.''
 After SABMiller decided to add one of its mainstay brands to its lineup in Vietnam, which until now has been composed of a local brew, Zorok, Miller High Life was selected, Ms. Brophy said.
 ''It's refreshing, easy to drink, and it's very hot here,'' she explained. And the brand's clear bottle contrasts with the many beers sold in Vietnam in brown bottles, she added.
 ''Coming from the United States, I thought we should have a U.S. agency'' create the campaign that would introduce Miller High Life to the Vietnamese, Ms. Brophy said. Her choice was Trahan Burden & Charles in Baltimore, an agency she worked with when she was vice president for brand marketing and research at Dow Jones & Company; TBC, as the agency is known, produced campaigns for her for The Wall Street Journal.
 ''They had done some great creative work'' for The Journal, she said.
 ''And because it's in Baltimore, the agency is a little smaller, a little easier to work with,'' she added -- not to mention ''a little cheaper.''
 Although this is the first time that TBC has worked for SABMiller, it is not the agency's first beer work, according to Allan Charles, chairman and creative director. The agency's previous beer clients included brands like Colt 45, Kronenbourg, National Bohemian, O'Keefe and Old Vienna.
 In developing the Miller High Life campaign for Vietnam, some aspects were not so different from what an agency does to peddle beer in this country. For example, the target audience is 25-to-30-year-old males, Mr. Charles said.
 And ''our job is to convince them everything good about America can be found in a bottle of Miller,'' he added.
 The centerpiece of the campaign is a television commercial that shows fashionable urbanites enjoying themselves during a night on the town. Most of it was filmed in Baltimore, Mr. Charles said.
 The fast-paced shots are interspersed with cityscapes of Los Angeles, Miami and New York; among the landmarks glimpsed are Grand Central Terminal, Times Square and the Statue of Liberty.
 The soundtrack plays a rock song, in English, written for the commercial by Joey Levine of Crushing Music in New York. The full, two-minute version includes upbeat lyrics like ''So many worlds to see, things to do'' and ''Time to make a move.'' The song ends with the campaign's theme, ''It's American time, it's Miller time.''
 The song has ''a very contemporary American sound,'' Mr. Charles said. ''It's about a state of mind.''
 Ms. Brophy said the promotional campaign would include having bands in Ho Chi Minh City play the song in restaurants.
 One big difference between Miller High Life in Vietnam and its home country is pricing. In Vietnam, it will be ''premium priced'' at the equivalent of about a dollar a bottle, Ms. Brophy said, compared with about 50 cents a bottle for local brands.
 In the United States, Miller High Life was a premium brand for decades, priced the same as beers like Budweiser or Miller Lite. But after years of sales declines, it was repriced below them as a so-called subpremium brew.
 Since the recession began, however, Miller High Life sales in America have been growing again as beer drinkers trade down from higher-priced brands.
 Another promotion in Vietnam will feature what Ms. Brophy described as ''Miller girls: tall, good-looking American girls, who will take a mobile tour of the big restaurants.''
 The idea is to ''play the music, have American snacks, get everyone drinking Miller,'' she said, ''and go to the next restaurant.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The ad campaign to introduce Miller High Life to Vietnam includes young fashionable urbanites enjoying themselves during a night on the town and American scenes including the Statue of Liberty and Times Square, above. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEER & ALE (90%); BREWERIES (90%); VIETNAM WAR (89%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); SOFT DRINKS (71%); POPULATION GROWTH (67%)

COMPANY: SABMILLER PLC (92%); MILLER BREWING CO (84%); COCA-COLA CO (82%)

TICKER: SOSAB (JSE) (92%); SAB (LSE) (92%); KO (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (92%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (92%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) UNITED STATES (98%); VIET NAM (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); VIETNAM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009



559 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM.; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 766 words

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GOLDFARB and ROB COX

 BODY:
UBS Begins
 To Turn a Corner 
 The Swiss have managed the global financial crisis with a certain delicate precision. The latest sign is the government's exit from UBS, a decision that puts the country's top bank back on its own two feet. That's no small accomplishment. 
 Last October, Swiss officials decided to inject 6 billion francs ($5.6 billion) into then-ailing UBS as part of a broader rescue package. The deal gave the government a 9 percent stake through mandatory convertible notes that carried a harsh but fair 12.5 percent annual coupon. 
 Since then, UBS has charted a recovery. It replaced management, set a new strategic course and raised fresh capital. On Wednesday, it settled a long-running dispute with American tax authorities. That was enough for the Swiss government to decide UBS could abandon the state's embrace, the first bank in Europe to do so. 
 Investors were pleased enough to devour the 332.2 million shares on offer at a mere 2.7 percent discount to the market price. UBS also will hand over to the government the present value of all the interest payments on the convertible bond, totaling 1.8 billion francs. Add that to the 5.5 billion francs to be raised from the share sale, and Swiss taxpayers secure an impressive 32 percent annualized rate of return for their nine-month investment.
 The bank's turnaround is far from complete. The investment bank is still shrinking and underperforming many rivals. The exodus of private banking customers isn't finished, either. But UBS stills looks to be ahead of peers that suffered huge losses in the crisis. 
 But if the Swiss handling of the crisis resembles one of the country's prized Rolexes, its approach to bank secrecy looks more like a street-corner knock-off. For too long the authorities rejected demands that Swiss banks open up to taxmen elsewhere. Pressure from the Group of 20 and the admitted crimes of UBS made that position untenable. 
 The Swiss have been renowned for carefully minding domestic banking policy while resisting foreign meddling. Both positions proved hallmarks of the crisis.
 Dealing in Texas
 Talk about Lone Star luck. BBVA is said to be poised to swoop in on one of the biggest independent banks in Texas, Guaranty Financial, in a deal that would be the first for a foreign bank brokered by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
 It's not yet clear how good a deal BBVA, Spain's second-biggest bank after Banco Santander, may get for the lender and its $9 billion in deposits. But BBVA, led by Francisco Gonzalez, has a strong negotiating position with regulators because American rivals are struggling.
 A reasonable deal with Guaranty would vindicate the Spanish bank's expansion north of the Mexican border. BBVA's Bancomer division has already outdone rival Banamex, owned by Citigroup. But its overpriced purchases in the United States have not yet paid off brilliantly for shareholders.
 It stuck its toe in the water in 2004 with the takeover of Laredo National for $850 million, a price equal to nearly three times book value, which measures assets minus liabilities. Two years later it paid $2.6 billion for two banks, including Texas Regional at a high 3.3 times book value. Then it splashed out even more extravagantly by spending $9.6 billion, or 3.5 times book value, for Compass Bancshares in Alabama.
 The chance, with Guaranty, to cut overlapping costs while adding 160 branches to its footprint across Texas and into California makes BBVA's expensive shopping spree begin to look smart. Iberian Equities estimates that BBVA could reduce Guaranty's annual operating costs by $95 million.
 That gives BBVA greater leeway to offer the F.D.I.C. a deal that recoups more of Guaranty's losses that some rivals without extensive operations in Texas, like U.S. Bancorp, would likely struggle to match. Other banks with designs on Texas, like Citigroup and Bank of America, are constrained by capital and have their hands tied by regulators. 
 Private equity firms have few if any opportunities for operational synergies and are gun-shy anyway, if not defiant, about bidding for banking assets while the F.D.I.C. is still formulating the rules of engagement for buyout shops seeking acquisitions in the sector.
 All of which has left BBVA in a position that no other foreign banks yet enjoy. When the F.D.I.C. sweeps into Guaranty, guts its balance sheet and hands the carcass to BBVA, the Spanish bank's shareholders can thank their lucky stars. JEFFREY GOLDFARB and ROB COX 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Francisco Gonzalez, head of BBVA. The bank wants to expand north of Mexico.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIPPE DESMAZES/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE-- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); COMMUNITY BANKS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); DEBT NOTES (72%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (72%); STOCK OFFERINGS (72%); BONDS (70%); PRIVATE BANKING (52%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (50%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (92%); BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA SA (85%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (62%); BANCO SANTANDER SA (58%); GRUPO FINANCIERO BANAMEX/ACCIVAL SA DE CV (50%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (92%); UBS (NYSE) (92%); BVA (LSE) (85%); BBVA (NYSE) (85%); BBVA (MCE) (85%); BBVA (BMV) (85%); SANT (LIS) (58%); SANT (BIT) (58%); SANB3 (BOVESPA) (58%); SAN (NYSE) (58%); SAN (MCE) (58%); SAN (BMV) (58%); BNC (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (62%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (62%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (92%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009



560 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: Heinz and Hormel Exceed Forecasts

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
H.J. Heinz Company and Hormel Foods both posted better-than-expected quarterly profits on Thursday, benefiting as consumers ate more meals at home to save money. 
 Heinz, which makes Ore-Ida potatoes in addition to ketchup, said its results were helped by strength in emerging markets and by price increases. But the stronger dollar cut into sales outside the United States, causing net income to fall.
 Hormel, which makes Spam luncheon meat and Dinty Moore stews, said profits rose, in part, because of lower costs for feed in its Jennie-O turkey business.
 Most American food companies have benefited as consumers have tried to cut costs by eating more at home during the recession rather than at restaurants.
 Food companies also raised prices last year as costs for commodities like wheat, corn and oil soared. Even as many of those costs have fallen back, they have largely been able to maintain their pricing.
 Heinz profit fell to $219.1 million, or 67 cents a share, in the quarter ended July 29, but topped the average analyst forecast of 62 cents a share.
 Hormel's earnings rose to $77.2 million, or 57 cents a share, in the third quarter ended July 26, beating the 52 cents a share that analysts were expecting.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US DOLLAR (77%); RESTAURANTS (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); MEATS (71%)

COMPANY: H J HEINZ CO (98%)

TICKER: HNZ (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (98%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (98%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (98%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (98%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009



561 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: Most Failing Banks Are Doing It the Old-School Way

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Banks are now losing money and going broke the old-fashioned way: They made loans that will never be repaid.
 As the number of banks closed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has grown rapidly this year, it has become clear that most of them had nothing to do with the strange financial products that seemed to dominate the news when the big banks were nearing collapse and being bailed out by the government.
 There were no C.D.O's, or S.I.V.'s or AAA-rated ''supersenior tranches'' that turned out to have little value. Certainly there were no ''C.D.O.-squareds.'' 
 Staying away from strange securities has not made things better. Jim Wigand, the F.D.I.C.'s deputy director of resolutions and receiverships, says banks that are failing now are in worse shape -- in terms of the amount of losses relative to the size of the banks -- than the ones that collapsed during the last big wave of failures, from the savings and loan crisis.
 The severity of the current string of bank failures shows that many of the proposed remedies batted about since the financial crisis erupted would have done nothing to stem this wave of closures. These banks did not get in over their heads with derivatives or hide their bad assets in off-balance sheet vehicles. Nor did their traders make bad bets; they generally had no traders. They did not make loans that they expected to sell quickly, so they had plenty of reason to care that the loans would be repaid.
 What they did do is see loans go bad, in some cases with stunning rapidity, in volumes that they never thought possible.
 The fact that so many loans are souring is a testament to how bad the recession, and the collapse in property prices, has been. But looking at some of the banks in detail shows that they were also victims of their own apparent success. Year after year, these banks grew and grew, and took more and more risks. Losses were minimal. Cautious bankers appeared to be missing opportunities. 
 As the great economist Hyman P. Minsky pointed out, stability eventually will be destabilizing. The absence of problems in the middle of this decade was taken as proof that nothing very bad was likely to happen. Any bank that did not lower its lending standards from 2005 through mid-2007 would have stopped growing, simply because its competitors were offering more and more generous terms.
 Take the recent failure of Temecula Valley Bank, in Riverside County, Calif. For most of this decade, it grew rapidly. Deposits leapt by 50 percent a year, rising to $1.1 billion in 2007, from less than $100 million in 2001.
 That growth was powered by construction loans, on which it suffered virtually no losses for many years. By 2005, loans to builders amounted to more than half its total loans -- and to 450 percent of its capital.
 Temecula appeared to be very well capitalized. But virtually all that capital vanished when the boom stopped. 
 When the F.D.I.C. stepped in last month, the bank had $1.5 billion in assets. The agency thinks it will lose about a quarter of that amount.
 Across the country, at Security Bank of Bibb County, Ga., the story was remarkably similar. Its fast growth was powered by construction loans, although in this case the loans mostly financed commercial buildings, not houses. When those loans went bad, what had appeared to be a well-capitalized bank went under. The F.D.I.C. estimates its losses will be almost 30 percent of the bank's $1.2 billion in assets.
 In both of those cases, to get another bank to take over the failed bank, the F.D.I.C. had to agree to share future losses on most of the loans. That is one reason the agency's estimates of its eventual losses could turn out to be wrong. In the best of all worlds, the loss estimates would be too high because the economy and property prices recover rapidly. But if the recovery is slow, the losses could grow.
 In either case, the F.D.I.C. may soon need to seek more money to pay for failing banks. It could seek that cash from the Treasury, where it has a line of credit, or it could seek to raise the fees it charges banks. 
 So far this year, the F.D.I.C. has closed 77 banks, and there almost certainly will be more on Friday, the agency's preferred day for bank closures. Last Friday there were five. Not since June 12 has there been a Friday without a bank closing. By contrast, there were three failures in 2007 and 25 in 2008.
 Of the 77 failures in 2009, the F.D.I.C. could not even find a bank to acquire eight of them. Of the other 69, the agency signed loss-sharing agreements on 41.
 By contrast, the agency found acquirers for all of the 25 failed banks in 2008, and had to sign loss-sharing agreements for just three of the banks.
 ''Loss-sharing'' is something of a misnomer. In practice, the vast majority of the losses are borne by the F.D.I.C. Typically, it takes 80 percent of the losses up to a negotiated limit, and 95 percent of losses above that level.
 Although the losses on current failures stem mostly from construction loans, it is possible that commercial real estate will be the next big problem area. Losses in that area were growing at the Temecula bank, although its portfolio was relatively small. 
 During the credit boom, loans on those properties became easier and easier to get, on more and more liberal terms. Unlike residential mortgages, commercial real estate loans typically must be refinanced every few years. With rents and values down in many areas, that will not be possible for a lot of buildings, and some owners are just walking away from their buildings.
 Two years ago, when the subprime mortgage problems began to surface, Washington took great comfort from solid balance sheets, which regulators thought meant the banks could easily weather the problem.
 Last year, we learned that the regulators, like the bankers, did not comprehend the risks of some of the exotic instruments dreamed up by financial engineers. This year we are learning that the regulators, like the bankers, also failed to understand the risks of the generous loans that the banks were making in the middle of this decade.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Security Bank in Bibb County, Ga. The F.D.I.C. estimates its losses could be almost a third of the bank's $1.2 billion in assets.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TAMI CHAPPELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B6) CHART: Two Banks, Same Story: CONSTRUCTION LOANS (Source: Bank reports) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANK FAILURES (90%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (89%); TOXIC ASSETS (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); SAVINGS & LOANS (79%); BAILOUTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (92%); FIRST CITIZENS BANCSHARES INC (NC) (51%)

TICKER: FCNCA (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (92%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009



562 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: THE LISTINGS

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
DANCE
 Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance. 
 COLLABORATIONS IN DANCE (Friday through Sunday) A mixed bag of choreographers and directors, visual artists and video artists team up to present new works at Triskelion Arts, with a different program each night. On a dance-quiet weekend, you could do worse than to seek out the Next Big Thing. At 8 p.m., Triskelion Arts, 118 North 11th Street, third floor, Williamsburg, Brooklyn , (718) 599-3577, triskelionarts.org; $15 for one night; $25 for two nights; $40 for all nights. (Roslyn Sulcas)20090820 
 'DIAGHILEV'S THEATER OF MARVELS: THE BALLETS RUSSES AND ITS AFTERMATH' (Friday, Saturday and Monday through Thursday) Numerous exhibitions and dance performances throughout the world are celebrating the centennial of that famous first Ballets Russes performance in Paris, and the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts has its own display of scores, costume and set designs, diaries, notebooks, documentary film and rare archival footage. The exhibition displays the extraordinary richness of collaboration (Stravinsky! Picasso! Nijinsky!) that characterized the company's two-decade existence and has so deeply influenced the subsequent course of dance history. (Through Sept. 12.) New York Public Library for the Performing Arts, Dorothy and Lewis B. Cullman Center, 111 Amsterdam Avenue, at 65th Street, Lincoln Center , (212) 870-1630, nypl.org/lpa; free. (Sulcas)20090820
 DOWNTOWN DANCE FESTIVAL (Friday through Sunday) This ambitious and eclectic program of free outdoor performances, hosted by the Battery Dance Company, is enjoying its 28th year. On Friday at noon the Jamal Jackson Dance Company, IsadoraNOW, C3 Tap Co-operative, Stefanie Nelson Dance Group and Naomi Goldberg Haas/Dances for a Variable Population perform at Chase Plaza, Nassau Street between Liberty and Pine Streets, Lower Manhattan. On Saturday and Sunday at 1 p.m. some of the same companies, as well as Figures in Flight, Vissi Dance Theater, Dance China NY, Rebecca Kelly Ballet, the Chase Brock Experience and Battery Dance Company, perform on the lawn at Battery Park, adjacent to State Street at Pearl Street. batterydanceco.com; free. (Sulcas)20090820
 FRINGE FESTIVAL: FACE THE MUSIC ... AND DANCE! (Sunday and Thursday) Responding to the current recession, five choreographers (Julian Barnett, Tina Croll, Maura Nguyen Donohue, Heidi Latsky and Noa Sagie) have created a program of works, featuring more than 30 dancers from their companies, to celebrate strength in unity. (Through Aug. 29.) Sunday at 2 p.m., Thursday at 9 p.m., Robert Moss Theater at 440 Studios, 440 Lafayette Street, between Astor Place and East Fourth Street, East Village , (212) 529-0259, fringeNYC.org; $15. (Jack Anderson)20090820
 JACOB'S PILLOW DANCE FESTIVAL (Friday through Sunday, and Wednesday and Thursday) This is a very good weekend to go to Jacob's Pillow. You can see both the marvelous Pacific Northwest Ballet, in two works by Ulysses Dove, and the talented Crystal Pite's company, Kidd Pivot, performing her new ''Lost Action.'' On Wednesday Ballet Hispanico opens at the Ted Shawn Theater in a program dedicated to its departing director, Tina Ramirez, which includes the premiere of ''Locked Up Laura'' by Annabelle Lopez Ochoa. And at the Doris Duke Theater, Doug Elkins's ''Fraulein Maria,'' a dance rendering of ''The Sound of Music'' that is at once hilarious and profound, should most definitely not be missed. (The festival runs through Aug. 30.) Complete listings, including free performances and lectures: jacobspillow.org. 358 George Carter Road, Becket, Mass. , (413) 243-0745; $33 to $58. (Sulcas) 20090820
 MARK MORRIS DANCE GROUP (Friday and Saturday) The starry collaboration of Mark Morris, Yo-Yo Ma and Emanuel Ax has guaranteed sold-out houses for these Mostly Mozart performances of two new works by Mr. Morris (''Visitation'' to Beethoven's Cello Sonata in C and ''Empire Garden'' to Ives's Trio for Violin, Cello and Piano) in addition to his much-commended ''V.'' Standby lines for return tickets start one hour before performances. Friday at 7.30 p.m., Saturday at 3 p.m., Rose Theater, Jazz at Lincoln Center, Broadway and 60th Street , (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; sold out. (Sulcas)20090820

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE COMPANIES (90%); FILM (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTS (90%); BALLET (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); DANCE (89%); DANCERS (79%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (74%); EXHIBITIONS (73%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); RECESSION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009



563 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: Natural Gas Prices Plummet to a Seven-Year Low

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: HOUSTON 

 BODY:
Natural gas prices plunged on Thursday to levels last reached in 2002 after an Energy Department report showed that the amount of gas in storage had hit a record high for this time of year. 
 The sharp price decline of natural gas, to below $3 per thousand cubic feet from a peak of over $13 last summer, has been caused by a drop in demand from factories and homes because of the recession, coupled with a big expansion of domestic production over the last few years.
 ''It is tough times in the gas business, certainly,'' said Thomas F. Darden, chief executive of Quicksilver Resources, a major natural gas producer, after the government stockpile report was released. ''Prices today are below our costs to produce, so in our view this is not a sustainable scenario.'' 
 Even as it reflects weakness in the economy, the declining price of natural gas will be good for many industries and consumers. It is gradually bringing down utility bills for the 60 percent of American homes that use natural gas to fuel stoves, water heaters, furnaces and other appliances. And since natural gas is an important fuel for utilities and factories and a prime feedstock for the chemical and fertilizer industries, the price collapse helps cut their costs.
 Kathy Mathers, a vice president of the Fertilizer Institute, a trade organization representing manufacturers and retailers, said rising natural gas prices over the last six years had forced 30 fertilizer plants, representing half of domestic production, to close. Foreign producers, with access to cheaper natural gas, have claimed more and more of the market. 
 Ms. Mathers said the price decline this year ''provides important relief,'' adding that ''it won't bring the old plants back but it will save the remaining U.S. production.''
 Gas executives saw a silver lining, arguing that the low prices would help them make a case in the Senate when it takes up energy and climate change legislation later this year. The gas companies want federal incentives to sway utilities to switch to gas from coal, and they want more government entities and businesses to convert their diesel bus and truck fleets to compressed natural gas.
 The House version of the legislation, passed in June, disappointed industry leaders who contended that coal interests got a better deal than they did, even though gas is a cleaner fuel.
 The weekly Energy Department natural gas stockpile report showed that underground storage in the lower 48 states rose by 52 billion cubic feet, to about 3.2 trillion cubic feet, for the week that ended last Friday. That is a storage level 21 percent above the level a year earlier and 19 percent above the average for the last five years at this time of year.
 It is normal for stockpiles to grow during the summer, but the current level is usually reached in late September or October. 
 Natural gas is produced from wells at a fairly steady rate, but use of the fuel is highly seasonal, so summertime production is stored in large reservoirs for use during the winter. The country has about four trillion cubic feet of gas storage capacity, almost entirely in tapped-out wells, salt caverns and aquifers. 
 Gas demand is so weak and supply so abundant that some experts think the country could run out of storage capacity before the winter heating season begins, requiring gas companies to reduce flow from their wells or even shut down production.
 Gas executives, who have already cut back severely on drilling new wells this year, say they are loath to cut production on wells already completed, but they may have no other choice if the storage system and pipeline network get backed up. 
 ''We have never been here before in terms of what to expect when storage gets this high,'' said Aubrey K. McClendon, chief executive of Chesapeake Energy, another major gas producer. ''It's like a balloon; there comes a point where you can't blow any more air into it.'' 
 Mr. McClendon said he hoped that low gas prices could stimulate more replacement of coal with gas by utilities, something that is beginning to happen in some places, and he was also hopeful a cold winter would spur demand. 
 ''It doesn't set the stage for $10 gas, but it does set the stage for $6 to $8 gas, which is in our view a fair price for consumers and producers,'' Mr. McClendon added. 
 Kenneth B. Medlock III, an energy economist at Rice University, said there had not been such a drastic storage buildup since 2002, the last time gas prices swooned during a recession. But he said the situation could be temporary and prices could quickly rebound, noting, ''If the economy starts to recover, and recover quickly, we will eat through those inventories very quickly.'' 
 The price decline is rooted in supply and demand. Energy experts note that factories and power plants have slowed production because of the weak economy. The Energy Department reported that consumption of natural gas was down about 5 percent in May from May 2008.
 On the supply side, a boom in domestic production has followed improvements in recent years in drilling technology, opening immense shale gas fields across Appalachia, the Great Plains and northern Texas and Louisiana.
 Trying to head off the developing glut, the industry shut down gas rigs at a rapid pace over the first half of the year. According to the Baker Hughes oil service company, the number of gas rigs operating around the United States has been reduced to 688, from 1,586, since last August.
 But because many of the shale wells are new and just beginning to flow, production has remained high. In fact, natural gas output this year has been slightly higher than last year despite the sharply declining rig count. 
 Industry executives say they are concerned that if the economy and prices do not recover, it will cripple smaller independent companies. Many suggest larger companies may soon buy independents at bargain prices.
 ''You are cutting into muscle now,'' said Rodney L. Waller, a senior vice president at Range Resources. ''Companies' viability is being questioned. If you have sustained price reductions, you will see consolidation and layoffs.'' 
 The price of gas plunged by more than 5 percent Thursday morning after the storage report was released, and trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange settled at $2.945 per thousand cubic feet. That is a 78 percent drop from the peak that gas hit on July 3, 2008, of $13.58.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers on a drilling rig for an EBR Energy natural gas well near Columbus, Tex. Companies have cut back on drilling new wells.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT DALTON/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(pg. B6) CHARTS: Even Cheaper Gas: As the stockpile of natural has been rising, its price has continued to fall.(Sources: Energy Information Administration
 Bloomberg)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (96%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); FERTILIZERS (90%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (89%); OIL & GAS STORAGE FACILITIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (87%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (79%); COMPRESSED NATURAL GAS (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); FERTILIZER MFG (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (73%); RETAILERS (67%); COAL INDUSTRY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); THE FERTILIZER INSTITUTE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009



564 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; TELEVISION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: A Series That Shows Its Age

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
''Thirtysomething'' arrived on network television in September 1987, 20 days before Black Monday, when the Dow Jones industrial average dropped nearly 23 percent, and the culture of yuppiedom, put to the series's meticulous dramatic scrutiny, seemed threatened with dissolution. 
 What could have proven ruinous for the show's producers and the American economy at large turned out to be less perilous than initially imagined. The recession that followed was brief, and the boomer values that bolstered the world of Reeboks, oversize horn rims and Jane Fonda gym clothes were strong enough to sustain ''Thirtysomething'' for three subsequent seasons, until the near end of the Bush presidency in 1991.
 Created by Marshall Herskovitz and Edward Zwick, ''Thirtysomething,'' whose debut season will be available on DVD for the first time on Tuesday, illuminated the escalating culture wars without ever fully capitalizing on mounting tensions. The show was never watched as much as it was debated, worshiped, maligned and endlessly dusted over for markers of social and psychological relevance. (In 2007 it became the subject of a short book aspiring to academic pretension: ''Thirtysomething: Television, Women, Men, and Work.'') Broadcast on ABC, it never made it into the Nielsen Top 20. The show achieved its highest rating during the first 15 minutes of the premiere. 
 And yet ''Thirtysomething'' has become such an ingrained part of late 20th-century popular culture for a certain type whose tastes were perfectly synchronized to Clinton liberalism. For the benefit of anyone who might have missed the historic significance of the Volvo in American consumer life, ''Thirtysomething'' revolved around a good-looking ad man, Michael Steadman (Ken Olin); his stay-at-home wife, Hope (Mel Harris); and the group of self-analyzing friends around whom the couple formed a family more emotionally grounded than the ones they'd come from. 
 Until ''Thirtysomething'' babies were virtually absent from the landscape of serial television, and it is the show's examination of the nascent obsession with child care that remains its most prescient and meaningful legacy. Hope and Michael have a daughter, Janey, whose smeared face is ever present and whose burps, wails and gurgles function in some sense as the series soundtrack (as they remain a recurring threat to her parents' attempts at coital happiness). In an early scene in the first episode Michael shops for baby gear in a moment that foretells what will be a resonant fixation of affluent parents for the next 20-plus-years: stroller pricing. (He is aghast at the $278 cost, not realizing that the future will bring, among other questionable advancements in child transport, the $1,029.99 Bugaboo Cameleon Denim.)
 Although the show spoke exclusively to the interests of its privileged and therapeutically inclined audience, it managed endlessly to offend members of its own constituency, particularly feminists appalled by Hope's relationship to motherhood. ''Thirtysomething'' was accused of traditionalism, but it never seemed to benefit from the backlash. Hope opted to run a household, but she was never honored with a luncheon given by the Eagle Forum.
 On the series she is a Princeton graduate who had been on her way to becoming a kind of journalistic Ralph Nader until she gave birth. Hope's devotion to her daughter is fetishistic and sometimes hysterical, a factor heightened by Ms. Harris's acting style, which often lacks the modulation of her more gifted colleagues. In the early episodes Hope can't leave her child for a weekend, or even six minutes, and any efforts to find a baby sitter only turn up candidates who seem to be sadists, addicts or lunatics.
 Susan Faludi was one of the many who faulted the show for its perceived exaltation of motherhood, but the criticism doesn't easily hold. Hope's ambivalence about having left her professional life is palpable, and her responsibilities often unravel her. At the same time her friend Nancy (Patricia Wettig), the wife of Michael's business partner, is rewarded for her unwavering attention to her family with an unfaithful husband and a body later ravaged by chemotherapy. She isn't given just any random malignancy but, rather symbolically, the deadliest gynecological cancer of all: ovarian.
 Visually ''Thirtysomething'' was committed to depicting the disorder and mess of marital life. The Steadmans' Arts and Crafts house needs constant renovation; space is cramped; Hope's clothes never seem to make it to the laundry, the yogurt and Gerber stains always visible. Not since ''All in the Family'' has a series been as intent on reproducing the sound of a toilet flushing.
 ''Thirtysomething'' came a decade after ''Looking for Mr. Goodbar'' and 11 years before ''Sex and the City,'' and while its evocation of single life feels archaically sandwiched between those two touchstones, it is impossible to watch the series and think that it glamorized marriage as a sacrosanct alternative. In the show's mind, adulthood was its own bittersweet torture no matter what domestic form it took.
 While the unmarried on ''Thirtysomething'' endured their share of abjection -- at one point Melissa (Melanie Mayron), a talented photographer, is rejected by a potential blind date when he spots her through his apartment video monitor -- within the context of '80s television the show's view of professional women can only be regarded as progressive. Even on acclaimed series praised for verite portrayals of urban life, competent professional women suffered despite great reserves of strength. On ''L.A. Law'' Grace Van Owen (Susan Dey) was given a nervous breakdown; Dr. Wendy Armstrong (Kim Miyori) of ''St. Elsewhere'' killed herself after she couldn't save a child's life; others were saddled with breast cancer, infertility, divorce, loneliness. By the time ''Thirtysomething'' came to a close, both Melissa and Hope's best friend, Ellyn (Polly Draper), a single urban planner, had found endings that did not solicit our pity. 
 Ellyn didn't make a fortune working for the city of Philadelphia, where ''Thirtysomething'' is set. And it is that distance, far enough away from the money culture of New York and ''Wall Street'' (which also appeared in 1987), that allowed the show's principals to remain largely untouched by the untrammeled ambition that distinguished the era. 
 Michael's friend Gary (Peter Horton) is a professor of English at the University of Pennsylvania who doesn't get tenure and doesn't much mind. Michael is in advertising only because he never found a way to become John Irving, and the company he starts with his friend Elliot (Timothy Busfield) is never in danger of putting J. Walter Thompson out of business. The period in which advertising was the reigning profession of America's ruling class is over, and Michael is just another middle-class schlub, Don Draper's reluctant descendant.
 When ''Thirtysomething'' appeared, it was thought to have inaugurated, along with a handful of other network series, a new golden age of television. That age would not actually come until the late '90s and the HBO revolution, and it seems unfair to watch the show against the backdrop of all that has evolved since. 
 ''Thirtysomething'' often felt like real life, but it also deployed, and even developed, what would become some of the most regrettable conventions of network storytelling: goofy fantasy sequences, music intended as emotional cues, pointless flashbacks (in this instance, those that remind us that during the late '60s people had long hair and congregated around vans). ''Thirtysomething'' wasn't great television, but it was very good television, and when it ended, many of us felt as if we were losing something -- not art, but something less abstract and more personal. The '80s weren't all a misery. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The cast of ''Thirtysomething,'' clockwise from top left: Mel Harris, Polly Draper, Timothy Busfield, Ken Olin, Melanie Mayron, Patricia Wettig and Peter Horton.(C1)
 Mel Harris and Ken Olin as the Steadmans, parents of Janey.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ABC)(C13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK MARKET CRASHES (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); LIBERALISM (72%); INFANTS MARKET (68%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (66%); AFFLUENT MARKET (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: Thirtysomething (TV Program); Thirtysomething (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009



565 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Will the Hard-Core Starbucks Customer Pay More? The Chain Plans to Find Out

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
As the recession wears on and fewer people are splurging at Starbucks, the coffee chain's response is to raise prices. On Thursday, Starbucks stores in several cities started charging up to 30 cents more for some specialty beverages, though the company is charging less for some basic drinks. 
 The price adjustments will be made at stores nationwide in coming months. 
 The move comes as Starbucks toes a tricky line between remaining a premium brand while retaining price-sensitive customers who can buy cheaper coffee at other shops. This summer, Starbucks has been fending off competition from McDonald's, which has introduced a new line of lower-priced espresso drinks that have proved popular. 
 The price of sugary Starbucks concoctions with several ingredients, like Frappuccinos and caramel macchiatos, will increase an average 10 cents to 15 cents, but in some cases as much as 30 cents, or about 8 percent, said Valerie O'Neil, a Starbucks spokeswoman. 
 The price of the most popular beverages -- 12-ounce lattes and brewed coffees -- will decrease an average of 5 cents to 15 cents. This is the first time Starbucks has lowered prices, she said. It last increased the price of drinks by 5 cents in 2007. 
 ''The goal of it is really to continue to find ways to balance the value we're providing for our customers with the business responsibilities,'' Ms. O'Neil said. In the three months ending June 28, sales at Starbucks stores open at least a year fell 5 percent from the same period the year before. Starbucks is also experimenting with other ways to make more money, like selling alcoholic beverages in a few stores in Seattle. 
 Starbucks is also trying to heighten its appeal with a redesign of some of its menus so they more prominently feature less expensive brewed coffee, and it is running a summer promotion for iced drinks. 
 Raising prices in the middle of a big downturn in consumer spending might not be such a crazy idea, said J. Miguel Villas-Boas, a marketing professor who studies pricing and consumer choice at the Haas School of Business of the University of California, Berkeley. Though it is paradoxical, it is a strategy premium companies often take, he said. 
 ''Given that McDonald's is capturing some of the consumers less interested in the premium that Starbucks offers, then the consumers left out for Starbucks are the consumers willing to pay more, so Starbucks says, 'Let's charge them,' '' he said. 
 Connie Williams, 57, a saleswoman in Los Angeles, is one of those customers. She said the price changes would not affect her daily habit of buying a 12-ounce nonfat cappuccino ''with a little shake of chocolate'' at Starbucks. ''I'm hooked,'' she said. ''It's like asking a cocaine addict, 'If I raise my prices, are you going to buy less?' '' 
 But some customers said the price increase would make them turn away. Elise Walls, 24, a student in San Francisco, visits Starbucks nearly every day for a 20-ounce green ginger tea. On Thursday, she noticed it cost 5 cents more. ''I was like, 'Wait a minute,' because it's already expensive anyway,'' she said. She plans to start buying boxes of tea bags and making it herself. 
 The sugary, creamy drinks that will now be more expensive at Starbucks are the same type of beverage that McDonald's has been marketing in a huge advertising campaign. 
 Starbucks is safe raising the prices of specialty drinks because they are where the company best differentiates itself, said Kenneth Davids, editor of Coffee Review. 
 Mr. Davids recently published a taste test comparing espresso drinks at Starbucks and McDonald's. The difference between standard lattes was subtle, he said, but ''what surprised me was how dramatic the difference was when it got to the additives,'' like syrup and whipped cream. 
 Starbucks customers get what they pay for, he said. ''With McDonald's, it was just terrible stuff that I don't think anybody except maybe a 5-year-old might like.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alex Igarta, a barista, working the drive-through window of a Starbucks near the company's headquarters in Seattle.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ELAINE THOMPSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (90%); COFFEE & TEA (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (86%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); BEVERAGE PRICES (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

COMPANY: STARBUCKS CORP (95%)

TICKER: SBUX (NASDAQ) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (95%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009



566 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Higher in U.S. After an Overseas Rebound

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY; Bettina Wassener contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Wall Street rose on Thursday, even as signs of continuing weakness in the job market sapped some of the momentum from big gains in overseas trading.
 Financial shares led the way higher on Wall Street. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 70.89 points, or 0.76 percent, to close at 9,350.05, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 10.91 points, or 1.09 percent, to 1,007.37. The Nasdaq was 1 percent higher, at 1,989.22. 
 Investors snapped up shares of major banks like Citigroup, Bank of America and Wells Fargo, betting that the financial sector would continue to heal as the economy bottomed out. And shares of the struggling insurance giant American International Group rose 21 percent, to $32.30, on news reports that the company believed it could repay its bailout money.
 The coffee chain Starbucks edged up 0.5 percent after it announced higher prices for some premium drinks. Shares of fast-food chains like McDonald's, Burger King and Yum Brands, which owns Taco Bell, also rose. 
 Futures trading had pointed to bigger gains before a report from the Labor Department showed that weekly unemployment claims rose by 15,000 last week to a seasonally adjusted total of 576,000 new claims. The increase reflected layoffs at manufacturing, finance and trade companies.
 Overall unemployment claims rose for an additional week, increasing by 2,000 to a seasonally adjusted 6.24 million, though they declined slightly from last month.
 As the total number of jobless workers nationwide nears 15 million, home foreclosures and delinquencies are hitting new highs. The Mortgage Bankers Association reported Thursday that a record 13.16 percent of mortgages were in foreclosure or at least one payment past due. 
 Foreclosures on subprime adjustable-rate mortgages fell this spring, but the number of prime fixed-rate foreclosures rose, reflecting the toll of job losses on home loan defaults. 
 ''It is unlikely we will see meaningful reductions in the foreclosure and delinquency rates until the employment situation improves,'' Jay Brinkmann, the association's chief economist, said in a statement. 
 Other snapshots of the economy offered a brighter view. 
 The private Conference Board's index of leading indicators showed improvement for a fourth consecutive month in July, as job losses slowed, stock prices rose and the workweek grew slightly, showing that business production might be inching up. The leading index rose 0.6 percent for the month. 
 Wall Street gained after China's main stock index had its biggest one-day rally in five months, with a 4.5 percent rebound on Thursday that reversed the previous session's steep loss.
 Shares in most of the rest of Asia gained on relief that a two-week battering of the Chinese market had ended -- at least for a day. 
 The main indexes in Hong Kong, Singapore and Japan gained at least 1.5 percent. Indexes in Britain, Germany and France rose more than 1 percent.
 In the United States, the Treasury's 10-year note rose 6/32, to 101 20/32. The yield fell to 3.43 percent, from 3.45 percent late Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); INTEREST RATES (86%); LAYOFFS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); FUTURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (77%); WORK WEEK (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (75%); INSURANCE (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); COFFEE & TEA (73%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); SUBPRIME LENDING (64%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); MCDONALD'S CORP (83%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (70%); YUM! BRANDS INC (55%); TACO BELL CORP (55%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); MCD (NYSE) (83%); AIG (NYSE) (70%); 8685 (TSE) (70%); YUM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (83%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (83%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (70%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%); ASIA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009



567 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: In Afghanistan, the Choice Is Ours

BYLINE: By RICHARD N. HAASS. 
Richard N. Haass, the president of the Council on Foreign Relations, is the author of ''War of Necessity, War of Choice: A Memoir of Two Iraq Wars.''

 BODY:
SPEAKING on Monday to the Veterans of Foreign Wars in Phoenix, President Obama could not have been more definitive. ''We must never forget,'' he said of the conflict in Afghanistan. ''This is not a war of choice. This is a war of necessity.''
 The president did not break new ground so much as reinforce existing policy. Earlier this year, he decided to send an additional 17,000 combat soldiers and 4,000 trainers to Afghanistan, raising American force levels there to more than 60,000. And in March he articulated a broader mission: The United States would now ''take the fight to the Taliban in the south and the east,'' in effect making the United States a full party to Afghanistan's civil war. 
 As a result, American soldiers are fighting the Taliban, partly to provide time and space while Afghan forces are better trained and partly to persuade some Taliban that resistance does not pay. Call it armed state-building. 
 But is Afghanistan a war of necessity? And if not -- if in fact it is a war of choice -- so what?
 Wars of necessity must meet two tests. They involve, first, vital national interests and, second, a lack of viable alternatives to the use of military force to protect those interests. World War II was a war of necessity, as were the Korean War and the Persian Gulf war. 
 In the wake of 9/11, invading Afghanistan was a war of necessity. The United States needed to act in self-defense to oust the Taliban. There was no viable alternative.
 Now, however, with a friendly government in Kabul, is our military presence still a necessity? 
 Of course, our interests in Afghanistan include making it difficult for Al Qaeda to mount operations from that country and limiting Taliban use of Afghan territory to destabilize neighboring Pakistan. Minimizing the chance of a terrorist attack on American citizens is vital, as is making sure that Pakistan's nuclear arsenal doesn't fall into the wrong hands. 
 But even if the United States were to succeed in Afghanistan -- with ''success'' defined as bringing into existence an Afghan government strong enough to control most of its territory -- terrorists could still operate from there and would put down roots elsewhere. And Pakistan's future would remain uncertain at best. 
 Moreover, there are alternatives to current American policy. One would reduce our troops' ground-combat operations and emphasize drone attacks on terrorists, the training of Afghan police officers and soldiers, development aid and diplomacy to fracture the Taliban. 
 A more radical alternative would withdraw all United States military forces from Afghanistan and center on regional and global counterterrorism efforts and homeland security initiatives to protect ourselves from threats that might emanate from Afghanistan. Under this option, our policy toward Afghanistan would resemble the approach toward Somalia and other countries where governments are unable or unwilling to take on terrorists and the United States eschews military intervention. 
 Afghanistan is thus a war of choice -- Mr. Obama's war of choice. In this way, Afghanistan is analogous to Vietnam, Bosnia, Kosovo and today's Iraq. Wars of choice are not inherently good or bad. It depends on whether military involvement would probably accomplish more than it would cost and whether employing force is more promising than the alternatives.
 Making this assessment in Afghanistan is difficult. The Taliban are resourceful and patient and can use Pakistan as a sanctuary. It is not obvious that Afghans can overcome ethnic and tribal loyalties, corruption and personal rivalries. No matter who is declared the winner, yesterday's election is almost certain to leave the country even more divided. 
 The risk of ending our military effort in Afghanistan is that Kabul could be overrun and the government might fall. The risk of the current approach (or even one that involves dispatching another 10,000 or 20,000 American soldiers, as the president appears likely to do) is that it might produce the same result in the end, but at a higher human, military and economic cost. 
 All of which makes Afghanistan not just a war of choice but a tough choice. My judgment is that American interests are sufficiently important, prospects for achieving limited success are sufficiently high and the risks of alternative policies are sufficiently great to proceed, for now, with Mr. Obama's measured strategy. But the administration, Congress and the American people (who, recent polls suggest, are turning against the war) must undertake regular, rigorous assessments of whether these efforts are bearing fruit or are likely to. If it appears they are not, the president should roll back the combat role or withdraw militarily. 
 If Afghanistan were a war of necessity, it would justify any level of effort. It is not and does not. It is not certain that doing more will achieve more. And no one should forget that doing more in Afghanistan lessens our ability to act elsewhere, including North Korea, Iran and Iraq. There needs to be a limit to what the United States does in Afghanistan and how long it is prepared to do it, lest we find ourselves unable to contend with other wars, of choice or of necessity, if and when they arise.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); TERRORISM (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); CIVIL WAR (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); KOREAN WAR (73%); AL-QAEDA (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (65%); NATIONAL SECURITY (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009



568 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Afghanistan Votes

 BODY:
Millions of Afghans, determined to shape their own future, defied Taliban threats and voted Thursday in the country's second-ever presidential elections. That courage deserves to be rewarded with far better governance than Afghans have experienced in the four years since the last presidential vote. 
 President Obama has rightfully defined success in Afghanistan as essential to America's struggle against Al Qaeda. He has backed that up with more troops -- there are 62,000 now with 6,000 on the way -- stronger American military leadership and a more careful use of air power devised to limit civilian casualties. 
There is a lot more that must be done. The country's next president will need the full support of the United States and NATO allies if there is to be any hope of defeating the worst of the Taliban and any chance of getting the rest to lay down their weapons. Washington must also be willing to deliver tough, unsolicited advice when needed on issues like official corruption and drugs.
 Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, the new American commander, has been commendably candid about how badly the war is going -- and how hard and costly it is likely to be even to start turning things around. 
 United States and NATO troops, and, increasingly, the new Afghan National Army must dislodge Taliban guerrillas from the strategic mountain passes and towns they have retaken in recent years (without recklessly placing local residents in the line of fire). 
 Success on the Afghan battlefield will not be enough unless Pakistan closes down Taliban training camps and infiltration routes on its side of the border. Washington must use every diplomatic and aid lever at its command to turn Pakistan's government, army and intelligence services away from their historic support of the Taliban toward support for the legitimate Afghan government. 
 And even that won't be enough. The Taliban cannot be defeated militarily unless they are also defeated politically. The next Afghan president -- President Hamid Karzai or one of his challengers -- must win and keep the loyalty of the Afghan people in the face of Taliban intimidation. 
 Mr. Karzai, Afghanistan's top leader since December 2001, has presided over a government whose systemic corruption has consumed its credibility and the country's limited financial resources. He has built alliances with notorious warlords. Opium cultivation and drug trafficking have expanded under the protection of his relatives and allies and are now the most dynamic sectors of the national economy. The army is far from combat ready and the national police are often corrupt and under the sway of local warlords. 
 The Afghan government -- and its backers in Washington and other NATO capitals -- don't have a lot of time to turn these disastrous trends around. 
 Unfortunately, not all unsavory alliances with warlords can be liquidated immediately. The country would be ungovernable. But the next president's goal should be to quickly free himself from their toxic and disabling grip. Increasing the pay and improving the training of the army and the police would lessen that dependency. The United States and NATO need to provide many more qualified trainers and enough financing to allow the government to outbid Taliban commanders and drug lords for the services of unemployed young men. 
 Afghanistan's farmers do not want to be in business with brutal drug traffickers or the Taliban. But they need seasonal crop loans no legitimate lender seems willing to provide. Microcredit banks could make a huge difference and international donors should step in to provide needed start-up money. More aid is also needed to help improve local infrastructure -- building roads and irrigation projects -- while at the same time creating more local jobs outside the opium trade. These projects will need careful monitoring to make sure funds are not skimmed away by corrupt officials and contractors. 
 Meanwhile, the next Afghan president must crack down hard on big drug traffickers. They need to be purged from government offices and police forces. Afghanistan needs a justice system that can arrest and try suspected drug criminals and punish the guilty severely.
 Afghan misgovernment is the Taliban's most important ally and most effective recruiting agent. The price of continued misgovernment will be paid with the lives of Afghans and of American and NATO soldiers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); TRENDS (76%); AL-QAEDA (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (72%); CORRUPTION (72%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (67%); OPIUM (67%); POLICE FORCES (54%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (58%); STANLEY A MCCHRYSTAL (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (98%); PAKISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009



569 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Governor's Appointment of a Lieutenant Is Ruled to Be Unconstitutional

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson acted beyond his authority last month when he named Richard Ravitch lieutenant governor, a state appeals court ruled Thursday in blocking Mr. Ravitch from serving in the post.
 The decision, which was unanimous and unambiguous in its rejection of the governor's arguments, dealt Mr. Paterson both a legal and political setback. A four-justice panel issued the decision, refuting all of Mr. Paterson's key legal claims and leaving the administration open to criticism that it had gone outside the bounds of the State Constitution.
 ''The governor simply does not have the authority to appoint a lieutenant governor,'' the decision said. 
 It concluded, ''The governor's purported appointment of Mr. Ravitch was unlawful because no provision of the Constitution or of any statute provides for the filling of a vacancy in the office of lieutenant governor other than by election.'' 
 The Appellate Division of the Second Judicial Department, in Brooklyn, which heard arguments in the case on Tuesday, was the highest so far to decide on the constitutionality of the governor's appointment. The decision moved the case, Skelos v. Paterson, before the state's highest court, the Court of Appeals. 
 A spokeswoman for the governor said that Mr. Paterson had not decided whether to seek a stay to temporarily allow Mr. Ravitch to serve while the Court of Appeals considers the case. 
 The appointment has been in dispute since the governor appointed Mr. Ravitch on July 8, while state government was paralyzed by a political power struggle that left Republicans and Democrats both making claims to control the State Senate.
 Mr. Paterson on Thursday said he was dismayed by the ruling and offered, as a compromise, to have the State Legislature vote to confirm Mr. Ravitch.
 ''I'm obviously disappointed,'' he told reporters outside his Midtown Manhattan office. ''I chose Richard Ravitch, an outstanding citizen for the last two decades who's been a public servant and a civic leader. And I think at this time, so as to avoid what went on in the Senate in June and July, that a lieutenant governor would be the solution.''
 Senate Republicans, who brought the case against the governor, hailed the decision and predicted they would ultimately prevail before the Court of Appeals. 
 ''The appellate court today upheld the position I have taken all along, that the governor acted recklessly and unconstitutionally when he put his own political interests ahead of the public interest,'' Dean G. Skelos, the Senate minority leader, said in a written statement. 
 Republicans have argued that by appointing a lieutenant governor, whose powers include presiding over the Senate and casting tie-breaking votes in some cases, Mr. Paterson threatened their free speech. A presiding officer has the power to recognize speakers on the Senate floor.
 Mr. Paterson argued that state law allowed governors to appoint a lieutenant governor in the event of a vacancy. He pointed to a provision of state law that says governors can fill vacant positions unless the Constitution explicitly defines how those position should be filled. The Constitution is silent on how a vacancy in the lieutenant governor's office should be handled.
 Mr. Paterson also argued that such an extraordinary move -- no governor had ever before tried to appoint a lieutenant governor when the post became vacant -- was necessary because of the extraordinary circumstances facing the state. Not only was Albany mired in political crisis when the governor made the appointment, but the state also remains in a severe economic downturn.
 The appeals court panel rejected those claims outright.
 The panel disputed Mr. Paterson's reading of the law that governs replacement appointments, saying that in the case of a vacancy in the lieutenant governor's office, the Constitution says that the duties are to be carried out only by the Senate president.
 The panel also dismissed the governor's argument that extraordinary circumstances legitimized his move. ''No considerations of the state's financial difficulties or of political strife in the Senate allow us to find authority for Mr. Ravitch's appointment where none exists,'' the opinion said.
 Despite the court's ruling that his appointment was unconstitutional, Mr. Ravitch worked from the governor's office in Midtown all day on Thursday and was still answering the phone at his desk into the evening.
 ''It's a roller coaster -- sort of a hard way to live,'' he said of the legal battles over his position. Then, bristling at Mr. Skelos's comment that the governor had appointed him for political purposes, Mr. Ravitch said: ''This isn't political. I have no constituency.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard Ravitch was named lieutenant governor by Gov. David A. Paterson in July, while the State Senate was paralyzed by a struggle between parties.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (93%); APPEALS COURTS (91%); APPEALS (91%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); POLITICS (76%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (64%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009



570 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: Catastrophe, With Soviet Roots

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
A devastating breach in Russia's largest hydroelectric dam reminded Russians and foreign investors alike this week of the dangers posed by this country's largely Soviet-era infrastructure.
 The failure of the towering Sayano-Shushenskaya dam, which accounts for 15 percent of Russia's hydroelectric power and 2 percent of its overall power, highlighted what a risky investment Russia's infrastructure can be. At the same time, the disaster's immediate effect -- a spike in electricity prices in Siberia where the dam is located -- showed how infrastructure problems could hamper any Russian economic recovery. 
 ''We need to conduct a thorough check of all strategic and vital parts of the infrastructure and work out a plan for their regular upgrade,'' Russia's prime minister, Vladimir V. Putin, told a cabinet meeting on Thursday. 
 Legacy equipment, a blessing for newly privatized companies in the early post-Soviet period, has now become a headache, or worse, for many private Russian companies. 
 Sayano-Shushenskaya and similar dams built by the Soviet Union's command economy provided copious, cheap hydropower, and many businesses benefited. Rusal, the world's largest aluminum company with many smelters in Siberia, took advantage of bountiful supply and cheap prices as it ramped up operations over the last decade. 
 Rusal consumed about 70 percent of the Sayano-Shushenskaya dam's output. Rusal's owner, the oligarch Oleg V. Deripaska, once claimed that the Russian aluminum industry would outgrow America's because cheap Siberian electricity provided an unbeatable advantage. 
 In fact, all of Russia's economy grew on roads, pipelines, electrical transmission towers and other infrastructure built by the Soviets, but idled during the deep post-Soviet recession. This helped facilitate rapid economic growth. 
 But metal fatigues and snaps, gear teeth chip, grind and stick, oil pipes burst and leak, roads and bridges crack and buckle, and agricultural machinery fails during harvest. 
 A dearth of capital investment from the late 1980s until around 2005 left Russia with badly decrepit infrastructure. The nadir was probably in 2004, when the state statistics agency calculated that Russian capital equipment was, on average, 21.5 years old -- compared with about 10 years in most Western economies, said Yaroslav D. Lissovolik, the chief economist at Deutsche Bank in Moscow.
 ''To re-equip Russia's industrial base will take decades, not just two or three years,'' Mr. Lissovolik said. ''This is a long-term challenge.''
 It has been a long-term challenge for a while. Long anticipated, the breakdown of Soviet infrastructure began in earnest this decade. 
 An electrical transformer built in 1964 caught fire in 2005 outside Moscow, plunging the capital into a blackout that disrupted the stock exchange and banking operations. 
 Before the financial crisis, the Russian government planned major public sector infrastructure spending, financed with oil windfalls. It also reduced import duties for capital goods to encourage private companies to invest.
 The biggest jump came from 2007 to 2008 as companies flush with profits from the global commodity boom went on building and shopping sprees; capital outlays grew sharply to 26 percent of gross domestic product from 11.4 percent, according to Nomura, the investment bank. 
 Now the bank projects significant losses to the Russian economy as this investment tapers off because of the financial crisis. A decline to 22 percent of gross domestic product over a decade -- which is far above the average investment of the last decade of about 12 percent -- would cost Russia about half a trillion dollars in economic disruptions, bottlenecks and lost growth, the bank estimated. 
 The oil slick from the dam breach, for example, killed 400 tons of trout in fish farms down river, ecologists said. 
 From a distance, the breach looked like a small waterfall at the base of the 800-foot-tall Sayano-Shushenskaya dam spanning the Yenisei River in southern Siberia. 
 By Thursday evening, 17 employees of the electrical company had been confirmed dead and an additional 58 were missing. Authorities said chances of finding anyone alive were slim. The force of the flood lifted one 900-ton turbine from its housing and bounced it off the ceiling of the machine room, Russia's chief rescue official said. An oil slick stretched 80 miles down the Yenisei.
 Company executives said they were investigating the cause of the breach, and a spokesman said the turbines had been recently inspected and cleared. 
 But there had been worries just such an accident might occur. Unfortunately for foreign investors, the dam was a major beneficiary of funds they had paid to the Russian government in a wider privatization of the electricity industry last year. That privatization was specifically intended to draw foreign capital to help refurbish Russia's decrepit infrastructure. 
 To draw investment to the sector, the national electric company, the Unified Energy System, was disbanded last summer after spinning off dozens of subsidiaries and floating their shares on the Russian stock exchange. American hedge funds, European utilities and Russian oligarchs all bought into a chance to own part of the world's fourth-largest electricity market -- after the United States, China and Japan. 
 In the case of natural gas- and coal-powered electrical stations, the investors themselves were expected to pay for modernization. But so dire were the needs of hydroelectric plants that the privatization was structured to shunt proceeds from the actual sales to a majority state-owned company, RusHydro, for repairs. RusHydro's prize asset was the Sayano-Shushenskaya dam. 
 Thus, even as capital investment atrophied elsewhere in Russia, RusHydro had a capital budget this year of 65 billion rubles, or $2.09 billion. 
 A commission of engineers will study the cause of the accident to determine whether the money for infrastructure repairs came too late in this instance, or if the immediate cause of the flood was unrelated to aging equipment, the company spokesman, Yevgeny V. Druzyaka, said. 
 ''It is incorrect to say the reason was nobody spent money on repairs,'' he said.
 The machine room of the Sayano-Shushenskaya dam flooded after water burst out of one of 10 chambers for electrical turbines built into the dam decades ago. Aleksandr Toloshinov, a former general director of the dam, told the Interfax news agency that a cover over a turbine compartment had broken. Mr. Druzyaka said the rupture was most likely a result of some other still unidentified failure inside the compartment. 
 The immediate effect, however, was a spike in electricity prices in Siberia, which will damp recovery for companies in the region that had relied on cheap power, illustrating the long-term costs of Russia's crumbling infrastructure. The accident took offline 6,000 megawatts, or enough electricity to power six million American homes. 
 Alarmed, Russian President Dmitri A. Medvedev issued a decree on Thursday asking regulators to ensure electricity supplies to industrial users from other power plants and to prevent price increases. However reassuring this may be to the steel and aluminum industries, it also heightens the worries of electricity investors who have feared the government would continue to impose price controls after privatization. 
 Capping rates at a time when RusHydro will have an expected $1.25 billion repair bill is surely a disincentive for investors. Shares in RusHydro, which trade in Moscow and London, were down 18 percent on Thursday. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Sayano-Shushenskaya hydroelectric dam in Siberia, Russia's largest, after an accident on Monday. Seventeen are dead and 58 missing.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ILYA NAYMUSHIN/REUTERS)(pg. B1)
Prime Minister Vladimir Putin ordered that Russia's infrastructure be inspected and upgraded after the failure of the dam.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROSSIISKAYA GAZETA, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Estimates on repairs to the Sayano-Shushenskaya dam, which provided 15 percent of Russia's hydro power, total $1.25 billion.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXANDER NEMENOV/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HYDROELECTRIC POWER (91%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (90%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); POWER FAILURES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (71%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (68%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (58%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%); UNITED CO RUSAL LTD (55%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%); RUSAL (PAR) (55%); 0486 (HKSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); NAICS331314 SECONDARY SMELTING & ALLOYING OF ALUMINUM (55%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (55%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (55%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (73%); OLEG DERIPASKA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009



571 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 401 words

HEADLINE: Light in the Forests

 BODY:
This has been a good month for the nation's forests. The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in California reinstated a landmark 2001 rule -- the so-called roadless rule -- put in place by President Bill Clinton before he left office that prohibited commercial logging, mining and other development on about 58 million acres of national forests. The Bush administration spent years trying to undermine the rule. 
 Meanwhile, Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack gave his first major speech on forest policy. Agriculture secretaries, from both parties, have almost always preferred to focus on farming issues, and have treated the Forest Service as a stepchild -- even though the 193 million acres of forests and protected grasslands it manages are vital to water quality, wildlife and local economies. 
 Mr. Vilsack's speech displayed a firm grasp of the importance of healthy forests, and he promised to work with landowners to keep even private forests in good shape. ''It is essential,'' he said, in language not much heard in his department, ''that we reconnect Americans across the nation with the natural resources and landscapes that sustain us.''
 Mr. Vilsack also pledged to find a better balance between commercial and environmental interests and to develop new regulations governing the management of the country's 155 national forests to replace Bush-era rules invalidated by a lower court last year.
 Ostensibly to promote regulatory efficiency, but mainly to support logging, the Bush rules eliminated legally-mandated environmental reviews, weakened protections for wildlife and streams and restricted public input in decision-making. Mr. Vilsack has said he will restore those protections; conservationists should make sure he keeps that promise.
 The roadless issue is not entirely resolved, either. Though upheld in California, the rule has twice been thrown out in district court in Wyoming. An appeal is now pending in the 10th Circuit, which Mr. Vilsack has promised to join. He must also make sure that the Tongass National Forest is included in any new roadless plan despite the Alaska Congressional delegation's insistence that it be opened to logging. 
 Victory on these two fronts would open the way enforcement of the roadless rule almost everywhere in the country and allow Mr. Vilsack to turn his full attention to other efforts needed to protect the forests. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORESTS & WOODLANDS (94%); FORESTRY REGULATION & POLICY (90%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); APPEALS (89%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%)

PERSON: TOM VILSACK (79%); BILL CLINTON (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009



572 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: Hints of Iranian Flexibility on Nuclear Issue

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN

DATELINE: CAIRO 

 BODY:
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran has settled on a strategy of trying to consolidate power by surrounding himself with loyalists at home while appearing to signal to the international community a readiness to address the nuclear issue, political commentators, diplomats and scientists said on Thursday.
 While much attention has been focused on Mr. Ahmadinejad's decision to try to pack his cabinet with loyalists, his choice of a well-respected physicist, Ali Akbar Salehi, as a vice president and the head of Iran's nuclear agency has been greeted in the diplomatic and scientific community as signaling a possibly less dogmatic, more pragmatic nuclear policy. 
 Two other recent developments have added to that perception. The first, according to diplomats and scientists, is recent indications that Iran may be prepared to be more cooperative with the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna. The second was Mr. Ahmadinejad's decision to retain the foreign minister, Manouchehr Mottaki, and not to move a more conservative ally into that position.
 The United States and Western Europe have accused Iran of developing a nuclear weapons program and demanded that it stop uranium enrichment. Iran has refused, insisting that it is pursuing only peaceful nuclear energy.
 On Thursday, the Russian Foreign Ministry said Russia, the United States, Britain, China, France and Germany would meet on Sept. 2 to discuss Iran's nuclear program. The United States and France have given Iran until the end of September to respond to their most recent demands or face a new round of sanctions.
 Experts said that the Iranian president and the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, might have calculated that resolving the nuclear standoff could satisfy two needs. It could help the troubled economy by heading off new sanctions -- and possibly assist in lifting existing sanctions -- while giving the two leaders much-needed credibility for having achieved a positive policy objective. 
 Experts were quick to caution that this outline might well prove to be wishful thinking. Trying to discern events in Iran today is something like the Kremlin-watching that went on during the cold war. Repression, arrests and censorship have made independent reporting impossible in Iran. Indeed, there is a competing view that Iran will never make any concessions on its nuclear program, figuring that conflict with Washington may restore some degree of national unity. 
 Moreover, some experts said that Iran's severe political crisis had caused such unprecedented paralysis and infighting that Mr. Ahmadinejad might not have the power to carry out any cohesive policy in a bitterly divided government.
 Nevertheless, the appointment of Mr. Salehi to head the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran -- even though it is the supreme leader who decides nuclear policy -- was seen as significant enough to warrant at least a flicker of optimism. 
 Mr. Salehi served as Iran's representative to the I.A.E.A. when the reform leader Mohammad Khatami was president. It was during that time, in 2003, that the agency became aware of Iran's 18 years of lying about its secret nuclear program. For Mr. Ahmadinejad, Mr. Salehi's appointment also serves a political purpose: he succeeds Gholam Reza Aghazadeh, the agency's longtime director, who is seen as an ally of Mir Hussein Moussavi, the leader of the political opposition. 
 One Western diplomat who spent years working in Iran and has grown increasingly pessimistic about its political future, said there was at least one hopeful sign.
 ''One signal deserves to be explored,'' he said. ''It seems that in the past few days the Iranians have been surprisingly cooperative with the I.A.E.A.''
 Iran allowed the agency's inspectors to visit the nearly finished Arak heavy water reactor last week after a yearlong ban, diplomats told The Associated Press. Last week, they added, Tehran acceded to the agency's requests to expand its monitoring of the Natanz uranium enrichment site, which produces nuclear materials that could be further enriched to weapons grade. 
 But the chances of making progress on the nuclear issue may hinge on developments in the Iranian government. While the turmoil that gripped the capital, Tehran, after the June presidential election has eased, many experts say, the fight now seems to have moved inside the institutions of power, possibly limiting Mr. Ahmadinejad's room to maneuver.
 ''Ahmadinejad will have great difficulty governing,'' said Muhammad Sahimi, an Iranian expatriate and professor at chemical engineering at the University of Southern California who remains in close contact with a network of friends and relatives around Iran. ''He is being opposed on all sides. Khamenei's authority has been greatly damaged. Cracks in the conservative camp have become too glaring, and every day there are new revelations.''
 Still, most experts on Iran's nuclear policy say they are heartened by what they have seen of late, though they are not expecting any breakthroughs.
 Iran's representative to the I.A.E.A., Ali Asghar Soltanieh, said this week that Tehran would agree to ''talks without preconditions.'' He is close to Mr. Salehi, the new head of the Iranian atomic agency, and even though Mr. Soltanieh retracted the statement a day later, the incident was seen by some as another possible signal. 
 ''I think Iran plays a little cat and mouse now at the I.A.E.A. level,'' said one commentator with expertise on the nuclear issue. ''He did not make the original statement without Tehran's authorization.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); COLD WAR (77%); CONSERVATISM (72%); ARRESTS (72%); CENSORSHIP (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (56%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (90%); ALI KHAMENEI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009



573 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: Starring in Summer's Big Hits, Virtually Nobody

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
The spring and summer box office has murdered megawatt stars like Denzel Washington, Julia Roberts, Eddie Murphy, John Travolta, Russell Crowe, Tom Hanks, Adam Sandler and Will Ferrell.
 Can Brad Pitt escape?
 A-list movie stars have long been measured by their ability to fill theaters on opening weekend. But never have so many failed to deliver, resulting in some rare soul-searching by motion picture studios about why the old formula isn't working -- and a great deal of anxiety among stars (and agents) about the potential vaporization of their $20 million paychecks.
 ''The cratering of films with big stars is astounding,'' said Peter Guber, the former chairman of Sony Pictures who is now a producer and industry elder statesman. ''These supertalented people are failing to aggregate a large audience, and everybody is looking for answers.''
 Mr. Guber added, ''Even Johnny Depp'' -- starring in the drama ''Public Enemies'' -- ''didn't exactly deliver a phenomenal result.'' (The A-list results may be damped partly because Will Smith, a regular summer powerhouse, had no movie open this season.) 
 Mr. Ferrell bombed in ''Land of the Lost,'' a $100 million comedy that sold only $49 million in tickets in North America. Ms. Roberts missed with ''Duplicity,'' a $60 million thriller that attracted $40.6 million. ''Angels & Demons'' (Mr. Hanks) was soft. The same for ''The Taking of Pelham 1 2 3'' (Mr. Washington and Mr. Travolta).
 ''Imagine That,'' starring Mr. Murphy, was such a disaster that Paramount Pictures had to take a write-down. Mr. Sandler? His ''Funny People''limped out of the gate and then collapsed. Some of these may simply have not been very good, but an A-list star is supposed to overcome that. 
 The gradual trend away from big-star vehicles in the summer has been under way for years. 
 At the start of the decade, summer still belonged to names: Cruise (''Mission Impossible II''), Crowe (''Gladiator'') and Clooney (''The Perfect Storm'') were the top three in 2000. But the three biggest films of this summer season, a crucial period from May 1 to Labor Day that typically accounts for 40 percent of annual ticket sales, have been ''Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen,'' ''Up'' and ''Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince.''
 The biggest names attached to those films: Shia LaBoeuf, Ed Asner and Daniel Radcliffe.
 The fading ability of Hollywood stars to command box-office attention, and why that is happening, has been a perennial topic in Hollywood. And economists and academics have long argued that marquee names are not worth their expense.
 ''Stars and success as a corollary is largely a myth,'' said S. Abraham Ravid, an economics professor at Rutgers University who has conducted several studies on movie business practices.
 But some of the same well-worn reasoning for declining star power has become even truer with time: people are harder to move off the sofa; a plethora of entertainment options competes for time and attention; the Web and paparazzi culture have made it difficult for stars to stand apart as rare and unique.
 ''Stars will always be important, but the industry is definitely seeing a transformation in their ability to open movies,'' Marc Shmuger, the chairman of Universal Pictures, said in an interview last month.
 How is Hollywood reacting to the power brownout? Studios, struggling to cut costs after a 25 percent drop in DVD sales, aren't giving up on top-tier stars -- their presence can make a huge difference overseas and factor heavily into the sale of movies to television channels -- but they are trying to pay them less or looking for less-expensive alternatives.
 These battles are normally fought in strict privacy -- no stars want it known that their paycheck is in retrograde, and their agent wants it known even less -- but studios are starting to become bolder.
 This month, a salary spat between Mr. Washington and 20th Century Fox broke into public view. Variety reported -- and two executives with knowledge of the negotiations confirmed -- that Fox wanted to pay the actor about $16 million to appear in ''Unstoppable,'' a thriller about a runaway train. Mr. Washington, who normally makes $20 million a picture, said no. Fox also sought pay cuts from producers, other actors and the director.
 Several days later the studio and star came to an agreement, but it involved Mr. Washington's giving up millions of dollars in upfront payment.
 There are also some specific explanations about the recent crop of failures. Several of these stars are aging while others have allowed their fans to move on by working infrequently (Ms. Roberts). Others may be suffering by refusing to do certain types of publicity (Mr. Sandler, Mr. Murphy) or wearing their routine too thin (Mr. Ferrell).
 This weekend, Mr. Pitt has an opportunity to stop the bleeding. His ''Inglourious Basterds,'' an R-rated Nazi thriller directed by Quentin Tarantino, arrived in theaters Friday. Harvey Weinstein and The Weinstein Company built the marketing campaign for the film almost entirely around Mr. Pitt.
 And the actor may pull it off -- kind of. Mr. Weinstein contends that Mr. Pitt's drawing power is not remotely in question. ''Brad Pitt is a super-superstar at the apex of his popularity, and he's a large part of why people want to see this movie,'' he said. 
 Indeed, services that track consumer interest in movies predict that ''Inglourious Basterds'' will sell an estimated $25 million to $30 million in tickets over its three-day opening. While anything could still happen, that result would be solid for this kind of movie (extremely violent, independently made) and on par with Mr. Tarantino's ''Kill Bill'' movies, which blossomed into hits.
 But a $25 million tally would fall in the middle of Mr. Pitt's own opening-weekend track record when adjusted for inflation, on par with ''The Mexican'' from 2001. That would be enough to firmly keep Mr. Pitt's wattage from dimming, but probably not enough to end the hand-wringing in Hollywood over star power, veteran producers say.
 Talent agents argue that stars are not to blame, faulting script concepts that fail to translate to the screen, poor release dates, awkward marketing or ill-advised efforts by popular actors to stretch in new directions.
 But many people think a new phenomenon has popped up in recent months to undercut stars. The surge in social networking services like Twitter and Facebook, not to mention text messaging, has made it much harder for studios to persuade consumers that the movies are worth their time. 
 ''You look around the theater and can see the glow, not on people's faces from watching the movie, but on their chins -- from the BlackBerrys and iPhones,'' said Mr. Guber. ''They are immediately telling their friends whether it's worth their time. And the answer to that, more often than not, seems to be no.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 22, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A chart with the continuation of an article on Friday about the weak box-office performance of some summer movies featuring major stars like Denzel Washington and Tom Hanks misidentified, in some copies, the film in which Arnold Schwarzenegger was shown in a scene. It was his 1985 film ''Commando,'' not his 1990 film ''Total Recall.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (pg. A1)
(pg. A3) CHARTS: Many films with A-list stars underperformed this summer.(Source: Box Office Mojo) (pg. A1)
 How This Summer's Top Films Compare: The top five films of this summer had no A-list stars. Here is how they compared at the box office with top films in other years.(Source: Box Office Mojo.)(pg. A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); TICKET SALES (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (77%); TRENDS (62%)

PERSON: DENZEL WASHINGTON (78%); TOM HANKS (78%); EDDIE MURPHY (78%); JULIA ROBERTS (78%); ADAM SANDLER (78%); WILL SMITH (78%); BRAD PITT (73%); DANIEL RADCLIFFE (58%); JOHNNY DEPP (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009



574 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: With Donations and Grants Down, Social Service Agencies Feel the Pinch

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
At a social service agency on Staten Island where budget cuts forced the layoff of a driver, the staff scrambles to arrange transportation to Brooklyn for an elderly homeless woman whose family has agreed to take her in.
 In Midtown Manhattan, a woman who has lost her job worries that she will not be able to send her granddaughter to an after-school program at the settlement house that helped the girl's father and two uncles. And in Washington Heights, an agency is hard-pressed to prevent evictions after laying off half of its legal services team. 
 Across the city, nonprofit groups that provide social services to New Yorkers are reeling, trying to fulfill their core missions as demand for those services rises and their ability to provide them shrinks. With government, foundation and individual grants down by as much as 50 percent -- not to mention withering endowments or investments lost to Bernard L. Madoff -- agencies are trimming and delaying programs and cutting staff, in essence contributing to the very problems they exist to fix. 
 According to a survey conducted by Baruch College and the Human Services Council, which represents some 750 nonprofit social service providers, more than half saw some reduction in government financing in the last fiscal year, with more than a quarter losing an entire contract. The survey, to be released Sept. 9, also found that 80 percent of the respondents lost private financing, and that 73 percent had no reserves like endowments or lines of credit.
 Money for service agencies has been so tight that in February, the New York Community Trust distributed $7 million to help them cope. And Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is already expanding an effort announced this year to boost loan programs, trim costs and speed payments to the agencies. A grant fund with $20 million available, up from the $8 million originally planned, will offer interest-free bridge loans to nonprofits that have city contracts to help ease difficulties with cash flow or to cover short-term costs.
 It is help many agencies are likely to need. ''Over the years we've had situations where government might be cutting but I could make it up elsewhere,'' said Verona Middleton-Jeter, executive director of the Henry Street Settlement, one of the most established of the city's three dozen settlement houses. ''This crisis has hit every resource. There's no place to run to -- it's not like you could run down to the basement, because the basement is leaking and the storm is raging there.'' 
 Compared with the staggering losses roiling the economy, the numbers can seem small -- a fund-raiser that contributes $600,000 less than expected, five lawyers laid off from a staff of nine -- but the combination of lower revenue and higher demand is straining the city's safety net in ways that can have immediate consequences for those living at the margins.
 At Henry Street, the declines have been steep, and Ms. Middleton-Jeter said they are likely to get worse in the next year. With a budget of roughly $38 million and a staff of 350, the agency provides a range of services on the Lower East Side -- delivering meals to elderly people, providing shelter to the homeless, running an art center -- supported by government contracts, foundation grants, individual gifts, events and the group's $26 million endowment. 
 Last year, that endowment lost about 24 percent of its value, and charitable donations fell 25 percent. One of its main fund-raising events, an art auction, lost its sponsor, Lehman Brothers (''That's $200,000 right off the bat,'' Ms. Middleton-Jeter said), and ended up making only $600,000 rather than the expected $1.2 million. 
 The agency was able to make up for some of those losses with an expanded city contract to deliver meals and $79,000 in federal stimulus money to augment a summer youth jobs program. But the current year is still looking grim, with other donations down and the board cutting income from the endowment to $650,000 from $830,000.
 So far, Ms. Middleton-Jeter said, Henry Street has weathered the cuts mainly through layoffs and reorganization, but she does not know how long it can go without reducing services. It has eliminated almost 30 positions, many of them maintenance and administrative. 
 In some cases, employees were able to find other jobs in the agency, though at a price: Barbara H. King, who had been earning about $60,000 as an executive assistant, became the office manager at a shelter for a homeless women, a step below the position in which she started with the agency in 1984. Her new job pays closer to $40,000. 
 With an aging parent to help support, Ms. King said she was not sure how she would make ends meet. She canceled her home telephone service for a time and is considering dropping cable. She said she looks at the women the shelter serves and thinks, ''I'm only one paycheck away from them.'' 
 For others, the situation is even more dire. ''We're in crisis mode right now,'' said the Rev. Terry Troia, executive director of Project Hospitality, on Staten Island, which has lost about $2.4 million from a $19.5 million budget and laid off 20 people, with more to come. ''I just don't think you can do this very long.''
 Workers are doubling and tripling up on their roles, working extra hours and days, trying to keep up with the rising demand for basics like food and shelter. 
 Teisha Diallo, director of food and nutrition at the agency's community service center near the Stapleton Houses, said she was seeing people at the food pantry who had not been there since 2004, and that supplies were running low, in part because donations were down. ''It's hard to see people who used to donate food standing there waiting in the pantry line,'' she said.
 Many of the clients have jobs, but have seen their hours cut. Elizabeth Ramirez used to work five days a week as a housekeeper for a family who owned a mattress factory in Brooklyn. But after the recession hit, they closed the factory and cut her days to three. She said she now buys less food and clothing for her three boys, ages 10, 13 and 15, and is unsure how she will pay for school supplies. 
 ''In the past I could predict that I could pay my bills,'' she said. ''But if this continues, what will happen to us?''
 At Hartley House, a multiservice agency in Hell's Kitchen whose $2.1 million budget relies far more on private donations than on government contracts, Nicole L. Cicogna, the executive director, has been working long hours to cultivate new donors and rustle up grants to cope with a falloff in gifts of about 38 percent.
 Not only has there been an increase in people seeking services, she said, but also a rise in those seeking financial aid for services like the summer day camp, which costs $150 a week and whose main donor cut support by 75 percent. 
 With a $1,000 grant from the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, Ms. Cicogna was able to help three families cover the costs. But other families and other clients -- from infants to 90-year-olds -- have needs, too. ''Who do I help?'' she said. ''That's the kind of choice I'm being faced with.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 27, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about the strain that the recession is placing on the city's nonprofit social service agencies referred incorrectly to an annual fund-raising event for the Henry Street Settlement that lost its sponsor, Lehman Brothers. The event is an art show, not an auction.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Summer day camp at the Henry Street Settlement, which has been able to make up some losses with an expanded city contract and federal stimulus money. (A12)
 Preparing for lunch at the Henry Street Settlement. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); DISMISSALS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); EVICTION (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (75%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); HOMELESSNESS (72%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (71%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (71%); CASH FLOW (70%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (57%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2009



575 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: For Home Projects, Small if at All

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM and KAREN ANN CULLOTTA

 BODY:
In prerecession days, home improvement projects were usually grand, expensive overhauls of kitchens and bathrooms. 
 In this economy, home improvement projects consist of painting the walls and replacing the jiggly toilet handle. 
 ''I'm not doing any major projects anymore,'' Steve Miller said as he shopped for putty knives this week at a Lowe's in a suburb of Chicago, ''but just fixing what I've got.'' 
 For months, Mr. Miller, 51, had been planning to give his kitchen and bathrooms a face-lift. ''Then the economy got bad, and I don't want to run up any more credit,'' he said. 
 While the recession has caused consumers to pull the plug on exorbitant renovations, it has ignited a resurgence of small, do-it-yourself repair and maintenance projects. The trend has been so noticeable at Lowe's and Home Depot that those home-improvement chains are taking steps to adjust. 
 Lowe's has added more staff to popular do-it-yourself departments, like paint and hardware. Home Depot also beefed up its paint department, adding new products like an all-in-one paint and primer, and a Rust-Oleum paint variety that promises to cover more surface area for the money.
 Unwilling to part with their dollars for glossy new cabinets and granite countertops, consumers are buying only what they need to keep their homes in good condition: plumbing parts, paint, hardware, flooring. And they are buying garden and lawn goods -- fertilizer, birdseed, lawn mower and grill repair parts -- for their backyards, where many penny-pinchers have spent their summer vacations. 
 ''Certainly we're seeing a shift away from the professional to the do-it-yourself,'' said Michael Souers, a retailing analyst with Standard & Poor's Equity Research. He added that the renovations consumers were putting off today might be put off indefinitely, because homeowners are unable to refinance or get credit lines secured by their home equity.
 At Home Depot, participation in the company's free weekly do-it-yourself workshops has spiked, especially sessions about tile, floors and paint. In May, registration for the chain's quarterly ''do-it-herself'' workshop for women who want to be handier was up 30 percent compared with last year. 
 Home Depot does not track attendance at its weekly workshops, ''but anecdotally we have consistently heard from stores that participation has been way up,'' said Jean Niemi, a spokeswoman for the company. 
 These days, shoppers are not just walking out of stores with free pointers, they are walking out after spending less than the cost of a pizza. 
 The other day, Phyllis LeDosquet, a professor in the education department of Northeastern Illinois University in Chicago, spent $9 in a Lowe's store. 
 ''I'm painting my kitchen myself and saving $200,'' said Ms. LeDosquet, 54, whose landlord asked her to paint her red walls white before moving out. ''I also bought putty to fix the holes in the walls.'' 
 This wave of frugality has, of course, hurt sales at the nation's home improvement chains. In the second quarter, sales at stores open at least a year fell 8.5 percent at Home Depot and 9.5 percent at Lowe's compared with the period a year ago. Sales of costlier merchandise (checkout tickets above $900 at Home Depot, and above $500 at Lowe's) declined by double digits. 
 Even sales of home appliances are weak. On Thursday, Sears Holdings reported that same-store sales at its Sears operations in the United States sank 12.5 percent, much worse than analysts expected. The company said its results were hurt by lackluster sales of appliances amid a terrible housing market.
 Sales increased in the second quarter in only two of the 20 product categories at Lowe's -- nursery items and paint. Larry D. Stone, president and chief operating officer of Lowe's, told investors in a conference call this week that those were the two most popular do-it-yourself categories.
 Craig Menear, Home Depot's executive vice president for merchandising, expects the do-it-yourself trend to continue through the fall. ''We are providing online tools to educate customers on the importance of weatherization and simple projects like caulking,'' he told investors in a conference call this week, adding that Home Depot will offer ''energy- and money-saving products along with fall project know-how.''
 Despite recent signs of stabilization in the housing market, including a jump reported Friday in the sales of used homes, the market is still quite soft by historical standards. 
 A survey by Lowe's found that 40 percent of consumers have a major home improvement project that they are postponing until the economy improves. 
 ''Most people are not spending money on home remodeling,'' said Michael Beaulieu, a home builder and developer in Prospect Heights, Ill. ''They will fix a leaky faucet, but that's it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Phyllis LeDosquet is repainting her kitchen to save money before she moves to a new apartment. She says she is saving $200. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER WYNN THOMPSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Lowe's has added more staff to popular do-it-yourself departments, like paint and hardware. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME IMPROVEMENT (92%); DO IT YOURSELF HOME IMPROVEMENT (90%); HOME CENTERS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); CONSUMER LENDING (74%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (73%); SUBURBS (71%); NEW PRODUCTS (66%); FERTILIZERS (64%); EQUITY RESEARCH (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

COMPANY: LOWE'S COS INC (92%); HOME DEPOT INC (86%)

TICKER: LOW (NYSE) (92%); HD (NYSE) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (92%); SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (92%); NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (86%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2009



576 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: America May Need To Find Another Financier

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics in his blog at norris.blogs9.nytimes.com.

 BODY:
AS the United States rolls up record budget deficits, Asian countries are showing a reduced willingness to finance the debt. 
 Figures released by the Treasury Department this week indicated that China reduced its holdings of Treasury securities by $25 billion in June, the most China had ever sold in a month. 
 Monthly figures can be volatile, and can be revised, so it is risky to draw conclusions from one month's data. In May, China increased its holdings by $38 billion, according to the Treasury figures.
 Nonetheless, the decline highlighted a fact shown in the accompanying graphics: Asia's appetite for Treasury securities is not growing as fast as it once did. That means the United States will have to turn to other buyers, including American citizens, who are now saving as they did not do during the boom years, to finance the deficits.
 China and Hong Kong, which is reported separately but is combined under China in the accompanying graphic, together covered more than half of the increase in the amount of Treasuries sold to the public -- that is, to buyers other than United States government agencies like the Federal Reserve or Social Security -- in 2006. 
 That share had fallen to 22 percent last year, when the government increased its public debt by a record $1.2 trillion. In the first half of 2009, China and Hong Kong acquired only 9 percent of the more than $800 billion worth of Treasuries that were sold.
 Japan, which was replaced by China as the largest foreign holder of Treasuries last year, has been a larger buyer this year, taking up 11 percent of the new supply of Treasuries. 
 The figures include both government and private ownership of Treasuries, and private transactions affect the figures in both Hong Kong and Japan. But in China, the overwhelming ownership is by the government, which has accumulated the securities in part to hold down the value of its currency against the dollar, thus making Chinese exports to the United States more attractive.
 In recent months, some Chinese officials have indicated concern of inflation in the United States that could erode the real value of their holdings, and have talked of diversifying their investments. The slowed purchases could reflect those concerns, or could simply be a result of China's own aggressive stimulus program, which has involved large public spending.
 The charts reflect ownership of Treasuries by China and Hong Kong, Japan and four other countries -- South Korea, Singapore, Taiwan and Thailand -- since 1994. On a dollar basis, the holdings are increasing, but their share of outstanding Treasuries has stopped growing.
 Over the decade from 1994 to 2004, their combined share of Treasuries rose to 25 percent, from less than 8 percent. Since then, as budget deficits in the United States grew, the share has fluctuated within a narrow range. In June, it was 24.7 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Asia Buys More Treasuries... but Its Share Stabilizes
 China Finances Less of the U.S. Deficit. (Source: U.S. Treasury, via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BOND MARKETS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (97%); HONG KONG (94%); ASIA (94%); JAPAN (93%); THAILAND (79%); TAIWAN (79%); SINGAPORE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2009



577 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 RATIONALE IS QUESTIONED FOR FREEING LIBYAN BOMBER
 Questions intensified in Britain about what factor Libyan oil contracts played in the release of the sole convicted Lockerbie bomber, who is dying of cancer. PAGE A4 
 REPORTERS BLAMED IN KOREA
 The two journalists were reporting on North Korean refugees and the advocates who help them. Now, there is a fear that the notes and videotapes the journalists gathered have fallen into the wrong hands, thus endangering the very people they tried to cover. PAGE A4 
 A RAPPER REVISITS MOROCCO
 Muhammad Bahri, 29, known as Barry when he is performing, returned home to his working-class neighborhood in Morocco, looking for material to make his songs resonate. The Saturday Profile. PAGE A8 
 AUSTRALIA'S BOND TO CHINA
 Australia's relationship with China, recently flourishing despite occasional spats, has taken a severe turn toward the diplomatic equivalent of thrown dinner plates. PAGE A8 
 Letter From Europe A7
 Iraqi Officials Point Fingers A8
 National
 JUDGE BACKS ACQUITTAL OF STUDENT IN TERROR CASE
 A federal immigration judge reached the same conclusion as the jury that acquitted Youssef Megahed in April: The evidence did not show Mr. Megahed, 23, originally from Egypt, was engaged in terrorist activities. PAGE A9 
 SCRUTINY OF ABUSES AT V.A.
 A new report by the inspector general concluded that managers in the Department of Veterans Affairs' technology office ''were not fiscally responsible'' in awarding bonuses despite the office's a large budget deficit. PAGE A11 
 DEFEAT FOR SEATTLE MAYOR
 Mayor Greg Nickels, who rose to national prominence as an advocate on environmental issues, conceded that he had lost his campaign for a third term as mayor. PAGE A10 
 TRIAL OF SWINE FLU SHOT
 There have been no serious side effects from the first set of injections of the new swine flu vaccine, federal health officials said. PAGE A10 
 Marijuana 'Grows' in California A9
 Obama Leaves Capital Behind A11
 New York
 SOCIAL SERVICE AGENCIES FEEL A FINANCIAL PINCH
 Nonprofit groups that provide services to New Yorkers are reeling. As demand for their services grows, their ability to provide them is shrinking. With grants down by as much as 50 percent, agencies are trimming and delaying programs and cutting staff, contributing to the problems they exist to fix. PAGE A12 
 A TRADITIONAL, MODERN FAITH
 Sikh groups are part of what scholars call the emergent movement, a trend toward small, nimble, bottom-up, laity-led congregations that especially attract young adults. On Religion by Samuel G. Freedman. PAGE A15 
 Business
 AT MUSEUM OF HIGH FINANCE, FAILURE BRINGS IN THE CROWDS
 In the wake of the financial crisis, attendance at the Museum of American Finance on Wall Street has nearly double its tally from last summer. And where else can you buy a poster chronicling the lowlights of the credit crisis (it's a five-poster set). PAGE B1 
 TIGHT BELTS, SMALL PROJECTS
 While the recession has caused consumers to pull the plug on big renovations, it has sparked more small, do-it-yourself home projects. The trend has caught the attention of Lowe's and Home Depot, and the home-improvement chains are taking steps to adjust. PAGE B1 
 THE BULLS STAY AT THE HELM
 A spike in sales of previously owned homes helped send investors on a buying spree that pushed the major indexes to their highest closings of the year. PAGE B1
 FINDING A BETTER CREDIT CARD
 Credit cards are raising rates and fees as the first of a set of new rules went into effect resulting from the landmark credit card legislation passed earlier this year. But the best revenge is a better card. Your Money by Ron Leiber. PAGE B1 
 SEEKING SALES, NOT NOSTALGIA
 After nearly three decades of faint and failed attempts to remake itself in the American automobile market, Volkswagen is striving to recapture some of their past magic, without being trapped by it. PAGE B3 
 China Jails Pirates of Windows B2 
 Inquiry Faults Airline's Rival B2 
 Guaranty Financial Group Sold B2
 VW Seeks Sales, Not Nostalgia B3
 Obituaries
 VIRGINIA DAVIS MCGHEE, 90
 As a curly-haired 4-year-old, she easily beat Mickey Mouse to the punch to become Walt Disney's first cinematic star. PAGE B8 
 KARLA KUSKIN, 77
 A noted children's author and illustrator, her work combined sly wit and propulsive vitality with deep thoughtfulness about the essential natures of people, animals and things. PAGE B8 
 Arts
 BRINGING A SAINT'S LIFE TO THE SILVER SCREEN
 Roland Joffe is shooting a movie in Argentina focused on -- and partly financed by -- Opus Dei, a powerful group within the Roman Catholic church. The project has been called propaganda by some former Opus Dei members, but Mr. Joffe said he has total creative control. PAGE C1 
 INDIAN DANCE STOPS TRAFFIC
 ''Erasing Borders: Festival of Indian Dance,'' at Chase Plaza on Wednesday, may be the most rich and varied dance program to arrive in New York in the last two years, Alastair Macaulay writes. Dance Notebook. PAGE C1 
 KILLING ROILS REALITY SHOWS
 VH1 canceled one of its reality shows and put another under review after a cast member of both shows was charged with the murder of his ex-wife. Her mutilated body was found last week in Orange County, Calif. PAGE C1 
 FOR A WHEELCHAIR TO SURF
 The Bouncing Souls show at Webster Hall, part of the band's 20th-anniversary celebration, served as a primer on the generations, and modes, of New Jersey punkdom. Also, a man in a wheelchair crowd surfed. PAGE C1 
 MOSTLY, BUT NOT, MOZART
 The Emerson String Quartet split its Mostly Mozart concert at Alice Tully on Thursday evening between the Mendelssohn quartets and Haydn's. A review by Allan Kozinn. PAGE C3 
 AIRBORNE STARS ON SCREEN
 ''X Games 3D: The Movie'' is both self-explanatory and critic-proof. If you enjoy watching people soaring into the air on skateboards, snowboards and dirt bikes and, perhaps more important, enjoy the sickening thuds as they crash, then you'll like the movie. If you don't, then ''Post Grad'' is probably playing nearby. A review by Mike Hale. PAGE C6 
 Sports
 AFTER A RALLY TO REMEMBER, MURRAY READIES FOR FEDERER
 Andy Murray, the world's No. 2-ranked tennis player, won a 53-shot rally in his quarterfinal victory at the Western & Southern Financial Group Masters. Now he will face top-ranked Roger Federer. PAGE D3 
 CLEARING SPACE IN EUROPE
 Oguchi Onyewu's move to A.C. Milan has taken the American defender to the top of European soccer, and neither the burden of novelty nor the pressure of playing for an elite club seems to worry him. PAGE D1 
 U.S. TRACK STRIKES BACK
 The United States won revenge in its sprint rivalry with Jamaica, as Allyson Felix won the women's 200 meters at the world track and field championships in Berlin. PAGE D3 
 Mets' Wagner May Go to Boston D1
 Minnesota Greets Old Foe: Favre D3
 Sale of Cubs Clears Hurdle D6
 Op-ed
 BOB HERBERT PAGE A17
 GAIL COLLINS PAGE A17
 CHARLES M. BLOW PAGE A17

CORRECTION-DATE: September 2, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A capsule summary on Aug. 22 for an article about a movie featuring St. Josemaria Escriva de Balaguer, the founder of Opus Dei, an elite and powerful organization within the Roman Catholic Church, referred incorrectly to the financing of the project. Some members of Opus Dei -- not the organization itself -- are paying part of the costs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (90%); MAYORS (86%); IMMIGRATION (79%); JURY TRIALS (78%); TERRORISM (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); CANNABIS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); WRITERS (77%); BONDS (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); ACQUITTAL (72%); CREDIT CRISIS (72%); REFUGEES (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); TRENDS (70%); HIP HOP CULTURE (70%); RAP MUSIC (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); BUDGETS (69%); H1N1 INFLUENZA (68%); VACCINES (65%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (65%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%); INFLUENZA (63%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (60%); RELIGION (60%); ANTIVIRALS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) AUSTRALIA (91%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (91%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (90%); SCOTLAND (90%); NORTHERN ASIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); EGYPT (79%); IRAQ (79%); MOROCCO (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2009



578 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Museum Dedicated to Wall Street's Glories Finds Crisis a Big Draw

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY

 BODY:
The Museum of American Finance was faced with an awkward situation recently: some of the corporate sponsors of the museum -- dedicated to glories of free markets -- had, well, failed. 
 Rather than fretting, the museum tapped its own entrepreneurial spirit and mounted an exhibit -- ''Tracking the Credit Crisis'' -- that reveals what the museum's president, Lee Kjelleren, calls the ''greed, recklessness and arrogance'' of Wall Street. 
 Probably not what Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch or the American International Group had in mind when they donated money to the museum. 
 But in the wake of the financial crisis, attendance at the museum -- located at 48 Wall Street, near the epicenter of last year's market collapse -- has risen to about 200 visitors a day, nearly double its tally last summer. (The Metropolitan Museum of Art averages that many visitors almost every 90 seconds.)
 And where else can you buy a poster for just $12 chronicling the lowlights of the credit crisis -- so many, in fact, that it's a five-poster set?
 Among the biggest attractions for visitors? The morbid curiosity of a financial train wreck. 
 ''This is about the market crashing,'' said Lizzie McNeely, 26, a high school teacher from Toronto, as she wandered around the museum one recent afternoon. ''I am interested in how they are going to represent that.''
 For the $8 price of admission (or free Tuesday to Saturday from 10 to 11 a.m. through October), visitors who have seen enough van Goghs at the Met and Pollocks at the Museum of Modern Art can get a detailed look at the events that brought the global economy to its knees.
 The most popular sections of the exhibit, Mr. Kjelleren said, describe so-called toxic assets and how these were exported from America around the world -- ''As if the rest of the world didn't already love America enough!'' -- as well as the dubious role of the ratings agencies in concealing the riskiness of subprime mortgages and the securities based on their values.
 A film about the crisis includes a still photograph of Richard S. Fuld Jr., the vilified former chief executive of Lehman Brothers, being harangued by an angry crowd, including a person holding a sign with the word ''Crook'' scrawled across it.
 In curating the installation, Mr. Kjelleren said one of the things he wanted to capture was how ''dumb'' the banks had been about investment vehicles like credit-default swaps. ''It was dumb, it was more than dumb, and it was occasionally reckless and irresponsible,'' he said.
 He pointed significantly to a section of the exhibit that discussed the so-called Lehman weekend last September, and the government's decision to allow Lehman Brothers to fail, which Mr. Kjelleren characterized as a big mistake.
 But he reminded visitors that the museum was all about learning from past mistakes. 
 One group striding by -- five bankers from Goldman Sachs -- seemed more focused on avoiding the educational experience of the exhibit devoted to the credit crisis. 
 John Cirincion, 60, one of the museum's volunteer guides, beckoned to them to take a closer look, but the bankers shook their heads. 
 ''We lived it!'' one said, as the group headed instead for an exhibit titled ''Women in Finance.''
 The museum presents the global financial crisis employing a video and a dense timeline that catalogues what Mr. Kjelleren breathlessly describes as what may have been ''the most challenging man-made calamity in modern experience,'' excluding wars. 
 The color-coded timeline depicts crucial events from February 2007 through March 2009 in presenting an overview of the crisis, and provides definitions for important financial terms like subprime mortgage.
 Mr. Kjelleren, a former banker for JPMorgan, said, ''The idea was to create an awareness of the nature of the driving forces that affected everybody's lives.''
 One of the best measures of the scale of the crisis is not on display, but can be found in museum literature detailing its corporate sponsorships. 
 Goldman Sachs, Citigroup, Morgan Stanley and Wells Fargo generously opened their wallets here a year ago, long before they became part of Exhibit A in a display on the financial crisis. 
 And Lehman Brothers and Merrill Lynch are effectively gone, and American International Group is a shadow of its former self. The government owns nearly 80 percent of that company.
 Alina Sichevaya, an 11-year-old whose father works for Credit Suisse, had just completed a weeklong finance camp for children at a Camp Millionaire program in her hometown of Cary, N.C. She strode into the gilded halls of the museum and made a beeline for the credit exhibit, staring intently at the giant panels of color-coded cards. 
 Though she had just learned at camp about complicated concepts like taxes and depreciating assets, Ms. Sichevaya said she found the exhibit ''kind of confusing.'' 
 ''It's a lot of information,'' she added, as she and her mother, Olga, headed off to catch a sightseeing tour of the Brooklyn Bridge.
 Even in the best of times, it was never going to be easy to curate an homage to high finance. 
 Joe Nocera, whose Talking Business column normally appears on this page, is on vacation. 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 25, 2009

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Saturday about the Museum of American Finance misstated the museum's street address. It is 48 Wall Street, not 44 Wall Street.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''It's a lot of information,'' said Alina Sichevaya, 11, of Cary, N.C. (B1)
''Bull and Bear,'' a bronze statue on display at the museum.
 Lee Kjelleren, the museum president, said the purpose of the exhibit was to illustrate the ''forces that affected everybody's lives.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (77%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (76%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (71%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (50%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (72%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (71%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (56%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (71%); 8685 (TSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%)

PERSON: RICHARD S FULD (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2009



579 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: Rationale Is Questioned Over Release Of Bomber

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
In the wake of the sole convicted Lockerbie bomber's return to a hero's welcome in Tripoli, questions intensified in Britain on Friday as to whether lucrative Libyan oil contracts were as much a factor in his release as compassion for a dying man.
 The bomber, Abdel Basset Ali al-Megrahi, suffering from terminal prostate cancer, was freed from a Scottish prison on Thursday and flown home in a V.I.P. jetliner to scenes of jubilation in Libya that were broadcast around the world, angering many in Britain and America, including President Obama.
 On Friday, Lord Trefgarne, chairman of the Libyan British Business Council, said Mr. Megrahi's release had opened the way for Britain's leading oil companies to pursue multibillion-dollar oil contracts with Libya, which had demanded Mr. Megrahi's return in talks with British officials and business executives.
 Lord Trefgarne told the BBC that talks on oil contracts had ''not moved as fast as we would have hoped and expected'' since Tony Blair, then prime minister, met in a tent in Libya five years ago with Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, the Libyan leader, and set the terms for the ''deal in the desert'' that sketched a reconciliation between Colonel Qaddafi's pariah government and the West. 
 British executives had made no secret of their intense lobbying for a prisoner transfer treaty ratified by Britain and Libya in April; before Mr. Megrahi's cancer diagnosis, that treaty was seen as the most likely avenue for his return to Libya. But his cancer, and a finding by medical specialists that he was not likely to live more than three months, cleared the way for his release on compassionate grounds.
 Business and politics are ''inextricably linked'' in Libya, Lord Trefgarne told the BBC. While this was regrettable, he said, it was a fact of life. 
 ''Perhaps now, with the final resolution of the Lockerbie affair, as far as the Libyans are concerned, maybe they'll move a bit more swiftly,'' Lord Trefgarne said.
 Although there was no evidence of any quid pro quo between Britain and Libya, the British government thought it had to defend itself vigorously from accusations that it paved the way for the Libyan's release to promote British-based oil companies' hopes of securing the pole position in the race for new Libyan oil concessions. The release of Mr. Megrahi, 57, and the officially orchestrated welcome he received from hundreds of flag- and placard-waving Libyans when he arrived at Tripoli airport with Colonel Qaddafi's son Seif al-Islam el-Qaddafi incited controversy on both sides of the Atlantic. 
 But the foreign minister, David Miliband, told the BBC that it was ''a slur both on myself and the government'' to suggest that oil was a factor.
 On Friday, the White House spokesman, Robert Gibbs, described the scenes in Tripoli as ''outrageous'' and ''disgusting,'' adding fresh momentum to President Obama's condemnation of the Libyans' behavior on Thursday and the enraged comments of many of the American families whose relatives were among the 270 people killed when Pan Am Flight 103 exploded over Lockerbie, Scotland, in 1988.
 The American outrage stirred an intense and bitter debate in Britain over the political responsibility for freeing Mr. Megrahi. He had served only eight years of a life sentence handed down by a specially convened Scottish court in the Netherlands, which specified that he serve a minimum of 27 years. David Cameron, the Conservative leader, condemned the release as ''wrong'' and the product of ''completely nonsensical thinking.''
 Britain's national newspapers reported the release under banner headlines like ''An affront to justice'' and ''A shabby deal,'' many of them alleging that the hunger for oil deals was the original catalyst for letting Mr. Megrahi go.
 An editorial in The Daily Mail, typical of many, condemned the Brown government for rushing parliamentary approval of the prisoner transfer agreement. Mr. Brown, the newspaper said, is ''up to his neck in this.''
 Seif al-Islam el-Qaddafi, Colonel Qaddafi's son, said Mr. Megrahi's release was linked to trade deals with Britain. ''In all commercial contracts, for oil and gas with Britain,'' Mr. Megrahi ''was always on the negotiating table,'' Mr. Qaddafi said in interview with the Libyan television channel Al Mutawassit, according to Agence France-Presse. 
 ''All British interests were linked to the release of Abdel Basset Ali al-Megrahi,'' he said.
 Mr. Megrahi, meanwhile, at home with his family in Tripoli, continued to insist on his innocence, telling The Times of London on Friday that he would ''put out evidence'' exonerating himself and that the people of Britain and Scotland would ''be the jury.'' Asked who was responsible for the bombing, he said, ''It's a very good question, but I'm not the right person to ask.''
 The British government and the Scottish government, which made the formal decision to free the bomber, each appeared to be trying to shunt responsibility to the other. 
 Prime Minister Gordon Brown released a copy of a letter he sent to Colonel Qaddafi on Thursday, asking the Libyan leader to handle Mr. Megrahi's homecoming ''with sensitivity'' and restraint.
 Downing Street aides said Mr. Brown was appalled by the celebrations, and Mr. Brown insisted that responsibility for the release rested solely with the Scottish government.
 The Scottish justice secretary, Kenny MacAskill, when he announced his decision to free Mr. Megrahi on Thursday, criticized the Brown government, saying it had shunned his request for advice on the matter, and withheld information he sought about any understandings with the United States regarding Mr. Megrahi's imprisonment. 
 Officials in London leaked word on Friday that they were considering canceling a trip to Tripoli in early September by the Duke of York, who has made a reputation for promoting British business interests in parts of the world where Britain has played down its human rights agenda as it has sought oil deals and other lucrative contracts. The duke has already made two visits to Libya as a guest of Mr. Qaddafi, as well as several private trips, officials said.
 But while signaling a willingness to take what would be a largely symbolic step away from Colonel Qaddafi, British officials said they intended to press ahead with other efforts to promote business with Libya. 
 And both Mr. Brown and Mr. Miliband refused to say whether they supported or opposed the Scottish government's action. In a BBC radio interview, Mr. Miliband skirted four separate attempts to pin him down on the matter.
 In Edinburgh, Alex Salmond, the Scottish government leader, told the BBC that while the scenes in Tripoli were ''wrong'' and insensitive,'' he stood by the decision made by Mr. MacAskill, the justice secretary. Scotland had acted with no motive other than compassion for a dying man, Mr. Salmond said. 
 A similar argument was put forward on Thursday by Mr. MacAskill, who said that the ''humanity'' that prompted his decision was ''a defining characteristic of Scotland and the Scottish people.'' Mr. Megrahi, he said, now faced ''a sentence imposed by a higher power.''
 But even Mr. Salmond could not escape suggestions that oil interests were a powerful if unacknowledged factor. Yields from Scotland's own oil industry, which have underpinned a rise in Scottish prosperity in the last 30 years, have been diminishing, and some critics in Scotland suggested that Mr. Salmond, a former oil economist for a Scottish bank, might have seen long-term benefits for Scotland beyond its reputation for compassion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In a handout photo, Abdel Basset Ali al-Megrahi, left, the convicted Lockerbie bomber, in Tripoli with Seif al-Islam el- Qaddafi, son of the Libyan leader, Col. Muammar el- Qaddafi. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OYA NEWSPAPER, VIA AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (90%); AIRPORTS (76%); CANCER (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); MEN'S HEALTH (71%); PROSTATE CANCER (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); LOBBYING (65%); PROSTATE DISEASE (57%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (58%); BARACK OBAMA (54%); DAVID MILIBAND (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); SCOTLAND (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2009



580 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; BY DEGREES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1567 words

HEADLINE: In Brazil, Paying Farmers to Let the Trees Stand

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

DATELINE: QUERENCIA, Brazil 

 BODY:
Jose Marcolini, a farmer here, has a permit from the Brazilian government to raze 12,500 acres of rain forest this year to create highly profitable new soy fields. 
 But he says he is struggling with his conscience. A Brazilian environmental group is offering him a yearly cash payment to leave his forest standing to help combat climate change. 
 Mr. Marcolini says he cares about the environment. But he also has a family to feed, and he is dubious that the group's initial offer in the negotiation -- $12 per acre, per year -- is enough for him to accept. 
 ''For me to resist the pressure, surrounded by soybeans, I'll have to be paid -- a lot,'' said Mr. Marcolini, 53, noting that cleared farmland here in the state of Mato Grosso sells for up to $1,300 an acre. 
 Mato Grosso means thick forests, and the name was once apt. But today, this Brazilian state is a global epicenter of deforestation. Driven by profits derived from fertile soil, the region's dense forests have been aggressively cleared over the past decade, and Mato Grasso is now Brazil's leading producer of soy, corn and cattle, exported across the globe by multinational companies. 
 Deforestation, a critical contributor to climate change, effectively accounts for 20 percent of the world's carbon dioxide emissions and 70 percent of the emissions in Brazil. Halting new deforestation, experts say, is as powerful a way to combat warming as closing the world's coal plants. 
 But until now, there has been no financial reward for keeping forest standing. Which is why a growing number of scientists, politicians and environmentalists argue that cash payments -- like that offered to Mr. Marcolini -- are the only way to end tropical forest destruction and provide a game-changing strategy in efforts to limit global warming. 
 Unlike high-tech solutions like capturing and sequestering carbon dioxide or making ''green'' fuel from algae, preserving a forest yields a strikingly simple environmental payback: a landowner reduces his property's emissions to zero.
 Yvo de Boer, executive secretary of the United Nations Framework on Climate Change, said that deforestation ''absolutely'' needed to be addressed by a new international climate agreement being negotiated this year. ''But people cut down trees because there is an economic rationale for doing it, and you need to provide them with a financial alternative,'' he said.
 Both the most recent draft of the agreement and the climate bill passed by the House in late June in the United States include plans for rich countries and companies to pay the poor to preserve their forests. 
 The payment strategies may include direct payments to landowners to keep forests standing, as well as indirect subsidies, like higher prices for beef and soy that are produced without resorting to clear-cutting. Deforestation creates carbon emissions through fires and machinery that are used to fell trees, and it also destroys the plant life that helps absorb carbon dioxide emissions from cars and factories around the globe.
 But getting the cash incentives right is a complex and uncharted business. In much of the developing world, including here, deforestation has been tied to economic progress. Pedro Alves Guimaraes, 73, a weathered man sitting at the edge of the region's River of the Dead, came to Mato Grosso in 1964 in search of free land, pushing into the jungle until he found a site and built a hut as a base for raising cattle. While he regrets the loss of the forest, he has welcomed amenities like the school built a few years ago that his grandchildren attend, or the electricity put in last year that allowed him to buy his first freezer.
 Also, environmental groups caution that, designed poorly, programs to pay for forest preservation could merely serve as a cash cow for the very people who are destroying them. For example, one proposed version of the new United Nations plan would allow plantations of trees, like palms grown for palm oil, to count as forest, even though tree plantations do not have nearly the carbon absorption potential of genuine forest and are far less diverse in plant and animal life. 
 ''There is the capacity to get a very perverse outcome,'' said Sean Cadman, a spokesman for the Wilderness Society of Australia. 
 Global as well as local economic forces are driving deforestation -- Brazil and Indonesia lead the world in the extent of their rain forests lost each year. The forests are felled to help feed the world's growing population and meet its growing appetite for meat. Much of Brazil's soy is bought by American-based companies like Cargill or Archer Daniels Midland and used to feed cows as far away as Europe and China. In Indonesia, rain forests are felled to plant palms for the palm oil, which is a component of biofuels. 
 Brazil has tried to balance development and conservation. 
 Last year, with a grant from Norway that could bring the country $1 billion, it created an Amazon Fund to help communities maintain their forest. National laws stipulate that 80 percent of every tract in the upper Amazon -- and 50 percent in more developed regions -- must remain forested, but it is a vast territory with little law enforcement. Soy exporters officially have a moratorium on using product from newly deforested land.
 Here in Mato Grasso, 700 square miles of rain forest was stripped in the last five months of 2007 alone, according to Brazil's National Institute for Space Research, which tracks vanishing forests. 
 ''With so much money to be made, there are no laws that will keep forest standing,'' John Carter, a rancher who settled here 15 years ago, said as he flew his Cessna over the denuded land one day this summer. 
 Until very recently, developing the Amazon was the priority, and some settlers feel betrayed by the new stigma surrounding deforestation. Much as in the 19th-century American West, the Brazilian government encouraged settlement through homesteaders' benefits like cheap land and housing subsidies, many of which still exist today.
 ''It was revolting and sad when the world said that deforestation was bad -- we were told to come here and that we had to tear it down,'' said Mato Grosso's secretary of agriculture, Neldo Egon Weirich, 56, who moved here in 1978 and noted that to be eligible for loans to buy tractors and seed, a farmer had to clear 80 percent of his land. 
 He is proud to have turned Mato Grosso from a malarial zone into an agricultural powerhouse. ''Mato Grosso is under a microscope -- we know we have to do something,'' Mr. Weirich said. ''But we can't just stop production.'' 
 Even today, settlers around the globe are buying or claiming cheap ''useless'' forest and transforming it into farmland. 
 Clearing away the trees is often the best way to declare and ensure ownership. Land that Mr. Carter has intentionally left forested for its environmental benefit has been intermittently overtaken by squatters -- a common problem here. In parts of Southeast Asia, early experiments in paying landowners for preserving forest have been hampered because it is often unclear who owns, or controls, property.
 There are various ideas about how to rein in deforestation. 
 Mr. Carter has started a landowners' environmental group, called Alianca da Terra, whose members agree to have their properties surveyed for good environmental practices and their forests tracked by satellite by scientists at the Amazon Institute for Environmental Research (IPAM), ensuring that they are not cultivating newly cleared land. Mr. Carter is currently negotiating with companies like McDonalds to purchase only from farms that have been certified. 
 The United Nations program, called Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation or REDD, will reward countries that preserve forests with carbon credits that can be sold and turned into cash for forest owners through the global carbon market. The United Nations already gives such credits for cleaning factories and planting trees. Carbon credits are bought by companies or countries that have exceeded their emissions limits, as a way to balance their emissions budget.
 Daniel Nepstad, a scientist at the Woods Hole Research Center, has mapped out large areas of the Amazon ''pixel by pixel'' to determine the land value if it was converted to raise cattle or grow soy, to help determine how much landowners should be paid to conserve forest. Most experts feel that landowners will accept lower prices as they realize the benefits of saving forest, like conserving water and burnishing their image with buyers.
 Mr. Weirich, the agriculture secretary, said he was skeptical about that. But he, too, senses that there may for the first time be money in forest preservation and has recently decided to be certified by Alianca da Terra.
 ''We want to adopt practices that will put us ahead in the market,'' he said.
 The initial offer Mr. Marcolini has from the environmental group is perhaps not enough to save the forest here. But, he said, if his land was in a more remote part of the Amazon, with less farming potential, ''I'd take that offer and run with it.'' 
 By Degrees: This is the sixth in a series of articles about stopgap measures that could limit global warming. Future articles will address appliance- efficiency standards, reducing global-warming gases other than carbon dioxide and other efforts. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In the state of Mato Grosso in Brazil, an island of forest is surrounded by land prepared for soybean cultivation. There is a push for cash payments to farmers to stop deforestation, a key source of carbon dioxide emissions. Additional photographs: nytimes.com. (A1)
Cattle at a ranch in Mato Grosso, where cleared farmland sells for up to $1,300 an acre. The once lush state is a global center of deforestation.
A visitor to Mato Grosso rides on the region's River of the Dead. The loss of the forest has meant the arrival of amenities
 A ranch in Mato Grosso. Over the last decade the region's forests have been aggressively cleared in the pursuit of profits. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A6) MAP: Mato Grosso means thick forests, a name no longer so apt. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFORESTATION (91%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (91%); RAIN FORESTS (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); GREENHOUSE GASES (76%); CARBON CAPTURE & STORAGE (70%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (67%); BEEF (66%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (66%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (65%); LEGISLATION (60%); COAL INDUSTRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2009



581 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: An Aide for the Disabled, a Companion, and Nice and Furry

BYLINE: By WALECIA KONRAD

 BODY:
BECAUSE she suffers from a rare genetic disorder, 17-year-old Siobhan O'Connor walks with braces and cannot speak. Her assistance dog, Gaynor, helps Siobhan keep her balance and navigate crowds when she leaves her Santa Monica, Calif., home. The dog can also pick up dropped items or open and close doors. 
 ''Gaynor has been a tremendous help for my daughter physically, and a great bridge socially,'' said Siobhan's mother, Linda Karr O'Connor.
 That is why Ms. O'Connor was so surprised when the company that administers her employer's flexible spending health account rejected her claim for hundreds of dollars of veterinary bills and other maintenance costs for Gaynor. (A flexible spending health care account lets employees use pretax dollars to pay for qualified medical expenses.) 
 Service dog expenses are medical costs approved by the Internal Revenue Service, and Ms. O'Connor had filed similar expenses under her flexible spending plan in the past without problem. 
 But her employer had recently switched plan administrators, and the new company balked at paying the claims. Only now, after dozens of letters and phone calls, is the check supposedly in the mail. 
 ''It took an amazing amount of effort, but I wouldn't give up,'' Ms. O'Connor said. ''I felt like it was almost a form of harassment or even discrimination against my disabled daughter.''
 The O'Connors' situation illustrates the financial burden that people with assistance dogs may face. Wonderful as the animals are, it can be costly to buy, feed and care for them. No health insurance policies cover these costs. 
 More people are likely to enter this thicket in coming years. Although few firm numbers are available, people in the profession say the number of assistance dogs in use in this country has continually grown, as experts have been able to train dogs for more types of tasks. Besides traditional activities, like guiding the blind and acting as hearing dogs for the deaf, the animals are increasingly being used to help people in wheelchairs and children with autism. Some dogs can even warn people with diabetes that they have low blood sugar or people with epilepsy that they are about to have a seizure. Still others help patients who are suffering from brain trauma and other cognitive disorders function better in the everyday world. 
 Service dogs have proved so successful for wounded Iraqi war veterans that legislation has been introduced in both the House and the Senate to start a comprehensive government-sponsored assistance dog program for vets. 
 There are dozens of established nonprofit organizations, including Canine Companions for Independence and the Guide Dog Foundation for the Blind, that provide service dogs free of charge to those who need them. But the wait can be long. 
 Plenty of other programs, especially those specializing in the newer uses of assistance dogs, will charge you part or all the cost of raising and training the dog -- which can range from $15,000 to $50,000. 
 And whether the dog is donated or purchased, once the animal is home, it becomes the owner's responsibility to feed and groom it and keep it healthy. Food and routine veterinarian bills on average add up to about $1,500 a year, said Jeanine Konopelski, director of marketing for Canine Companions for Independence. And ''if a dog becomes ill or is hurt, vet bills can go much, much higher,'' she said. 
 Ed Eames, president of the International Association of Assistance Dog Partners, a nonprofit advocacy organization, said, ''We hate to see people missing out on this incredible aide because they can't afford to take care of an assistance dog.'' Mr. Eames and his wife, Toni, are both blind and both use guide dogs. 
 ''And remember,'' Mr. Eames said. ''This is not a wealthy group. Seventy percent of disabled people are unemployed.''
 Fortunately, there are programs aimed at helping to defray the costs of caring for an assistance dog. The following advice can help people take advantage of the resources available and get the most for their money. 
 CHOOSE CAREFULLY. ''There are some phony programs out there, so you have to be careful,'' Mr. Eames warned. ''You'll pay a lot and end up with a poorly trained dog.'' 
 Look for established programs with a history of successful fund-raising and large budgets. The Guide Dog Foundation for the Blind, for example, spends about $55,000 to breed and train each of the 130 guide and service dogs it places each year, and has an annual budget of $8 million. 
 Assistance Dogs International and the International Association of Assistance Dog Partners list various organizations that train all types of service dogs throughout the country. 
 Check to make sure the program you pick provides dogs and equipment like special leashes free and also covers the costs of training the human partner. 
 CREDENTIALS COUNT. You want your dog to come from a program accredited by Assistance Dogs International, especially when participating in a program where you are paying some or all of the costs. This credential ensures that the program is adhering to industry training standards. 
 Dogs from accredited programs are also more likely to behave well in public, making it easier for people to go to places that are often dog-unfriendly, like restaurants. Being denied such access is a common problem for people using assistance dogs. 
 PICK THE RIGHT TRAINER. Recently, it has become more common for human partners to train their own assistance dogs, usually with the help of a professional trainer. This can be expensive, however, with no guarantee of results, warns Mr. Eames.
 Trainers charge anywhere from $5,000 to $15,000 for each dog. If you go with a private trainer, look for one who has previously worked for one of the main assistance-dog training programs.
 GET HELP WITH VET BILLS. Many veterinarian chains, animal hospitals, teaching hospitals and local vets offer discounts on services for assistance dogs. Ms. O'Connor, for instance, receives a 10 percent discount on vaccinations and other services for Gaynor from her veterinarian. 
 For large vet bills, say for a surgery or major illness, check back with the organization where you got the dog. Many programs have emergency vet money available. In addition, the International Association of Assistance Dog Partners lists many veterinarian hospitals that offer free critical care for ill or injured assistance dogs and also runs a fund for people in financial need who face large vet bills.
 CHECK FOR TAX BREAKS.If your medical expenses equal more than 7.5 percent of your adjusted gross income, you can write off those expenses on your income taxes, including the cost of maintaining a service dog. 
 And many companies do allow this expense on their flexible spending accounts -- without the impediments Ms. O'Connor faced. Check with your employer's benefits department. 

CORRECTION-DATE: October 2, 2009

 CORRECTION:
The Patient Money column on Aug. 22, about the costs of medical service animals misstated a federal tax rule on deducting medical expenses. Medical expenses in excess of 7.5 percent of adjusted gross income can be deducted; expenses equal to the first 7.5 percent of adjusted gross income are not deductible. A reader's message pointing out the error was misdirected at The Times.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ed Eames, president of the International Association of Assistance Dog Partners, is blind, as is his wife, Toni. Their guide dogs are Latrell and Keebler. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY KAZANJIAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (89%); ANIMALS (88%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GENETIC DISEASES (78%); EPILEPSY (78%); FLEXIBLE SPENDING ACCOUNTS (75%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (75%); HEALTH CARE (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); AUTISM (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); BLINDNESS (69%); DEAFNESS (69%); INSURANCE POLICIES (69%); APPROVALS (68%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%); DISCRIMINATION (64%); VETERANS (60%); DIABETES (60%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (58%); BRAIN INJURIES (50%); BRAIN (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2009



582 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Rate Went Higher In 26 States Last Month

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Unemployment rates rose in 26 states in July, a sign that the labor market will take time to improve and that budget crises in states across the nation may deepen. 
 California, Nevada, Rhode Island and Georgia all reached their highest level of joblessness since record-keeping began in 1976, with California's rising to 11.9 percent, from 11.6 percent the previous month, the Labor Department said Friday. The number of states with at least 10 percent unemployment held at 16.
 The figures are a blow to states already hurt by declining receipts from income and sales taxes and underscore economists' projections that the national unemployment rate will reach 10 percent by early 2010. 
 ''State revenues could fall short of expectations if consumer spending doesn't pick up and if the labor market fails to improve,'' said Alex Miron, an economic analyst at Moody'sEconomy.com in West Chester, Pa. ''We're going to see higher unemployment over the month ahead.''
 Florida's unemployment rate last month matched June's 10.7 percent, which was revised up from 10.6 percent and was the highest level since October 1975. Unemployment in Georgia exceeded 10 percent for a second consecutive month, increasing to 10.3 percent from 10.1 percent.
 Nationwide, payrolls fell by 247,000 last month, less than forecast, while the jobless rate unexpectedly fell to 9.4 percent, from 9.5 percent, the first decline since April 2008. 
 In Michigan, unemployment declined to 15 percent, from 15.2 percent, but the state maintained the highest jobless rate in the country.
 Financial firms, meanwhile, continue to trim payrolls. New York City's unemployment rate rose to 9.6 percent in July, the highest since June 1997, from 9.4 percent, while the state's rate fell to 8.6 percent, from 8.7 percent in June, according to the state Labor Department.
 New Jersey's rate increased to 9.3 percent in July, the highest level since 1977, from 9.2 percent.
 Some Americans are finding that the only way to secure work is to move to another state.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (95%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); SALES TAX (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2009



583 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: A Public Option That Works

BYLINE: By WILLIAM H. DOW, ARINDRAJIT DUBE and CARRIE HOVERMAN COLLA. 
William H. Dow, who was a senior economist for President George W. Bush's Council of Economic Advisers, is a professor of health economics at the University of California, Berkeley, where Arindrajit Dube is an economist at the Institute for Research on Labor and Employment and Carrie Hoverman Colla is a doctoral student in health economics.

 BODY:
TWO burning questions are at the center of America's health care debate. First, should employers be required to pay for their employees' health insurance? And second, should there be a ''public option'' that competes with private insurance?
 Answers might be found in San Francisco, where ambitious health care legislation went into effect early last year. San Francisco and Massachusetts now offer the only near-universal health care programs in the United States. 
 The early results are in. Today, almost all residents in the city have affordable access to a comprehensive health care delivery system through the Healthy San Francisco program. Covered services include the use of a so-called ''medical home'' that coordinates care at approved clinics and hospitals within San Francisco, with both public and private facilities. Although not formally insurance, the program is tantamount to a public option of comprehensive health insurance, with the caveat that services are covered only in the city of San Francisco. Enrollees with incomes under 300 percent of the federal poverty level have heavily subsidized access, and those with higher incomes may buy into the public program at rates substantially lower than what they would pay for an individual policy in the private-insurance market. 
 To pay for this, San Francisco put into effect an employer-health-spending requirement, akin to the ''pay or play'' employer insurance mandates being considered in Congress. Businesses with 100 or more employees must spend $1.85 an hour toward health care for each employee. Businesses with 20 to 99 employees pay $1.23 an hour, and businesses with 19 or fewer employees are exempt. These are much higher spending levels than mandated in Massachusetts, and more stringent than any of the plans currently under consideration in Congress. Businesses can meet the requirement by paying for private insurance, by paying into medical-reimbursement accounts or by paying into the city's Healthy San Francisco public option. 
 There has been great demand for this plan. Thus far, around 45,000 adults have enrolled, compared to an estimated 60,000 who were previously uninsured. Among covered businesses, roughly 20 percent have chosen to use the city's public option for at least some of their employees. But interestingly, in a recent survey of the city's businesses, very few (less than 5 percent) of the employers who chose the public option are thinking about dropping existing (private market) insurance coverage. The public option has been used largely to cover previously uninsured workers and to supplement private-coverage options. 
 Through our experience working on health-care-reform efforts in California and Washington (one of us worked for President George W. Bush's Council of Economic Advisers), we have seen how concern over employer costs can be a sticking point in the health care debate, even in the absence of persuasive evidence that increased costs would seriously harm businesses. San Francisco's example should put some of those fears to rest. Many businesses there had to raise their health spending substantially to meet the new requirements, but so far the plan has not hurt jobs. 
 As of December 2008, there was no indication that San Francisco's employment grew more slowly after the enactment of the employer-spending requirement than did employment in surrounding areas in San Mateo and Alameda counties. If anything, employment trends were slightly better in San Francisco. This is true whether you consider overall employment or employment in sectors most affected by the employer mandate, like retail businesses and restaurants. 
 So how have employers adjusted to the higher costs, if not by cutting jobs? More than 25 percent of restaurants, for example, have instituted a ''surcharge'' -- about 4 percent of the bill for most establishments -- to pay for the additional costs. Local service businesses can add this surcharge (or raise prices) without risking their competitive position, since their competitors will be required to take similar measures. Furthermore, some of the costs may be passed on to employees in the form of smaller pay raises, which could help ward off the possibility of job losses. Over the longer term, if more widespread coverage allows people to choose jobs based on their skills and not out of fear of losing health insurance from one specific employer, increased productivity will help pay for some of the costs of the mandate.
 The San Francisco experiment has demonstrated that requiring a shared-responsibility model -- in which employers pay to help achieve universal coverage -- has not led to the kind of job losses many fear. The public option has also passed the market test, while not crowding out private options. The positive changes in San Francisco provide a glimpse of what the future might look like if Washington passes substantial health reform this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); HEALTH CARE (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); INSURANCE (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); POOR POPULATION (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (54%)

COMPANY: AMERICA'S HEALTH PLAN INC (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2009



584 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Brief Relief, but No Cure for Carmakers From Clunker Plan

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC; Shaila Dewan contributed reporting from Atlanta.

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
The government's cash-for-clunkers program provided a short-term bonanza for automakers but will not have a lasting effect on an industry mired in its worst sales slump in 25 years.
 While the program helped sell an estimated 700,000 new cars in less than five weeks, one analyst suggested that only about 200,000 of those were additional sales that would not have been made otherwise. Analysts expect the traffic in showrooms to slow considerably once the program ends on Monday.
 By Friday, some auto dealers were already suspending the promotion or saying they would do so this weekend because of backlogs and related problems processing the last-minute surge from consumers. 
 The demand from the program instantly revved up industry sales to their highest levels since last fall. Even after tallying the benefits, though, car companies will sell fewer than 11 million new vehicles this year in the United States, a major decline from the 16 million sold in 2007.
 Automakers are under no illusion that recent traffic portends a sustained recovery for their business any time soon.
 ''We are going into the next couple of months with our eyes wide open,'' said George Pipas, chief market analyst for the Ford Motor Company. ''Our view is that we will come down off this sales pace pretty quickly.''
 The popularity of the clunker program caught government officials, manufacturers and dealers by surprise. Initial funding of $1 billion was exhausted just days after the program kicked off in late July, prompting the Obama administration to hastily add another $2 billion.
 ''This was a sweet little spurt of sales, but it's hard to imagine it will have any lasting impact,'' said Rebecca Lindland of the research firm IHS Global Insight.
 Ms. Lindland said the clunker initiative will make a miserable sales year a trifle better. Her firm had been predicting sales of 9.8 million new cars this year, but recently increased its forecast to 10.3 million. 
 Some of the sales, she said, were simply pulled forward by the extraordinary deals offered by the program.
 ''We are taking out a few hundred thousand vehicles that we expected would sell next year,'' she said. ''It may even pull forward some sales from 2011 and 2012.''
 Given the dismal state of auto sales before the program, the Obama administration is calling the cash-for-clunker program an unqualified success. On Thursday, the transportation secretary, Ray LaHood, pronounced the program a ''lifeline to the automobile industry'' and ''the best economic news story in America.''
 But the program was essentially a huge, government-subsidized sales promotion. Consumers were given up to $4,500 to trade in older, gas-guzzling models and buy newer, more fuel-efficient models.
 The auto companies could not afford to offer that kind of sales incentive on their own. General Motors and Chrysler, both of which are subsisting on government loans, would have been particularly hard-pressed to finance such an expensive program.
 Carmakers have stirred up demand in the past with creative deals like zero-percent financing and employee discounts for the general public. 
 Those programs also bolster demand, but it falls off substantially when the deals end.
 ''Any time we get one of these big surges in demand, it's usually followed by a period when sales are not so strong,'' said Mr. Pipas.
 There do appear to be some positive, residual effects from the cash-for-clunker program.
 The vehicles that consumers chose to buy under the program were some of the most fuel-efficient models on the market. Cars like the Ford Focus, Honda Civic and Toyota Prius were scooped up quickly, an encouraging sign given that most automakers are planning to bring more small cars out soon.
 Also, some consumers who had been primarily used-car buyers entered the new-car market. Ms. Lindland said that at least 200,000 of the program's participants would probably not have bought a new model any time soon without the government assistance.
 About 15 percent of the cars replaced gas-guzzlers driven by people aged 16 to 22, according to the firm CNW Marketing Research.
 ''That's important, because enticing younger consumers into showrooms is essential for growth,'' said Art Spinella, CNW's president.
 The program did test the government's abilities to process the rush of deals, and car dealers may have to wait weeks before being reimbursed for many of the transactions.
 One big chain of dealerships, Group 1 Automotive, stopped selling vehicles through the program at several of its showrooms on Friday because of paperwork backlogs. 
 ''The system, for all intents and purposes, crashed,'' said Peter DeLongchamps, a vice president of Houston-based Group 1.
 Other dealers have expressed concern about financial problems resulting from the long wait for government checks. In Atlanta, a salesman at World Toyota said the dealership stopped making sales on Thursday because of worries about getting reimbursed.
 But showrooms are expected to be mobbed this weekend by consumers hoping to take advantage of the program before it expires at 8 p.m. Monday.
 ''If nothing else, the summer hasn't been quite so much of a downer,'' said Ms. Lindland. ''This has been the one bright spot in a year that has been shockingly bad.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A 1995 Ford Aerostar caught fire last week after its owner took it to a Toyota dealership in El Monte, Calif., to take part in the cash-for-clunkers program. No one was hurt, and the owner drove away in a 2010 Prius. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM RUDNAI) (B1)
 A sign advertising cash for clunkers adorned an overturned car at a dealership in Detroit on Friday. The program will end Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SANCYA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (92%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (92%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (87%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); SALES & SELLING (77%); SALES PROMOTIONS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (74%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%)

PERSON: RAY LAHOOD (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2009



585 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: Protecting the Fair's Prize Pig From the Swine Flu

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
When the Oregon State Fair opens next week, the pigs will be kept behind an elaborate configuration of plastic and ribbon barriers, taller-than-usual fences and off-limits walkways. The state veterinarian is also urging visitors to stay six feet away.
 The worry? The spread of swine flu, but with a twist: state officials hope to insulate the pigs from sick people. 
 ''Help us protect the piggies,'' signs at the fair will read in pink.
 The recent H1N1 flu strain, which has raised fears worldwide despite having had relatively mild effects on most people so far, is turning upside down traditional health concerns at agricultural exhibitions and state and county fairs around the country. 
 At the state fair in Iowa, visitors are barred from holding piglets, and in North Carolina, the state veterinarian, Dr. David T. Marshall, has advised fair visitors to wash their hands upon leaving -- and entering -- pig barns. 
 ''The whole idea of the animals getting sick from people is a foreign concept to people, but that's what we're looking at here,'' said Dr. Marshall, whose state is one of several where E. coli outbreaks linked to fairs and petting zoos sickened dozens of people several years ago.
 The flu discovered this spring includes genetic parts of human, swine and avian flus. Although its genetic structure technically makes the new strain a ''swine flu,'' experts say, it has not been found in pigs in this country or most elsewhere, aside from a few herds in Canada, Argentina and Australia. In those cases, epidemiologists suspect that people working on farms may have infected the pigs around them. 
 The virus is not believed to be particularly deadly to pigs, scientists say, nor, according to the United States Department of Agriculture's chief veterinary officer and others, can it cause any risk for people eating pork. But scientists still hope to keep it from spreading in pigs, which can act as ''mixing vessels'' for human and avian flus, possibly leading to a more dangerous strain.
 And there is the worry of public relations: Would a report of an infected pig at a fair harm the pork industry, already wrestling with economic misery in part because of people's unfounded fears over what the flu might mean for their dinner?
 Those matters have left health authorities, fair organizers and those in the swine business wrestling with how best to balance risks of the flu with rural rites of summer. The result is a patchwork of rules on the matter of pigs and people. 
 Many local fair leaders said their existing safety measures -- like isolating livestock after fairs until a typical flu incubation period had passed -- already offered enough protection, and some questioned the scientific basis of strict guidelines elsewhere.
 At the state fair in Wisconsin, where a young woman crowned ''Fairest of the Fair'' stood inside a pen where prize pigs were auctioned, pig owners scoffed at the suggestion that tested practices might need refinement.
 ''We had no thought of not coming,'' said Debbie Schoenbeck, whose family owns pigs. 
 Ms. Schoenbeck stood beside the swine barn's center walkway, used on one recent afternoon by large, grunting pigs and by people, including a girl who caressed one pig's snout. (The Wisconsin fair's agricultural director, Brian Bolan, said that on most days visitors were discouraged from walking on thoroughfares when pigs were passing through and that more hand-washing stations were added this year.) Still, some fair veterinarians said they were visiting pig barns more often for signs of respiratory illness among the animals.
 To keep illness from spreading back to home farms, some fairs discourage farmers from showing any animals that are not ''terminal,'' due to be slaughtered right after the fair. 
 The different approaches have caused tension between some fair leaders and veterinarians. Dr. Don Hansen, Oregon's veterinarian, said he was contacted by lawyers for some county fairs and lampooned in cartoons for his relatively rigorous suggestions (the six-foot rule was not to ''be written in stone,'' he says now), adding that he had ''never seen a reaction as immediate and profound before on anything.'' 
 The issue has also created stress, according to some involved, between the interests of the biggest pork producers, who harvest about 109 million pigs a year, and those who mostly compete in pig shows, a group that shows an estimated one million pigs each year. 
 Darrell D. Anderson, the chief executive of the National Swine Registry, representing those who raise purebred pigs, said some large pork producers had initially pushed to cancel the World Pork Expo in Des Moines in June. 
 ''If you take those big opportunities away, it would have been devastating to the show-pig industry and the breeding industry,'' said Mr. Anderson, who, along with others from all sides of the pig world reached a consensus on appropriate rules for exhibitions and shows. 
 Among new provisions at this year's Des Moines expo was a requirement that exhibitors sign an affidavit attesting that they, their families and their animals had been healthy for at least the last seven days, and that they would remove their animals if show officials deemed it necessary. 
 Still, for some who raise pigs to sell to commercial producers, the possibility of a show pig's falling ill at a county fair sounded like one more needless horror in a crushing year.
 Others wondered if mere talk of safety measures at fairs' swine barns actually scared people more than the measures would spare pigs. Might reminders to keep pigs safe just plant new, irrational fears about pork in some people's minds?
 Given all of it, any decision about what should come of the summer fairs felt fraught.
 ''There were those who said you should be on the side of canceling these shows, and there were others saying the shows have to go on,'' said Dr. Paul Sundberg, vice president of science and technology for the National Pork Board, a group representing the industry. ''It was dancing on the head of a pin.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Piglets were a popular family attraction this week at the Iowa State Fair in Des Moines. After viewing them, many fair-goers cleaned their hands. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUSTIN MAXON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: H1N1 INFLUENZA (92%); INFLUENZA (92%); CIRCUSES & CARNIVALS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (89%); HOG & PIG FARMING (89%); PORK (78%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (77%); ANIMALS (77%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (72%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (69%); SCIENCE NEWS (67%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (67%); E COLI (66%); EXECUTIVES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (71%) OREGON, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2009



586 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Helps Spanish Company to Buy Texas Bank

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Guaranty Bank, a deeply troubled Texas lender, was sold on Friday to Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria of Spain in one of the largest government-assisted deals offered to a foreign firm. 
 Federal regulators seized Guaranty Bank and simultaneously brokered the sale of its branches as well as most of the deposits and assets to BBVA Compass, the Spanish bank's American subsidiary. The government, however, agreed to absorb most of the losses on $9.7 billion, or more than 80 percent, of the Guaranty assets included in the deal. 
 The failure is the fourth-largest since the financial crisis began, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation projects that it will cost its deposit insurance fund about $3 billion. 
 Regulators also arranged for the sales of three smaller banks in Alabama and Georgia on Friday, bringing the total number of bank failures so far this year to 81. That compares with only 25 bank failures in all of 2008. 
 News that BBVA had submitted the winning bid leaked out earlier this week, but regulators waited until late Friday to orchestrate the takeover. That may be another sign that confidence in the financial system is being restored, since in contrast to past leaks, regulators did not immediately seize the bank over fears of rumors stoking a bank run. 
 Stockholders in Guaranty Bank will be wiped out, but the deal ensures that its depositors will not suffer losses. Although BBVA did not take control of the failed bank's $344 million of brokered deposits, the F.D.I.C. said that it would reimburse brokers directly for those funds.
 The government also agreed to shoulder the bulk of the losses on all of Guaranty's loans -- a deal sweetener that the government has rarely extended to overseas buyers. 
 BBVA agreed to buy $12 billion of the $13 billion assets left at Guaranty Bank, which it will ultimately sell to private investors. The F.D.I.C. agreed to take on the remaining $1 billion of assets, as well as cover losses on the $9.7 billion pool of risky loans that BBVA bought. The agreement calls for the government to take on about 80 percent of the first $2.3 billion of losses, and 95 percent of the losses above that threshold. 
 Loss-sharing agreements have become a standard part of the F.D.I.C.'s toolkit for resolving troubled banks, but rarely have they covered such a big portion of a failed bank's assets. 
 And seldom are they offered to foreign buyers. Indeed, it appears the last time that an overseas bank received federal assistance in a failed bank deal was when the Bank of Ireland scooped up four New Hampshire banks in September 1991.
 Analysts say the BBVA deal may signal that the F.D.I.C. will be more open to bids from foreign banks. Many of the strongest American banks are occupied with deals they did last fall, while private equity firms have struggled to meet the high bar set by regulators. Weaker banks, meanwhile, have been hamstrung by their own losses. That has left regulators scrambling to drum up buyers. 
 Jose Maria Garcia Meyer, the head of BBVA's American operations, said in a statement that the deal provided convincing evidence of the bank's strength and stability during the current crisis. ''This transaction further demonstrates BBVA's clear commitment in building its U.S. franchise,'' he added. 
 Along with its Spanish rival Banco Santander, BBVA has been ramping up its business in fast-growing American markets that have strong ties to Latin America. It made a series of expensive acquisitions in Texas over the last few years. 
 Guaranty, which is based in Austin, will add another 103 locations in Texas and 59 branches in California, where BBVA has been trying to establish a beachhead. That will give it a total of 767 locations in seven Sun Belt states and make it the nation's 15th-largest commercial bank with about $49 billion in deposits.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The federal government agreed to absorb most of the losses on $11 billion of Guaranty Bank assets in the sale agreement. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CODY DUTY/AMERICAN-STATESMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANK FAILURES (91%); INDUSTRIAL LOAN COMPANIES (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (89%); FOREIGN LENDING (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%)

COMPANY: BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA SA (92%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (84%); BANK OF IRELAND (60%)

TICKER: BVA (LSE) (92%); BBVA (NYSE) (92%); BBVA (MCE) (92%); BBVA (BMV) (92%); IRE (NYSE) (60%); BKIR (LSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (84%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2009



587 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: Critics Driven By Racial Bias, Paterson Says

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM and RAYMOND HERNANDEZ; Danny Hakim reported from Albany and Raymond Hernandez from Washington.

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson lashed out on Friday at critics who say he should not run for election, and he suggested that he was being undermined by an orchestrated, racially biased effort by the media to force him to step aside.
 The governor, on a morning radio talk show, said that Gov. Deval Patrick of Massachusetts, the only other African-American governor, was suffering similar treatment, and he predicted that President Obama would, too.
 ''We're not in the postracial period,'' he told Errol Louis, a columnist for The Daily News and the host of the radio program, on WWRL-AM. ''My feeling is it's being orchestrated, it's a game, and people who pay attention know that,'' he added. 
 The governor sounded hurt and frustrated, but his comments failed to rally much immediate support, even among allies. Some African-American supporters distanced themselves from his assertion, saying that Mr. Paterson's problems were complex. 
 Mr. Paterson himself issued a statement on the matter later in the day, saying that not all the media criticism of him could be attributed to race. But he said he would not hesitate to point out even subtle stereotypes in news coverage, and repeated his assertion that America was not yet a postracial society.
 Neither the White House nor Governor Patrick's office had any comment.
 It was not the first time that Governor Paterson had made broad accusations of racism. In a speech last year to the N.A.A.C.P., he accused the media of unfairly branding him an ''accidental governor.'' In September, he said Senator John McCain's presidential campaign used ''racial coding'' in its characterizations of Mr. Obama. 
 But the remarks on Friday were far more emotional, reflecting a growing dismay and isolation as his poll numbers remain perilously low. Even as he has publicly vowed to fight for the governor's office, he has expressed private doubts to some associates about whether he should stand for election next year.
 His anger appeared to be triggered when Mr. Louis referred to a television interview of the Rev. Al Sharpton conducted by Dominic Carter on NY1 on Thursday. In the interview, Mr. Sharpton was asked about Mr. Paterson's late-night socializing at a Manhattan nightclub, Taj, in July. 
 Mr. Paterson suggested that Mr. Carter, who is black, was playing to white critics of African-American politicians by bringing up the subject. He also said that media outlets had mischaracterized what happened there. He said that he had not been out past midnight, as had been reported. 
 The governor suggested that it was part of a pattern of negative media coverage about him.
 ''We don't have the kind of forces in the community that we had before,'' he said. ''In other words, our black media outlets, save your program and a few others, are the only ways we have access, and even our own reporters from our own community buy the public line, which is, 'We're going to get rid of David Paterson.' ''
 ''The reality is that the next victim on the list is President Barack Obama, who did nothing more than try to reform a health care system'' that, he said, constitutes 10 percent of the gross domestic product. It is ''only because he's trying to make change,'' Mr. Paterson said.
 The governor declined to be interviewed by The New York Times about his remarks. But several people who had spoken to him said that he and his aides saw racial overtones in everything from the searing depictions of him on ''Saturday Night Live'' to small turns of phrase, like New York magazine's reference to his freewheeling style as ''jazz government.''
 With Mr. Paterson's approval ratings remaining low, some Democrats have suggested publicly that he should make way for the popular attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, in the governor's race. Especially worrisome to the governor's supporters is his flagging support even among black voters; a Siena College poll released last month showed that black voters, by a 46-to-38 percent margin, would prefer someone other than Mr. Paterson as governor. 
 Black politicians were measured in their responses on Friday.
 ''I do agree with the governor's statement that we do not live in a postracial society and that there is a degree of media bias that does adversely impact communities of color,'' said Assemblyman Hakeem Jeffries, a Brooklyn Democrat. ''But the governor's problems are very complex and cannot be attributed to any one particular issue.''
 Assemblyman Karim Camara, also of Brooklyn, said: ''It's hard to pinpoint why he is struggling. I don't believe there is any one reason. I believe there are a multitude of factors.''
 Before Friday, Mr. Paterson had privately begun to express doubts about his political future, particularly to close associates during recent visits to the Hamptons. Those who had spoken to him described him as increasingly somber. 
 ''He is mulling whether he should go through with it or not,'' said one person who spoke directly to Mr. Paterson this week, and who spoke on condition of anonymity because he did not want to be seen as betraying the governor's confidence. 
 ''It's the first time that he has questioned me about this,'' the person said. ''It's the first time he has begun to wonder.''
 The governor's anger at the media has been building, along with his belief that reporters are not capturing his administration's accomplishments. In the radio interview, he said he had cut the state deficit. ''This state is not passing out i.o.u.'s like California,'' he said.
 ''Print media is dying,'' he said, adding, ''if these people who are writing these articles had to run this state, they couldn't run it for five minutes because they are about to go under themselves.''
 On NY1 Friday night, Mr. Carter addressed the governor's suggestion that he was trying to curry favor with those who criticize African-American politicians. The governor had said Mr. Carter ''likes to ingratiate himself with the folks trying to beat up on elected officials from our community.''
 ''I almost don't know what to say,'' Mr. Carter said. ''The governor of the state of New York was calling me a modern-day Uncle Tom.''
 ''Anybody that knows my background -- me, an Uncle Tom?'' he said. ''At the end of the day, I am a journalist, and we call them as we see them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. David A. Paterson in New York City on Aug. 13. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (92%); DEVAL PATRICK (59%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); AL SHARPTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (66%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2009



588 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Home Sales Lift Markets To Highest Close of '09

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Wall Street's pessimists and cautious investors keep waiting for the summertime rally to lose its footing. But on Friday, the bulls were again calling the shots.
 A spike in sales of previously owned homes and an optimistic speech by the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, sent investors on a buying spree that pushed the major indexes to their highest closings of the year. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed about 2 percent higher for the week. Although stocks are still down sharply from their record highs, Wall Street's recent rally keeps rolling along, despite lower corporate revenue, housing foreclosures and a blizzard of worries about higher long-term unemployment and lower consumer spending. 
 ''This is a bull market,'' said Laszlo Birinyi Jr., president of Birinyi Associates, adding that he was investing in large banks, well-established technology companies like Apple and big industrial companies like 3M and United States Steel.
 Mr. Bernanke's speech to economists and bankers in Jackson Hole, Wyo., reflected hopes for a turnaround. He said that short-term credit markets were running better and that ''the prospects for a return to growth in the near term appear good.''
 Even laced with caveats, his remarks helped to inflate an already buoyant mood on Wall Street, where stocks rose at the opening and pushed higher through the day.
 The Dow Jones average rose 155.91 points, or 1.67 percent, to 9,505.96, its highest close since Nov. 4, and the S.& P. 500 was up 18.76 points, or 1.86 percent, at 1,026.13, reaching its highest level since early October. 
 Shares were higher in Europe but sharply lower in Asia. In Tokyo, the Nikkei stock average fell 1.4 percent, while the Hang Seng in Hong Kong dropped 0.64 percent. The FTSE 100 in London rose 2 percent, while the DAX in Frankfurt gained 2.9 percent, and the CAC 40 in Paris jumped 3.2 percent.
 Prices of oil, copper and gold all rose, with crude oil rising 92 cents, to $73.83 a barrel, in New York, the highest closing price of the year. Oil companies like Exxon Mobil, Marathon Oil and ConocoPhillips closed higher.
 Interest rates were higher. The price of the Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 1 4/32, to 100 16/32, and the yield rose to 3.56 percent, from 3.43 percent late Thursday. 
 Shares of industrial companies, energy producers and manufacturers of chemicals, plastics and other basic materials led the markets as traders bet that a global rebound would revive the construction industry and get factories back to full production.
 The heavy-equipment manufacturer Caterpillar gained nearly 4 percent, the most among the Dow's 30 blue-chip stocks.
 Shares of major home builders surged after the National Association of Realtors reported that sales of previously owned homes rose 7.2 percent in July. 
 While forecasters had been expecting home sales to grow for the month, the size of the increase surprised investors and economists. It was the largest monthly gain since the group began tracking existing home sales in 1999.
 ''I'm a little bit flabbergasted,'' said Patrick Newport, an economist at IHS Global Insight. ''These are really good numbers.''
 Moreover, home sales last month were 5 percent higher than in July 2008. Homes were selling at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 5.2 million in July, up from a rate of 5 million a year earlier. 
 It was the first year-over-year increase in home sales since November 2005.
 Potential buyers who abandoned the housing market last year as credit was choked off and prices tumbled are beginning to return, enticed by lower prices in some markets and tax incentives for first-time home buyers. 
 But some housing analysts warned that sales could ebb as more distressed homes flood onto the market, and when the government's $8,000 tax credit for first-time home buyers expires at the end of the year. If unemployment keeps rising, some potential buyers will be unable to enter the market.
 ''The data today was really good, and it's wonderful, but how sustainable is it?'' said David M. Klaskin, chief investment officer at Oak Ridge Investments. ''The real big risk is that you don't get a sustainable recovery, that the recovery doesn't get legs under it.''
 Over all, economists said, Friday's numbers offered another signal that the housing market was climbing out of the basement, even as foreclosures and delinquencies crept higher amid rising job losses. 
 Sales of existing homes -- which make up the bulk of home sales -- have risen over the last four months. 
 The median sale price of homes nationwide fell to $178,400, and more homes poured onto the market as foreclosures increased and sellers detected a hint of enthusiasm among buyers.
 ''The housing market has decisively turned for the better,'' Lawrence Yun, chief economist at the Realtors' association, said in a statement.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources Associated Press
 Bloomberg) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); CHEMICALS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); FORECLOSURE (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); COMPANY REVENUES (72%); CHEMICALS MFG (71%); CONSUMER SPENDING (71%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (62%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (81%); 3M CO (69%); UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (55%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (52%); MARATHON OIL CORP (51%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (81%); MMM (SWX) (69%); MMM (NYSE) (69%); MMM (FRA) (69%); X (NYSE) (55%); XOM (NYSE) (52%); MRO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (81%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (81%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (81%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (81%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (81%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (81%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (81%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (81%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (81%); NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (69%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (69%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (69%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (55%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (51%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (68%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) WYOMING, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (71%) UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); GERMANY (77%); HONG KONG (76%); JAPAN (68%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2009



589 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: The 43-Day Lieutenant Governor

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Richard Ravitch was meeting with the state insurance superintendent in his spartan Manhattan office on Thursday afternoon when he got an e-mail message informing him that a state appeals court had just ended Mr. Ravitch's brief tenure as lieutenant governor -- at least for now. 
 Unfazed by the ruling, which said that Gov. David A. Paterson had no constitutional authority to appoint Mr. Ravitch, the deposed lieutenant governor carried on into the evening with the work of immersing himself in the grim details of the state's troubled finances. 
 This anticlimactic scene -- possibly Mr. Ravitch's last moment as lieutenant governor -- was a far cry from his swearing-in over Scotch and rib-eyes at Peter Luger Steak House in Brooklyn last month. 
 The muted pace of the workday on Thursday for Mr. Ravitch, a former Metropolitan Transportation Authority chairman, was typical of most of the 43 days he spent on the job. (In fact, he was actually lieutenant governor 42 days, not counting the period of roughly 24 hours last month between the ruling of a lower court that blocked him from taking office and a stay of that ruling by an appellate judge.)
 In that time Mr. Ravitch has sought out members of the governor's budget and finance staff, representatives from the state's economic development, banking and insurance offices, legislative leaders, government watchdog groups and heads of business partnerships as part of a virtual crash course in the intricacies of Albany's finances. 
 In casual conversations, he is known to spout off newly acquired wisdom like ''Did you know there's almost $100 million spent on legislative elections?'' and ''We have a property tax revolt in this country, and now I understand why.''
 His new office, in a Third Avenue skyscraper in Midtown Manhattan where the state's executive offices are housed, is essentially bare; he has put nothing on the shelves. ''It's been a very tentative arrangement,'' he said in an interview on Friday.
 The only things on his desk are photos of his grandchildren and a framed cartoon drawing of Incitatus, the horse that historians said the emperor Caligula planned to appoint to public office. A friend gave Mr. Ravitch the drawing as a joke after a Republican lawyer arguing against Mr. Ravitch's appointment compared the situation to the old Roman legend.
 He has had exactly two public events since Mr. Paterson named him to the post on July 8. One was a press conference at the Capitol to announce his appointment on July 9 (the only time in his new role that he's been in Albany.) The other was a groundbreaking in the Bronx for a school financed by a program run by a friend.
 He made a point of steering clear of political events, shunning the traditional ribbon-cutting, speech-making role of lieutenant governors. 
 ''He says to them, 'That's not what I'm here for.' So people don't even ask him,'' said Richard L. Brodsky, a Democratic state assemblyman and a friend of Mr. Ravitch. ''He's there to help govern the state. And that's getting the budget numbers right, knowing which constituents are most likely to be damaged and how you can minimize that.''
 Kathryn S. Wylde, president of the Partnership for New York City, a business-backed civic group, said she had met with Mr. Ravitch several times in his short-lived post. His message, she said, has been simple and blunt. ''All hands on deck,'' she said. ''Dick has a great network, and he's putting it to work. He doesn't want New York to go down the drain. He's got a lot invested in it. He's calling in all his chits.''
 Now Mr. Ravitch, as a result of Thursday's court ruling, may have to carry out his job as a top adviser on the state budget in an unofficial capacity. Mr. Paterson has yet to decide whether to ask the Court of Appeals, the state's highest court, to stay the lower court's ruling and allow Mr. Ravitch to serve as lieutenant governor.
 But Mr. Ravitch has left other heavyweight public jobs in his nearly half a century of public service -- from the chairman of the transit authority to the head of the Urban Development Corporation -- and he says his ego is equipped to handle the demotion.
 ''People go through mammoth decompressions when they leave public service,'' he said. ''The only thing I missed was the car and driver.''
 Indeed, a car with a driver has been one of the perks of the lieutenant governor's job. He acknowledged, ''I may not be entitled to it anymore.'' 
 For now he is headed to the Hamptons to rest. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PUBLIC EVENT NO. 1: Richard Ravitch on July 9, after taking the job
he had two public events during his tenure. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 PUBLIC EVENT NO. 2: On Aug. 11, Mr. Ravitch attended a groundbreaking at a school in the South Bronx. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BUDGETS (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); JUDGES (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); HISTORY (50%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2009



590 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Masters and Slaves of Deception

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

 BODY:
President Obama made a huge mistake in pursuing health care reform. He tried to be hands-off when he needed to be knee-deep. The White House overcompensated for the Clinton-era defeat of health care reform by offering too little guidance and support to its own party's lawmakers, who are now struggling to craft a coherent message out of a confusing bill. Adding to the challenge: this must be done in a bipartisan way. 
 But true bipartisanship, not withstanding candidate Obama's grandiose visions of a post-partisan world, is becoming an increasingly quaint notion. 
 In this Washington, no outreached hand goes unmangled. Seeing an opening, conservatives have rushed in.
 They have started Operation Master and Slaves of Deception -- cooking up scary, outlandish claims about the plan and feeding them to a desperate base, eager to believe the worst about the man they loathe the most, President Obama. 
 Conservatives are now on fertile ground. Still enraged by the ignominy of having been trounced, they are most likely feeling marginalized, ignored and afraid. For them, it has been less about clarifying health care reform and more about a clarion call to resistance. 
 And the deceptions have worked. According to an NBC News poll released this week, 76 percent of Republicans believe that the health care plan will lead to a government takeover of the health care system; 70 percent believe it will allow the government to make decisions about when to stop providing medical care to the elderly; and 61 percent believe it will allow the use of taxpayer dollars for abortions. 
 Conservative lawmakers should be delirious. Not only is this stoking the passions of their dwindling base, it is opening the spigot of money from the health care industry and conservative groups.
 According to a report on Wednesday by OpenSecrets.org's Center for Responsive Politics, health services and H.M.O.'s increased their campaign donations by 37 percent from the first to the second quarter this year. Republican and conservative advocacy groups increased their contributions by a whopping 237 percent over the same time period. For comparison, donations by Democratic and liberal advocacy groups declined. 
 Realizing that the plan was running into trouble with a wrangling right, the president began kowtowing to the crazies himself. When the president of the United States has to reassure us that he is not going to kill our grandmothers, you know there's a problem. 
 The president should have treated health care reform the same way he treated the stimulus package -- by personally helping to shape it and push it through from the start.
 On Feb. 11, a Gallup poll found that 59 percent of Americans over all supported the economic stimulus package, but only 28 percent of Republicans supported it. This is not so different from the way Americans feel about health care. According to a CNN/Opinion Research poll released this month, 50 percent of Americans said that they favored ''Barack Obama's plan to reform health care,'' compared with just 19 percent of Republicans. 
 The Democrats forged ahead with the stimulus package. The House passed it without a single Republican vote, and the Senate passed it with the help of three moderate Republicans.
 Six months later, what is the result? According to a Washington Post/ABC News poll released yesterday, half of Americans now expect the recession to be over within 12 months and ''almost twice as many say the program has made things better as say it has made things worse (43 percent to 23 percent).''
 Nothing succeeds like success. Now that the stimulus plan appears to be working, no one even remembers the acrimony about its passage.
 Finally the Democrats are making rumblings that they may try to go it alone on health care reform as well. It's about time. 
 The conservatives are not negotiating in good faith anyway. Chuck ''snake in the'' Grassley, ranking Republican member of the Senate Finance Committee and one of three Republicans supposedly working on the bipartisan health bill, is even propagating the nonsense, telling supporters that they have ''every right to fear ... a government program that determines if you're going to pull the plug on grandma.''
 There is nothing that the Democrats can do to placate this cabal. This is how the Republicans see it: for them to win, the plan must fail.
 Concessions simply weaken the bill, with little reward. For instance, a Rasmussen Reports poll last week found that 78 percent of conservatives opposed the reform plan. This week, they were asked if they would support the plan if the controversial public option was removed, and 73 percent said that they would still oppose it. By contrast, liberal support for the plan sans public option dropped by a third. 
 The conservatives are never going to play ball. As the Senate Republican whip, Jon Kyl of Arizona, put it, ''there is no way that Republicans are going to support a trillion-dollar-plus bill,'' even if it doesn't increase the deficit. 
 Most important, this two-year window may be the only time Democrats can push through reform without Republican support. As Nate Silver pointed out on his blog last week, ''Without major intervening events like 9/11, the party that wins the White House almost always loses seats at the midterm elections -- since World War II, an average of 17 seats in the House after the White House changes parties.'' There is no reason to believe that this won't be the case next year.
 A poll released by Rasmussen Reports this week found that on a generic Congressional ballot, Republican candidates hold a 5 percent advantage over Democratic ones.
 The time is now. Just do it. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: Feelings about the health care reform legislation currently being considered in Congress ... : Including public option
 Without public option(Source: Rasmussen Reports) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); SENIOR CITIZENS (64%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (68%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2009



591 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Tension Increases as China And Australia Grow Closer

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
China's diplomatic relationship with Australia, so recently flourishing despite occasional spats, this month has taken a severe turn toward the governmental equivalent of thrown dinner plates.
 Public exchanges between the nations, already testy after China's detention of four employees of the British-Australian mining giant Rio Tinto, grew sharper when Australia granted a visa to Rebiya Kadeer, the American-based rights advocate for China's Muslim Uighur minority. Ms. Kadeer was accused by Chinese officials of plotting riots last month in China's Xinjiang region. 
 The Australians recalled their Chinese ambassador to the capital, Canberra, for talks on Wednesday, after a week in which Beijing's state-controlled news media excoriated Australia's ''Sinophobic politicians'' and suggested that China's billions were better spent trading with friendlier nations. 
 The Chinese also canceled planned visits by Vice Premier Li Keqiang, the heir apparent to Prime Minister Wen Jiabao, and the vice foreign minister, He Yafei, who was supposed to attend a meeting of Asian nations. Columnists in the Chinese press have also advocated limiting Chinese tourism in Australia and curbing the number of Chinese students studying there. 
 Australia's prime minister, Kevin Rudd, countered that the nations' relationship is always ''full of challenges'' and that their broader ties will endure. ''We share enormous common interests with our friends in China, but we have continuous differences,'' he was quoted as saying.
 Hardly all Australians are persuaded. ''I really don't think there's anything that Australia can do,'' J. Bruce Jacobs, a China specialist at Monash University in Australia, said of the tiff. ''The Chinese seem to have various people they like to pick on -- the French, because of the Dalai Lama, and us, because of Kadeer. I think all of this is driven by political imperatives within China.''
 Mr. Jacobs was referring to China's decision to boycott a European Union summit meeting last December because the union's leader then, President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, planned to meet the Dalai Lama, the spiritual leader of Tibetans. The Chinese accuse the Dalai Lama of plotting to split Tibet from China.
 In the latest case, China sought this month to keep Australia from granting Ms. Kadeer a visa to attend the screening of a film about her life, then tried to prevent her from making a speech to the National Press Club. 
 They were further examples of how Australians and Chinese have chafed at their inexorably growing ties. Trade between China and Australia has grown sevenfold this decade, making China Australia's largest trading partner. Chinese investment in Australia, while still small compared with its investment in the United States, is mushrooming. 
 But Australians worry that Chinese investment is directed at their vast natural resources, turning them into a sort of open-pit mine for Chinese interests. 
 Mr. Rudd, who is fluent in Mandarin and was once an Australian diplomat in Beijing, has advocated deeper cooperation with China in global economic forums and with President Obama.
 Despite that, the relationship has foundered lately on two issues that frequently divide Beijing and the West: Chinese industrial policy and human rights.
 Many Chinese expressed frustration this summer after the collapse of a deal for a state-owned company to acquire a 19 percent stake in Rio Tinto, a crucial supplier of iron ore to China's steel mills. Although economic factors stopped the deal, domestic suspicion of China's intentions toward an Australian corporate icon was an undercurrent in the talks.
 Relations deteriorated further in July after China arrested four Rio Tinto employees involved in iron-ore sales on espionage charges, accusing them of stealing state secrets about ore pricing. The Chinese later decided to pursue only lesser charges, but outraged Australians -- including Mr. Rudd -- warned that the prosecution would threaten China's commercial relations with the outside world.
 In Beijing, one political analyst said Friday that the rift was unlikely to cause lasting damage to Chinese-Australian relations.
 ''The mainstream of the two countries' relationship remains stable and friendly, even though there are some kinds of problems,'' said the analyst, Su Hao, director of the Center for Strategic and Conflict Management at China Foreign Affairs University in Beijing. The current spats, he said, are ''technical'' issues.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); POLITICS (76%); MINES & MINING (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); WRITERS (52%)

COMPANY: RIO TINTO GROUP (91%)

TICKER: RIOS (BRU) (91%); RIO (NYSE) (91%); RIO (LSE) (91%); RIO (ASX) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (91%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (91%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (91%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (91%)

PERSON: DALAI LAMA (79%); LI KEQIANG (59%); WEN JIABAO (59%); KEVIN RUDD (58%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%); CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (74%); XINJIANG, CHINA (59%) CHINA (99%); AUSTRALIA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); TIBET (92%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2009



592 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: VW Seeks to Turn Nostalgia Into Sales in U.S.

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
It is nice to be an iconic automobile brand in the United States. But as Volkswagen knows better than most carmakers, it's even nicer to actually sell cars. 
 While the rare old VW bus or vintage Beetle can be spotted chugging down the byways of America, nostalgia doesn't pay the bills. 
 ''You have California, the hippies, Woodstock and all the great memories Americans have for VW,'' Stefan Jacoby, the chief executive of the Volkswagen Group of America, said in an interview. ''But when it comes to the conversion -- 'Will I actually buy this car?' -- we lose our customers.'' 
 Wes Brown, an auto industry analyst at Iceology, a market research firm in Los Angeles that has done work for the German company, puts it more bluntly. The vehicles look good enough, Mr. Brown said, but consumers ''don't know what the brand stands for.'' 
 Mr. Jacoby is trying to change that. As baby boomers reminisce about the summer of Woodstock 40 years later, he is trying to devise a future for a brand in the largest automobile market in the world, at a time when many Americans associate VW more with the past than the present.
 After nearly three decades of faint and failed attempts to remake itself in the American market, Volkswagen is striving to recapture some of that old magic without being trapped by it. A central part of the company's effort is its new plant in Chattanooga, Tenn. Rather than exporting vehicles that fill niches in the United States, VW is angling to complement its commanding position in Europe and parts of Asia by increasing its share of the American market. The company aims to sell Americans a solid, midsize, made-in-Tennessee sedan -- probably under the Jetta name -- that will compete with the Japanese and American cars that millions of families use to shuttle children to soccer practice, go shopping or hit the road on recession-era vacations. 
 Volkswagen dominates the European market with smaller cars like the Golf and the semi-compact Polo, and once captured American hearts with the Beetle, but to grow in the United States, it says, the company's cars need to get bigger. 
 This is not a conventional wisdom in the age of eco-friendly consumers. But Mr. Jacoby is banking on it.
 ''Americans need more space than in Europe,'' he said. ''The United States will not turn into a place with only compact vehicles even if fuel prices go up.'' 
 VW is working off the premise that American driving tastes will not change, despite a deep recession that many economists believe could be giving way to a feeble recovery that could affect consumer habits for years to come. 
 Mr. Jacoby predicted that while American consumers would want greater fuel efficiency from their vehicles, they would be loath to sacrifice space to get it. 
 So Volkswagen is re-engineering its oh-so-European cars for the whims of American consumers, and at the same time revamping its dealer network. The whole package is getting a polish with an ad campaign it began last year about ''Das Auto.''
 Volkswagen is currently a bit player in the American market, on pace to capture about 2 percent of the market for cars and light trucks in 2009, according to MotorIntelligence.com, a research firm based in Woodcliff Lake, N.J. Even that is a step up from the 1.4 percent it had two years ago when Mr. Jacoby took over. 
 The Chattanooga plant will be ready to produce cars in 2011, a date that offers at least one advantage vis-a-vis American and Japanese competitors. 
 ''They can choose their moment to get going in the United States,'' said Ferdinand Dudenhoffer, director of the Center for Automotive Studies at the University of Duisburg-Essen. ''They were not already producing cars as the market collapsed.'' 
 So far the company has had mixed success with its model lineup. The Routan, a minivan made in partnership with Chrysler, has not done well. The company has gotten more traction with the Tiguan, a small sport utility vehicle, and with variations of the Jetta, its four-door sedan. 
 The Jetta platform will provide the basis for VW's new workhorse for the American market, and the company is ''pretty much convinced'' that Jetta will be the name as well, Mr. Jacoby said. But he promised a retooling that would try to blend European design and allure with Americans' practical needs. 
 For instance, there will be more and different types of cup holders -- a must-have for American consumers. 
 A different suspension will yield a smoother ride. Folding mirrors, a necessity in tight European streets, will not be standard. The acceleration and braking pedals will be farther apart in response to American complaints that it is easy to accidentally press both simultaneously. 
 And some other device will replace the balky dials used to recline seats in European cars. Market research in the United States found that ''women break their fingernails or scratch their hands,'' Mr. Jacoby said. 
 Volkswagen is also slowly asserting firm control over its dealer network, long a source of irritation among American buyers. They complained about bad after-sales service on top of quality problems, such as electrical systems, with VW cars. 
 After a $3 billion investment over the last few years, roughly 50 percent of VW's 580 dealers in the United States ''sell only VW cars,'' meaning their showrooms and service facilities are all under direct VW management. Another 30 to 35 percent will soon be, Mr. Jacoby said, adding that the company's internal research shows it is getting a handle on quality issues. 
 Then there is the matter of image. 
 Last year, Volkswagen introduced ''Das Auto,'' an advertising strategy built around Max, a talking 1964 black Beetle that the company hopes will connect with the older image of Volkswagen as a maker of memorable cars. In the future, Max will fade into the background as Volkswagen introduces new models for the American market and strives for a less niche, more mainstream image. 
 The tagline of the campaign -- ''It's what the people want'' -- is both an homage to Volkswagen's roots (its name means ''the people's car'' in German, and a tacit admission that for a long while Volkswagen has not been what Americans want. 
 ''We still have to be German, we still have to be Volkswagen,'' Mr. Jacoby said. ''But we have to get back into the hearts of American consumers.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Concert-goers perched atop a VW bus at the Woodstock festival in 1969. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Stefan Jacoby, chief executive of Volkswagen America, with the Jetta TDI clean diesel model at the Los Angeles Auto Show. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL BUCK/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) GRAPH: Room to Grow (Source: MotorIntelligence) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); SEDANS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); MARKET SHARE (74%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (74%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); BABY BOOMERS (69%); GREEN MARKET (68%); EXECUTIVES (56%)

COMPANY: VOLKSWAGEN FINANCIAL SERVICES AG (92%); VOLKSWAGEN GROUP OF AMERICA INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); SIC5012 AUTOMOBILES & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (69%) TENNESSEE, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (76%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (76%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2009



593 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: CENTRAL BANKERS SUGGEST REBOUND MAY HAVE BEGUN

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: JACKSON HOLE, Wyo. 

 BODY:
Central bankers from around the world expressed growing confidence on Friday that the worst of the financial crisis was over and that a global economic recovery was beginning to take shape.
 ''The prospects for a return to growth in the near term appear good,'' declared Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, offering optimism both about the United States and the worldwide outlook. 
 Though the Fed chairman repeated his warning that the economic recovery here was likely to be slow and arduous and that unemployment would remain high for another year, he went beyond the central bank's most recent statement that economic activity was ''leveling out.'' Speaking to central bankers and economists at the Fed's annual retreat here in the Grand Tetons, Mr. Bernanke echoed the growing relief among European and Asian central bankers that their own economies had already started to rebound. 
 Even as they indulged in a bit of self-congratulation over what had been achieved since the financial crisis of last year, these central bankers were beginning to focus quietly on another big task, how they will unwind the vast emergency measures they put in place to fight the crisis. 
 At almost the same time that Mr. Bernanke spoke, the National Association of Realtors reported that sales of existing homes jumped 7.2 percent in July -- the biggest monthly increase in more than a decade and much bigger than analysts had expected. 
 Investors reacted ebulliently to both the housing news and to the Fed chairman's remarks. The Dow Jones industrial average jumped as soon as the markets opened and ended the day up 155.91 points, or 1.67 percent, at 9505.96. Though stock prices are far below their record highs, the Dow has risen 45 percent from March and is at its highest point this year. 
 Shares of major home builders surged on the improvement in home sales, which was the fourth monthly increase in a row. While forecasters had expected a gain, the size of it jolted investors.
 But stocks for a wide range of other companies climbed higher as well, as did the prices of oil, copper and gold. Shares climbed for industrial companies, energy producers and manufacturers of chemicals, plastics and other basic materials. 
 ''This is a bull market,'' said Laszlo Birinyi Jr., president of Birinyi Associates, who said he was investing in large banks, well-established technology companies like Apple and big industrial companies like 3M and United States Steel. ''There's just a desire to be in the market and hope that the train will again leave the station.''
 Here in Jackson Hole, the mood of relief and cautious confidence among central bankers and economists on Friday was almost palpable -- a stark contrast to the anxiety and tension that permeated their retreat here one year ago. 
 ''It is reasonable to declare that the worst of the crisis is behind us, and that the first signs of global growth have appeared earlier than we generally expected nine months ago,'' said Stanley Fischer, governor of the Bank of Israel and a top former official at the International Monetary Fund. 
 In the past week, France and Germany both surprised forecasters by reporting positive growth after a string of quarterly contractions. Japan followed with its own growth report.
 The Fed and other central banks will have to unwind a number of emergency measures deployed during the peak of the crisis as growth returns. 
 A growing number of economists and some Fed officials say the shift to tighter monetary policies and higher interest rates, though unlikely to start until at least the middle of next year, may have to be much more abrupt than normal if they are to prevent inflation two or three years from now.
 ''When you get into a crisis like this, gradualism is not the right strategy,'' said Frederic S. Mishkin, an economist at Columbia University who was a Fed governor from 2006 until 2008. ''Of course, when things turn around, you have to be aggressive in the other direction.''
 Indeed, the Federal Reserve's ''exit strategy'' could lead to a clash with the Obama administration. The White House plans to release its newest budget estimates next week, and administration officials said that the 10-year deficit will rise to $9 trillion -- a big jump from its earlier estimate of $7 trillion. 
 Some Fed officials are already worried about criticism that they are financing the government's deficits by buying up long-term Treasury securities, and the central bank announced last week that it would end that program next month. 
 In the future, Fed officials could feel more pressure to further tighten monetary policy as a way of countering the government's deficit spending. The immense amount of borrowing could push up long-term interest rates, if foreign investors balk at buying up United States debt. 
 Assessing the extraordinary events of the last year, Mr. Bernanke argued that aggressive action by countries around the world prevented a collapse that would have been even worse than what actually took place.
 Asserting that short-term lending markets are functioning more normally, that corporate bond issuance is strong and that other ''previously moribund'' securitization markets are reviving, Mr. Bernanke said that both the United States and other major countries were poised for growth.
 In emphasizing not just an imminent end to the recession but also good chances for actual growth, Mr. Bernanke's assessment was in some ways surprising. 
 Despite encouraging signs on many fronts, American retailers have reported unexpectedly weak sales in the last week -- a sign that that consumer spending could drag down economic growth in the months ahead. And on Thursday, the Labor Department reported that new unemployment claims jumped again.
 And on Friday, a prominent banking analyst warned that hundreds more American banks would fail over the next year, adding to the difficulties that small businesses have experienced in routine borrowing.
 ''There will be over 300 bank closures,'' Meredith Whitney, the Wall Street analyst who accurately predicted last year that Citigroup would have to cut its dividend, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television in Jackson Hole. 
 Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the European Central Bank, cautioned against assuming that the world was back to normal.
 ''We still have a lot of work to do,'' he said, adding that ''it would be a catastrophe'' if governments failed to heed the lessons of the crisis and financial regulation.
 Mr. Bernanke acknowledged that the banking system's problems were far from over.
 ''Strains persist in many financial markets across the globe,'' he cautioned. ''Financial institutions face significant additional losses, and many businesses and households continue to experience considerable difficulty gaining access to credit.''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 9, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Aug. 22 about growing confidence among central bankers that a global economic recovery was taking shape misstated the name of the area where the bankers were gathered at the Federal Reserve's annual retreat. It is Grand Teton National Park, not ''the Grand Tetons.'' (The Teton range gets its name from a single mountain known as Grand Teton.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ben S. Bernanke, head of the Federal Reserve, arriving for a session during the bank's annual retreat in Jackson Hole, Wyo. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Sales of existing homes rose 7.2 percent in July, the biggest jump this decade and a bigger one than analysts had expected. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (94%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CHEMICALS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); EXISTING HOME SALES (74%); MOUNTAINS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (65%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (65%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (65%); STOCK INDEXES (64%); CHEMICALS MFG (64%)

COMPANY: 3M CO (61%); UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (55%)

TICKER: MMM (SWX) (61%); MMM (NYSE) (61%); MMM (FRA) (61%); X (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (61%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (61%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (61%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (57%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (92%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2009



594 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Voices Of Anxiety

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
Barack Obama is a guy who is easy to underestimate. Six years ago hardly anyone outside of Illinois had ever heard of him. Now he's America's first Zen-master president.
 On Thursday, he made a jocular reference to the tendency of pundits and others to declare periodically that he's off his game and headed for disaster. He noted that in August 2008, with his poll numbers wavering and the Republicans energized by the addition of Sarah Palin to the national ticket, a lot of people were convinced that, as he put it, ''Obama's lost his mojo.''
 ''You remember all that?'' he asked, smiling. ''There is something about August going into September where everybody in Washington gets all wee-weed up.'' 
 Wee-weed up? I don't know what that means, but the president seemed pretty relaxed when he said it. This was the same day that he went on a radio program and did his Joe Namath routine, guaranteeing that health care reform would get done.
 The president may be sanguine, but the same cannot be said of the general public, including some of Mr. Obama's most ardent supporters. The American people are worried sick over the economy, which may be sprouting green shoots from Ben Bernanke's lofty perspective but not from the humble standpoint of the many millions who are unemployed, or those who are still working but barely able to pay their bills and hold onto their homes.
 This is the reality that underlies the anxiety over the president's ragged effort to achieve health care reform. Forget the certifiables who are scrawling Hitler mustaches on pictures of the president. Many sane and intelligent people who voted for Mr. Obama and sincerely want him to succeed have legitimate concerns about the timing of this health reform initiative and the way it is unfolding.
 The president has not made it clear to the general public why health care reform is his top domestic priority when the biggest issue on the minds of most Americans is the economy. Men and women who once felt themselves to be securely rooted in the middle or upper middle classes are now struggling with pay cuts, job losses and home foreclosures -- and they don't feel, despite the rhetoric about the recession winding down, that their prospects are good.
 People worried about holding on to their standard of living need to be assured, unambiguously, that an expensive new government program is in their -- and the country's -- best interest. They need to know exactly how the program will work, and they need to be confident that it's affordable. 
 Mr. Obama, who has a command of the English language like few others, has been remarkably opaque about his intentions regarding health care. He left it up to Congress to draft a plan and he has not gotten behind any specific legislation. He has seemed to waffle on the public option and has not been at all clear about how the reform that is coming will rein in runaway costs. At times it has seemed as though any old ''reform'' would be all right with him.
 It's still early, but people are starting to lose faith in the president. I hear almost daily from men and women who voted enthusiastically for Mr. Obama but are feeling disappointed. They feel that the banks made out like bandits in the bailouts, and that the health care initiative could become a boondoggle. Their biggest worry is that Mr. Obama is soft, that he is unwilling or incapable of fighting hard enough to counter the forces responsible for the sorry state the country is in.
 More and more the president is being seen by his own supporters as someone who would like to please everybody, who is naive about the prospects for bipartisanship, who believes that his strongest supporters will stay with him because they have nowhere else to go, and who will retreat whenever the Republicans and the corporate crowd come after him.
 People want more from Mr. Obama. They want him to be their champion. But they don't feel that he is speaking to them in a language that they understand. He is seen as more comfortable speaking the Wall Street lingo. People don't feel that the voices of anxiety are being heard.
 Maybe they're wrong. Maybe the economy really is turning around. Maybe Mr. Obama is working on a bipartisan deal that will take us a few small steps down the road to real health care reform.
 It's possible that we've been without mature leadership for so long that it's difficult to recognize it when we see it. Mr. Obama has proved the naysayers wrong time and again. But if it turns out that this time he's wrong, hold onto your hats. Because right now there is no Plan B.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); FORECLOSURE (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); SARAH PALIN (58%); BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2009



595 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; WHITE HOUSE MEMO; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: With Smiles, Obama Leaves Capital Behind

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama strode across the South Lawn of the White House shortly after lunchtime on Friday, climbed the steps to Marine One and officially opened his nine-day August vacation.
 The smile on his face, along with a cheerful wave, offered an unmistakable sign of relief that he was getting out of town not a moment too soon.
 As Mr. Obama navigates through one of the most trying periods of his presidency, with his health care agenda being attacked across the political spectrum, he has sent his circle of advisers away on vacations of their own. Offices throughout the West Wing have grown emptier by the day, one of several indications that the administration is not as panic-stricken as falling poll numbers and rising criticism might suggest. 
 ''He is a chess player in a town with a lot of checker players,'' said David Plouffe, who managed the Obama campaign and remains a close confidant of the president. ''He's got a unique metabolism. He's very calm, and he takes the long view of things.''
 Still, August has not been kind to the president. 
 Besides the health care debate, the administration is grappling with a stubborn economic crisis and fresh violence in Iraq and Afghanistan. Yet it would be difficult to discern from talking to his aides or from watching Mr. Obama himself that he is facing a moment as difficult as any he has faced since taking office or during his two-year campaign for the presidency.
 ''There's something about August going into September, where everybody in Washington gets all wee-weed up,'' Mr. Obama said the other afternoon, speaking to a group of supporters. ''I don't know what it is, but that's what happens.''
 Mr. Obama, who set off for two days at Camp David before a scheduled weeklong trip to Martha's Vineyard with his family, has a history of making long-shot recoveries. And justifiably or not, he and his advisers say they are confident they are on the downside of a cycle of Washington politics they have learned to, if not master, at least ride out.
 Throughout his brief political career, Mr. Obama has often emerged at his best during such sky-is-falling moments. That said, the difficulties do appear daunting -- so much so that he scaled back his time on television this week because Democratic focus groups and polls suggested that some Americans were growing tired of seeing so much of him.
 As Mr. Obama begins his eighth month in office, Republicans show no signs of wanting to work with him, having lost whatever fear they may have had after his impressive victory last year. And Democrats are split over the next step for health care.
 His political base, which offered a well of political and spiritual nourishment during the darkest times in his primary and general election battles, shows at least some signs of being disillusioned by his handling of not only the health care issue, but also of the issue of gay men and lesbians in the military and his decision to send more troops to Afghanistan.
 David Axelrod, a senior adviser to the president, said in an interview Friday that Mr. Obama's experience through a bruising two-year political campaign provided a dose of perspective. 
 ''We have the advantage of having been through so many political storms that have sent Washington into a frenzy,'' Mr. Axelrod said. ''What we've learned from that is that you have to look to the distant shore. You can't panic from the choppy waves around you. He's got his eye on that.''
 But the White House also has its eye on public opinion polls, along with the administration's own extensive political research, which show that confidence in Mr. Obama's leadership has fallen throughout the summer largely because of the health care debate.
 At several points in recent weeks, including during a retreat for members of the cabinet and senior advisers, Mr. Obama has expressed frustration that his message has not been as sharp as he believes it should have been. As he did through the campaign, he pressed members of his team to learn as they go and not to repeat mistakes.
 ''He doesn't like being off track,'' Mr. Plouffe said. ''He works to get people on track.''
 The White House is still discussing how to present the president's health care agenda when Congress returns in September. A speech before a joint session of Congress is a possibility, aides said, as is an address to the nation from the Oval Office. The president is also expected to hold more town-hall-style meetings across the nation.
 But for the rest of August, Mr. Obama has encouraged his aides to take a break, which for many is the first real vacation in more than a year.
 Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff, is fishing in Montana. Phil Schiliro, the head of legislative affairs, is in the mountains of New Mexico. Valerie Jarrett and Pete Rouse, both of whom are senior advisers to the president, are heading to Martha's Vineyard for vacations of their own.
 Mr. Obama, whom aides described as being amused by all of the gloom-and-doom prognosticating over his health care agenda, did not even consider skipping his vacation. Last year, he talked about the importance of taking a break to avoid ''making mistakes.''
 Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, said, ''I don't think the American people begrudge a president taking some time with his family that's well earned and well deserved.''
 As Mr. Obama left the White House on Friday afternoon, he offered only a glimpse into his plans for the week. ''I'm going to play some golf,'' he said, smiling until he disappeared from view. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama left Washington on Friday for a nine-day vacation, and has sent his top advisers on vacations of their own. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); FOCUS GROUPS (69%); BOARD GAMES (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (55%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2009



596 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: Energy Dept. Fails to Use Thermostats to Cut Costs

BYLINE: By BERNIE BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Energy Department strives to be a leader in championing energy efficiency. Its Web site lists energy-saving tips, while Secretary Steven Chu calls conservation one of the department's most important goals.
 But at many of the agency's buildings, even at national laboratories where talented scientists seek technological breakthroughs to save energy, the department has failed to use one of the most effective tools available to any ordinary household: thermostats that automatically dial back the temperature when nobody is around.
 A recent audit found that the department could save more than $11.5 million annually in energy costs by properly employing these ''setback'' controls to adjust the heat and air conditioning at night or on weekends. 
 The Energy Department's inspector general found that the department, which spends almost $300 million annually on utilities, could save enough energy to power more than 9,800 homes each year by doing what experts say every household in the country should also be doing.
 The payback would far exceed the costs, and in some cases the equipment has actually been installed but is not working.
 Cathy Zoi, an assistant energy secretary, said that the department took the audit's findings seriously and that the report could give the agency ''the impetus to show that efficiency really is a high priority.''
 ''If this can help us galvanize attention, then it's fantastic,'' Ms. Zoi said.
 Lane Burt, an energy policy analyst for the Natural Resources Defense Council, said the department's failure to use setbacks ''was literally leaving money on the table.''
 ''They've actually invested taxpayer money to be more efficient, and then failed to use it,'' Mr. Burt said. ''It's like a double penalty. But the good news is that because many of the systems are installed and ready, the savings can begin immediately.''
 The inspector general reviewed 55 buildings at four department sites for the audit, finding that the agency had either not used or not suitably maintained setbacks at 35 of those buildings. Setbacks can be used in most buildings but should be avoided in buildings that contain items sensitive to temperature change or that are used for long hours.
 The Energy Department runs a variety of programs relating to energy production and conservation and is in charge of the nuclear weapons production complex. The setback thermostats were neglected across the board.
 The report found that at two buildings at the Los Alamos National Laboratory, a National Nuclear Security Administration facility in New Mexico, facility operators were not trained to operate setback controls. At the Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee, part of the Office of Science, setback equipment was not replaced in two buildings after a 2008 electronic control system failure because officials there ''planned to implement campus-wide energy conservation measures in the future.''
 And the property manager for two recently leased buildings at the Y-12 National Security Complex, an N.N.S.A. facility in Tennessee, told auditors that the buildings' owner had not obtained software needed to use setbacks.
 In the report, some department officials implied that financing issues could have contributed to setbacks' not being used, while others said their use ''was simply not a priority.'' For its part, the inspector general's office said it ''could find no plausible reason for the lack of interest.''
 ''We could not obtain what we considered to be a satisfactory explanation as to why the department failed to take advantage of this conservation practice,'' the report said, ''one that is generally low cost and has limited, if any, adverse impact on operations or building occupants.''
 Harvey Sachs, a senior fellow at the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy, said he was not terribly surprised by what he called ''just one example of almost universal market failures'' when it came to energy conservation.
 ''If I was in the nuclear management business,'' Mr. Sachs said, ''I imagine there would be much more urgent stuff for me to worry about than where the thermostat is set.'' 
 But, he added, the results of the audit were another sign that ''for a lot of reasons, energy efficiency has not gotten as much play as it should have.'' 
 Ms. Zoi said the department was looking at steps to increase efficiency in its buildings, including offering more support to the facilities managers who oversee setbacks and other efficiency measures. ''They've got a lot of responsibility, so we want to give them the help that they need to maximize efficiency,'' she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (91%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); THERMAL SENSORS (90%); AUDITS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (63%)

PERSON: STEVEN CHU (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (85%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (85%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



597 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 5638 words

HEADLINE: The Women's Crusade

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF and SHERYL WuDUNN. 
Nicholas D. Kristof is a New York Times Op-Ed columnist and Sheryl WuDunn is a former Times correspondent who works in finance and philanthropy. This essay is adapted from their book ''Half the Sky: Turning Oppression Into Opportunity for Women Worldwide,'' which will be published next month by Alfred A. Knopf. You can learn more about ''Half the Sky'' at nytimes.com/ontheground.

 BODY:
 IN THE 19TH CENTURY, the paramount moral challenge was slavery. In the 20th century, it was totalitarianism. In this century, it is the brutality inflicted on so many women and girls around the globe: sex trafficking, acid attacks, bride burnings and mass rape. 
 Yet if the injustices that women in poor countries suffer are of paramount importance, in an economic and geopolitical sense the opportunity they represent is even greater. ''Women hold up half the sky,'' in the words of a Chinese saying, yet that's mostly an aspiration: in a large slice of the world, girls are uneducated and women marginalized, and it's not an accident that those same countries are disproportionately mired in poverty and riven by fundamentalism and chaos. There's a growing recognition among everyone from the World Bank to the U.S. military's Joint Chiefs of Staff to aid organizations like CARE that focusing on women and girls is the most effective way to fight global poverty and extremism. That's why foreign aid is increasingly directed to women. The world is awakening to a powerful truth: Women and girls aren't the problem; they're the solution. 
 One place to observe this alchemy of gender is in the muddy back alleys of Pakistan. In a slum outside the grand old city of Lahore, a woman named Saima Muhammad used to dissolve into tears every evening. A round-faced woman with thick black hair tucked into a head scarf, Saima had barely a rupee, and her deadbeat husband was unemployed and not particularly employable. He was frustrated and angry, and he coped by beating Saima each afternoon. Their house was falling apart, and Saima had to send her young daughter to live with an aunt, because there wasn't enough food to go around.
 ''My sister-in-law made fun of me, saying, 'You can't even feed your children,' '' recalled Saima when Nick met her two years ago on a trip to Pakistan. ''My husband beat me up. My brother-in-law beat me up. I had an awful life.'' Saima's husband accumulated a debt of more than $3,000, and it seemed that these loans would hang over the family for generations. Then when Saima's second child was born and turned out to be a girl as well, her mother-in-law, a harsh, blunt woman named Sharifa Bibi, raised the stakes.
 ''She's not going to have a son,'' Sharifa told Saima's husband, in front of her. ''So you should marry again. Take a second wife.'' Saima was shattered and ran off sobbing. Another wife would leave even less money to feed and educate the children. And Saima herself would be marginalized in the household, cast off like an old sock. For days Saima walked around in a daze, her eyes red; the slightest incident would send her collapsing into hysterical tears.
 It was at that point that Saima signed up with the Kashf Foundation, a Pakistani microfinance organization that lends tiny amounts of money to poor women to start businesses. Kashf is typical of microfinance institutions, in that it lends almost exclusively to women, in groups of 25. The women guarantee one another's debts and meet every two weeks to make payments and discuss a social issue, like family planning or schooling for girls. A Pakistani woman is often forbidden to leave the house without her husband's permission, but husbands tolerate these meetings because the women return with cash and investment ideas.
 Saima took out a $65 loan and used the money to buy beads and cloth, which she transformed into beautiful embroidery that she then sold to merchants in the markets of Lahore. She used the profit to buy more beads and cloth, and soon she had an embroidery business and was earning a solid income -- the only one in her household to do so. Saima took her elder daughter back from the aunt and began paying off her husband's debt.
 When merchants requested more embroidery than Saima could produce, she paid neighbors to assist her. Eventually 30 families were working for her, and she put her husband to work as well -- ''under my direction,'' she explained with a twinkle in her eye. Saima became the tycoon of the neighborhood, and she was able to pay off her husband's entire debt, keep her daughters in school, renovate the house, connect running water and buy a television.
 ''Now everyone comes to me to borrow money, the same ones who used to criticize me,'' Saima said, beaming in satisfaction. ''And the children of those who used to criticize me now come to my house to watch TV.''
 Today, Saima is a bit plump and displays a gold nose ring as well as several other rings and bracelets on each wrist. She exudes self-confidence as she offers a grand tour of her home and work area, ostentatiously showing off the television and the new plumbing. She doesn't even pretend to be subordinate to her husband. He spends his days mostly loafing around, occasionally helping with the work but always having to accept orders from his wife. He has become more impressed with females in general: Saima had a third child, also a girl, but now that's not a problem. ''Girls are just as good as boys,'' he explained.
 Saima's new prosperity has transformed the family's educational prospects. She is planning to send all three of her daughters through high school and maybe to college as well. She brings in tutors to improve their schoolwork, and her oldest child, Javaria, is ranked first in her class. We asked Javaria what she wanted to be when she grew up, thinking she might aspire to be a doctor or lawyer. Javaria cocked her head. ''I'd like to do embroidery,'' she said. 
 As for her husband, Saima said, ''We have a good relationship now.'' She explained, ''We don't fight, and he treats me well.'' And what about finding another wife who might bear him a son? Saima chuckled at the question: ''Now nobody says anything about that.'' Sharifa Bibi, the mother-in-law, looked shocked when we asked whether she wanted her son to take a second wife to bear a son. ''No, no,'' she said. ''Saima is bringing so much to this house. . . . She puts a roof over our heads and food on the table.''
 Sharifa even allows that Saima is now largely exempt from beatings by her husband. ''A woman should know her limits, and if not, then it's her husband's right to beat her,'' Sharifa said. ''But if a woman earns more than her husband, it's difficult for him to discipline her.''
 WHAT SHOULD we make of stories like Saima's? Traditionally, the status of women was seen as a ''soft'' issue -- worthy but marginal. We initially reflected that view ourselves in our work as journalists. We preferred to focus instead on the ''serious'' international issues, like trade disputes or arms proliferation. Our awakening came in China.
 After we married in 1988, we moved to Beijing to be correspondents for The New York Times. Seven months later we found ourselves standing on the edge of Tiananmen Square watching troops fire their automatic weapons at prodemocracy protesters. The massacre claimed between 400 and 800 lives and transfixed the world; wrenching images of the killings appeared constantly on the front page and on television screens.
 Yet the following year we came across an obscure but meticulous demographic study that outlined a human rights violation that had claimed tens of thousands more lives. This study found that 39,000 baby girls died annually in China because parents didn't give them the same medical care and attention that boys received -- and that was just in the first year of life. A result is that as many infant girls died unnecessarily every week in China as protesters died at Tiananmen Square. Those Chinese girls never received a column inch of news coverage, and we began to wonder if our journalistic priorities were skewed.
 A similar pattern emerged in other countries. In India, a ''bride burning'' takes place approximately once every two hours, to punish a woman for an inadequate dowry or to eliminate her so a man can remarry -- but these rarely constitute news. When a prominent dissident was arrested in China, we would write a front-page article; when 100,000 girls were kidnapped and trafficked into brothels, we didn't even consider it news.
 Amartya Sen, the ebullient Nobel Prize-winning economist, developed a gauge of gender inequality that is a striking reminder of the stakes involved. ''More than 100 million women are missing,'' Sen wrote in a classic essay in 1990 in The New York Review of Books, spurring a new field of research. Sen noted that in normal circumstances, women live longer than men, and so there are more females than males in much of the world. Yet in places where girls have a deeply unequal status, they vanish. China has 107 males for every 100 females in its overall population (and an even greater disproportion among newborns), and India has 108. The implication of the sex ratios, Sen later found, is that about 107 million females are missing from the globe today. Follow-up studies have calculated the number slightly differently, deriving alternative figures for ''missing women'' of between 60 million and 107 million.
 Girls vanish partly because they don't get the same health care and food as boys. In India, for example, girls are less likely to be vaccinated than boys and are taken to the hospital only when they are sicker. A result is that girls in India from 1 to 5 years of age are 50 percent more likely to die than boys their age. In addition, ultrasound machines have allowed a pregnant woman to find out the sex of her fetus -- and then get an abortion if it is female.
 The global statistics on the abuse of girls are numbing. It appears that more girls and women are now missing from the planet, precisely because they are female, than men were killed on the battlefield in all the wars of the 20th century. The number of victims of this routine ''gendercide'' far exceeds the number of people who were slaughtered in all the genocides of the 20th century.
 For those women who live, mistreatment is sometimes shockingly brutal. If you're reading this article, the phrase ''gender discrimination'' might conjure thoughts of unequal pay, underfinanced sports teams or unwanted touching from a boss. In the developing world, meanwhile, millions of women and girls are actually enslaved. While a precise number is hard to pin down, the International Labor Organization, a U.N. agency, estimates that at any one time there are 12.3 million people engaged in forced labor of all kinds, including sexual servitude. In Asia alone about one million children working in the sex trade are held in conditions indistinguishable from slavery, according to a U.N. report. Girls and women are locked in brothels and beaten if they resist, fed just enough to be kept alive and often sedated with drugs -- to pacify them and often to cultivate addiction. India probably has more modern slaves than any other country.
 Another huge burden for women in poor countries is maternal mortality, with one woman dying in childbirth around the world every minute. In the West African country Niger, a woman stands a one-in-seven chance of dying in childbirth at some point in her life. (These statistics are all somewhat dubious, because maternal mortality isn't considered significant enough to require good data collection.) For all of India's shiny new high-rises, a woman there still has a 1-in-70 lifetime chance of dying in childbirth. In contrast, the lifetime risk in the United States is 1 in 4,800; in Ireland, it is 1 in 47,600. The reason for the gap is not that we don't know how to save lives of women in poor countries. It's simply that poor, uneducated women in Africa and Asia have never been a priority either in their own countries or to donor nations.
 ABBAS BE, A BEAUTIFUL teenage girl in the Indian city of Hyderabad, has chocolate skin, black hair and gleaming white teeth -- and a lovely smile, which made her all the more marketable.
 Money was tight in her family, so when she was about 14 she arranged to take a job as a maid in the capital, New Delhi. Instead, she was locked up in a brothel, beaten with a cricket bat, gang-raped and told that she would have to cater to customers. Three days after she arrived, Abbas and all 70 girls in the brothel were made to gather round and watch as the pimps made an example of one teenage girl who had fought customers. The troublesome girl was stripped naked, hogtied, humiliated and mocked, beaten savagely and then stabbed in the stomach until she bled to death in front of Abbas and the others.
 Abbas was never paid for her work. Any sign of dissatisfaction led to a beating or worse; two more times, she watched girls murdered by the brothel managers for resisting. Eventually Abbas was freed by police and taken back to Hyderabad. She found a home in a shelter run by Prajwala, an organization that takes in girls rescued from brothels and teaches them new skills. Abbas is acquiring an education and has learned to be a bookbinder; she also counsels other girls about how to avoid being trafficked. As a skilled bookbinder, Abbas is able to earn a decent living, and she is now helping to put her younger sisters through school as well. With an education, they will be far less vulnerable to being trafficked. Abbas has moved from being a slave to being a producer, contributing to India's economic development and helping raise her family.
 Perhaps the lesson presented by both Abbas and Saima is the same: In many poor countries, the greatest unexploited resource isn't oil fields or veins of gold; it is the women and girls who aren't educated and never become a major presence in the formal economy. With education and with help starting businesses, impoverished women can earn money and support their countries as well as their families. They represent perhaps the best hope for fighting global poverty.
 In East Asia, as we saw in our years of reporting there, women have already benefited from deep social changes. In countries like South Korea and Malaysia, China and Thailand, rural girls who previously contributed negligibly to the economy have gone to school and received educations, giving them the autonomy to move to the city to hold factory jobs. This hugely increased the formal labor force; when the women then delayed childbearing, there was a demographic dividend to the country as well. In the 1990s, by our estimations, some 80 percent of the employees on the assembly lines in coastal China were female, and the proportion across the manufacturing belt of East Asia was at least 70 percent.
 The hours were long and the conditions wretched, just as in the sweatshops of the Industrial Revolution in the West. But peasant women were making money, sending it back home and sometimes becoming the breadwinners in their families. They gained new skills that elevated their status. Westerners encounter sweatshops and see exploitation, and indeed, many of these plants are just as bad as critics say. But it's sometimes said in poor countries that the only thing worse than being exploited in a sweatshop is not being exploited in a sweatshop. Low-wage manufacturing jobs disproportionately benefited women in countries like China because these were jobs for which brute physical force was not necessary and women's nimbleness gave them an advantage over men -- which was not the case with agricultural labor or construction or other jobs typically available in poor countries. Strange as it may seem, sweatshops in Asia had the effect of empowering women. One hundred years ago, many women in China were still having their feet bound. Today, while discrimination and inequality and harassment persist, the culture has been transformed. In the major cities, we've found that Chinese men often do more domestic chores than American men typically do. And urban parents are often not only happy with an only daughter; they may even prefer one, under the belief that daughters are better than sons at looking after aging parents.
 WHY DO MICROFINANCE organizations usually focus their assistance on women? And why does everyone benefit when women enter the work force and bring home regular pay checks? One reason involves the dirty little secret of global poverty: some of the most wretched suffering is caused not just by low incomes but also by unwise spending by the poor -- especially by men. Surprisingly frequently, we've come across a mother mourning a child who has just died of malaria for want of a $5 mosquito bed net; the mother says that the family couldn't afford a bed net and she means it, but then we find the father at a nearby bar. He goes three evenings a week to the bar, spending $5 each week.
 Our interviews and perusal of the data available suggest that the poorest families in the world spend approximately 10 times as much (20 percent of their incomes on average) on a combination of alcohol, prostitution, candy, sugary drinks and lavish feasts as they do on educating their children (2 percent). If poor families spent only as much on educating their children as they do on beer and prostitutes, there would be a breakthrough in the prospects of poor countries. Girls, since they are the ones kept home from school now, would be the biggest beneficiaries. Moreover, one way to reallocate family expenditures in this way is to put more money in the hands of women. A series of studies has found that when women hold assets or gain incomes, family money is more likely to be spent on nutrition, medicine and housing, and consequently children are healthier.
 In Ivory Coast, one research project examined the different crops that men and women grow for their private kitties: men grow coffee, cocoa and pineapple, and women grow plantains, bananas, coconuts and vegetables. Some years the ''men's crops'' have good harvests and the men are flush with cash, and other years it is the women who prosper. Money is to some extent shared. But even so, the economist Esther Duflo of M.I.T. found that when the men's crops flourish, the household spends more money on alcohol and tobacco. When the women have a good crop, the households spend more money on food. ''When women command greater power, child health and nutrition improves,'' Duflo says.
 Such research has concrete implications: for example, donor countries should nudge poor countries to adjust their laws so that when a man dies, his property is passed on to his widow rather than to his brothers. Governments should make it easy for women to hold property and bank accounts -- 1 percent of the world's landowners are women -- and they should make it much easier for microfinance institutions to start banks so that women can save money.
 OF COURSE, IT'S FAIR to ask: empowering women is well and good, but can one do this effectively? Does foreign aid really work? William Easterly, an economist at New York University, has argued powerfully that shoveling money at poor countries accomplishes little. Some Africans, including Dambisa Moyo, author of ''Dead Aid,'' have said the same thing. The critics note that there has been no correlation between amounts of aid going to countries and their economic growth rates.
 Our take is that, frankly, there is something to these criticisms. Helping people is far harder than it looks. Aid experiments often go awry, or small successes turn out to be difficult to replicate or scale up. Yet we've also seen, anecdotally and in the statistics, evidence that some kinds of aid have been enormously effective. The delivery of vaccinations and other kinds of health care has reduced the number of children who die every year before they reach the age of 5 to less than 10 million today from 20 million in 1960.
 In general, aid appears to work best when it is focused on health, education and microfinance (although microfinance has been somewhat less successful in Africa than in Asia). And in each case, crucially, aid has often been most effective when aimed at women and girls; when policy wonks do the math, they often find that these investments have a net economic return. Only a small proportion of aid specifically targets women or girls, but increasingly donors are recognizing that that is where they often get the most bang for the buck.
 In the early 1990s, the United Nations and the World Bank began to proclaim the potential resource that women and girls represent. ''Investment in girls' education may well be the highest-return investment available in the developing world,'' Larry Summers wrote when he was chief economist of the World Bank. Private aid groups and foundations shifted gears as well. ''Women are the key to ending hunger in Africa,'' declared the Hunger Project. The Center for Global Development issued a major report explaining ''why and how to put girls at the center of development.'' CARE took women and girls as the centerpiece of its anti-poverty efforts. ''Gender inequality hurts economic growth,'' Goldman Sachs concluded in a 2008 research report that emphasized how much developing countries could improve their economic performance by educating girls.
 Bill Gates recalls once being invited to speak in Saudi Arabia and finding himself facing a segregated audience. Four-fifths of the listeners were men, on the left. The remaining one-fifth were women, all covered in black cloaks and veils, on the right. A partition separated the two groups. Toward the end, in the question-and-answer session, a member of the audience noted that Saudi Arabia aimed to be one of the Top 10 countries in the world in technology by 2010 and asked if that was realistic. ''Well, if you're not fully utilizing half the talent in the country,'' Gates said, ''you're not going to get too close to the Top 10.'' The small group on the right erupted in wild cheering.
 Policy makers have gotten the message as well. President Obama has appointed a new White House Council on Women and Girls. Perhaps he was indoctrinated by his mother, who was one of the early adopters of microloans to women when she worked to fight poverty in Indonesia. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton is a member of the White House Council, and she has also selected a talented activist, Melanne Verveer, to direct a new State Department Office of Global Women's Issues. On Capitol Hill, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee has put Senator Barbara Boxer in charge of a new subcommittee that deals with women's issues.
 Yet another reason to educate and empower women is that greater female involvement in society and the economy appears to undermine extremism and terrorism. It has long been known that a risk factor for turbulence and violence is the share of a country's population made up of young people. Now it is emerging that male domination of society is also a risk factor; the reasons aren't fully understood, but it may be that when women are marginalized the nation takes on the testosterone-laden culture of a military camp or a high-school boys' locker room. That's in part why the Joint Chiefs of Staff and international security specialists are puzzling over how to increase girls' education in countries like Afghanistan -- and why generals have gotten briefings from Greg Mortenson, who wrote about building girls' schools in his best seller, ''Three Cups of Tea.'' Indeed, some scholars say they believe the reason Muslim countries have been disproportionately afflicted by terrorism is not Islamic teachings about infidels or violence but rather the low levels of female education and participation in the labor force.
 SO WHAT WOULD an agenda for fighting poverty through helping women look like? You might begin with the education of girls -- which doesn't just mean building schools. There are other innovative means at our disposal. A study in Kenya by Michael Kremer, a Harvard economist, examined six different approaches to improving educational performance, from providing free textbooks to child-sponsorship programs. The approach that raised student test scores the most was to offer girls who had scored in the top 15 percent of their class on sixth-grade tests a $19 scholarship for seventh and eighth grade (and the glory of recognition at an assembly). Boys also performed better, apparently because they were pushed by the girls or didn't want to endure the embarrassment of being left behind. 
 Another Kenyan study found that giving girls a new $6 school uniform every 18 months significantly reduced dropout rates and pregnancy rates. Likewise, there's growing evidence that a cheap way to help keep high-school girls in school is to help them manage menstruation. For fear of embarrassing leaks and stains, girls sometimes stay home during their periods, and the absenteeism puts them behind and eventually leads them to drop out. Aid workers are experimenting with giving African teenage girls sanitary pads, along with access to a toilet where they can change them. The Campaign for Female Education, an organization devoted to getting more girls into school in Africa, helps girls with their periods, and a new group, Sustainable Health Enterprises, is trying to do the same.
 And so, if President Obama wanted to adopt a foreign-aid policy that built on insights into the role of women in development, he would do well to start with education. We would suggest a $10 billion effort over five years to educate girls around the world. This initiative would focus on Africa but would also support -- and prod -- Asian countries like Afghanistan and Pakistan to do better. This plan would also double as population policy, for it would significantly reduce birthrates -- and thus help poor countries overcome the demographic obstacles to economic growth.
 But President Obama might consider two different proposals as well. We would recommend that the United States sponsor a global drive to eliminate iodine deficiency around the globe, by helping countries iodize salt. About a third of households in the developing world do not get enough iodine, and a result is often an impairment in brain formation in the fetal stages. For reasons that are unclear, this particularly affects female fetuses and typically costs children 10 to 15 I.Q. points. Research by Erica Field of Harvard found that daughters of women given iodine performed markedly better in school. Other research suggests that salt iodization would yield benefits worth nine times the cost.
 We would also recommend that the United States announce a 12-year, $1.6 billion program to eradicate obstetric fistula, a childbirth injury that is one of the worst scourges of women in the developing world. An obstetric fistula, which is a hole created inside the body by a difficult childbirth, leaves a woman incontinent, smelly, often crippled and shunned by her village -- yet it can be repaired for a few hundred dollars. Dr. Lewis Wall, president of the Worldwide Fistula Fund, and Michael Horowitz, a conservative agitator on humanitarian issues, have drafted the 12-year plan -- and it's eminently practical and built on proven methods. Evidence that fistulas can be prevented or repaired comes from impoverished Somaliland, a northern enclave of Somalia, where an extraordinary nurse-midwife named Edna Adan has built her own maternity hospital to save the lives of the women around her. A former first lady of Somalia and World Health Organization official, Adan used her savings to build the hospital, which is supported by a group of admirers in the U.S. who call themselves Friends of Edna Maternity Hospital.
 For all the legitimate concerns about how well humanitarian aid is spent, investments in education, iodizing salt and maternal health all have a proven record of success. And the sums are modest: all three components of our plan together amount to about what the U.S. has provided Pakistan since 9/11 -- a sum that accomplished virtually nothing worthwhile either for Pakistanis or for Americans.
 ONE OF THE MANY aid groups that for pragmatic reasons has increasingly focused on women is Heifer International, a charitable organization based in Arkansas that has been around for decades. The organization gives cows, goats and chickens to farmers in poor countries. On assuming the presidency of Heifer in 1992, the activist Jo Luck traveled to Africa, where one day she found herself sitting on the ground with a group of young women in a Zimbabwean village. One of them was Tererai Trent.
 Tererai is a long-faced woman with high cheekbones and a medium brown complexion; she has a high forehead and tight cornrows. Like many women around the world, she doesn't know when she was born and has no documentation of her birth. As a child, Tererai didn't get much formal education, partly because she was a girl and was expected to do household chores. She herded cattle and looked after her younger siblings. Her father would say, Let's send our sons to school, because they will be the breadwinners. Tererai's brother, Tinashe, was forced to go to school, where he was an indifferent student. Tererai pleaded to be allowed to attend but wasn't permitted to do so. Tinashe brought his books home each afternoon, and Tererai pored over them and taught herself to read and write. Soon she was doing her brother's homework every evening.
 The teacher grew puzzled, for Tinashe was a poor student in class but always handed in exemplary homework. Finally, the teacher noticed that the handwriting was different for homework and for class assignments and whipped Tinashe until he confessed the truth. Then the teacher went to the father, told him that Tererai was a prodigy and begged that she be allowed to attend school. After much argument, the father allowed Tererai to attend school for a couple of terms, but then married her off at about age 11.
 Tererai's husband barred her from attending school, resented her literacy and beat her whenever she tried to practice her reading by looking at a scrap of old newspaper. Indeed, he beat her for plenty more as well. She hated her marriage but had no way out. ''If you're a woman and you are not educated, what else?'' she asks.
 Yet when Jo Luck came and talked to Tererai and other young women in her village, Luck kept insisting that things did not have to be this way. She kept saying that they could achieve their goals, repeatedly using the word ''achievable.'' The women caught the repetition and asked the interpreter to explain in detail what ''achievable'' meant. That gave Luck a chance to push forward. ''What are your hopes?'' she asked the women, through the interpreter. Tererai and the others were puzzled by the question, because they didn't really have any hopes. But Luck pushed them to think about their dreams, and reluctantly, they began to think about what they wanted. 
 Tererai timidly voiced hope of getting an education. Luck pounced and told her that she could do it, that she should write down her goals and methodically pursue them. After Luck and her entourage disappeared, Tererai began to study on her own, in hiding from her husband, while raising her five children. Painstakingly, with the help of friends, she wrote down her goals on a piece of paper: ''One day I will go to the United States of America,'' she began, for Goal 1. She added that she would earn a college degree, a master's degree and a Ph.D. -- all exquisitely absurd dreams for a married cattle herder in Zimbabwe who had less than one year's formal education. But Tererai took the piece of paper and folded it inside three layers ofplastic to protect it, and then placed it in an old can. She buried the can under a rock where she herded cattle.
 Then Tererai took correspondence classes and began saving money. Her self-confidence grew as she did brilliantly in her studies, and she became a community organizer for Heifer. She stunned everyone with superb schoolwork, and the Heifer aid workers encouraged her to think that she could study in America. One day in 1998, she received notice that she had been admitted to Oklahoma State University.
 Some of the neighbors thought that a woman should focus on educating her children, not herself. ''I can't talk about my children's education when I'm not educated myself,'' Tererai responded. ''If I educate myself, then I can educate my children.'' So she climbed into an airplane and flew to America.
 At Oklahoma State, Tererai took every credit she could and worked nights to make money. She earned her undergraduate degree, brought her five children to America and started her master's, then returned to her village. She dug up the tin can under the rock and took out the paper on which she had scribbled her goals. She put check marks beside the goals she had fulfilled and buried the tin can again.
 In Arkansas, she took a job working for Heifer -- while simultaneously earning a master's degree part time. When she had her M.A., Tererai again returned to her village. After embracing her mother and sister, she dug up her tin can and checked off her next goal. Now she is working on her Ph.D. at Western Michigan University. 
 Tererai has completed her course work and is completing a dissertation about AIDS programs among the poor in Africa. She will become a productive economic asset for Africa and a significant figure in the battle against AIDS. And when she has her doctorate, Tererai will go back to her village and, after hugging her loved ones, go out to the field and dig up her can again.
 There are many metaphors for the role of foreign assistance. For our part, we like to think of aid as a kind of lubricant, a few drops of oil in the crankcase of the developing world, so that gears move freely again on their own. That is what the assistance to Tererai amounted to: a bit of help where and when it counts most, which often means focusing on women like her. And now Tererai is gliding along freely on her own -- truly able to hold up half the sky. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Saima Muhammad,: shown with her daughter Javaria (seated), lives near Lahore, Pakistan. She was routinely beaten by her husband until she started a successful embroidery business.(pg. MM30-31)
In Burundi, which is one of the poorest countries in the world, Goretti Nyabenda used to be largely a prisoner in her hut. In keeping with tradition in the region where she lived, she could not leave without the permission of her husband, Bernard. Her interactions with Bernard consisted in good part of being beaten by him. ''I was wretched,'' she remembers. Then Goretti joined an empowerment program run by CARE, taking out a $2 microloan to buy fertilizer. The result was an excellent crop of potatoes worth $7.50 -- and Goretti began to build a small business as a farmer, goat breeder and banana-beer brewer. When Bernard fell sick with malaria, it was Goretti who was able to pay the bill. Today Goretti is no longer beaten, and she comes and goes freely. Her children, including her second daughter, Ancilla, shown on the right, have been able to afford school with Goretti's earnings. (MM32)
Abbas Be was held captive in a Delhi brothel. After she was freed, she returned to her home city of Hyderabad, became a bookbinder and now puts her sisters through school.(pg. MM35)
Claudine Mukakarisa spent much of the genocide in Rwanda imprisoned in a rape house. She escaped, and afterward she found that she was the only on left alive in her family--she was pregnant, homeless and 13 years old. Claudine gave birth in a parking lot, and hating the child because its father was a rapist, she initially left him to die. But then she returned to the parking lot, picked up her son and nursed him. She survived by begging and washing laundry
eventually, another child followed -- the father was a man who raped her after offering her shelter. Claudine, pictured above with her two children, received help from an aid organization called Women for Women International, which paired her with Murvelene Clarke, a bank employee from Brooklyn. Clarke began donating $27 a month, and that money (together with training in making beadwork, which can be sold) helped Claudine educate her children.(pg. MM37)
Edna Adan: A former first lady of Somalia and World Health Organization official, she built her own maternity hospital in the enclave of Somaliland.(pg. MM39)(PHOTOGRAPHS BY KATY GRANNAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS (MM32
 MM36) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WOMEN (90%); CHILD TRAFFICKING (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (68%); ARMED FORCES (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); SEX TRAFFICKING (57%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (59%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANDHRA PRADESH, INDIA (59%) PAKISTAN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); BURUNDI (79%); RWANDA (79%); INDIA (59%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



598 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: Health Care for the Old, and the Young

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Health Care's Generation Gap,'' by Richard Dooling (Op-Ed, Aug. 17):
 While I wholeheartedly agree that overtreatment in the United States has reached epidemic proportions, pitting health care for older adults against care for children is a mistake. Age should not be a marker of a less valuable life. Many people continue to live with a high quality of life well into their later years.
 Mr. Dooling's revelations of high-cost intensive care should instead point us toward better financing for home care, hospice and palliative care programs that provide all patients with treatment that is person-centered and cost-saving.
 And, really, shouldn't everyone have access to preventive care? Whether we are putting programs into place to reduce falls, or financing pediatric immunization, preventive health can be beneficial at every age. 
 Health care financing should be aimed toward evidence-based, cost-effective programs, not simply at those deemed most ''deserving.''
 Amanda Hunsaker Pittsburgh, Aug.
 18, 2009
 The writer is a doctoral student in the School of Social Work at the University of Pittsburgh.
 To the Editor:
 I commend Richard Dooling for having the courage to utter the unspeakable truth: Despite our vast medical/technological hubris, we cannot cheat death, and shame on those who cling to the belief that we can. Shame also on the many readers who will inevitably excoriate Mr. Dooling for a perceived lack of compassion for the elderly, and the self-interested politicians who will foolishly accuse him of supporting ''death panels.''
 The fact is that old people eventually die; they are supposed to. Yet the medical establishment makes huge profits peddling the notion that the end of life can be delayed indefinitely. Economics aside, this is inhumane.
 We must somehow conjure the common sense to allow people to die with dignity, without suffering, and at the reasonable time when their bodies give up even if their families refuse to do so.
 Lisa Wesel Bowdoinham, Me., Aug.
 17, 2009
 To the Editor:
 After reading Richard Dooling's Op-Ed article, I made my usual morning rounds on my patients. They are -- almost to a person -- exactly the kind of people who the author feels do not deserve the advanced health care that I am privileged to provide them.
 It saddens me to know that my octogenarian -- and yes, even nonagenarian -- patients, who have paid a lifetime of taxes, fought for their country, live independently and often even still work -- have raised the generation that now, increasingly, seems to feel that the surgeries I routinely perform that save lives and enhance their quality are wasteful expenses that our selfish society cannot afford.
 Albert C. DiMeo Fairfield, Conn., Aug.
 18, 2009
 The writer is a doctor and the director of minimally invasive cardiac surgery at St. Vincent's Medical Center in Bridgeport, Conn.
 To the Editor:
 In 2006, I learned that I had myeloma, a bone-marrow cancer that is treatable but at present not curable. I am 68 and have led a most satisfying life, but myeloma will most likely shorten that life. 
 The treatment I have received has been very expensive, but it has kept me robust, and I am thankful. But Richard Dooling's Op-Ed article is enlightened: if the quality of my life makes me no longer want to live, I want someone to pull the plug on me; I do not want my misery prolonged by any treatment, particularly ''insanely expensive procedures.'' 
 I hope that then, I, or someone I designate, will insist on my wishes now: don't keep me alive for misguided reasons; let me die for enlightened ones. And spend the money thus saved on preventive medicine, making it more likely that younger folks will live long and satisfying lives of their own.
 Peter Greer Exeter, N.H., Aug.
 18, 2009
 To the Editor:
 As an ageless, 40-something woman who cares equally about people of all ages, I must object to Richard Dooling's suggestion to cut ''some of the money spent on exorbitant intensive-care medicine for dying, elderly people and redirect it to pediatricians and obstetricians offering preventive care for children and mothers.''
 He may not be, as he states, ''talking about euthanasia.'' But his suggestion reflects the unloving philosophy of ageism that so many elderly encounter daily. Our elders have just as much right as any to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, as they see fit and to their very last breath, however and whenever that occurs.
 Helena Babington Guiles San Francisco, Aug.
 17, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Richard Dooling's Op-Ed article is both timely and accurate. It points up the importance of advance directives, so disparagingly and wrongly referred to as ''pulling the plug on Grandma.''
 I'm a 73-year-old grandma. As is the case with many elderly people, my fear of hospitals is directly related to the fear of being put in some sort of time warp of machine-generated life support, tortured with tubes and left to rot in an undignified and helpless state with no hope of recovery, a heartbreaking burden to my children. 
 The conversation about end-of-life care should be held in all families. Everyone should provide his or her family, as well as family physician, with a health care proxy and a living will. A lawyer who can help put on paper the necessary directives to conform with the person's wishes and with the law is helpful, but not required. 
 Grandmas of the world, take the responsibility for your own end-of-life care now. Tell your families what you want and put it in writing.
 Adele Welty Flushing, Queens, Aug.
 17, 2009
 To the Editor:
 I'm an elderly person, have worked professionally in care of the elderly, and have helped and visited several friends and relatives at the end of their lives.
 I wish Richard Dooling had not expressed the problem in terms of generational conflict, but his statements about end-of-life medicine are accurate and trenchant. If people have enough money, they can (and will, unless they have well-expressed medical directives) buy themselves prolonged and excruciating deaths. That is the main reason for reconsidering what we're doing now, not an analysis of what else could be done with the money.
 Anne Watson Friday Harbor, Wash., Aug.
 17, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Richard Dooling writes that we are ''incurring enormous debt to pay for bypass surgery and titanium-knee replacements for octogenarians and nonagenarians'' and suggests that the money be spent elsewhere.
 I will be 82 in several months and have had bypass surgery and a hip replacement. Any time Mr. Dooling would like, I will race him swimming, bicycling or kayaking. I would race him running also, but my orthopedist says I mustn't run. I further suggest that Mr. Dooling bring along an oxygen tank and a well-fitting mask for his own post-race use.
 Paul R. Packer New Rochelle, N.Y., Aug.
 17, 2009
 The writer is a doctor.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TIMOTHY GOODMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREVENTION & WELLNESS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DEATH & DYING (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); WRITERS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PALLIATIVE CARE (78%); FAMILY (78%); HOSPICE (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); PEDIATRICS (77%); AGING (77%); CHILDREN (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



599 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; WORD FOR WORD SAUL ALINSKY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: Know Thine Enemy

BYLINE: By NOAM COHEN

 BODY:
Saul Alinsky, the Chicago activist and writer whose street-smart tactics influenced generations of community organizers, most famously the current president, could not have been more clear about which side he was on. In his 1971 text, ''Rules for Radicals,'' Mr. Alinsky, who died in 1972, explains his purpose: ''What follows is for those who want to change the world from what it is to what they believe it should be. 'The Prince' was written by Machiavelli for the Haves on how to hold power. 'Rules for Radicals' is written for the Have-Nots on how to take it away.''
 It is an irony of the current skirmishing about health care that those who could be considered Mr. Alinsky's sworn enemies -- the groups, many industry sponsored, who are trying to shout down Congressional town hall meetings -- have taken a page (chapters, really) from his handbook on community organizing. In an article in The Financial Times last week, Dick Armey, the former Republican House majority leader, now an organizer against the Democrats' proposals on health care, offered his opinion: ''What I think of Alinsky is that he was very good at what he did but what he did was not good.'' 
 The disruption of the town hall meetings has many Alinsky trademarks: using spectacle to make up for lack of numbers; targeting an individual to make a large point; and trying to use ridicule to persuade the undecided. Here are excerpts from ''Rules for Radicals.'' 
 Mr. Alinsky observes that ''any effective means is automatically judged by the opposition as being unethical'':
 One of our greatest revolutionary heroes was Francis Marion of South Carolina, who became immortalized in American history as ''the Swamp Fox.'' Marion was an outright revolutionary guerrilla. ...Cornwallis and the regular British Army found their plans and operations harried and disorganized by Marion's guerrilla tactics. Infuriated by the effectiveness of his operations, and incapable of coping with them, the British denounced him as a criminal and charged that he did not engage in warfare ''like a gentleman'' or ''a Christian.''
 Don't worry, Mr. Alinsky advised, if they call you names:
 The job of the organizer is to maneuver and bait the establishment so that it will publicly attack him as a ''dangerous enemy.'' ... Here again we find that it is power and fear that are essential to the development of faith. This need is met by the establishment's use of the brand ''dangerous,'' for in that one word the establishment reveals its fear of the organizer, its fear that he represents a threat to its omnipotence. Now the organizer has his ''birth certificate'' and can begin. 
 The first step:
 The organizer dedicated to changing the life of a particular community must first rub raw the resentments of the people of the community; fan the latent hostilities of many of the people to the point of overt expression. He must search out controversy and issues, rather than avoid them, for unless there is controversy people are not concerned enough to act. 
 Being on TV can be empowering:
 A man is living in a slum tenement. He doesn't know anybody and nobody knows him. He doesn't care for anyone because no one cares for him. ...When the organizer approaches him part of what begins to be communicated is that through the organization and its power he will get his birth certificate for life, that he will become known, that things will change from the drabness of a life where all that changes is the calendar. This same man, in a demonstration at City Hall, might find himself confronting the mayor and saying, ''Mr. Mayor, we have had it up to here and we are not going to take it any more.'' Television cameramen put their microphones in front of him and ask, ''What is your name, sir?'' ''John Smith.'' Nobody ever asked him what his name was before. ... Suddenly he's alive! 
 Make yourself look as big and scary as possible: 
 For an elementary illustration of tactics, take parts of your face as the point of reference; your eyes, your ears, and your nose. First the eyes; if you have organized a vast, mass-based people's organization, you can parade it visibly before the enemy and openly show your power. Second the ears; if your organization is small in numbers, then do what Gideon did: conceal the members in the dark but raise a din and clamor that will make the listener believe that your organization numbers many more than it does. Third, the nose; if your organization is too tiny even for noise, stink up the place.
 Find a single person to focus your energies on:
 It should be borne in mind that the target is always trying to shift responsibility to get out of being the target. There is a constant squirming and moving and strategy -- purposeful, and malicious at times, other times just for straight self-survival -- on the part of the designated target. The forces of change must keep this in mind and pin that target down securely. 
 In one of his sharpest passages, Mr. Alinsky tells his readers, living in their ''radicalized dream world,'' not to ignore the lower-middle class:
 They are a fearful people, who feel threatened from all sides: the nightmare of pending retirement and old age with a Social Security decimated by inflation; the shadow of unemployment from a slumping economy, with blacks, already fearsome because the cultures conflict, threatening job competition; the high cost of long-term illness; and finally with mortgages outstanding, they dread the possibility of property devaluation from non-whites moving into the neighborhood. ...Remember that even if you cannot win over the lower middle-class, at least parts of them must be persuaded to where there is at least communication, then to a series of partial agreements and a willingness to abstain from hard opposition as changes takes place. 
 His final rule is that there is no handbook for life:
 I hesitate to spell out specific applications of these tactics. I remember an unfortunate experience with my ''Reveille for Radicals,'' in which I collected accounts of particular actions and tactics employed in organizing a number of communities. For some time after the book was published I got reports that would-be organizers were using this book as a manual, and whenever they were confronted with a puzzling situation they would retreat into some vestibule or alley and thumb through to find the answer!

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO
 ORGANIZER: Saul Alinsky's rules stand the test of time.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE TAMES/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HEARINGS (90%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); WRITERS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); ARMIES (66%); HISTORY (50%)

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (67%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



600 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
 REPORT PRESENTS NEW DETAILS ABOUT C.I.A. PRISONER ABUSE
 A Central Intelligence Agency inspector general's report says agents at the C. I. A.'s secret prisons held mock executions and threatened at least one prisoner with a gun and a power drill. PAGE 4
 INMATE TO QUERY 9/11 PLOTTER
 A judge has granted a detainee at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, permission to ask questions of another inmate, Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, the architect of the Sept. 11 attacks. The detainee says he did only menial labor for Mr. Mohammed. PAGE 4
 CRITICISM OF AFGHAN VOTE 
 Along with widespread accounts of ballot-box stuffing in Afghanistan's presidential election, the notably low turnout of women caused concerns that women were disproportionately affected by violence and intimidation. PAGE 8
 FOREST FIRES NEAR ATHENS
 Forest fires raged on the northeast outskirts of Athens, razing homes and olive groves and forcing some residents to flee. PAGE 12
 IRANIAN OFFICIALS ACCUSED
 New accusations surfaced in Iran that reform movement supporters were tortured in prison, and that bodies were secretly buried on the outskirts of Tehran. PAGE 12
 National
 UNIVERSITIES ARE PREPARING FOR OUTBREAKS OF SWINE FLU
 All across the country, universities are laying out dozens of hand sanitizers and taking other precautions in the expectation that hundreds of their students will fall ill with the new H1N1 flu as classes start over the next few weeks. PAGE 23 
 PITTSBURGH SEEKS BACK UP
 Worried about protests, Pittsburgh has asked 4,000 officers from across the country to supplement its 900-member police force for the Group of 20 meeting next month. PAGE 18 
 Hurricane Bill Moves North 23
 Metropolitan
 IN BLACK AND WHITE: 
 The Bronx Burning
 Three decades ago, David Gonzalez of The Times taught photography in the South Bronx. This year, he dug out his old pictures and discovered a creativity and kind of innocence in a landscape that was often written off as uninhabitable. PAGE 1 
 HI, OVEN. WHAT'S COOKING?
 Andrei Melnikov and his wife, Lina, almost never use their oven. Like many people who live with more stuff than space, they stored kitchenware in it. That is, until his ringing cellphone began acting as a remote control. PAGE 1 
 Sports
 BOLT'S THIRD GOLD COMES WITHOUT WORLD RECORD 
 Usain Bolt helped the Jamaican men win the 4x100-meter relay at the world championships, while the United States women were unable to advance past the preliminary round because of an injury. PAGE 6
 FEDERER STOPS MURRAY
 In the final stop before his United States Open title defense, Roger Federer beat Andy Murray in the semifinals of the Western & Southern Financial Group Masters. PAGE 6
 BACK TO HARVARD
 Andrew Hatch's journey through college football had been improbable enough -- not many players transfer from Harvard to L. S. U. and earn a national championship ring. But then he decided to go back to Harvard and work his way back up the depth chart. PAGE 1
 Sky Blue Wins W.P.S. Title 8
 Obituaries
 JAMES MARSTERS, 85
 Along with two fellow deaf colleagues, he converted an old Teletype machine into a device that could relay a typewritten conversation through a telephone line -- breaking a barrier for the hearing impaired. PAGE 26
 Sunday Business
 THE STRESS TESTS DIDN'T PREDICT THIS
 A look at filings from regional and community banks shows that the number of financially sound banks is declining. Indeed, more stress may be awaiting the banking industry next quarter than in the previous periods. Gretchen Morgenson, Fair Game. PAGE 1 
 STARTING A BUSINESS
 A year and a half into the Great Recession, with the jobless rate near double digits, many people forced from the corporate highway have turned onto unpaved, entrepreneurial roads. PAGE 1 
 Arts & Leisure
 SEND IN THE JUGGLING, HOSE-WEARING CLOWN
 Michael Hilbig calls himself Hilby, ''the skinny German juggle boy.'' He juggles both words and objects, including, at one absurd point, a bowling ball, a toilet plunger and a cordless hedge trimmer. PAGE 1 
 THAT WEST END PEDIGREE
 It's not hard to see why moving a show from the West End to Broadway is becoming more common: It means saving money on sets, costumes, rehearsal time and other costs. PAGE 1 
 Magazine
 WHY THE RIGHTS OF WOMEN ARE THE CAUSE OF OUR TIME
 Around the world, women are beaten, raped or sold into prostitution. Changing that could change everything. PAGE 28
 A NEW GENDER AGENDA
 The Obama administration has plans to push women's rights issues on the international stage. An interview with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. PAGE 40 
 A School Bus for Shamsia 44 
 Book Review
 SEX AND MONEY, MONEY AND SEX
 It is taboo to regard sex and money as inextricably interwoven. But if you want to know the real price of pleasure, ask the men and women of ''Hos, Hookers, Call Girls and Rent Boys,'' a collection of essays, vignettes, rants and poems. PAGE 1
 Untamed Creature 8 
 Automobiles
 DOUBLE-DATE DROPTOPS: 4 SEATS, HOLD THE BAGGAGE
 Two new four-place convertibles, the '09 Infiniti G37 and the '10 Lexus IS, strive to offer looks and luxury, windblown performance and modest practicality, all for less money than the cheapest Porsche. PAGE 1 
 Sunday Styles
 FROM HIP TO LAME IN 20 SECONDS FLAT
 Although the life span of slang has undoubtedly shortened with every click of the mouse, keeping up with the latest phrases is at once easier and harder than ever. What's a hipster (hepcat?) to do? PAGE 1 
 GENEROUS TO A FAULT?
 The photographer Francois-Marie Banier faces three years in prison for ''abus de faiblesse,'' exploiting the frailty of the 86-year-old Madame Bettencourt, the richest woman in Europe, to reap gifts valued at about 1.3 billion euros. PAGE 1 
 Week in Review
 PRESIDENT OBAMA'S TEST: (A) LINCOLN (B) F. D. R. 
 But what if the answer is (c) L. B. J., a president who aspired to reshape America while entangled in a losing war abroad. The L. B. J. model haunts the White House as its current inhabitant seeks to salvage Afghanistan. PAGE 1 
 Editorial
 THE UNINSURED
 No matter how you slice the numbers, there are tens of millions of people without health insurance, and there's good evidence that the lack of insurance is harmful to their health and to the country. Week in Review, Page 7
 BATTLE'S LATENT SCARS
 The Army has announced a program to train soldiers in the risks of stress, depression and suicide. With one out of five active or returning soldiers suffering from these ailments, this program is desperately needed. Week in Review, Page 7
 Op-Ed
 FRANK RICH
 Protesters with assault weapons at presidential events are nuts. But what's the excuse for elected leaders who refuse to condemn them? Week in Review, Page 8
 MAUREEN DOWD
 Even though she's never chilly -- ''There's always a way to wear fur,'' she likes to say -- Anna Wintour is still seen as an Ice Woman. Week in Review, Page 9
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 Family farms are now disappearing, replaced by insipid food assembly lines. The result is unhealthy food that also lacks soul. Week in Review, Page 10
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 Climate change, energy, biodiversity loss, poverty alleviation -- these are interwoven problems that need to be dealt with together. Week in Review, Page 8
 THE PUBLIC EDITOR
 A recent ''Critical Shopper'' column angered some readers who saw the piece as condescending. Week in Review, Page 8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (90%); INFLUENZA (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); FIRES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (87%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (84%); TORTURE (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); ELECTION FRAUD (75%); FOREST FIRES (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); POLICE FORCES (72%); TERRORISM (72%); H1N1 INFLUENZA (71%); HAND SANITIZERS (66%); PHOTOGRAPHY (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525190 OTHER INSURANCE FUNDS (60%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (60%)

PERSON: ROGER FEDERER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); CUBA (90%); IRAN (79%); AFGHANISTAN (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009

 
