

601 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1483 words

HEADLINE: Though Racial Politics Lurks, It Is Muted in Virginia Contest

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Va., Sept. 24

 BODY:
Because of an editing error, an article on Monday about the campaign for governor in Virginia misstated a political policy of Senator Harry F. Byrd. He followed a strict ''pay as you go'' policy on public spending, declining to issue bonds for schools and hospitals. Gov. Mills E. Godwin Jr., a Byrd protege, abandoned the policy in 1965.
More than three decades ago, at a secret meeting called by Harry F. Byrd, then Virginia's uncontested political boss, Representative Watkins M. Abbitt helped to plan the state's defiant program of massive resistance to court-ordered school desegregation.
Although eventually declared unconstitutional, the program for a time helped galvanize the rest of the South in the fight against the Supreme Court's landmark decision in 1954, Brown v. Board of Education.
Few in those years would have believed Mr. Abbitt could ever support the candidacy of a black man for governor. Fewer still would have believed a black man could make a serious run for governor in Virginia before it had been done in Massachusetts, New York or Michigan. But Mr. Abbitt, long retired from Congress, is supporting L. Douglas Wilder, the Democratic nominee, in his neck-and-neck race this fall against J. Marshall Coleman, a race that could make Mr. Wilder the nation's first elected black governor. 
 
'Represents Tremendous Change'
''This isn't the millennium,'' said A. E. Dick Howard, a professor at the University of Virginia law school, ''but it represents a tremendous change. There may be sputters and gasps along the road, and obviously race is still an element in politics here, but we aren't going back to the old days. Each one this time knows the first candidate to introduce race overtly into the contest will be hurt.''
Indeed, a Washingon Post poll today showed Mr. Wilder holding a fragile 45 percent to 42 percent lead over his Republican opponent, Mr. Coleman, a former Attorney General. The poll, conducted from Sept. 14 to 21, had a margin of sampling error of three percentage points.
The poll, which surveyed 1,008 likely voters, also indicated that 6 respond-ents in 10 believe racial attitudes are playing a significant, if muted, role in the hard-fought election that will be decided Nov. 7.
But changes in the views of people like Mr. Abbitt, together with many other factors, have made it possible for Mr. Wilder to win nomination and election as lieutenant governor, and now to make a convincing run at the state's top job. One change is the simple ability of blacks to vote.
Before the abolition of the poll tax and the Voting Rights Act of 1965, blacks were effectively disenfranchised. Now they constitute roughly 20 percent of the state's electorate. Moreover, they represent an indispensable electoral asset not only for Mr. Wilder but also for white Democrats like Mr. Abbitt's son, Watkins Jr., a member of the Virginia Legislature.
In one sense, the Virginia of 1989 is an utterly different state from that of 1959, when black children were first admitted to all-white schools in Norfolk and Arlington. At that time the population was predominantly rural and overwhelmingly native born; now it is largely urban and suburban, concentrated in Richmond, the Hampton Roads area and the Washington suburbs, and the Census Bureau says the 1990 count will almost certainly show that more than a third of the state's white population was born outside the South.
 
Seen as More of Northern State
Among the states of the old Confederacy, only Florida has a larger percentage of residents born outside the state.
State Senator Hunter B. Andrews of Hampton, whose family settled there in the 17th century, said, ''Economically and even politically, modern Virginia has more in common with the Middle Atlantic Sstates than with the South, which is where they put us when they broke up the old phone system.''
Former Representative M. Caldwell Butler of Roanoke commented: ''We've been exposed to the world. The in-migration of all these people from the Northeast and the Midwest has helped to make us a more sophisticated state than most in the South, and bigotry has gradually gone out of style here.''
Virginia has always been slightly different from the rest of the South, even though Richmond was the capital of the Confederacy and Robert E. Lee, its foremost military commander, was a Virginian. Its black population - and the fear and resentment of blacks among poor whites - has never been as large as that of South Carolina, Alabama or Georgia.
It passed the first anti-lynching law in the 1920's, and the historian Virginius Dabney says it was the only Southern state that never had to call out the National Guard to quell racial violence in the civil rights struggles of the 1960's.
''Economics are what has always mattered,'' said William Gaynes Ellison, a Richmond lawyer. ''We were always less agrarian and more modern than, say, Mississippi, and modern Virginia's mainstay has been the Federal Government, especially the military, where blacks play a major role.''
Professor Howard commented: ''Virginians have a legalistic cast of mind. Massive resistance was fought out in the courthouses, not on dark roads. We didn't have night riders, and integrationists here, as much as they may have been shunned at work, didn't live in fear of the shotgun.''
 
Then Virginia Beach Erupted
Recent events have not been as kind.
The National Guard was sent to Virginia Beach this year to help restore order after looting by black college students over the Labor Day weekend, and the episode might hurt Mr. Wilder. A service station attendant near Front Royal, who declined to give his name, said he was ''a little bit for Coleman before Virginia Beach, and a little more for Coleman after it.''
''Every other day on the front pages and on the newscasts, they're talking about 100,000 black youths rioting and looting, as the investigation goes on, and that can't help Doug,'' argued James H. Latimer, the retired chief political writer of The Richmond Times-Dispatch, ''especially since there's not much difference between the two of them on most of the key issues.''
On the other hand, Mr. Latimer said, ''Wilder condemned the violence at Virginia Beach, and he's always had a sense of values straight out of Horatio Alger's book, so white people have never found him threatening.''
Just as the Byrd organization for a time delayed desegregation in Virginia, 's surrender to desegregation, so more recent political leaders have sped the state's development of tolerance to black candidates like Mr. Wilder.
Interestingly, the first of these was Mills E. Godwin Jr., a Democrat whose election as governor in 1965 was the last gasp of the machine. He pushed through a new state constitution guaranteeing civil rights, sponsored the first sales tax, which helped Virginia catch up with other states in financing public services, and broke with Senator Byrd's policy of issuing bonds to pay for new schools and mental hospitals.
Then, in 1970, at a time of great stress over enforced busing, Gov. Linwood Holton, a Republican, chose to put his daughter into a school that was 85 percent black. He took her to class the first day, and the news photos were seen all over the state.
''That image has stuck with Virginians for almost 20 years,'' said Prof. Larry J. Sabato of the University of Virginia, a specialist in his state's politics. ''Holton set a tone of racial moderation that the state desperately needed to witness.''
Mr. Holton, one of whose sons is working for Mr. Wilder, said in an interview, 'It is a real credit to this state that no one can predict how the Wilder-Coleman race will come out.'' He acknowledged, as did others in with politics here, ''There will be some who vote for the Democrat because he's black, and some who vote against him for that reason.''
''But this is a complete reversal of those terrible days of massive resistance,'' Mr. Holton added. ''Thirty years ago, you would have said 'nigger' and the race would have been over. That has disappeared now.''
In the transitional years and since, black political leadership also played a significant part in changing old ways, especially in Richmond, which had had a viable middle-class black community since Reconstruction.
Oliver Hill, a black lawyer, was elected to the City Council in 1948. And in 1977, Henry L. Marsh 3d, a civil rights specialist, was chosen as the first black mayor of the city, whose ceremonial Monument Avenue is still dominated by statues of Generals Lee, Stonewall Jackson and J. E. B, Stuart.
''I think the astuteness and the stability of the black community made a big difference,'' Mr. Marsh said. ''The thing is to apply steady pressure, as we did, keep your head, and people will come around. It happened first with the white politicians and then with the business community here.''
While racism still exists in the state, he said, people have had ample evidence that they need not be frightened of black political leadership, ''because blacks have served as mayor not only in Richmond but also in Charlottesville, Roanoke, Newport News, Portsmouth, Petersburg and Fredericksburg, and that may have helped pave the way for a Wilder victory.''

GRAPHIC: Photos of L. Douglas Wilder, Dem. nominee for governor of Virginia; J. Marshall Coleman, the republican nominee; M. Caldwell Butler, former Rep. of Roanoke (pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); ROANOKE, VA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VIRGINIA

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; RACIAL RELATIONS; GOVERNORS (US); BLACKS (IN US) GOVERNORS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (90%); POLITICS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (85%); ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); SCHOOL BONDS (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); 

PERSON: WILDER, L DOUGLAS (LT GOV); COLEMAN, J MARSHALL; APPLE, R W JR LAWRENCE DOUGLAS 'DOUGLAS' WILDER (68%); WES WATKINS (57%); 



602 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1989
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: Gorbachev's Anti-Magic;
Lionized Abroad Yet Tormented at Home, He Is Falling Short of Soviet Expectations

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 24

 BODY:
One of the great contradictions of Mikhail S. Gorbachev is that while the outside world grows more and more captivated by his skill and charm, much of his own country seems increasingly immune to the magic.
This weekend, Mr. Gorbachev has been embraced anew as a partner in peacemaking - by the Bush Administration, after unusually warm sessions between Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze and Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d in Wyoming.
He has been hailed as a bold visionary who will bring prosperity to his people, and who deserves all the help he can get, by Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain, who spent four hours on Saturday with the Soviet leader.
Yet at home, peace, stability and plenty seem beyond the reach of Mr. Gorbachev's personal talent, even beyond his political power. 
The Baltic republics are defiant, Armenia and Azerbaijan are reported close to civil warfare, consumers look ahead to winter with something near panic, and Mr. Gorbachev is openly blamed for not waving a wand and making the hard times go away.
While Mr. Baker and Mr. Shevardnadze were savoring the warm relations in the Tetons, Mr. Gorbachev was subjected to sarcastic gibes by some members of a militant parliamentary group who met here to prepare for Monday's opening of a new legislative session.
''What is Gorbachev up to?'' a Ukrainian legislator asked. Democratization? No. Merely ''liberalization of a totalitarian regime.''
And another legislator from the Russian city of Sverdlovsk, gesturing at the beaming figure of Mr. Gorbachev's popular opponent Boris N. Yeltsin, proclaimed, ''I consider that there is an alternative to Gorbachev.''
After listening to this for a day and a half, the chairman of one of the two chambers of Parliament, Rafik N. Nishanov, a former diplomat and a Gorbachev loyalist, was sputtering with indignation.
''For 15 years I worked abroad, took part in many parliamentary events, had contacts with legislators, kings, presidents, prime ministers,'' he said reprovingly to the dissident crowd today. ''I've never seen any place where people publicly expressed such doubts and distrust toward a legally and democratically elected head of state.''
Mr. Nishanov's anger drew derisive hoots from the crowd. This is a group that considers itself among the most ardent supporters of Mr. Gorbachev's promised reforms, but they do not share the view that he was ''democratically elected,'' let alone that he deserves their uncritical loyalty.
How can Mr. Gorbachev be perceived abroad as a master of affairs and yet seem so ineffectual to many of his own citizens?
One reason is that much of Mr. Gorbachev's international success consists of unilateral concessions - on arms control, on human rights, on the war in Afghanistan.
 
Limits on Power
Those concessions are often shrewdly timed, and are sometimes less costly than they seem. Before the Soviet Union conditionally dropped its demand that Washington abandon its plans for a space-based missile defense, for instance, it waited until it was clear that Congress was unlikely to pay for the program, popularly known as ''Star Wars.''
But this concession, which clears a major obstacle to an agreement reducing long-range nuclear weapons, was something that Mr. Gorbachev could deliver on his own initiative.
There is no unilateral concession that will bring economic recovery or ethnic peace at home. Those issues require the cooperation of many rival groups who regard their interests as matters of principle and social justice.
A second reason that many Westerners consider Mr. Gorbachev a marvel is that his endeavors abroad have brought quick gratification. Treaties have been signed and weapons demolished. Families have been reunited. Troops have come home. Surveys suggest that people feel safer.
 
Expectations Rise and Fall
What Mr. Gorbachev is selling at home is a less appealing commodity -greater liberty and the long-range hope of a better life in exchange for years of hard work, patience and sacrifice.
Mr. Gorbachev compounded his domestic problems when he implied quick results, raising what may be impossible expectations and producing today's wide disillusionment.
Third, the Soviet Union is by tradition a conservative society, one where change has been associated with upheaval.
Many Soviet citizens have been elated by the chance to speak freely, but liberty has also been unsettling and in some ways demoralizing. Comforting myths have been demolished, political rivalries are being played out, and nothing seems familiar.
 
A Terrifying Uncertainty
Even those who yearn for something different dread the process of getting there, doubting their countrymen's capacity for polite debate and parliamentary compromise.
Finally, there is Mr. Gorbachev himself, who is viewed in the West as the instrument of change, but seen at home as a more ambiguous figure - both Luther and the Pope, as one critic wrote recently.
The Soviet people might follow a tyrant out of fear, or an angry challenger - a man like Mr. Yeltsin - out of devotion, but they often seem uncertain what to make of Mr. Gorbachev, a man of cool logic who straddles the roles of reformer and pontiff.
Of course, Mr. Gorbachev's success abroad helps him at home, and not only by lowering world tension so that he can redirect attention from defense to domestic modernization.
His summitry has won him genuine respect in the Soviet Union, a feeling being encouraged these days by fulsome press accounts of the Jackson Hole love fest and of Mrs. Thatcher's near-euphoria over perestroika, his program of ecomomic and political restructuring. Even Soviet citizens unhappy with other aspects of his performance might pause before replacing a man who has established the Soviet image as benign, even chic.
 
There Is a Payoff
Moreover, Western Europeans and even some Americans - transformed into something of a perestroika cheering section - have begun to repay Mr. Gorbachev with financial and moral support.
A little-noticed example is the tone of Western radio broadcasts into the Baltic republics, where independence movements have been causing Mr. Gorbachev grief.
The United States formally regards the Baltic republics as captive nations, yet American radio stations beamed into the region have been careful not to stir separatist feelings and have urged caution, lest Baltic unrest unseat Mr. Gorbachev.
Good will abroad does pay off at home. But it does not necessarily buy hope, patience or loyalty from the Soviet public. That will take a harder, scarcer currency.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 3, 1989, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Sept. 25 about a rally of 10,000 Ukrainians in Kiev mistranslated the banner shown. It called, in Ukrainian and Yiddish, for official restoration of ethnic and regional languages.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Ukrainian nationalists rallying in Kiev (Reuters) (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); UKRAINE (91%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); ARMENIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (92%); 

CITY: KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); BALTIC SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS

SUBJECT: PUBLIC OPINION; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); TRENDS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); POLITICS (75%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (75%); CIVIL WAR (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); 

PERSON: KELLER, BILL; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S MARGARET THATCHER (57%); 



603 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: News Summary A3-12

 BODY:

A plan to cut chemical weapons in their arsenals before a global treaty is reached on banning poison gas has been proposed to Moscow by Washington, diplomats said. Page A1
 
President Bush will speak at the U.N. today. A former delegate there himself, Mr. Bush feels the organization has failed to live up to its potential, but has an opportunity to enhance its world role. A12
 
News analysis: Mikhail Gorbachev is acclaimed by world leaders as a visionary peacemaker, but many of his countrymen are less enthralled as ethnic divisions boil and consumers bemoan a dismal economy. A1 
 
China's leaders will ratify a detailed policy of economic retrenchment at a meeting next month, officials say. The policy will last through 1991. A1
 
Chinese exiles form worldwide opposition group A10
 
A cease-fire in Cambodia was called for by the Vietnamese-backed Prime Minister, Hun Sen, who also asked China to stop sending arms to the guerrilla opposition after the last Vietnamese troops withdraw. A3
 
Beirut's air and sea ports resumed normal activity after an agreement by Lebanon's warring factions to an Arab-negotiated peace plan. A3
 
A world pact to mine Antarctica for oil and other resources was scuttled by the withdrawal of France and Australia. A10
 
Third world nations seeking loans may find it more difficult to obtain them after a move by three large American banks to increase their cushion against previous bad loans, according to Mexico's chief debt negotiator. D1
 
Tijuana journal A4
 
Colombia's most violent city, Medellin , would like to bow out of the drug war. Residents say they are reluctant recruits in a battle declared by Bogota, the capital and Medellin's municipal rival. A8
 
U.N. study finds one billion people are in poor health A6
 
Swapo leader asks whites' help A3
 
National A14-17, B6-7
 
Many graduates lack basic skills for even today's assembly line jobs, and businesses foresee an employment crisis in finding workers who can perform complex jobs of the future. A1
 
Changes in the views of Virginians, along with population changes and other factors, have contributed to the possibility that the former Confederate state might become the first to elect a black governor. A1
 
Billions of dollars of drug money are being laundered by small storefront money-transmitting and check-cashing operations in inner-city neighborhoods, state banking regulators around the country say. A1
 
Many drivers now face drug testing as well as tests for alcohol if they are stopped for erratic driving. The technique, which uses physical and toxicological tests, is being used in several states around the country. A1
 
Los Angeles will yield water rights in some areas where it now draws 75 percent of its water; in exchange, California will help it find new sources. The move may help solve environmental problems in parts of the Sierra Nevada. A14
 
Leaner lunches on the menu for California schoolchildren A17
 
San Francisco journal A14
 
The Tax Reform Act of 1986, monumental legislation that was the product of dozens of political and economic trade-offs, seems likely to be torn apart by lawmakers in votes this week. D1
 
Washington Talk: President Bush practices much salesmanship when he is on the road. The past week has shown him, in a political sense, at his clumsiest and at his most deft. A16
 
AIDS victims who need a drug that costs much less in England than in the United States will begin receiving help in filling their prescriptions abroad from a New York advocacy group. A15
 
The virtues of natural farming were on display at a country fair in Maine. Stands were piled high with apples, carrots and other crops raised without toxic chemicals. B6
 
Now that Hurricane Hugo has passed and the exhiliration of surviving it is over, residents of Charleston, S.C., face the daunting challenge of repairing the storm's damage. A14
 
Jim Bakker is expected to testify in his own defense this week as the trial of the former television evangelist on fraud and conspiracy charges nears its close. B6
 
New front in ozone battle; car air-conditioner D1
 
Regional B1-5
 
David Dinkins was in a car accident but was not badly hurt. In the crash, at the intersection of Second Avenue and 112th Street, his car was hit broadside as it rushed him between campaign stops. B1
 
Mr. Dinkins and Rudolph Giuliani, the two major New York City mayoral candidates, pursued the city's Jewish voters, with stops in the Orthodox neighborhoods of Brooklyn and at a festival in the Bronx. B5
 
G.O.P. chairman's suit trys to keep his finances secret B5
 
Jim Courter has a fuzzy image, and a major factor in determining the success of his campaign for New Jersey governor will be his ability to tell voters who he really is. B1
 
The new head of public schools for New York City, Joseph Fernandez, earned a national reputation as an innovator and risk taker when he was the Superintendent of Miami's public schools. B1
 
A jail barge turned treatment center is being used to help prisoners with substance-abuse problems. Nearly every aspect of an inmate's day, including recreational time, is part of the program's approach. B1
 
A woman was found beaten to death and the 19-month-old girl she had been baby-sitting was found dead in a garbage bag in a Bronx apartment complex, the police said. B3
 
The last jetliner wreckage at La Guardia Airport was recovered from the East River as Federal investigators prepared for a long inquiry into the cause of the USAir crash. B3
 
Asbestos delays use of subway at least a week B5
 
Remembering a governor almost forgotten B5

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ANTARCTICA (79%); LEBANON (79%); VIET NAM (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (54%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); TOXICOLOGY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); DRUG POLICY (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); WATER RIGHTS (73%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (72%); RETAILERS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (65%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (65%); CITY LIFE (64%); GOVERNORS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (72%); 



604 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Exiles Form Worldwide Opposition Group

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Sept. 24

 BODY:
Chinese exiles and opposition figures from around the world ended an inaugural meeting today establishing the Federation for Democracy in China, an umbrella group that aims to coordinate worldwide opposition to the Beijing Government.
The 150 Chinese, in one of the most important meetings of the Chinese opposition since the crackdown in Tiananmen Square in June, elected Yan Jiaqi, an intense 47-year-old political scientist, as president of the federation. Late in July, 1,100 Chinese students from across the United States met in Chicago to press their cause. 
In an interview, Mr. Jiaqi said he was confident that economic problems in China and a power struggle among the leadership would fuel a public clamor for democracy that would lead to a rehabilitation of the democratic movement.
''Tiananmen Square was a turning point in Chinese history,'' said Mr. Yan, who was a senior adviser to the ousted Communist Party General Secretary, Zhao Ziyang.
Wuer Kaixi, an outspoken leader of the student protesters in Beijing, was elected vice president of the federation. Other founding members were Wan Runnan, one of China's most prominent entrepreneurs; Su Xioakan, a writer and intellectual, and Chen Yizi, a former adviser to Mr. Zhao and the highest-ranking Chinese official known to have gone into exile.
 
Influence Asserted
The federation's leaders asserted that they could exert effective pressure on China's Government even though they are outside the country. They say they expect to obtain funds from Chinese living in Hong Kong, Singapore, the United States and elsewhere.
''There are 56 million Chinese living abroad,'' Mr. Chen said. ''We hope to unite them.''
Mr. Wan, who had headed a computer company, said: ''We can have a great impact even though we're all in exile now. We made a lot of friends in the country, and as soon as we raise any issues, there will be a lot of people ready to follow us.''
In its founding statement, the federation, which will be based in Paris, said it opposed a monopoly of power in China and supported human rights, democracy and an economy that responds to market forces.
Mr. Yan, who had been director of Beijing's Institute of Political Science, was not optimistic about Jiang Zemin, the new party leader and the man chosen by Deng Xiaoping to succeed him as China's paramount leader.
''Jiang is not a reformer, and he is not a democrat,'' he said. ''He is a bureaucrat. What he is gifted at is navigating his way politically. He is a puppet of Deng. I don't think he can remain in power a long time.''
 
Battle to Come
Federation leaders said they foresee a power struggle between Mr. Jiang and Li Peng, the hard-line Prime Minister who was instrumental in the crackdown in June.
The federation's leaders said they would urge governments to continue sanctions against China.''If repression grows worse, then the sanctions should be increased,'' Mr. Yan said. ''But tourism should continue. We don't want China to be closed off from the rest of the world.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of Chinese exiles and opposition figures ending a meeting in France establishing the Federation for Democracy in China. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (88%); HONG KONG (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (66%); REFUGEES (62%); 

PERSON: WUER KAIXI; YAN JIAQI; GREENHOUSE, STEVEN ANN LIVERMORE (72%); 



605 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: ESSAY;
Wide Open Spaces

BYLINE: By William Safire

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The tectonic plates that underlie the American way of living are making loud, grinding noises. Something big is going on in the real America that most of us who live inside urban beltways are missing: proximity is losing its power.
Last time the plates shifted was about four decades ago, when a scarcity of space in big cities and a yearning for home ownership led the postwar generation out to the suburbs. Levittown, L.I., led the way to the new life, followed by a boom in road building, autos, shopping centers. 
This middle-class migration culminated in (a) the abandonment of much of the big city to the fearful rich and the crime-ridden poor, and (b)today's all-hours regional mall, which turns the spending of money into a family entertainment and transforms each suburb into a retailing Las Vegas. (We are what we buy: ''When the going gets tough, the tough go shopping.'') But the relentless expansion of ''greater metropolitan areas'' and the dreary widening of the franchise fringe need not be the wave of the future. Economic reality is now working against that sprawl: we are making more people and God is not making more land near cities. The cost of land determines the cost of housing; suburban land has become too expensive to permit the building of the kind of housing most people can afford.
Mike Kaufman wrote a perceptive and sympathetic piece in yesterday's New York Times Magazine about William J. Levitt, the man who introduced mass production to housing and started the suburban revolution. Now 82 and fighting financial setbacks, Bill Levitt (for whose company I flacked in my youth) knows that the era of turning cheap potato fields into affordable suburban homes is long gone.
As our population grows by three million a year, where will the new families go? Back to the cities, or into suburban high-rises? Bill Levitt says no; he envisions new cities, of fifty thousand to a quarter-million population, not bedroom communities or satellites or one-company towns but ''primary employment towns'' - balanced centers of several industries and varied housing, with schools and cultural amenities - located in what are now rural areas.
New towns? The very phrase draws a horselaugh from embittered bureaucrats and planners. That was the floperoo notion of the 60's, a utopian pipedream that became a developers' drain down which millions of taxpayer dollars were poured. We tried that future and it didn't work.
But one reason the idea flopped was in its execution: the Feds worked directly with developers rather than through localities, placing little emphasis on job creation. A city is first and foremost a place of commerce.
The bigger reason was that new cities in the relative boondocks were an idea whose time had not yet come. It did not make good business sense for a corporation to put its people and plant far from the center of executive action. Proximity, closeness, concentration were all.
Along comes the computer, with the accounting brain centralized no matter where employees and inventories are; along comes teleconferencing, with the ability to communicate and manage face to face while thousands of miles apart; along comes the fax machine, and no need for messengers to fight city traffic. Proximity is now superfluous; you can now be close without being near.
Suddenly it makes sense to put plants and executive offices where the living is easier and the cost of land much lower. If ''out of town'' is the aim, why not all the way?
Retailers who don't need stores don't need urban headquarters; that's why L.L. Bean and Land's End do their mail-order business from places you never heard of. Manufacturers who are end-running middlemen don't want to be near big department stores; that's why, in Martinsburg, W. Va., scores of ''factory outlet'' stores sell Ralph Lauren, Jonathan Logan and Adolfo goods at half-price to crowds of exurban shoppers. (Eighty miles from Washington and the place is packed; those customers are not all hicks.) Republicans in Washington are still guy-shy about new cities, and Democrats worry about seeming to give up on old cities, which is why ''planning'' is a dirty word. One day Congress will wake up and provide incentives to help rural county governments attract groups of core businesses. No billions needed; just a sense of the dispersed, mid-sized urban future and the enthusiasm to facilitate it.
Look out your airplane window sometime; there's plenty of room down there. With the new management technology and the old human need to breathe free, there's no longer a need to crowd together.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES / MAGAZINE GROUP (54%); 

SUBJECT: URBAN AREAS CITY LIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); CITIES (77%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); RETAIL PROPERTY (75%); FAMILY (75%); JOB CREATION (71%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); RETAILERS (70%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM



606 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Education and Work: The Missing Link

BYLINE: By Ann McLaughlin; Ann McLaughlin, Secretary of Labor in the Reagan Administration, is a visiting fellow at the Urban Institute, a public policy organization.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The applause President Bush deserves for taking the dramatic step of convening an education summit meeting with all 50 governors risks being the sound of one-hand clapping unless a prominent connection is made between education and work and competitiveness.
Summit planners may be missing a crucial, and obvious, link between education reform and work. Lifelong learning and retraining of workers are reported to be only a small part of the agenda, despite the fact that our ability to compete in an increasingly global economy will depend on the quality of our workforce.
Relative to students in other countries, United States students lag behind at every grade level, in nearly every subject and at every stratum of ability. Unless we do something about it - and soon - we risk becoming a nation in decline. Our goods and services will not be competitive, our standard of living will stagnate and eventually, if both come to pass, our influence as a world power will wane. 
A few weeks ago, a bipartisan Labor Department commission, composed of business and labor leaders and academics, issued a report called ''Investing in People: A Strategy to Address America's Workforce Crisis.''
The commission's report cites many strategies that have been suggested in recent years to reverse academic failure and offers one more idea. It may be the most important. It involves linking work with school.
What is the purpose of education if not, at a minimum, to prepare people for work? After all, at the most basic level, the skills for successful work and successful living are the same.
Students must be made to see the relationship between scholastic achievement and employment prospects. Nothing, the report says, can make this relationship clearer than the business community's involvement in creating incentives for achievement and the community's assurance of employment for those with adequate academic records.
Thus, one of the commission's recommendations is that school transcripts be made an integral part of the employment process. Employers should require transcripts in making hiring decisions. It is not inconceivable to imagine students being issued portable transcripts at graduation that they could carry to job interviews.
Closely related to this proposal would be the development of national achievement tests that students could voluntarily take to demonstrate proficiency in a variety of academic and vocational subjects. The results could be included in their transcripts.
Another recommendation would have state employment agencies operate placement services in the schools. While many schools diligently try to place students in higher education, very few offer similar support to students seeking jobs.
I would go even further than the commission's report in some respects. The Job Training Partnership Act has been a success because it has directly involved local and regional businesses, through private industry councils, in decisions to allocate Federal funds for training.
Federal education money, particularly vocational dollars, could be channeled through private industry councils or similar bodies to make training more ''market-driven'' and thus more relevant. With more direct involvement by business leaders at local levels, money would almost certainly be better spent on educating students for what businesses need.
Linking work with school, of course, does not mean simply linking work with formal schooling. It means making education - and a culture of learning - relevant to a lifetime of work.
The most important recommendation the commission makes in this regard is to elliminate illiteracy by the year 2000.
Between 20 million and 40 million adults today have literacy problems. As new technologies are developed, it will be difficult for them to work or be trained for new jobs. So, in addition to getting education right the first time, the U.S. must find a way to provide second chance education to adults.
At the very least, anyone who wants to learn how to read and write should have that opportunity at any point in life. The most important objective the nation's leaders can set is the provision of basic skills education, not just to the schoolchildren but to all adults who seek it.
Obviously a single summit meeting cannot produce all the answers. But a good start can be made. What we must earnestly strive for is the will to make the education of our people, and thereby the quality of our workforce, second to none. And unless the connection between education and the workforce is made a prominent part of the summit meeting's agenda, 50 state governors and The Education President will miss the opportunity of our lifetime.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; LABOR; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); SCHOOL GRADE REPORTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (71%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (70%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%); 

PERSON: MCLAUGHLIN, ANN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



607 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2008 words

HEADLINE: New Schools Chief: An Innovator and Taker of Risks

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE

DATELINE: MIAMI, Sept. 24

 BODY:
In two years as Superintendent of Dade County Public Schools, Joseph A. Fernandez earned a national reputation as an innovator and risk taker. He forged links between the business community and the schools, invested schools with more decision-making power and spearheaded a successful drive for a $980 million bond issue to build 49 schools for a woefully overcrowded system.
Mr. Fernandez's ability to lift the expectations of urban schools with large minority enrollments won him respect in a part of the country better known for beaches and cocaine than for academic prowess. When he announced last week that he would leave the nation's fourth largest school system to become chancellor of the largest, in New York City, he gathered mostly praise from school officials, parents and city and civic leaders.
''The most important contribution Joe Fernandez made to public schools in Dade County is he encouraged us to experiment,'' said Daniel Tosado, the principal of Miami Beach Senior High School. Dr. Michael Krop, the chairman of the Dade County School Board, said: ''The important thing I see here is you've got a community that's gotten involved in education. Dr. Fernandez did that.'' 
But Mr. Fernandez also has critics in South Florida. Even some of his admirers say he can be egotistical, overly sensitive to criticism and quick-tempered. Within the school system he has been accused of having too close a relationship with the teachers union, making him too ready to accommodate it.
One school board member, Holmes Braddock, said Mr. Fernandez was ''a great C.E.O.'' but had a huge ego.
''My criticism of Joe is that there is too much 'I' in him,'' Mr. Braddock said. ''Joe is a supreme egotist. I got upset when he said 'my board,' as if he handpicked the school board. Joe was overly sensitive to criticism. If Joe got criticized, he fired off a letter or he called a press conference to straighten it out.''
Though the president of the Miami-Dade branch of the N.A.A.C.P. praised Mr. Fernandez for being ''sensitive'' and ''open to new ideas,'' some blacks have accused him of not doing enough to desegregate the schools. They also say he has reneged on promises to help award contracts and jobs to blacks in the building program financed by the bonds.
 
Support From Black Voters
''I feel he was successful in selling the black community a pig in a poke,'' H. T. Smith, a Miami lawyer, said of the bond issue, which was narrowly approved in a referendum in which most black voters supported it although it was opposed by the local branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
''He went out personally and guaranteed people that boundary lines would change to facilitate desegregation, but it hasn't happened. What really disappoints me is that blacks are not getting a fair share of the jobs associated with the building program.''
One school board member, Robert Renick, said Mr. Smith's comments were inaccurate. ''Minorities are getting the lion's share of contracts,'' he said. ''In fact, blacks have somewhere around 20 percent of the contracts, and minorities will get over 50 percent.''
The school board draws attendance boundary lines. The superintendent can make recommendations, but the board has the final say.
Brian Peterson, an associate professor of history at Florida International University in Miami, clashed with Mr. Fernandez two years ago when Mr. Peterson wrote a report criticizing elementary schools on the quality of their teachers and low reading and mathematics scores. The Superintendent replied to the first draft of the report by writing Mr. Peterson a letter disputing the findings and then sent copies of the letter to the university president and the head of the teachers union.
 
'Very Tight' With Union
''I think of him as being a constructive demagogue,'' said Mr. Peterson, who has written five policy papers on the Dade County school system. ''He's done an outstanding job. He's done things I didn't think possible. There are all kinds of good reading and math programs going on in the schools, and he's responsible.''
''I still have concerns,'' he said. ''He's been very tight with the teachers union, so he hasn't really addresed the issue of teacher competency. In certain inner-city schools, as many as 25 percent of the teachers are functionally illiterate. He's done nothing, really, that the teachers union didn't want done.''
Mr. Fernandez, 53 years old, is the son of Puerto Rican parents who worked as a cabdriver and a maid. He was born in East Harlem, where he dropped out of school as a teen-ager to join the Air Force. He later went to college, and after graduation became a math teacher in Miami and then worked his way up.
When Mr. Fernandez took over the Dade County school system in 1987, the dropout rate was 30 percent. Teacher morale was low. Some schools were filled to twice their capacity, and some students were crowded into storefront and portable classrooms. Reading scores were below the national average. Crime in the schools, already bad, was aggravated by gun-wielding students working for drug dealers.
Despite a magnet program, in which students attend specialized schools out of their neighborhoods, schools remained as segregated as county housing patterns. At present, 72 percent of the system's students attend schools that are not racially balanced despite a 1970 court desegregation order.
 
Addressing the Problems
Dade County officials and educators say Mr. Fernandez had begun to address these problems through the school-construction bond issue, a new contract for teachers and innovative programs flowing from his school-based management program, with policy decisions made at each school by a committee made up of the principal, teachers and sometimes parents. In New York City, the central Board of Education runs the high schools while local elected boards administer the middle and elementary schools.
Some say it has been through energy and sheer force of personality that Mr. Fernandez has got things done. He showed up at meetings of parent-teacher groups. He walked the halls of inner-city schools. And he talked to people, often using humor to persuade or reach them, or to deflect criticism.
Pat Tornillo, the head of the United Teachers of Dade, the union, tells about when he and Mr. Fernandez made a joint appearance before a Tiger Bay political club. They were addressing complaints that Mr. Fernandez had been too compliant with union demands and too cozy with Mr. Tornillo.
''He got up and said, 'I want to reassure you that because we wear the same color suit, the same color socks and because I roll over in the morning and say, 'Pat, what are you wearing today?' doesn't mean we are in bed together,' '' Mr. Tornillo recalled.
At a Dade school board meeting, Dr. Krop, the chairman, mentioned that he had been reading in some education journals that students knew little about history. Mr. Fernandez said he had several task forces looking into the problem. Then he paused and said he had a better idea: ''I'm canceling all your journal subscriptions.''
Mr. Fernandez has led a school system in an area that has become accustomed to racial and ethnic tensions. The Miami area has had three major race riots in the last decade, and a bitter fight was waged to make English the official language. The school district is about 45 percent Hispanic and 33 percent black, with the rest non-Hispanic whites. Most of the Hispanic population have Cuban origins, but a refugee influx has arrived in recent years from Central America.
In his first year as Superintendent, Mr. Fernandez put black principals in predominantly Hispanic schools and transferred white principals to black schools. By the end of that year, he had reshuffled the assignments of 48 principals in a system with roughly 285 principals. On a schools tour, he decided on the spot to replace a principal whose elementary school he said was, for the third year in a row, too dirty.
''A lot of people criticized him for making snap judgments,'' said Lucille Baldino, a reading specialist at Touissaint L'Ouverture Elementary School. ''Despite that, it kept a lot of people on their toes. He was the one making the decisions, not someone else. And he'd tell you why he made the decision. He did what he did because he really cared about the schools.''
 
Surprise Visits to Schools
Mr. Fernandez and his wife, Lily, have four children, and he has sometimes scolded those people whom he felt put their interests before children's. He publicly questioned how much influence the N.A.A.C.P. had when it came out against the bond issue, which passed. He also told business leaders to get more involved with the schools if they wanted qualified potential employees.
In his first year he was also known to pay surprise visits to schools to address some finer points of education, admonishing teachers, for example, not to eat or drink in front of students.
Through the bond issue, schools have been built or renovated, even though an unexpected 14,000 additional students, most of them Nicaraguan refugees, created a projected $171 million shortfall this year in the building program.
The dropout rate has shrunk 5.5 percent, to 24.5 percent, in two years. The school-based management system has raised morale, teachers and the teachers union say, and won Dade County schools a national reputation for excellence and innovation.
Innovative programs have been instituted at 116 of Dade's 263 schools. In one, teachers evaluate other teachers. Another involves voluntary Saturday classes in schools in poor sections.
''Without Dr. Fernandez it never would have happened,'' said Dr. Gerald O. Dreyfuss, assistant superintendent for school-based management.
 
'He's Open-Minded'
Charlotte Greenbarg, the president of the Dade County Council P.T.A./ P.T.S.A., said many parents respected Mr. Fernandez. He got black parents to talk to Hispanic parents, she said, and encouraged non-Hispanic whites to feel they had a stake in a district where they were a minority. ''He's open-minded,'' she said.
Working with the teachers union, he persuaded the American Bankers Insurance Group, Miami International Airport and Miami Dade Community College to build schools at their workplaces that are run by teachers.
William O. Cullom, president of the Greater Miami Chamber of Commerce, accompanied the Superintendent to Washington, where Mr. Fernandez sought more money to help the school system absorb immigrant children. ''Our relationship with Joe has been extremely strong,'' he said.
The chamber has 66 committees on education that, with Mr. Fernandez's help, oversee a host of programs. One is a competition for teacher of the year. Another is an ''adopt a senior'' program, in which high school seniors who attend 95 percent of their classes are guaranteed job interviews.
''The bottom line is the man is good,'' said Johnnie R. McMillian, head of the Miami-Dade branch of the N.A.A.C.P.
The new Toussaint L'Ouverture Elementary School is one example of what the school district has done well. It is in the heart of Miami's Little Haiti, so named for its concentration of Haitian refugees, many of whom fled political persecution and economic misery only to find animosity from blacks and whites in Miami.
The Toussaint L'Ouverture school, named for the former slave who led Haiti's revolt against France, has a media center, a computer room and an outdoor stage. Of the 1,020 students in kindergarten through fifth grade in the school, about 700 are Haitian. Because the primary language of many Haitian children is Creole, there are special classes at the school to ease them into speaking English. The underachievers are given tutors, and slow readers can attend reading clinics.
It is a testament to both the district's overcrowding and the school's popularity that it is already 35 students over its capacity. ''The parents want to send their children here,'' said the principal, Marietta Mischia.

GRAPHIC: Photos of Joseph A. Fernandez, who will run New York City's schools. (NYT/Susan Greenwood) (pg. B1); the new Toussaint L'Ouverture elementary School (NYT/Susan Greenwood); graphs comparing the ethnic makeup of New York City schools and Dade County Schools (pg. B4);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ACP (BELGIUM) (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIAMI (FLA); DADE COUNTY (FLA); NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); BLACKS (IN US) PUBLIC SCHOOLS (91%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (89%); SCHOOL BONDS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); BONDS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (85%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); BOND ISSUES (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (72%); CONTRACT AWARDS (71%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); TEACHER UNIONS (67%); REFERENDUMS (60%); COCAINE (55%); 

PERSON: LEE, FELICIA R; FERNANDEZ, JOSEPH A



608 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: On Prison Barge, All Hands Battle Drugs

BYLINE: By MICHEL MARRIOTT

 BODY:
In a room so humid that its painted aluminum walls sweated, Eric Lewis bolted to his feet and strode to the center of a circle of men, most of whom are like himself: young, street-hewn and black. They are also drug addicts on the mend behind bars.
''Good morning family,'' he greeted the group of 43 men in an eardrum rattling shout. Mr. Lewis then stared blankly ahead. After a dramatic pause, he spoke what he said was his ''heart.'' 
 
'I Thought This Was a Waste'
''I'm a man striving to break my addiction, this disease, which it is,'' said Mr. Lewis, a 27-year-old crack addict from the Bronx. ''At one time I thought this was a waste of time, but now I realize I want - no! - need help.''
Throughout the day in this five-story building, a jail barge moored on the lip of the East River's Pier 36, similar men with similar addictions wage similar inner wars. Since July, the barge, a one-time British troop barracks named the Bibby Resolution, has been used primarily as a special drug-treatment center for inmates with a history of substance abuse, said New York City Correction officials.
With the city's jail capacity at 110 percent, the $21 million Resolution was first sought as a means to rapidly and economically expand the prison system. But with more than 110,000 inmates, of which at least 60 percent are substance abusers, the Resolution was turned into a full-time drug-rehabilitation center.
''It is a sophisticated approach,'' said Richard J. Koehler, the city's Correction Commissioner who is a major proponent of offering more drug treatment to the ''captive audience'' in jails.
Mr. Koehler's approach is becoming more popular. With jail and prison populations expected to increase across the country, fueled largely by drug-related crimes, correction departments from Miami to Los Angeles have been seeking better ways to treat substance-abusing inmates.
And with the Bush Administration promising to press harder for the arrest and imprisonment of more drug users and sellers, the promise of a new wave of drug-abusing inmates entering the nation's correction system looms large.
But only in New York City are inmates being treated on the scale that they are at the Resolution, said Raymond Diaz, who coordinates all of the jail's anti-drug programs, includng the eight that now operate on the barge. Almost 400 specially selected inmates live on the cramped barge that - with its oval windows and low metal ceilings - more resembles a battle cruiser than a jail. It is a difference most inmates appreciate.
Because of the success of the program on the Resolution - more than 70 percent of the program's participants seek outside drug help once released - there are plans this year to create a 700-bed ''drug prison,'' said Dennis P. Whalen, an official with the State Division for Substance Abuse Services.
''To not create systems for those who are drug abusing would be a terribe waste,'' said Mr. Whalen, the deputy director for program services for the state. ''It makes plain common horse sense that if you have a population that is placed in a controlled environment you should take the opportunity to work to recognize their drug problem and do something about it,'' he said.
But correction officials said they are gravely concerned that the state is not providing more treatment slots for inmates once they are released. Like most other addicts seeking treatment, many recently released inmates find themselves on long waiting lists for overcrowded programs.
 
Treatment Outside Jail
That situation, correction officials say, is particularly tragic because much of the help the inmates get on the barge is intended to prepare them for drug treatment outside jail. One official expressed concern that if inmates were forced to languish on waiting lists, then they would soon give up on themselves.
Mr. Whalen said he is working on the problem by trying to bring the criminal-justice and drug-treatment systems closer together.
''We are certainly aware of what's happening on the barge and we want to help broker those two systems in any way we can,'' he said.
Based largely on 18-month residential drug-treatment programs like Phoenix House and Daytop Village, the Resolution drug counselors say they are first trying to help inmates identify their addictions, begin to face the consequences of them and then move to abstain from drugs.
 
Motivating the Men
''Any full recovery process might take a year and half for a full blown addict,'' Mr. Diaz said, adding that the inmate's average length of stay at the jail is 46 days. ''We looked at what the first objectives were in a recovery phase.''
He said much of his work is to motivate inmates to seek treatment in community-based organizations once they're discharged.''That, we feel we can do well,'' he said.
All day, every day, the thin metal walls of the Bibby Resolution vibrate with the sounds of 384 inmates who shout, scream and sob their way through the battle with their addictions. The inmates' ages range from 19 to the 40's.
 
Camaraderie Is Important
Like Dante's Inferno in reverse, the barge is organized so the addict-inmates who progress well move up to advanced programs on the upper floors. On the fifth floor is Project Exodus, where inmates take an active role in helping themselves and their fellow addicts. There, camaraderie becomes important, with inmates joining hands and singing Temptations' hits like ''My Girl.'' Only they change the lyrics to ''drug free.''
Many of the inmates are addicted to a range of substances like crack, cocaine, heroin and alcohol. But most, like John Lowe, are crack addicts. Mr. Lowe, who is 22, stands six feet three inches and weighs 326 pounds. He is hulking and imposing. He carries scars from a stabbing and two shootings on his left calf. ''Cross fire,'' he said.
Yet, his features turn as soft as his surprisingly boyish voice when he talks about his weeks on the barge.
''We are all part of a single family,'' he said, his eyes scanning the busy room, which is papered with hand-drawn anti-drug posters and slogans of inspiration. ''I've seen these brothers open up their hearts, admit things that made them cry.
 
The Process of Recovery
''I've cried myself,'' he said without shame.
It is all part of the process of recovery, said Mr. Diaz, who explained that inmates have to learn to place a value on sharing their pain and not hiding it.
''We call it personality reconstruction,'' he said, stressing too that the inmates relearn what most of their parents once taught them about responsibility, self-pride and self-worth.
''For me it's working,'' said Mr. Lowe, who added that if he can't get a treatment slot outside he would rather stay behind bars. ''I want much more out of life than that drug.''

GRAPHIC: Photos of a barge moored at an East River pier which is being used as a drug rehabilitation center for inmates. (NYT/William E. Sauro) (pg. B1); Raymond Diaz, who coordinates all of the jail's anti-drug programs talking to inmates (NYT/William E. Sauro) (pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: PRISONS AND PRISONERS; DRUG ADDICTION AND ABUSE; THERAPY AND REHABILITATION; BARGES AND SCOWS SUBSTANCE ABUSE (91%); PRISONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITIES (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (77%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (72%); COCAINE (72%); 

PERSON: KOEHLER, RICHARD J (COMR); MARRIOTT, MICHEL; DIAZ, RAYMOND



609 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

THE ECONOMY
 
State banking regulators around the country have found that thousands of small inner-city businesses through which immigrants send money to relatives are also being used to launder drug money. The regulators say these storefront money-transmitting and check-cashing operations are sending billions of dollars to drug dealers in South America and Asia. [Page A1.] 
 
Orders for American-made machine tools rebounded in August, advancing by 18.8 percent over the July level, as orders from the automotive industry increased significantly. [D1.]
 
The Tax Reform Act of 1986 seems likely to be torn apart by lawmakers in votes this week, almost three years to the day after Congress approved the monumental legislation. [D1.]
 
COMPANIES
 
Lomas Financial sought court protection under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code, frustrated by creditor talks that had dragged on since June. The company said it had halted payments indefinitely on $2.1 billion in debt. [D1.]
 
RJR Nabisco was in final talks last night to sell Del Monte's canned food and processing unit for $1.47 billion to a partnership led by Merrill Lynch, Wall Street sources said. [D1.]
 
Two top executives and founders resigned at American Healthcare Management, in keeping with a reorganization plan. [D4.]
 
INTERNATIONAL REPORT
 
Mexico's chief debt negotiator said it could become harder for some nations to get new loans because three large American banks have increased their cushion against third world loans. [D1.] Trade imbalances are high on the agenda of the global finance community as it gathers for meetings of the World Bank and I.M.F. [D8.]
 
The cure for the greenhouse effect is nuclear-generated power, numerous speakers said at the World Energy Conference in Montreal this week. But others questioned that approach. [D2.]
 
OPEC is struggling to save its quota production system, as more of its members sent clear signals that they planned to increase production to meet the rising demand for oil. [D2.]
 
Negotiators took the first steps last week in multilateral trade talks in Geneva toward writing rules to liberalize trade in banking, tourism and other services. [D3.]
 
For executives in China, political posturing is a way of life, and the chairman of the state-owned China International Trust and Investment has a keen sense for when and how to do it. [D8.]
 
THE MEDIA BUSINESS
 
Fashion magazine readers will have more difficulty distinguishing between advertising and editorial content, the boundaries of which are increasingly blurred. Magazines. [D9.]
 
New York's Daily News has begun a campaign of tough talk and sophisticated public relations intended to help wrestle far-reaching concessions from 10 labor unions in negotiations expected to start in about two months. The contracts expire March 30. [D9.]
 
Pearson P.L.C. is about to become the third international publishing conglomerate in a year to enter the bargain-book field. [D9.]
 
Foote, Cone & Belding created a humorous television campaign - for Adolph Coors's new Keystone line of beers - that appeals to the fantasies of many male beer drinkers. Advertising. [D10.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
 
The Resolution Funding Corporation is likely to provide preliminary details this week about how it intends to sell $30 billion worth of securities over the next two fiscal years, credit market analysts said. Credit Markets. [D7.]
 
The Supreme Court faces a heavy docket of antitrust disputes. Stephen Labaton: Business and the Law. [D2.]
 
CMS Energy is something of a Cinderella company. Five years ago, financial disaster seemed imminent; now it is hailed as possibly one of the best buys in the energy business. Market Place. [D6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: PSON (LSE) (60%); PSO (NYSE) (60%); THC (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (60%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (60%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (60%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (56%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (56%); NAICS623311 CONTINUING CARE RETIREMENT COMMUNITIES (55%); NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (55%); NAICS621491 HMO MEDICAL CENTERS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (91%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); PEARSON PLC (60%); KRAFT NABISCO (56%); TENET HEALTHCARE CORP (55%); RESOLUTION FUNDING CORP (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (75%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (73%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (72%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (70%); TAX LAW (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (68%); FOOD INDUSTRY (67%); CARTELS (67%); HEALTH CARE (66%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (64%); PUBLISHING (60%); TAX REFORM (56%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (54%); 



610 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Tool Orders Rose 18.8% Last Month

BYLINE: By RICHARD D. HYLTON

 BODY:
Orders for American-made machine tools rebounded in August, advancing by 18.8 percent over the July level as orders from the automotive industry increased significantly, a trade group said in a monthly report to be released today.
The group, the Association for Manufacturing Technology, said that machine-tool orders totaled $226.6 million in August, compared with $190.8 million in July.
Analysts said the August increase reflected greater capital spending by companies that were more comfortable with the immediate economic picture. 
''In August, there were some pretty good-sized automotive orders in exports, and automotive orders tend to be very large deals,'' said Robert Petrie, an analyst with McDonald & Company, a financial services company based in Cleveland.
 
Playing Carefully
''In terms of capital spending, the numbers will go up because we simply haven't spent much, as companies have waited until the last minute to place orders,'' Mr. Petrie added. ''They're playing this economic cycle very carefully. Now it seems that they've waited just about as long as they can.''
Machine tools are power-driven devices that cut or shape metal parts used in everything from appliances to vehicles. Economists consider their sales and orders important indicators of capital-spending patterns by makers of large products like automobiles and aircraft.
Compared with August of last year, machine-tool orders were down by 33.3 percent last month. And for the year to date, orders were $1.9 billion, down by 20.6 percent from $2.4 billion in the first eight months of 1988, the report said.
''While orders are down compared to last year, you have to remember that 1988 was the best year for machine-tool orders since 1980,'' said Albert W. Moore, the president of the association, based in McLean, Va.
Machine-tool shipments were $226.35 million in August, down by 4.8 percent from $237.7 million in July but 47 percent higher than shipments in August 1988. For the year to date, shipments rose to $1.97 billion, up by 39.8 percent from $1.41 billion in the comparable 1988 period, largely because of the boom in orders placed last year by domestic manufacturers and foreign companies.
''The increased shipment is because of last year's order surge,'' said Glenn Finley, the association's statistical director. ''It takes six to nine months to deliver machine tools. Automotive orders were big last year, and there was a little capital-spending boomlet.''
 
Export Shipments Up 41%
The report also said that export shipments were up by about 41 percent for the year, while export orders were down by about 30 percent as foreign demand for American tools has eased.
Richard O. Priebe, the communications director for the Cross & Trecker Corporation, the nation's second-largest manufacturer of machine tools, said, ''The slowdown that we're seeing in orders now won't start showing up until about 1990 because there are very few off-the-shelf products in the machine-tools industry.''
Orders for metal-cutting tools, which include boring mills and lathes, were up by 17.1 percent in August, to $156 million, compared with $133.2 million in July. Metal-cutting tools typically account for about two-thirds of the industry's orders.
The orders for metal-forming tools rose by 22.7 percent, to $70.60 million for the month, from $57.55 million in July.
The August backlog for machine-tool orders was $2.13 billion, little changed from the July level.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CTCO (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333517 MACHINE TOOL MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3541 MACHINE TOOLS, METAL CUTTING TYPES (60%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: GIDDINGS & LEWIS MACHINE TOOLS LLC (60%); MCDONALD INVESTMENTS INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY, ASSN FOR

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: MACHINE TOOLS AND DIES ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); MACHINE TOOLS (91%); FACTORY ORDERS (91%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SHIPMENTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); 

PERSON: HYLTON, RICHARD D



611 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Mexico Says Banks' Move Could Reduce New Lending

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 24

 BODY:
Mexico's chief debt negotiator said during the weekend that the move by three large American banks to increase their cushion against bad third world loans could make it more difficult for some nations to get new loans.
The negotiator, Jose Angel Gurria, a deputy finance minister, suggested that the increase in reserves would mean more flexibility for the banks to pursue their own policies.
The result, he said, could be that new loans to countries like Mexico, Brazil, Argentina and Venezuela will depend much more on how well their economies are growing and being managed, which means some countries could have trouble getting new loans.
''After this, they can choose to do new-money deals on the basis of the merits of each deal,'' Mr. Gurria said of the banks in an interview late Saturday night. He is one of the first senior officials of a large debtor nation to comment on the effect of the reserve move by Manufacturers Hanover, Chase Manhattan and J. P. Morgan. 
But Mr. Gurria said the move, which other banks are expected to follow, was a positive step that should help debt-reduction efforts in other countries. He added that he did not expect the reserve decisions to decrease the new money that would be lent to Mexico under a $54 billion debt agreement reached in July.
Mr. Gurria contended that setting aside the larger reserves, although it forced the banks to take losses, would make them healthier financially in the long run. They would also be better able to help developing countries that were performing well, he added.
The decisions by the three banks to increase their reserves dramatically has raised some doubts about the effectiveness of the Bush Administration's debt strategy, which puts new emphasis on reducing debt but also depends on new lending.
Some bankers and analysts have said that with the larger reserves, more banks were likely to accept debt reduction and, at the same time, decide not to make new loans. The banks' stronger financial position would also make it easier for them to resist pressure from the Bush Administration to provide new money.
The finance ministers and bankers here who are participating in the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank differed over the effects of the move.
Among the bankers, those who have already decided to take debt reduction in the Mexican deal tended to think the move would hurt new lending, while those considering new loans did not. But they all emphasized the importance of the economic health of the developing nations as a factor in deciding on new loans.
 
Brady Sees New Lending
Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady, for whom the debt strategy is named, said the move by the banks should not hurt new lending. He made his comments in a briefing on Saturday night, after a meeting of the Group of Seven countries - the United States, Japan, West Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada.
But he seemed to agree with Mr. Gurria when he indicated that the banks' lending decisions would depend upon the economic outlook for a particular nation.
If a country has a bright future, he said, ''banks will want to be a participant in that.''
The increased reserves, Mr. Brady added, ''will put those banks in a position to do whatever they want.''
A senior Treasury official pointed out on Friday that until the Brady plan began this year, commercial banks had made almost no new net loans to developing countries over the last several years. Some banks, he said, made loans to countries so they could pay interest on existing loans.
Thomas C. Theobald, the chairman of the Continental Illinois Corporation in Chicago, the parent of the Continental Bank, said: ''I don't think it means anything for new lending. I don't think the levels of reserves determine your choice.''
Mr. Theobald said his bank, which has a 50 percent reserve against losses on third world loans, would probably choose some debt reduction and participate in new loans. He said he thought J. P. Morgan's move to a 100 percent reserve was excessive. Chase increased its reserve to 46 percent, and Manufacturers Hanover to 36 percent.
But as to lending in the future, Mr. Theobald said, ''The critical fact has been, and will always be, the performance of the country itself.''
 
Deutsche Bank's View
Asked about the future of new lending, Hilmar Kopper, the managing director of Deutsche Bank A.G. of Frankfurt, said: ''That remains to be seen. That will depend on the economic development and the economic restructuring. No one should expect private bankers to throw good money after bad.''
Mr. Kopper said Deutsche Bank, which is on the 15-member advisory committee to Mexico, would not make new loans in the debt-reduction deal with Mexico.
Under the debt plan, the banks must choose between accepting a 35 percent cut in the value of existing loans or making new loans. Mr. Gurria said he thought most of the banks had made up their minds on new lending to Mexico before the reserve increases were announced.
''Banks do new money because they have a longer-term view of things, not because of their reserves,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: photo of Jose Angel Gurria (Agence France-Presse) (pg. D8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MANUFACTURERS HANOVER CORP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO

SUBJECT: CREDIT; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; BANKS AND BANKING PUBLIC DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); DEBTOR NATIONS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN; GURRIA, JOSE ANGEL THOMAS C THEOBALD (59%); 



612 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1651 words

HEADLINE: Toppling a Tower of Compromise

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 24

 BODY:
Three years almost to the day after Congress approved the Tax Reform Act of 1986, that monumental legislation, the product of dozens of carefully drawn political and economic trade-offs, seems likely to be torn apart by lawmakers in votes this week.
Politicians and economists say several loose threads led to the unraveling of the fabric of the legislation once heralded as the tax law to end all tax laws:
* President Bush was never committed to the central philosophy of the law.
* Lawmakers, Republicans and Democrats alike, abandoned the delicate compromises of 1986 and reverted to the normal tax policy themes of their parties and constituencies.
* Investors and a variety of interest groups maintained relentless pressure for lower taxes.
* Most Americans, rightly or wrongly, believe they pay more taxes under the law than they did under the old system. 
 
Overriding Principle
The law was based on one overriding principle: tax rates were reduced steeply for taxpayers at all income levels; in return, deductions and other tax breaks were sharply curtailed.
The new system raises about the same revenue as the old one, but some individuals end up owing more taxes and others less. On balance, the new system is, in economics lingo, slightly more progressive despite the lower rates, meaning that people tend to be taxed more as their income increases.
Now, as plans stand, the House will vote on Thursday on a proposal -backed by President Bush, most Republicans and some Democrats, mostly from the South - to reduce the maximum tax rate on capital gains to 19.6 percent from 33 percent. Capital gains are the profits realized from the sale of investments like stocks, bonds or real estate.
The proposal, said Senator Bill Bradley, the New Jersey Democrat who was an architect of the 1986 law, ''goes to the heart of tax reform in terms of principle,'' an assessment few would disagree with.
Democrats, hoping to block the proposal, will offer one of their own. It would restore tax-deductible individual retirement accounts to upper- and upper-middle-income taxpayers, one tax break that was abolished in 1986. Money put into such accounts is not taxed until it is withdrawn at retirement. The Democratic plan would also raise the tax rate of the 600,000 wealthiest taxpayers.
 
Breaking a Bargain
This proposal would also break the bargain at the core of the law: lower rates and fewer deductions. ''The best-case scenario would be that everybody would come to his senses and drop it all, but that's not likely,'' said Representative Robert T. Matsui, Democrat of California, a strong advocate of the 1986 law.
The main reason this is happening now, politicians of both parties say, is that President Bush believes in using tax breaks to accomplish social and political goals. That philosophy is antithetical to the one embraced by Ronald Reagan and embedded in the tax reform law: that market forces and not the tax code should be the determining factor in how the resources of the economy are allocated.
In his campaign, Mr. Bush not only promised to cut the capital gains rate to stimulate investment but also advocated, among other tax breaks, tax credits for child care and renewed deductions for oil and gas producers. Now his Treasury Secretary, Nicholas F. Brady, is suggesting a lower tax on corporate dividends.
''Bush never bought into tax reform when he was Vice President,'' said an Administration official who also served under President Reagan. ''He thinks people ought to be given tax incentives to do what's best for the country. I think he understood perfectly well that once he began pushing for capital gains cuts, it would open the floodgates.''
In Congress, Republicans never abandoned the view, almost as old as the party itself, that lower taxes for wealthy Americans would stimulate the economy and benefit people at all income levels. Moreover, important Southern Democrats like Ed Jenkins of Georgia and Beryl Anthony Jr. of Arkansas, whose districts have industries like timber companies that particularly benefit from reduced capital gains rates, had always campaigned for lower rates.
 
Political Motivations
Once the President and his supporters got the upper hand with their capital gains proposal, Democratic leaders had to respond with a popular tax cut of their own for political reasons, they say.
By the same token, most Democrats adhered to one of their party's fundamental positions: that wealthy people should pay higher taxes. They were distressed that during the Reagan years, the maximum tax rate was reduced to 28 percent, from 70 percent. So when the opportunity arose for them to press for higher rates on the wealthy, they jumped at the chance at the expense of the bargain they made in 1986.
In the meantime, countless interest groups with paid lobbyists continued to hound Congress and Administration officials to give them tax breaks. Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, who was primarily responsible for the portion of the 1986 law that abolished most tax shelters, said he was ''under huge pressure'' to reverse himself.
''I feel as if I'm being nibbled to death by ducks,'' said the New York Democrat, who says the 1986 law should not be changed. ''They always portray what they want as a proposition to increase investment.''
 
Public Never Bought It
Finally, although statistics show that the number of people who saw their taxes drop exceeds the number who saw a rise, the public seems never to have accepted the 1986 changes. A poll this year by the Gallup Organization for the Times Mirror Company showed that only 13 percent of adults believe the new system to be ''fairer'' than the old one. Three times as many, 39 percent, said it was ''less fair.'' The rest said they found no difference or did not know.
The poll involved 2,048 adults interviewed in person nationwide between Jan. 27 and Feb. 5. The margin of sampling error was plus or minus 3 percentage points.
Support for changes in the law has been bolstered by claims of proponents that at worst are extravagant and at best unprovable.
Politicians and lobbyists who favor the capital gains reduction argue that it would greatly improve the amount of investment in the country. Those who advocate deductible I.R.A.'s for the upper middle class and the wealthy say they would greatly increase the amount people save.
But hardly any economists believe that either change would affect the nation's economy substantially. Emil M. Sunley, director of tax analysis at the accounting firm of Deloitte, Haskins & Sells, said: ''In a $5 trillion economy, you're talking about changes worth $2 billion or $3 billion a year. You've got to think the effects will be minuscule.''
 
Hunches More Than Data
Economists have debated inconclusively for years whether lower capital gains rates or widely available I.R.A.'s would improve investment and saving even at the margins. The evidence is so scant that their views are based more on hunches than on solid data.
Asked why such disagreement existed among respected economists, Jane G. Gravelle, a senior specialist in economic and tax policy at the Library of Congress, said: ''These are just very tough problems to tackle empirically. The techniques we have to study these issues can't give you the answers.''
What is beyond dispute, however, is that both proposals would primarily benefit the well-to-do, despite claims that the middle class would reap advantages.
The Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation has calculated that under the capital gains proposal scheduled to go before the House this week, the two-tenths of 1 percent of taxpayers with incomes above $200,000 would get 60 percent of the benefits, and the 1.1 percent of taxpayers with incomes over $100,000 would get 80 percent.
As for deductible I.R.A.'s, they are already available to couples with incomes below $50,000. So the change being proposed would basically affect only those with higher incomes.
 
Who Put Money in I.R.A.'s
A 1983 study compiled when I.R.A.'s were deductible for all showed that more than 60 percent of taxpayers with incomes above $50,000 contributed, while only about 30 percent of those with incomes between $30,000 and $50,000 did so. In 1985, the last year for which the Internal Revenue Service has full data, only 7.8 percent of tax returns showed gross incomes above $50,000.
Many Democrats have also misstated the effect of their proposal to increase to 33 percent from 28 percent the marginal tax rate for the wealthiest taxpayers. (Taxable income is the amount of money earned after deductions are taken, so taxpayers with a taxable income of $200,000 could be expected to have a total income of $300,000 or more. The marginal rate is the rate paid on the last dollar earned.) For example, the House Speaker, Thomas S. Foley, maintained this week that these wealthy people now pay a lower overall tax rate than those with taxable incomes of $75,000 to $150,000. ''In correcting that,'' Mr. Foley said, ''we are not creating a new tax.''
 
Confusion on Marginal Rates
Mr. Foley confused marginal rates with actual taxes paid. Because of an anomaly in the law, families with incomes below about $200,000 now pay a marginal rate of 33 percent, while those with higher incomes pay a marginal rate of 28 percent. The anomaly occurs because the benefits of the 15 percent rate and personal exemptions are gradually reduced.
But people who pay a marginal rate of 33 percent are actually paying less than 28 percent of their taxable income, either because they are paying at a 15 percent rate on some of their income or because they are entitled to personal exemptions.
Thus, those with higher incomes who pay a marginal rate of 28 percent are paying exactly 28 percent of all their taxable income in taxes. Under the Democratic proposal, they would owe up to 33 percent.

GRAPHIC: graphs of estimated share of proposed tax cut to benefit each salary group (Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation) (pg. D1); tax returns deducting I.R.A.'s in '86 and '87 (Source: Internal Revenue Service) (pg. D3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAX REFORM ACT OF 1986; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US) TAXES & TAXATION (99%); TAX LAW (96%); TAX REFORM (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); POLITICS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); APPROVALS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (74%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); BONDS (72%); 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); DORIS O MATSUI (58%); 



613 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1480 words

HEADLINE: A New Effort to Protect Ozone

BYLINE: By MATTHEW WALD

 BODY:
The battle to save the atmosphere's protective layer of ozone is moving to a new front: the corner auto-repair shop, where an ounce-by-ounce struggle is under way to limit the escape of the vast amounts of air-conditioning fluid handled daily.
All types of air-conditioners and refrigerators use the ozone-depleting chemicals called chlorofluorocarbons, or CFC-12. About 41 percent of the CFC-12 used for refrigeration in the United States is used by vehicle air-conditioners. But because vehicle air-conditioners are particularly prone to leaks and need frequent replacements of refrigerant, they use 75 percent of the country's replacement CFC-12. Large amounts of CFC-12 escape into the air during the replacement and also during regular operation of auto air-conditioners.
''They're guaranteed to leak,'' said Arthur T. Anderson, a specialist in CFC's at the Energy Department. 
But this month, several new machines that will recycle the refrigerant were endorsed by Underwriters Laboratories, a consumer-products testing concern, for use on car air-conditioners under warranty. The result could be widespread changes in the way vehicle air-conditioners are serviced.
 
Payback on Equipment
The change would be expensive -costing an estimated 225,000 repair shops perhaps $750 million - and would be passed on to the owners of about 100 million cars that have air-conditioning. But the manufacturers of the machines, which cost from $2,500 to $7,000, argue that, with the cost of CFC-12 rising as production is slowed, the equipment will quickly pay for itself, in addition to helping the environment.
The United States is the only large country in which auto air-conditioners are in wide use. ''Americans who want to sound like good guys sound like jerks, because so much of our use is auto air-conditioners,'' said David D. Doniger, the director of the ozone protection project at the Natural Resources Defense Council.
Mr. Doniger's group, a nonprofit organization based in Washington that has been particularly active on the ozone issue, favors a faster phase-out, and recycling, of the refrigerant in all the places it is used.
One reason car air-conditioners leak more than window air-conditioners or home refrigerators is the harsh environment under the hood. Another is the fact that the mechanical power to run car units comes from outside the system, requiring a spinning shaft attached to the car's engine that is hard to seal and that sooner or later springs leaks. In a building's window air-conditioner, the power comes from an electric motor that is located inside the sealed system.
 
Supply Squeeze Ahead
With CFC-12 production already cut to 1986 levels under an international environmental agreement signed in January, a shortage of the refrigerant is dveloping. Prices have already doubled in the last year and are widely expected to double again in coming months. Freon, the Du Pont brand, is the best-known CFC-12.
What is more, production is scheduled to be cut by half by 1998, and many environmental officials would like to accelerate the cut. President Bush has endorsed a complete ban on production by 2000, if safe replacements can be found.
One alternative for cars is a non-CFC-12 refrigerant, but the only chemical combinations discovered so far would require $1,000 or more in modifications to existing air-conditioners.
The layer of ozone in the upper atmosphere helps screen the earth from ultraviolet rays and other harmful radiation from the sun. An increase in air pollutants produced by industrialization over the last century has caused a chemical reaction with ozone that scientists say has thinned or depleted the ozone layer in some spots. An increase in the amount of harmful rays reaching earth has been linked to increases in skin cancer and cataracts in humans, and a variety of problems in other animals and plants.
Vermont, Oregon and Hawaii have already passed laws barring the sale of small cans of refrigerant, which are used by weekend mechanics and poorly equipped gas stations, and other states are expected to follow. The cans allow car air-conditioners to be refilled cheaply, but without repairing the leak, meaning that another refill will be required.
From an environmental point of view, said Mr. Doniger, ''you're putting CFC's in your air-conditioner for a day, a month or even a season, and then into the atmosphere for 150 years.'' The cans, he said, are ''grenades.''
 
Leakage During Repair
When an auto air-conditioner has stopped working because of a refrigerant leak, it may still have as much as 70 percent of its coolant. It is standard practice to vent the system before fixing. Even when a unit is fixed, mechanics often use a full load of refrigerant just to flush out a system or check for leaks.
The alternative is a machine that will recycle the refrigerant by sucking it out of the air-conditioner and purifying it for re-use. One obstacle had been that auto manufacturers insisted on virgin coolant or they would not honor the warranty. Contaminated coolant could damage a system.
Earlier this month, however, Underwriters Laboratories certified several recycling units as able to filter coolant to a standard sufficient for use in units under warranty.
Now that recovery machines are available, manufacturers expect brisk sales. ''You can't penalize a shop, saying they must have a machine, if they can't get one,'' said Jeffrey L. Sachs, president of Draf Industries Inc., a privately held manufacturing company in Bedford Hills, N.Y. The company makes a $2,995 recycling machine that was recently approved by Underwriters.
Mr. Sachs said that, as certified machines become available, ''within 18 months, almost every state's going to have a regulation'' requiring mechanics to buy one.
Some manufacturers think adoption of the new machines will not even require state laws. ''Just the economics of using the equipment will drive the market,'' said John P. Hancock, vice president of White Industries of Indianapolis, which markets its $2,900 machine under the brand name K-Whit Tools. With refrigerant at its present price, he said, his machine would save enough to pay for itself after 300 cars.
 
Commitment by General Motors
''If the price of this stuff gets up high enough, even a junkyard will want to buy one,'' said John Tyson, vice president of the SPX Corporation, Muskegon, Mich. His company sells recycling equipment under the brand names of Robinair, Kent-Moore and Bear Automotive. The General Motors Corporation announced in August that it would make the Kent-Moore model available to its 10,000 dealers and that the dealers would have to have the equipment for 1991 cars.
Others are not certain that the economics will induce thousands of small businesses to invest. But some service stations may do so and publicize the fact to capitalize on public concern about the ozone, experts predict.
''I never hear people talk about toxic chemicals, old-growth forests or things like that,'' said Mr. Doniger, whose organization concerns itself with a varity of environmental problems. ''But people know about the hole in the ozone layer. They care about this stuff.''
The idea appeals to some service mechanics.
''I'm an environmental goof,'' said Richard A. De Silva, owner of De Silva's Auto Air Conditioning in East Detroit, Mich. ''I like to get things cleaned up. And we've got to protect the kids coming up.''
Mr. De Silva, who has 11 service bays, has been using a recycler for eight months, cutting his refrigerant use drastically. It has already paid for itself, he said.
 
Two Machines at Once
Efforts to protect the ozone may give the manufacturers of recycling equipment a double boon: one now, when service stations rush to buy so they can continue servicing air- conditioners, and one when the next generation of air-conditioners comes along. Those air-conditioners will use a refrigerant that does not damage the ozone, but it is likely to be so expensive that recycling will be the norm. And the two refrigerants cannot be mixed, so two machines will be needed as long as both kinds of air-conditioners are on the road.
Industry experts think a side-effect of widespread recycling will be a reduction in the number of service locations for air-conditioning work. The business may become similar to transmission work, with car owners either going to a specialist or to a local gas station that farms out the work to the specialist.
If the price of environmental regulations drives some companies out of the air-conditioning repair business, say the manufacturers, so be it.
''A man who cannot afford a $2,500 recovery system,'' said Thorne Gould, president of the Murray Corporation, a manufacturer of recycling equipment and other air-conditioning service parts, ''is really not in the air-conditioning business anyway.''

GRAPHIC: photo of Irv Woolf (NYT/Suzanne DeChillo) (pg. D1); graphs of number of units in '90 using CFC-12; CFC-12 used in '90 to replace that lost to leaks (Source: Putnam, Hayes & Bartlett, Inc. (pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: UNDERWRITERS LABORATORIES INC (55%); UNDERWRITERS LABORATORIES (55%); UNDERWRITERS LABORATORIES (55%); 

SUBJECT: AIR CONDITIONING; OZONE; AIR POLLUTION; CHLOROFLUOROCARBONS; AUTOMOBILES CHLORINE (90%); FLUORINE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); OZONE DEPLETION (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); CHEMICALS & ENVIRONMENT (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (72%); PRODUCT WARRANTIES (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (68%); TEST LABORATORIES (67%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (63%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L



614 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: Experts See Nuclear Energy as Cure for Global Warming

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MONTREAL, Sept. 21-

 BODY:
The cure for the greenhouse effect, the warming of the atmosphere that is believed to be caused by the burning of fossil fuels, is a huge shift to nuclear-generated power, speaker after speaker told delegates at a World Energy Conference meeting this week.
But a few speakers predicted that more efficient electrical and electronic consumer products would make a big shift to nuclear power unnecessary, while others criticized the cost of reactor-generated electricity.
For the most part, however, the consensus at the weeklong 14th congress of the London-based organization, which has members in 80 countries, was that greater reliance on nuclear power is needed.
 
Essential for Third World
Bong-Suh Lee, South Korea's Minister of Energy and Resources, said nuclear power was the solution to environmental and supply problems and that ''this is especially so for resource-poor developing countries.'' 
John Wakeham, Secretary of State for Energy in Britain, said his country was requiring that its Government-owned electricity industry, which is now being sold to the public, generate electricity without burning fossil fuels. ''The developed world may well have to turn increasingly to nuclear energy to protect our environment in the years ahead and make room for more use of fossil energy in countries with less-suitable infrastructure,'' he said.
W. Henson Moore, the United States Deputy Energy Secretary, said it was essential to resume reactor construction, which has nearly halted in both the United States and Canada and has slowed markedly elsewhere. ''Given some time and concerted effort, we can again make nuclear energy a viable choice,'' Mr. Moore said.
Lord Marshall of Goring, the chairman of the Central Electricity Generating Board in Britain, said: ''The design of nuclear reactors has now reached an advanced, sophisticated and mature level. For the public at large, the risk is to all intents and purposes zero.''
But those who opposed nuclear power generally said that rather than replace generators fired by coal, oil and natural-gas with reactors, it would be less expensive to retire the old non-nuclear generators by decreasing the demand for electricity through use of more efficient motors, lights and other electrical and electronic products.
Some opponents of nuclear power also took issue with its cost.
''Nuclear power throughout the world's market economies, and even in Communist countries, is dying of an incurable attack of market forces,'' said Amory Lovins, a consultant who specializes in efficiency technologies.
Wall Street discounts the stock and debt issues of companies with nuclear investments, he said, and investors would remain skeptical ''until promoters bring money in themselves and stop importuning the Treasury to put our money where their mouth is.'' Nuclear plants would not be built in the United States, he said, without insurance concessions and other advantages given by Congress.
Mr. Lovins and other speakers said third world electricity producers and users were markedly less efficient than those in industrialized countries.
 
Nuclear Slowdown
A World Energy Conference study estimated that reactors would provide 7 or 8 percent of energy supplies in 2020; six years ago, the group said it would be 12 percent. Currently, about 400 reactors are operating, providing about 4 percent of the world's energy supplies. About 100 more reactors are under construction.
The construction rate is far short of what would be required to use reactors to halt global warming. Alvin Weinberg, an energy expert at Oak Ridge National Laboratories, calculated that in 100 years, if the world were to institute stringent efficiency measures and cut fuel burning to the level required to stabilize the atmosphere, 5,000 reactors would be needed.
But he concluded that current designs would not be adequate. He said the chance of a meltdown at a given plant is great enough that if multiplied by 5,000, it would produce an unacceptably high risk.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (54%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (54%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES; ATOMIC ENERGY; WEATHER; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; ENERGY AND POWER CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L



615 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 7, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Details Expected on Rescue Bonds

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
The Resolution Funding Corporation, established by the Government earlier this year to help rescue the savings and loan industry, is likely to provide preliminary details this week about how it intends to sell $30 billion worth of securities over the next two fiscal years, credit market analysts said.
Rumors about an impending sale of the corporation's bonds circulated through the credit markets late last week. With $17.5 billion worth of Treasury notes scheduled to be auctioned this week, the rumors accentuated concerns about how easily the new long-term bonds might be absorbed.
''With the economy in an apparent soft-landing mode and the Fed not likely to ease policy in the near term, a load of supply means that there is no rush to come in and buy'' as long as yields are close to current levels, said Leonard J. Santow, a managing director at Griggs & Santow Inc., a financial consulting firm. 
At the end of last week, the Treasury's 8 1/8 percent bonds that mature in 2019 were offered at a price to yield 8.19 percent, up from a yield of 8.07 percent on Sept. 15.
Mr. Santow pointed out that the Resolution Funding Corporation represents a good deal of financing, and ''it has the market on edge right now.''
Richard M. Kelly, president of Aubrey G. Lanston & Company, a primary dealer of Government securities, said: ''An actual offering may not actually be announced, but I think the Treasury would like to remove some of the uncertainty in the market. To that end, they may reveal some of the details about the process.''
A corporaation spokesman would not comment on whether an announcement is imminent. But Mr. Santow and others said that the issues are likely to be sold in an auction-like process that is virtually identical to the way the Treasury sells its notes and bonds.
As part of a compromise that cleared the way for the passage of the savings and loan rescue bill, the Bush Administration agreed that in the current fiscal year, which ends Saturday, the first $20 billion for the corporation would be included in the 1989 Federal budget. Of that total, the Treasury raised $18.8 billion through the sale of short-term bills. The remaining $1.2 billion came from the Federal Home Loan Bank.
Mr. Santow said that an initial sale of about $5 billion worth of 30-year bonds by the corporation seems highly plausible some time in October. Although yields on the securities will almost certainly be above those offered on Treasury bonds, the difference is not likely to be terribly wide, dealers said.
''I would say that they would probably come in at 20 to 30 basis points over Treasuries initially,'' one bond trader said. ''After the first issue, the spread would probably narrow.''
 
Interest in Currency Markets
Aside from the Resolution Funding situation, credit market participants this week will be keeping a close eye on developments in world currency markets after the weekend meeting of the Group of Seven finance ministers in Washington.
There were rumors late last week that a coordinated round of interest rate increases in West Germany and Japan, in conjunction with a cut in rates by the Federal Reserve Board, might be authorized as a way of pushing down the value of the dollar, which is trading around 145 yen and 1.95 marks.
But private economists said such a move was unlikely. Little, if anything, is likely to come out of the meeting, they added.
''The Group of Seven will basically decide to sit on their hands, because despite the nervousness in the markets, everybody is quite happy,'' said Charles Taylor, an international economist at Prudential-Bache Securities in Washington.
 
August Durable Goods Data
Highlighting a very sparse economic data calendar this week is a report on durable goods orders for August. A highly volatile series, the orders figures are nevertheless closely scrutinized by analysts because, among other reasons, they are known to be a favorite of Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve Board chairman.
Alan Levenson, an economist at Salomon Brothers Inc., said, ''Durable goods bookings may have risen in August, but even the anticipated bounce-back in this erratic activity is unlikely to reverse the slowdown in capital spending growth.''
Donald J. Fine, chief market analyst at the Chase Manhattan Bank, said that the ''meat and potatoes'' of the report will be how well durables orders performed when transportation is excluded.
''Automobile orders were probably up in August, but aircraft probably fell,'' he said. ''The variety of industries showing weakness is getting larger and larger. The fourth quarter is looking like it could be kind of weak.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: AUBREY G LANSTON & CO INC (66%); RESOLUTION FUNDING CORP (94%); RESOLUTION FUNDING CORP (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: RESOLUTION FUNDING CORP

SUBJECT: CREDIT; BANKS AND BANKING; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING (73%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N



616 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 7, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: 4 Issues in This Week's Treasury Auctions

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of new issues this week includes today's auction of new three-month and six-month Treasury bills, followed by one for two-year notes tomorrow and a four-year note auction on Wednesday.
By late Friday, the three-month bill was bid at 7.77 percent, and the six-month bill was at 7.75 percent. On a when-issued basis, the yield for a two-year bill was 8.27 percent, while the yield on a four-year note was 8.23 percent. 
On Wednesday, the Federal Farm Credit Administration banks are scheduled to announce the interest rates on a four-part consolidated bond issue, totaling about $2.87 billion. The issue will be made through the Federal Farm Credit Banks and a nationwide group of securities dealers and banks.
If market conditions are favorable this week, New York City might price a negotiated bond issue totaling about $750 million in general obligations through underwriters led by Goldman, Sachs & Company.
The following new fixed-income issues are scheduled this week:
 
TAXABLE
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 
Bibb Co., Macon, Ga., $100 million in senior subordinated notes, due 1999, NR/B-2/B. Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
Conquest Exploration Co., Houston, $50 million in convertible subordinated debentures, due 2014, NR/ B-3/CCC. Paine Webber Inc.
Drug Emporium Inc., Worthington, Ohio, $50 million in convertible subordinated debentures, due 2014. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Formica Corp., Wayne, N.J., $100 million in senior subordinated notes, due 1999, NR/B-2/B-. Dillon Read & Co.
J & L Specialty Products Corp., Pittsburgh, $250 million in senior subordinated notes, due 1999, NR/B-2/B. Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.
Long Island Lighting Co., 12.8 million shares of $25 preferred stock, NR/Ba-3/BB-. Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
Midway Airlines, Chicago, two million shares of $2 convertible exchangeable preferred stock. Shearson Lehman Hutton.
Petrolane Gas Service L.P./Petrolane Finance, Long Beach, Calif., $125 million in senior secured notes, due 1998, and $375 million in senior subordinated debentures, due 2001, NR/ B-2/B. The First Boston Corp.
Westpac Banking Corp., eight million American depository receipts (representing $25 preference stock), NR/A-1/A+. Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
 
Source: McCarthy, Crisanti & Maffei Inc.
 
Ratings: MCM/Moody's/Standard & Poor's.
 
TAX EXEMPT
 
TUESDAY
 
Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, $85.8 million in electricity revenue bonds. Competitive.
Wisconsin, $63.4 million in general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
WEDNESDAY
 
Maryland, $80 million in general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
TENTATIVE OFFERINGS THIS WEEK
 
California Education Facilities Authority, $105 million in bonds for Stanford University. Prager & Co.
Detroit, $65.5 million in sewerage system revenue bonds. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Fairfax County (Va.) Water Authority, $150 million in revenue bonds. Wheat, First Securities Inc.
Florida Board of Education, $950 million in public education capital outlay revenue bonds. Lazard Freres & Co.
New Jersey Highway Authority, $225 million in bonds for the Garden State Parkway. Dillon, Read & Co.
New York City, $750 million in general obligation bonds. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
San Diego County Regional Transportation Division, $175 million in sales tax revenue bonds. First Boston Co.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (94%); NGG (NYSE) (81%); NG (LSE) (81%); WBK (NYSE) (63%); WBC (NZX) (63%); WBC (ASX) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (94%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (94%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (94%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (81%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (81%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (81%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (81%); NAICS313210 BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS (68%); SIC2211 BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS, COTTON (68%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (66%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (66%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (66%); NAICS325520 ADHESIVE MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2891 ADHESIVES & SEALANTS (66%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (63%); SIC1629 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION NEC (61%); NAICS522130 CREDIT UNIONS (57%); SIC6061 CREDIT UNIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); MACON, GA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (94%); NATIONAL GRID PLC (81%); BIBB CO (68%); CONQUEST EXPLORATION CO (67%); DRUG EMPORIUM INC (66%); J & L SPECIALTY PRODUCTS CORP (66%); DILLON READ & CO INC (66%); FORMICA CORP (66%); PETROLANE GAS SERVICE LP (63%); WESTPAC BANKING CORP (63%); LOS ANGELES DEPARTMENT OF WATER & POWER (61%); FEDERAL FARM CREDIT BANKS FUNDING CORP (57%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%); FARM CREDIT ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; STOCKS AND BONDS; AUCTIONS TREASURY SECURITIES (93%); BONDS (92%); AUCTIONS (91%); BOND ISSUES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); PREFERRED STOCK (89%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (87%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); AIRLINES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (62%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (60%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); 



617 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 8, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL REPORT;
Executive in China Adjusts to Party Line

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 24

 BODY:
Employees at China's biggest investment company like to recall that their chairman stood at the window during the big pro-democracy demonstrations in May, gazing at the protesters in a daring sign of support.
Rong Yiren, the formidable chairman of the state-owned China International Trust and Investment Corporation, or Citic, appeared to be moved deeply by the fervor of the democracy movement. He allowed employees to join the demonstrations and to contribute to the student movement.
Now as Chinese business is struggling to reorient itself to the Communist Party's new hard-line ideology, Mr. Rong is solidly in line, still at the helm of China's largest and most-respected financial company. 
In June, Mr. Rong came out in full support of the Government's military crackdown on the demonstrations. ''I sympathized with the students' patriotic feelings,'' Mr. Rong said, his face saddening visibly at the mention of the crackdown. ''But they were manipulated by some people, and I feel sad about that. I resent and oppose the practice of manipulating students in this way,'' he added, folding the Party line into his comments.
 
Sense for Posturing
For business executives in China, this kind of political posturing is a way of life, and Mr. Rong has a keen sense for when and how to do it.
The son of a wealthy industrialist in Shanghai, Mr. Rong decided to stay 40 years ago to help build a new China, while other family members fled abroad. He was forced to do menial jobs during the Cultural Revolution that began in 1966 and then returned to favor with the rise to power of Deng Xiaoping, now China's top leader, who gave Mr. Rong the mandate to set up Citic 10 years ago.
Under Mr. Rong's leadership, Citic has become a fast-growing conglomerate of efficiently run businesses from Australia to Canada and the United States. Citic owns a steel plant in Delaware, a timber operation in Washington State and real estate in Arizona.
Last year Citic earned the equivalent of $55 million, of which 61 percent was accounted for by its Hong Kong subsidiary. The company will not disclose the earnings of its United States operations.
 
At the Vanguard
This is a crucial time for Citic, which has positioned itself at the vanguard of the nation's economic reorganization. On Oct. 2, the company will celebrate its 10th anniversary, with Chinese dignitaries and foreign guests, including Alexander Haig, the former Secretary of State.
Some foreign bankers worry that Citic could be hurt if China's leaders retreat from their commitment to the country's policy of economic openness. In addition, the company has already said this year's profits and investment would probably fall below last year's levels.
Mr. Rong himself initially seemed vulnerable because he had been an obvious supporter of the democracy movement and was associated with the ousted Communist Party leader, Zhao Ziyang.
Instead, Mr. Rong's stature has risen. Now there is talk that he might be appointed vice president or deputy prime minister, as a way for China's leadership to bolster confidence in the economic reorganization.
 
Barometer of Change
In many ways, Citic is a barometer of China's economic change, and it is sometimes regarded as the most capitalist of the country's state-owned enterprises. In addition to running a bank that competes directly with China's Government-owned banks, Citic issues multimillion-dollar bonds, leases airplanes and participates in loan syndications - although such activity has dropped virtually to a standstill since the military crackdown.
Like China, Citic expanded without a clear-cut strategy, growing wherever there was opportunity, and so its businesses range from technology, investments, textiles, cars, energy, steel, banking, timber and weapons. Earnings expanded 50 percent in 1987 and 27 percent last year. Now, as the Government redoubles its efforts to slow the economy, so too, will Citic temper its pace.
''Perhaps they have grown too fast, and they need a period of consolidation,'' said Henry T. H. Fei, vice president for China business at the Bankers Trust Company in Hong Kong.
Now, the challenge for Mr. Rong is to bend with the shift in Communist Party policies, while maintaining credibility with foreign executives and buoying morale among his young staff members, many of whom resent the Government's new emphasis on Communist values.
 
The New Orthodoxy
Compliance with the new orthodoxy was evident in August, as Citic paid $5.1 million in fines after an audit discovered unauthorized foreign exchange trades and tax evasion. Though acknowledging that the fine, which was the first for the company, was relatively lenient for such an offense, Mr. Rong said he welcomed it as a means to improve management in China.
The Government has also stipulated that sons and daughters of top leaders may no longer engage in business. That could cause difficulties for Citic, which is known for hiring such people.
Last week Mr. Rong said that two such employees had left the company because of the new regulation, but in an interview last month, he said that some sons and daughters of top officials would be transferred to noncommercial departments, like those engaged in manufacturing.
Mr. Rong said Wang Jun, vice president at Citic and a son of Chinese Vice President Wang Zhen, has no plans for leaving, because he technically does not belong to the category under the regulation. Some Chinese said the younger Mr. Wang was preparing for a post in the military.
 
Cagey About Rumors
If Mr. Rong is selected for a top Government position, he presumably will leave Citic. Mr. Rong is cagey about responding to rumors about such a job.
Some staff workers say he could not be appointed because he is not a Communist Party member. Yet, Mr. Rong has the political stature and breadth that outrank even most senior officials. He is one of 19 vice chairmen in China's legislature; a leader for industry in one of the nine non-Communist parties; a board member for a provincial university, and an honorary member of a softball association.
Citic staff members prefer that Mr. Rong stay and are grateful that he allowed them to march and donate money and food to the hunger-striking students in May.
''My way of handling it was not to organize anything, but not to stop it either,'' Mr. Rong said in an interview in Beijing. ''Each person acted according to his own wishes.''
If Mr. Rong is successful in sustaining good will within the company and the Communist Party leadership, another test will come in his relationship with foreign business executives.
''The challenge for Citic in the year to come is to maintain and even improve their image,'' said a Beijing-based foreign banker who asked not to be named. ''We will watch how they live up to their contracts and loan agreements.''

GRAPHIC: photo of Rong Yiren (NYT/Sheryl WuDunn)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); 

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (78%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: TRUST & INVESTMENT ADVISERS INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHINA INTERNATIONAL TRUST AND INVESTMENT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (78%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); POLITICS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); EXECUTIVES (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (50%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL; YIREN, RONG



618 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 8, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL REPORT;
Financial Officials Fear Global Trade Imbalance

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 24

 BODY:
In stretch limos and blue pinstripes, the global finance community gathers in Washington this week to try to create a favorable global economic environment in the 1990's.
In meetings, and in small and large dinners and even larger cocktail parties, finance officials are trying to agree on a way to increase communal resources and prepare for the economic crises of the future.
The finance officials, joined by thousands of commercial bankers, are here for the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, the Washington-based institutions that help steer the global economy while offering money and technical assistance to poorer nations that pledge freer-market policies.
Officials began assembling this weekend. Those from the seven most powerful industrial countries issued a communique about the dollar and Poland on Saturday, signaling problems and opportunities ahead. 
 
Trade Imbalances
One of the biggest threats - that trade imbalances will worsen next year partly because of an uncontrollable rise in the dollar's value - was also addressed in a report on the World Economic Outlook published today by the I.M.F. staff.
The dollar has risen up to 20 percent this year against the Japanese yen and the West German mark -undermining efforts to stem the American trade deficit because it means higher prices for American exports while making foreign goods cheaper in the United States.
Warning that the rise of the dollar ''could adversely affect prospects for the world economy,'' the seven industrial countries - the United States, Japan, West Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada - pledged in somewhat stronger terms than at their last meeting here in April to take coordinated action, if necessary, to drive the currency lower.
Bankers here said that to bring the dollar down, the West Germans and the Japanese would have to raise interest rates or Americans would have to lower them. The likelihood of the Federal Reserve acting in the near future is not considered great.
 
Meaning to the Markets
The Group of Seven ''did not say very much and so it won't mean a lot to the market,'' said S. Waite Rawls 3d, vice chairman of the Continental Bank of Chicago, adding that the market would look for intervention on Monday.
According to the I.M.F. report, the ''prospect of sizable and persistent current account imbalances among the three largest industrial countries continues to cloud the medium-term outlook.'' The three are the United States, Japan and West Germany.
The I.M.F. projected that the American trade and services deficit, otherwise known as the current account, would widen by $13.6 billion next year, to $138.7 billion, based on present policies and exchange rates.
In contrast, Japan's surplus would rise $17.9 billion, to $89.7 billion, and the West German surplus by $3.4 billion, to $56.8 billion.
 
Effect of the Trade Gap
Any worsening of the American trade deficit would significantly set back the economic policies of the Bush Administration and could stir protectionist reactions in Congress.
If the financial markets are not reassured that policy changes will redress the situation, said Jacob Frenkel, the I.M.F.'s director of research, steeper deficits could be ''extremely destabilizing.''
The warning about a possible trade reversal comes as many American officials and analysts fear a similar reversal in efforts to cut the budget deficit. It is now generally held to be unlikely that Congress will meet an Oct. 16 deadline for cutting the projected 1990 deficit.
Along with a high dollar, the budget deficit - which encourages the consumption of imports over savings and investment - is considered a large contributor to the trade deficit.
 
More Than Intervention
The Finance Minister of Canada, Michael H. Wilson, said in an interview today that the Group of Seven ministers discussed policies on Saturday that would address the trade imbalance and that ''those policies are broader than market intervention.''
The I.M.F.'s World Economic Outlook also said that while the annual rate of economic growth is expected to slow in the United States next year, it saw no recession. The I.M.F. sees growth down to 2.1 percent next year, from a projected 2.9 percent this year and 4.4 percent in 1988.
The Group of Seven ministers also focused on the ''historic events'' in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union and expressed their ''strong support for plans to create more open and market-based economies'' in Poland and Hungary.
 
Becoming Electric
At a news briefing Saturday night, Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady said, ''The whole meeting became electric when the talk turned to what is going on in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe.''
The seven urged Poland to reach an early agreement with the I.M.F. on a lending program to make the Polish economy more efficient, including rescheduling debts.
About two-thirds of Poland's $40 billion foreign debt is held by governments and the rest by banks.
Britain's Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson noted that the problems in Poland today are similar to those in West Germany in the immediate postwar period, where market-oriented reforms engineered by the Finance Minister, Ludwig Erhardt, who later became Chancellor, helped create what has come to be called the German miracle.
The ministers also took up a request from Japan for a greater voice in the I.M.F., but Japan's Finance Minister, Ryutaro Hashimoto, said no decisions were made.
Japan now has the fifth-largest vote in the I.M.F., after the United States, Britain, West Germany and France. It wants to jump to second place under proposals that are being debated this week to increase the I.M.F.'s $120 billion of resources.
The I.M.F. wants more capital so that the institution can keep pace with the global economy and prepare for emergency lending.
Yet not all members are in agreement. The Bush Administration said it is not yet convinced of the need for new capital. Britain and Saudi Arabia are also unenthusiastic. But 70 percent of the weighted vote of the membership backs at least a two-thirds increase in capital.
Strains became apparent also between Mr. Brady and commercial bankers. Reports were confirmed today of a meeting Friday between Mr. Brady and heads of top money center banks to try to ease doubts about his plan for cutting third world debts.
The plan, which offers inducements to banks to sell their debt at discounted prices, has stirred some misgivings among bankers, who say it swells expectations over the size of debt reductions. One participant reported some sharp exchanges but said the meeting had ''helped clear the air.''

GRAPHIC: graph of I.M.F. budget (Source: International Monetary Fund)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (94%); GERMANY (93%); FRANCE (58%); 

COMPANY: CONTINENTAL BANK-BENIN (52%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF)

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (92%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); EXCHANGE RATES (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); EXPORT PRICES (65%); INTEREST RATES (62%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H



619 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: END THE 'SCOURGE' OF CHEMICAL ARMS, BUSH SAYS AT U.N.

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 25

 BODY:
President Bush, saying it was time ''to rid the earth of this scourge,'' told the United Nations today that the United States would destroy 80 percent of its chemical weapons if the Soviet Union agreed to cut its stockpile to the American level.
Mr. Bush also promised to eliminate all American chemical arms within a decade if a treaty banning such weapons all over the world was signed.
''The world has lived too long in the shadow of chemical warfare,'' the President told the delegates of the General Assembly, who responded with polite applause. ''Let us act together, beginning today, to rid the earth of this scourge.'' [Excerpts from speech, page A16.] A 'Homecoming' for the Bushes Mr. Bush, who was a delegate to the United Nations under President Richard M. Nixon, said his first speech to the General Assembly as President was ''a homecoming'' for him and for Barbara Bush. The First Lady sat in the spectators' gallery, wearing a bright red outfit and leading the applause. 
The President said he was trying to speed progress at the 40-nation negotiations in Geneva on a global ban on chemical weapons because ''time is running out.''
Mr. Bush's advisers had hoped that his speech, with its chemical weapons initiative and its paean to the flowering of democracy around the world, would match and perhaps outshine the appearance of President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union at the United Nations last year.
 
Doesn't Outshine Gorbachev
But while individual delegates praised Mr. Bush's speech as impressive, the President did not receive the enthusiastic response or long round of applause that the Soviet leader garnered last December when he announced his deep, one-sided cuts in conventional forces.
Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d and Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze of the Soviet Union traded friendly waves across the room before they listened to Mr. Bush, who hailed ''freedom's march'' in Poland, the Soviet Union and Latin America. He also called on the world leaders to join forces to fight terrorism.
''Terrorism of any kind is repugnant to all values that a civilized world holds in common,'' the President said. ''And make no mistake. Terrorism is a means that no end - no matter how just that end - can sanctify.''
 
Pleased With Wyoming Talks
Mr. Bush said he was pleased with the progress made at the American-Soviet talks last weekend in Wyoming and the agreement for a superpower summit meeting in spring or early summer of 1990.
''Each of these achievements is important in its own right, but they are more important still as as signs of a new attitude that prevails between the U.S. and the U.S.S.R.,'' he said. ''Seri-ous differences remain. But the willingness to deal constructively and candidly with those differences is news that we - and indeed the world - must welcome.''
Trying to build momentum on a subject that his advisers say is ''a fixation'' with him, Mr. Bush challenged the Soviets to set a specific time frame for mutual deep cuts in chemical weapons without waiting for a convention to be signed.
''Many have said recently that the U.S. has been dragging its feet in the chemical weapons negotiations, but this ought to put that to rest once and for all,'' Secretary Baker said after the speech.
Soviet officials, who got the chemical arms proposal during Soviet-American talks in Wyoming over the weekend, said they had taken it under advisement.
The Soviet Union said in January that it would destroy its 50,000 tons of chemical weapons but did not set deadlines or amounts.
 
Praise From Shevardnadze
After Mr. Bush's speech, Mr. Shevardnadze looked dour and offered only tepid applause. But he praised the speech as ''a constructive statement in the spirit of the times.''
On the chemical weapons initiatives, the Soviet Foreign Minister said: ''They will have to be studied later. We have a positive view of these proposals.''
Specifically, Mr. Bush outlined these steps:
* The United States will destroy more than 98 percent of its current chemical weapons stockpile within eight years after the completion of a multilateral chemical weapons convention that includes the Soviet Union.
* The remaining 2 percent would then be destroyed in the next two years after all nations capable of producing chemical arms signed the convention. The President said 20 nations had chemical arms capabilities.
* While working to complete a global chemical weapons convention, the United States will propose to the Soviet Union that the two countries agree to the destruction of a major portion of their respective stockpiles to equal levels, about 20 percent of the current American level. Since the Soviets have greater stockpiles, they would have to destroy many more weapons.
* The United States will accelerate and expand its efforts to improve verification procedures.
There were those who felt that Mr. Bush's initiative was more symbolic than substantive, since Congress has already passed legislation requiring the Administration to destroy old chemical weapons by 1997 as more advanced chemical weapons are deployed.
Responding to such sugestions, the President's national security adviser, Brent Scowcroft, said, ''Whether it's making a virtue of necessity, it is certainly part of a major effort not simply to wait until verification is up to the standards we have, but to proceed on parallel with the destruction as we are improving our ability to verify.''
 
Example to Third World
At a news conference after the speech, Mr. Baker said that if the United States and Soviet Union joined to eliminate chemical weapons, they could serve as an example to third world countries like Libya, which is reported to be developing chemical weapons, and Iraq, which used poison gas during its recent war against Iran.
He said the United States would consider economic sanctions against nations that refused to go along with a treaty forbidding chemical weapons, because such bans ''don't work unless you get everybody joining in.''
There is already a treaty banning bacteriological weapons.
Mr. Bush held meetings this afternoon at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel with President Jose Sarney of Brazil, Finance Minister Shimon Peres of Israel and Presidents Vinicio Cerezo of Guatemala, Jaime Paz Zamora of Bolivia and Carlos Andres Perez of Venezuela.
In the evening, the President and Mrs. Bush were hosts at a diplomatic reception and about 400 people, including heads of government, foreign ministers, some heads of state and some delegates to the General Assembly. The reception, in the Great Hall of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, was followed by a smaller dinner in the courtyard of the museum's American Wing.
The menu for the dinner, for 120 guests, included poached salmon, medallions of veal, lamb and chicken with fall vegetables, warm apple Charlotte served with ice cream, and American wines.

GRAPHIC: photos of President Bush (NYT/Don Hogan Charles) (pg. A1); Eduard A. Shevardnadze (NYT/Don Hogan Charles) (pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); POLAND (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (70%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (57%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); POLAND; LATIN AMERICA

SUBJECT: US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHEMICAL WARFARE; TREATIES; STOCKPILING; TERRORISM; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (89%); TERRORISM (84%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); DOWD, MAUREEN GEORGE W BUSH (93%); RICHARD NIXON (59%); 



620 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 2210 words

HEADLINE: Companies Step In Where the Schools Fail

SERIES: SKILLS VS. JOBS: THE CLASSROOM MISMATCH - SECOND OF THREE ARTICLES.

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SCHAUMBURG, Ill.

 BODY:
At the huge Motorola Inc. plant here, assembly line workers like Carritha Wells are being paid to learn not about electronic circuit boards or cellular telephones but about how much a pound of grapes would cost if 2Z pounds cost $3.25.
The sleek computerized equipment that Motorola is installing requires Mrs. Wells, to do far less manual labor in her job, but a lot more thinking. She must read graphs and change percentages to decimals. Yet, she has not performed such calculations since her high school days in Mound Bayou, Miss., several decades ago.
''If you don't need it, you forget it,'' she said. 
So, in a small factory conference room she and a half dozen colleagues are taking a course in grade school arithmetic.
 
Companies Teach Basic
Skills Motorola, Ford, Xerox, Polaroid and Eastman Kodak are in a small but growing number of American companies spending millions of dollars a year on basic reading and arithmetical instruction because, they say, America's schools are no longer meeting the companies' needs. Their jobs are becoming more sophisticated each year and many of their workers cannot read and count well enough to fill them.
A growing number of experts believe that this trend will worsen in coming years and that the groups most affected by it are the poor and minorities.
So far, the companies are making do by retraining current workers and casting a much wider net to find competent new workers. But soon, some executives predict, American businesses may not be able to find enough qualified workers and will have to hire tens of thousands of unqualified ones and teach them to read and write. #57,000 Test for 2,100 Jobs As a case in point, Frederic V. Salerno, president of New York Telephone Company, recalled that in 1987 the subsidiary of the Nynex Corporation had to test 57,000 people before it could find 2,100 who were qualified to become operators and repair technicians.
Louis V. Gerstner Jr., chairman of RJR Nabisco Inc., warns that, if current trends continue, American businesses will have to spend $25 billion a year providing elementary instruction to 1 million workers before they can even train them to handle modern equipment.
Like a growing number of executives, Mr. Gerstner has been speaking to audiences urging a shakeup of the country's educational system.
Susan Hooker, Motorola's director of retraining, explained the changes this way: ''For many years our factory jobs did not require people to use a lot of brain power. We were really hiring people for their ability to manipulate things and put things together. Now, most of those manipulations can be performed by machinery. It isn't that they've lost skills, but the skills traditionally required have changed.''
 
Direct Involvement in Schools
Major companies are also immersing themselves in local schools in ways that would have seemed astonishing only a decade ago. Some are writing curriculums for special ''academies'' in certain high schools. These schools within schools are intended to attract students to the sponsoring companies' fields. Other companies are guaranteeing jobs to graduates, deploying executives to act as mentors, lending expensive equipment and providing college scholarships.
Companies are taking this role largely for self-preservation. Forrest P. Chisman, director of the Southport Institute for Policy Analysis in Washington, said that 20 million to 30 million adults cannot read, write or calculate well enough to function effectively at work, a situation he described as ''a cancer eating away at the American economy.''
Some companies, worried about anemic productivity at home and fiercer competition abroad, are shifting locales just to find larger pools of qualified entry level workers. Some are moving divisions overseas.
The problem, experts say, will not wither away. Motorola officials expect to keep increasing the educational levels of the company's workers just to keep up with changing technology, a trend Ms. Hooker compared to walking up a down escalator just to stay in place. Almost one in every four jobs now requires a college degree. Banks have replaced tellers with cash dispensing machines, but the new generation of tellers must be able to process loan applications.
Moreover, companies eager to energize lackadaisical workers are giving them greater decision-making authority and responsibility. The new duties require workers to reason, to follow written instructions and to articulate their thoughts to teams of co-workers.
''I believe companies are going to have to shoulder a lot of the burden of correcting adult illiteracy because that's where the adults are during the day, not at home,'' Mr. Gerstner of RJR Nabisco said in a recent interview.
 
Educators Are Responding
For the most part, the education community is not shrugging off the criticism. In early September, the Teachers College Institute on Education and the Economy brought business leaders and educators together for three days on Cape Cod.
P. Michael Timpane, Teachers College president, opened the conference by warning that the shortage of qualified workers ''strikes at the sinews of our nation'' and ''affects our hopes for social integration.'' Although he did not say so directly, a study by the college shows that black and Hispanic people are heavily represented in precisely those occupations that are lagging in growth.
Some school systems are taking dramatic steps to demonstrate their responsibility to business. The Plymouth-Carver district in Massachusetts has decided to ''warranty'' the skills of its high school graduates for three years. Bernard Sidman, the superintendent, said that if an employer reports that a graduate cannot make change at a cash register, for example, the district will enroll the student in ''evening classes for retooling'' free of charge.
Business and education are increasingly linking their worlds. Seven years ago, the American Express Company confronted hiring pools of high-school graduates whose abilities were mediocre and who often did not understand the need for courtesy and punctuality in the workplace. It decided to develop a special program to prepare students for careers in finance and helped set up academies at seven New York City high schools.
At the Academy of Finance within John Dewey High School near Coney Island, 120 students take classes in Wall Street operations, accounting, computer business applications and banking, all on top of their regular high school courses. The content was developed with with the help of Wall Street executives. Every class plays the stock market with an imaginary portfolio of $100,000.
With 150 companies now participating, the program guarantees all youngsters $6-an-hour summer jobs, and many turn those into permanent jobs after graduation. Ninety percent of the youngsters, though, pass these up and elect to go on to college because they realize that high-earning positions require advanced education.
 
An Investment Whiz Emerges
''They want to be the big guys, the guys working in arbitrage, the managers of departments in accounting firms,'' said Ada Dolch, Dewey's academy coordinator.
One student, she said, has proved to be such a canny broker that Shearson Lehman Brothers International Inc. sends a limousine to pick him up after his classes at St. John's University and drives him to work at the offices of the American Express investment service.
The American Express program is now operating in 42 schools in 18 cities and costs the company $1 million and considerable executive time a year, according to Ida Schmertz, senior vice president for corporate affairs. More than 65 percent of the students are black, Hispanic or Asian.
A similar program has been operating in 10 Philadelphia high schools, preparing 1,200 students for careers in electrical work, business, health and the automotive industry. In 1984, the business academy had a job placement rate of 86 percent, a remarkable figure for students who are often afraid to venture into corporate personnel offices.
The quality of such academies has not been consistent and, in some cases, sponsors have urged the recruitment of brighter, more ambitious youngsters rather than the dropout-prone students to which the program is directed.
Perhaps the most far-reaching effort to create a partnership between business and schools is Boston's. In 1982, 600 businesses, alarmed by the scarcity of entry-level workers, signed the ''Boston compact.'' If the city's schools would agree to improve attendance, dropout and reading rates, businesses would reserve a quota of jobs for high school graduates.
 
Results Are Mixed
A 1987 study by Public/Private Ventures, a consulting concern, found that absences dropped to about 15 percent from roughly 25 percent daily and reading scores improved for students in grades 9 and 10, though not those in grade 11. Dropout rates, however, deteriorated. Businesses had generally delivered on the jobs.
Although measurable results were mixed, the study noted that the agreement increased political support for schools, improved teacher morale and physically upgraded many schools. But the Boston experience may also be demonstrating how intractable the welter of family and school problems can be, some participants say.
''We were naive to think that in five years we could have a substantial impact,'' said Daniel Morley, chairman of the Morley Group in Wayland, Mass., one of compact's founders. ''School officials have learned that business just can't solve everything with a check.''
The idea that companies should enter the remedial education business is a relatively new approach. Mr. Chisman said that only a small fraction of the $30 billion spent on training each year is devoted to basic skills, and that it is mostly spent by companies with strong unions or severe labor shortages.
Sue E. Berryman, director of the Teachers College's Institute, complains that employers principally ''train the trainable and the trained.''
Motorola, the multibillion producer of two-way radios, pagers, and electronic parts, has been a pioneer in basic-skills training. The company's assembly-line workers once simply inserted colored resistors and capacitors into reddish circuit boards by copying a diagram. The job did not even require a knowledge of English. Indeed, many workers are immigrants from Poland, Colombia, India and other countries.
 
Fewer Workers, but Literate Ones
But Motorola has been introducing chip placement machines like the Fuji CP III that assemble 11,000 components an hour with superhuman reliability. Only a third as many employees are needed to operate the robots. But those employees must be able to monitor the robots' precision by reading computer graphs that track the location, rotation and thickness of inserted parts.
This statistical process control method of monitoring has spread through much of American manufacturing, forcing companies to hire workers who are more literate than in the past.
Motorola could have dismissed illiterate employees, but it has prided itself on loyalty to workers, and also sensed that it would not be easy to find replacements. So three years ago, it commissioned Harper College, a local community college, to provide instructors to teach basic skills. About 10 percent of the 1,800 production employees at the Schaumburg plant are currently taking the classes. In 1988, Motorola spent $5 million on such training throughout the corporation, which has 60,000 employees in the United States.
A recent visit to Motorola's Schaumburg center found a class largely of black and immigrant workers practicing division of fractions. Carritha Wells and her classmates concluded that the grapes cost $1.22 a pound.
Another class, taught by Sue Thompson, discussed the meanings of comparatives like fewer, taller, smaller, fatter and thinner by studying the different sized coffee makers pictured in a catalogue.
Ford Motor Company has established ''learning centers'' at 11 of its major national sites. Dramatic changes in the automobile business require better educated workers. Ernest J. Savoie, Ford's director of employee development, points out that 15 years ago companies produced 100 models; now they produce 300 different ones. More frequent shifts in machinery demand greater employee resourcefulness.
 
Benefits Beyond the Job
Tennessee Eastman Company in Kingsport, an Eastman Kodak division that makes plastics for soda bottles and fibers for cigarette filters, has long trained high-skilled workers, but realized two years ago that it must also train many of its machine operators in reading and calculating.
''Things that used to be monitored by gauges and dials are now monitored by computer screen, and it takes a whole different set of skills to monitor by computer screen,'' said Jan Stallard, an instructor.
Such training programs have produced benefits for workers that carry beyond the job. Kathy Mitura, a Motorola worker who immigrated from Greece 13 years ago, said Motorola's arithmetic course has made her a better parent to her 12-year-old daughter and 10-year-old son.
''When I sit down with my kids to do homework, I know how to help them,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: photo of Sue Thompson (NYT/Steve Shay) (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (94%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (64%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (52%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (94%); VERIZON NEW YORK INC (65%); NYNEX CORP (64%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (56%); KRAFT NABISCO (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO; MOTOROLA INC

SUBJECT: LABOR; SURVEYS AND SERIES; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; EDUCATION (SECONDARY); HIRING AND PROMOTION; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); BLACKS (IN US) CIRCUIT BOARDS (90%); TRENDS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); 

PERSON: BERGER, JOSEPH LOUIS V GERSTNER JR (63%); 



621 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Surge in Resources For I.M.F. Forecast; East-Bloc Role Seen

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 25

 BODY:
The member nations of the International Monetary Fund are likely to agree by the end of the year to increase the fund's resources by as much as 67 percent, or $80 billion, officials said today.
They added that the money would be used to cushion economic shocks in the 1990's and to take an expanded role in Eastern Europe and possibly the Soviet Union.
The $80 billion would be raised by contributions from members. The United States is the largest lender to the I.M.F., providing about 18 percent of the organization's funds. 
If contributions are increased by 67 percent, the United States would owe an additional $17 billion, one-quarter of which would have to be paid immediately on ratification of the agreement and the remainder covered by a letter of credit from the Treasury.
Worried about selling American participation to Congress, the Bush Administration is still voicing reservations about the plan to increase the fund's reserves. But it is doing so more softly than previously, and its posture suggests that a consensus on the increase will probably be reached this year.
The projection of the likely amount of new capital was made by H. Onno Ruding, the Finance Minister of the Netherlands, who serves as the chairman of the fund's policy-making Interim Committee, which represents 152 member countries.
In a communique today, the committee spoke of ''widespread support'' of the need for a substantial increase.
Mr. Ruding said at a news conference that although the I.M.F. staff has called for a doubling of the current $120 billion in reserves, the likely increase would be 50 to 67 percent. ''It's well possible that it will be 67 percent,'' he added.
The committee met here as part of the annual meeting of the fund and the World Bank, institutions born in the ashes of World War II that helped rebuild Europe and Japan and now lend mainly to third world countries that pledge free-market economic changes.
The chief proponents of the increased reserves are France, West Germany, the Nethlerands and the fund's staff. With a majority of its members supporting an increase, the fund's executive board is likely to discuss the proposals in coming months.
 
Changes Generate Excitement
The economic changes in Poland and Eastern Europe have generated the most excitement among the thousands of participants in the meetings here, along with changes in the Soviet Union unleashed by Mikhail S. Gorbachev's economic and political restructuring policies.
Thousands of bankers and top government officials are discussing these global problems in a festival atmosphere of dinner parties and receptions at hotels and restaurants, Georgetown homes and historic buildings.
Poland's new Finance Mnister, Leszek Balcerowicz, a 42-year-old academician, has been at the informal gatherings and formal meetings, describing his country's embryonic plans for spurring private enterprise and taming inflation. Poland's inflation rate is currently 30 to 40 percent a month. France's Finance Minister, Pierre Beregovoy, told reporters after seeing Mr. Balcerowicz that the Polish ideas sounded ''very courageous.''
 
Meeting With Director
Mr. Balcerowicz is scheduled to meet Tuesday with the fund's managing director, Michel Camdessus, in what could set the stage for a full-scale I.M.F. mission to Poland early next month. While Poland could borrow substantial sums from the fund, up to $2.5 billion over three years, a seal of approval from the organization might help Poland tap additional billions of dollars from Western banks and creditor nations.
The Group of Seven industrial nations on Saturday called on Poland to reach early agreement with the fund on a ''strong and sustainable program'' and said they ''stand ready to support such a program through bilateral and multilateral actions.''
One sign of new Western assistance came with an announcement today of a program of investments, including joint ventures, and technical assistance for Poland announced by the World Bank's International Finance Corporation, an affiliate that encourages private enterprise in the third world.
 
Dramatic Change Possible
Although it is widely agreed that the I.M.F. now has adequate funds -about $40 billion of uncommitted hard currencies - it could take up to two years before an agreement to increase its resources is ratified. By then, the fund's needs could dramatically change.
''As a monetary institution, the I.M.F. must be permanently able to have its resources liquid enough to answer all requests,'' Mr. Camdessus said at today's news conference.
Despite the American reservations about an increase in quotas, Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady, in his remarks to the meeting, went out of his way to compliment the fund on progress it has made in addressing the thorny question of overdue loans. Arrears are among the problems the United States has identified as needing attention before a quota increase is approved.
At the end of 1987 the fund had 26 countries with overdue financial obligations. Now there are 13. However, the total overdue loans, even with a smaller number of countries, is a record. Debts overdue longer than six months totaled $3 billion last April 30, according to the latest available data, compared with $2.2 billion on April 30, 1988.
 
Lack of Clarity Cited
The United States has said in the past that a lack of clarity about the fund's role, especially because of some functions that overlap with the World Bank, raises questions about the need for a quota increase.
Mr. Brady noted, however, that there was ''broad agreement that the preservation of the fund's monetary character and the revolving nature of its resources are an essential basis for its future role.''
While it is uncertain how Congress will react to the plan for increasing contributions to the fund, the last time the issue came before Congress, in 1983, an increase was narrowly apporved only after aggressive lobbying by President Reagan.
Representative Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of Brooklyn, a senior member of the House Banking Committee, said a vote to support the fund was difficult for lawmakers. The reason, he added, was that it ''reflects at least perceived support for two things neither of which are wildly popular in Congress - foreign aid and the banks.''
In his remarks, Mr. Brady said, ''We must remember that it is our taxpayers who are being asked to provide these resources.''
Actually, however, a subscription to the I.M.F., unlike American contributions to other international bodies like the United Nations or the World Bank, is not a net budgetary outlay. The American cash payment to the fund is immediately offset by the enlarged American reserves, which are held by the I.M.F.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); FRANCE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE, EAST

SUBJECT: CREDIT INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LETTERS OF CREDIT (68%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (68%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%); WORLD WAR II (50%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES)



622 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Vietnamese Quit Cambodia Today But Face Heavy Burdens at Home

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HO CHI MINH CITY, Vietnam, Sept. 25

 BODY:
For a country about to enjoy what could be its first prolonged period of peace in many decades, Vietnam today displays little sense of celebration.
The long Cambodian military adventure, nearly 11 years requiring much sacrifice from the common soldier and citizen, officially ends Tuesday when the last Vietnamese infantryman is scheduled to cross the border at Moc Bai in Tay Ninh Province.
But the experience in Cambodia is ending in ambivalence, with no ringing victory. Vietnam's client regime in Cambodia is established, but not quite secure. While at least 25,300 Vietnamese soldiers have died and 55,000 have been seriously wounded, the Khmer Rouge still threaten the Cambodian Government that Hanoi installed after it invaded on Dec. 25, 1978, quickly overthrowing the Khmer Rouge regime of Pol Pot. 
 
No Diplomatic Payoff
Diplomatically, too, there is no evident payoff for Vietnam for having finally heeded Western and Asian calls for a withdrawal. The United States remains standoffish, insisting on a comprehensive diplomatic settlement in Cambodia - which now seems far away - before normalizing relations with Vietnam or, it seems, lifting an embargo on aid and trade with Hanoi.
Rather than national joy, there is increased weariness as the Vietnamese, more than a million of whom died in the Vietnam War, concentrate on the many problems this tattered and still isolated nation continues to face. Among them is overpopulation, unemployment, increasing crime, intermittent hunger, party corruption, an aged leadership and even a Communist world that is no longer familiar, with cracks in Poland, Hungary and the Soviet Union seeming to sunder the bloc.
About Cambodia, a noted Vietnamese writer said: ''There is individual relief, that our fighting is over, and collective resignation. We have borne a great sacrifice, and we could bear no more.'' The Cambodians, he said, ''will just have to do the best they can.''
For most individuals here, even the leadership question is scarcely worth discussing. ''It's them and us,'' said a young man in a cafe. ''It seems that they don't often think of us, and we don't think of them.''
 
'A Chance to Rebuild'
A Vietnamese official said: ''Withdrawing from Cambodia doesn't mean we have a sigh of relaxation. But it is very important, for now we have a chance to rebuild our own society in an easier atmosphere.''
The central issue for Vietnam today is the economy. Despite improvements since recent moves away from central management and state subsidies, the economy still lags considerably behind the aspirations of the people, whose numbers are growing rapidly. Many of these economic concerns tend to be expressed as a determination to try to give decent jobs, or at least job training, to returning soldiers.
This city has already experienced difficulties caused by some demobilized soldiers no longer content with the farm who come here but find little work, and with city-born veterans who join criminal gangs.
''Spiritually,'' a senior editor said, ''all they get is a medal.''
The Government's policy is to give returning soldiers some priority in schools, hospitals and job placement, and in chances to work abroad, a program intended to ease the job pressure here and to help pay Vietnam's external debts. Officially, veterans also have the right to return to their former employers.
 
In Conflict With Reality
''The problem is the reality and capacity of the society,'' the editor said. ''That very factory doesn't have material with which to work, so what can they do? The policy and the reality are very different.''
Another senior journalist said: ''They think they have contributed to the country, and they want society to be grateful. But in this economic situation, there are many difficulties. We cannot afford what each one of them wants. That's our most difficult problem.''
There has also been some friction between those who fought in brutal surroundings, with rampant malaria and often inadequate food and shelter, and those who remained at home.
''There are people in the same generation who did not have to participate in the Cambodian war, who just stayed here and did smuggling and had a happy life,'' another writer said, ''I worry about the consequences.''
 
Crime Is on the Rise
These feelings mix with another source of national shame - the flight of Vietnamese in flimsy boats to whatever country might possibly take them. People joke bitterly, ''If the lamppost could walk, it would go, too.''
At the same time, the press is full of articles about increasing crime, of housebreaking and acts of violence.
Responsible people speak with some despair of the growing ''chaos'' of life.
Despite the domestic problems, the Vietnamese feel much pride in having rid Cambodia of Pol Pot, under whose rule more than a million Cambodians died.
Nguyen Duy, a much-admired poet who entered Cambodia with the Vietnamese Army as a correspondent, remembers the color black - ''the black of the pajamas, the black of the skin of those who were dying or very ill.''
''The long queues of the orphans have haunted me for 10 years,'' he said. ''The people had become animals. They ate anything they could find along the road - grass, leaves, frogs, insects. They were like the black ants of Africa that move through a field and leave it devastated. and it was Vietnamese soldiers who gave them their first grain of rice.''

GRAPHIC: photo of Vietnamese troops returning home from Cambodia (AP) (pg. A1); map of Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam (pg. A13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CAMBODIA (99%); VIET NAM (96%); VIETNAM (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); POLAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%); 

CITY: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (92%); HANOI, VIETNAM (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: KHMER ROUGE (CAMBODIA)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CAMBODIA; VIETNAM

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); TRENDS (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); RESIGNATIONS (68%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (66%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (66%); CORRUPTION (65%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN POL POT (56%); 



623 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-1
 
President Bush told the U.N. that the United States will destroy 80 percent of its chemical weapons if the Soviet Union agrees to cut its stockpile to the American level. Page A1

 
News analysis: The weapons ban proposed by President Bush is the subject of much debate among arms control experts. Critics say it didn't go far enough because Washington's most advanced chemical weapons would not be affected. A1

 
There is little joy in Vietnam, even though its occupaton of Cambodia is ending. The country suffers many domestic woes, including overpopulation, joblessness, increasing crime, intermittent hunger and party corruption. A1 
 
 
Sony may soon own Columbia, as the board of the movie corporation is expected to approve a $3.5 billion sale to the giant Japanese electronics company on Wednesday. A1

 
Quayle tries to quiet Japan's trade concerns A5

Narita journal: booming airport is strangled by crowds A4

 
An I.M.F. agreement to raise its resources by as much as $80 billion, an addition of 67 percent, is likely by the year's end, said officials who indicated that the money would be used to cushion economic shocks in the 1990's and to take an expanded role in Eastern Europe. A1

 
Two rival Soviet republics, Armenia and Azerbaijan, were warned by President Gorbachev that they have two days to negotiate an end to an extraordinary rail blockade that has paralyzed Armenia. A3

 
News Analysis: Hungary's leaders in the Communist Party are making efforts to earn the good will of Western creditor nations as well as fellow Hungarians who will vote in several important coming elections. A8

 
East German leader, long absent, reappears A8

Polish Foreign Minister pledges loyalty to Bloc A17

 
A new U.S. immigration program, aimed at preventing labor shortages in American agriculture, is causing confusion and controversy throughout Mexico, which would supply most of the workers for the plan. A3

 
Argentine chief, at U.N., presses Falklands stand A17

Senators urge Baker to deny a visa to Arafat A15

Lebanese rivals meet A9

 
Opposition parties in India stage rally A12

 
NATIONAL A18-28, A32, B6-9
 
Workers are receiving instruction in basic reading and math at a growing number of companies that find employees unable to handle increasingly complex jobs. A1

 
Clean up efforts on the East Coast, four days after a hurricane struck, were hampered by driving rains and winds. The death toll from Hurricane Hugo stands at 51. A1

 
Looting was widespread on St. Croix in the wake of Hurricane Hugo because of a number of factors involving class, race, isolation and a lack of government authority, residents and officials say. B8

 
Americans like President Bush and the job he is doing, but they are skeptical about the efficacy of his anti-drug and antipollution programs, along with his pledge not to raise taxes, according to a New York Times/CBS News Poll. A26

 
Samuel Pierce will not be prepared for a scheduled hearing today in the House, his lawyers told a subcommittee investigating the Reagan era housing department, which Mr. Pierce headed. A20

 
A battle over a new tax plan, between the Administration and Congressional Democrats, intensified as the House moved toward consideration of a tax and budget package put forth by the Democrats. A25

 
Senate tentatively agrees to increase money to fight drugs A27

 
The Energy Department's contracts with companies that manange its troubled bomb plants leave the Government liable for fines against the companies by state or Federal agencies, a report says. A18

 
A mother jailed in a custody dispute was released under a court order that responds to a new Federal law designed to free her. President Bush had signed the bill into law this weekend. A18

 
The dollar dropped sharply after the United States and its economic allies sent a strong message that they wanted a decline. D1

 
Utah teachers boycotted classrooms in a one-day strike to protest what they say is chronic underfunding of one of the nation's most crowded public school systems. A32

 
Whittier journal: '87 quake still stirs fears A18

 
REGIONAL B1-4
 
Benjamin Ward resigned, citing continuing problems with asthma. He was New York City's first black police commissioner, a post he held for six years. B1

 
David Dinkins is winning support in his race for mayor from business executives, some of whom complain that his Republican opponent, Rudolph Giuliani, lacks experience in city government. B1

 
Mayoral candidates turn up their rhetoric B1

 
Candidates for New Jersey governor had their first debate, attacking each other for ethical lapses and portraying one another as ideological outsiders in a moderate suburban state. B1

 
Evidence from the jetliner crash at La Guardia Airport last week will be presented to a grand jury, said theQueens District Attorney, raising the possibility of criminal charges against the cockpit crew.
B3

 
Fear rises at site of slayings B3

Midtown explosion spreads asbestos B3

Dalai Lama meets Jews B4

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: A (AMEX) (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); HUNGARY (92%); ARMENIA (92%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); FALKLAND ISLANDS (MALVINAS) (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); POLAND (79%); VIET NAM (79%); LEBANON (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); 

COMPANY: ELECTRONICS CO LLC (69%); ST CROIX VINEYARDS (50%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HURRICANES (89%); POLITICS (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (83%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); IMMIGRATION (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); APPROVALS (72%); ELECTRONICS (69%); CORRUPTION (69%); LABOR SHORTAGES (67%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (88%); 



624 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: Migrant Job Program Baffles Mexico

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Sept. 25

 BODY:
A new United States immigration program, aimed at preventing potential labor shortages in American agriculture over the next four years, is causing confusion and controversy throughout Mexico, which is expected to supply most of the workers for the plan.
Begun on Sept. 1, the Replenishment Agricultural Worker program, known as R.A.W., is intended to create a labor pool to relieve any shortages between 1990 and 1993. Hundreds of thousands of Mexican farm workers here and in the United States are expected to apply before registration closes on Nov. 30, but a bitter bureaucratic battle in Washington has made it uncertain how many of them, if any, will actually be selected to come north and work in the fields.
The program was included in the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 as a safety-valve measure after farmers and growers expressed fears that the legislation could create a shortage of migrant workers. But the Immigration and Naturalization Service, American officials say, views the program as a threat to the 1986 law and has opposed carrying out the program until it can be established that such a labor shortage exists. 
''If the shortage can be documented, it will reflect the fact that the main provisions'' of the 1986 legislation ''do not reflect objective demand for this kind of labor in the U.S. economy,'' said Wayne Cornelius, director of the Center for United States-Mexican studies at the University of California at San Diego. ''It will be proof of the fallacy that simply by passing this kind of legislation you can create a stable work force large enough to meet needs and then effectively seal up the country and the labor market.''
Growers argue that spot shortages have already appeared during the current harvest season and are likely to increase in coming years. Nearly 1.3 million people, more than 80 percent of them Mexicans, applied for ''special agricultural worker'' status in 1988, but many are believed to have abandoned agriculture for less arduous work in factories and service industries as soon as they legalized their status in the United States. Will Any Be Called? ''This is a very hot issue, and we are right in the middle of calculating the final number,'' said Rick Mines, a Labor Department official in Washington who is involved in the process of determining the shortage figure. He said, ''We can't be sure that any R.A.W. people will be called at all,'' at least this year.
Because of that uncertainty, the State Department and the Immigration Service have been reluctant to publicize the program in Mexico.
But with the scarcity of official information, misconceptions about the program are spreading. Radio stations and newspapers in areas of Mexico that have long supplied workers to American agriculture are portraying the program as another chance to qualify for amnesty under the new law.
''It needs to be made absolutely clear what this program is all about,'' said Jon G. Edensword, the United States Consul General in Mexico City. ''People need to understand that this is a registration program only and not a visa, not permission to work in the United States, not a travel authorization, and not a border-crossing card.''
In addition, unscrupulous middle men are taking advantage of gullible applicants, promising them special treatment and guaranteed access to the United States. One company here, calling itself United States International Immigration Services, requires a $500 advance payment and $2,500 more if applicants are selected.
Last week, a Government official in a Mexican border state, Coahuila, was arrested, along with six other people, on charges of defrauding applicants for the migrant labor program. The police said the ring operated from a government office in the state capital.ee.
Some Mexican and American Government officials, as well as immigration experts in both countries, assert that American farmer and grower groups are actively encouraging the misunderstandings. The objective, they say, is to create a labor surplus that would drive down farm wages.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; MEXICO

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; MIGRANT LABOR; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS FARM LABOR (93%); IMMIGRATION (93%); LABOR SHORTAGES (91%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); MIGRANT WORKERS (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY



625 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 5, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: Quayle Tries to Quiet Japan's Trade Concerns

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TSUKUBA, Japan, Sept. 25

 BODY:
Rushing through a series of meetings with Japan's leadership, Vice President Dan Quayle brought a message of cooperation and reconciliation to America's biggest economic rival today, declaring that the United States' alliance with Japan should not be overshadowed by trade disputes.
Mr. Quayle's efforts to soften the tone between the two countries was in sharp contrast to recent visits by other members of the Bush Administration, who have been pressing for a quick solution to problems ranging from agriculture imports to high technology.
In a tour of Japan's ''science city'' here, 40 miles north of Tokyo, Mr. Quayle talked of a ''partnership'' between the United States and Japan in space exploration, and at other events he spoke of mutual efforts in environmental issues, drugs and debt relief. 
Nonetheless, trade issues seemed to dog Mr. Quayle. Talking to Hikaru Matsunaga, the Minister of International Trade and Industry, Mr. Quayle said failure to resolve trade disputes -which he took care not to name specifically - would place President Bush in an untenable position with Congress.
And at a Government space research center here, Mr. Quayle found himself in the uncomfortable position of admiring Japanese craftsmanship on a new telecommunications satellite, just months after the United States initiated a new trade action against Japan because Tokyo was protecting its own satellite industry by refusing to purchase American-made models.
Mr. Quayle said he saw no problem balancing Japan's dual role as a partner and a competitor in space activities, including the development of commercial satellites. ''Japan and the United States will have a partnership in space,'' he said, adding that the trade issue ''dealing with the satellites will be dealt with separately.''
Earlier in the day, Mr. Quayle met Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu and told him that the three-decade-old Mutual Security Treaty, the backbone of the Japanese-American alliance after World War II, was ''not just a piece of paper.'' His comments were viewed as significant because the Japan Socialist Party, big gainers in the summer elections for the upper house of Parliament, has often criticized the treaty.
Mr. Quayle added that the Japanese-American military alliance was the ''key to preserving stability in East Asia,'' a point he touched on over the weekend in a visit to an air force base run by American and Japanese forces.
After his meeting with the Prime Minister, Mr. Quayle took part in the signing of an agreement for a joint space project, to be launched in 1992 aboard an American Delta-2 rocket, to investigate how the energy of the sun flows to earth. But Mr. Quayle's visit came at a time of uncertainty over how much the United States and Japan will be able to cooperate in space.
Japan has staked much of its space hopes, and much of its budget, on the space station that the United States has said it will build in the mid-1990's. A vital laboratory for the station will be built by Japan at a cost of $2 billion.
Japan is worried that Congress will be unwilling to pay for the space station program, which has been criticized in the United States as unfocused. Mr. Quayle, who heads the White House Space Council, told officials that President Bush was committed to the effort, and he made no effort to press Japan to pay for more of the space station, as members of Congress have suggested.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (99%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); SPACE EXPLORATION (88%); SPACE INDUSTRY (88%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (87%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (65%); WORLD WAR II (61%); AIR FORCES (61%); ARMED FORCES (60%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (60%); ASIAN AMERICANS (58%); AGRICULTURE (55%); 

PERSON: QUAYLE, DAN (VICE PRES); SANGER, DAVID E GEORGE W BUSH (68%); 



626 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: Hungarian Serenade: Wooing Voters and the West

BYLINE: By HENRY KAMM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BUDAPEST, Sept. 23

 BODY:
The Communist leadership is casting about for ways out of Hungary's deep political and economic predicaments that will appeal to two critical quarters: the West and the Hungarian electorate.
The party is responsible for a profound economic crisis that it admits it cannot solve without Western aid. The West insists that to receive the aid, Hungary must go further in turning its one-party state into a country governed by freely elected representatives.
The Communist Party has committed itself to holding free parliamentary elections by June, making Hungary the second country, after Poland, in which a ruling Communist Party accepts an open electoral challenge by opponents. 
As a result, Hungarian Communists, like the Poles before them, are beginning to act like Western politicians. Unlike the past, when an ambitious Communist leader lobbied only for the support of the party machine and Soviet comrades, they are aiming their pitch at the people they are said to represent.
Three elections will soon test the standing of Communist politicians. Next month, they will have to face the most open congress of their party in its history, where popularity might decide whether a party leader is elected to one of the leading groups. Possibly by November, Hungarians are to elect the first President of the Republic, a new and potentially powerful position. By next spring, a new Parliament is to be popularly and freely chosen.
 
Active Steps and Speeches
As a result of seeking to please both the Western creditor nations and the Hungarian public, the Communist Party and its leaders have taken more active steps and made more speeches and press statements than has been the custom in the one-party state. This month, on a visit to the United States, the President of Parliament, Matyas Szuros, has used many opportunities to assert Hungary's desire to leave the Warsaw Pact and declare neutrality.
Government and Communist Party officials and senior Western diplomats expressed surprise at Mr. Szuros's heavy emphasis on an issue that most agree has no current standing among Hungarian policy makers because they see no change in Soviet opposition to defections from the alliance.
In an interview this month, Deputy Foreign Minister Ferenc Somogyi offered the official view. ''We consider our membership in the Warsaw Pact as an integral part of the European setup,'' he said. ''Some have said officially that no single country is interested in seeing Hungary break away under the present circumstances. But to become neutral generally is accepted as an ultimate goal.''
 
Efforts to Change Bloc
Mr. Somogyi said differences existed on the conditions for neutrality, and for the time being Hungary was concentrating on staying in the alliance and doing ''everything to reform the Warsaw Pact organization.''
He did not specify the nature of the reforms, but officials and Western diplomats said Hungary was aiming for a greater emphasis on the grouping's political rather than military aspects, allowing its members to consult freely and act separately more than as a bloc.
A senior Western diplomat said he viewed Mr. Szuros's statements as irresponsible. At the moment, he said, the Soviet Union is showing considerable tolerance for Hungary's democratization and most Hungarian leaders avoid ''counterprodutive statements'' that serve to make Moscow ''nervous.''
During a party shuffle in June, Mr. Szuros, a former party secretary, was not named to the 21-member leading body. The coming parliamentary elections also put in doubt whether he will continue in his present post. As a result, Hungarians and diplomats say, Mr. Szuros appears to be running harder than some of his colleagues.
 
Ouster of Kadar
The Communist Party is seen by Hungarians and diplomats as split into almost as many factions as there are contenders for top posts since the removal of Janos Kadar in May 1988.
Since then, Hungary has been in flux, striving to adopt measures to solve its economic predicament but failing to achieve a turnaround. The measures are intended to open the country to the creation of a private economy and to ease foreign investment.
They have given the image of a country loosening the chains of an overcentralized economy. The mechanisms have been created, but the results so far have been meager. There is little domestic capital to take advantage of the possibilities to build a productive private sector, whose shares would be traded on the newly created but as-yet-inactive stock market, and foreign capital has not poured in.
A steady flow of Western, Japanese, South Korean and Taiwanese businessmen looking for opportunities descend on this lovely capital in the warm weather, but not yet their money.
The American Ambassador, Mark Palmer, considered the most active Western booster for economic and political liberalization, estimated during a visit by Secretary of Commerce Robert A. Mosbacher that the flow of foreign investment was no more than $300 million and set this against the staggering foreign debt of $18 billion, the highest per capita in Europe.
 
A 'European' System
The party, guided by the Polish example, has negotiated general terms with opposition groups for a transition from one-party rule to a more ''European'' political system. Since last year, the inoffensive term European has become the code word for all measures to undo what are now regarded as perversions of Hungary's normal ways at the behest of a domineering Soviet Union.
Diplomats note that in all these measures, Hungary is observing a principle that, with the brief exception of the national uprising in 1956, has always marked its policies. Budapest attunes its initiatives to what it judges to be the prevailing mood in Moscow.
''We have always gnawed at the borderlines of the possible,'' a senior party official said. In Mikhail S. Gorbachev's Soviet Union, Hungarian officials believe, their gnawing space is greater than ever, as is the Soviet leadership's preoccupation with domestic crises. Hungarians like Mr. Szuros feel almost free to try to get into step with the majority of their anti-Communist nation.
Policy makers are encouraged in their urge to strive for the possible, the official said, by having allowed the migration of thousands of East Germans from Hungary to West Germany through Austria without arousing more than perfunctory Soviet criticism.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: HUNGARY (97%); EUROPE (93%); POLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (93%); BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HUNGARY

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); INTERVIEWS (73%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (67%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: KAMM, HENRY



627 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2707 words

HEADLINE: Excerpts From Bush's Speech at the Opening of the U.N. General Assembly

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from President Bush's address yesterday to the United Nations General Assembly, as recorded by The New York Times:
. . . I feel a great personal pleasure on this occasion, for this is a homecoming for both Barbara and me. The memories of my time here in 1971 and 1972 are still with me today - the human moments, the humorous moments that are part of even the highest undertaking.
With your permission, let me share one story from one of the many sessions of the Security Council. I was the Permanent Representative of the United States. I was 45 minutes late getting to the meeting. And all 45 minutes were filled by the first speaker to take the floor. And when I walked in and took my seat, the speaker paused, with great courtesy, and said as follows: ''I welcome the Permanent Representative of the United States and now, for his benefit, I will start my speech all over again from the beginning.''
That's a true story. And at that moment, differences of alliance, ideology, didn't matter. The universal groan that went up around that table from every member present, and then the laughter that followed, united us all. ... 
 
Condemning Terrorism
The United Nations was established 44 years ago upon the ashes of war and amidst great hopes. And the United Nations can do great things. No, the United Nations is not perfect. It's not a panacea for world's problems. But it is a vital forum where the nations of the world seek to replace conflict with consensus and it must remain a forum for peace.
The U.N. is moving closer to that ideal. And it has the support of the United States of America.
In recent years, certainly since my time here, the war of words that has often echoed in this chamber is giving way to a new mood. We've seen a welcome shift from polemics to peacekeeping. U.N. peacekeeping forces are on duty right now and over the years more than 700 peacekeepers have given their lives in service to the United Nations.
Today I want to remember one of those soldiers of peace - an American on a mission of peace under the United Nations flag - on a mission, really, for all the world. A man of unquestioned bravery, unswerving dedication to the United Nations ideal, Lieut. Col. William Richard Higgins.
And I call on the General Assembly to condemn the murder of this soldier of peace and call on those responsible to have the decency to return his remains to his family and let us all, right now, right here, rededicate ourselves and our nations to the cause the Colonel Higgins served so selflessly. ...
 
Openness in the East
Freedom's advance is evident everywhere - Central Europe and Hungary, where state and society are now in the midst of a movement towards political pluralism and a free market economy, where the barrier that once enforced an unnatural division between Hungary and its neighbors to the West has been torn down. Torn down. Replaced by a new hope for the future, a new hope in freedom.
We see freedom at work in Poland, where in deference to the will of the people the Communist Party has relinquished its monopoly on power. And indeed in the Soviet Union, where the world hears the voices of people no longer afraid to speak out or to assert the right to rule themselves.
But freedom's mark is not confined to a single continent or to the developed world alone. We see the rise of freedom in Latin America where, one by one, dictatorships are giving way to democracy. We see it on the continent of Africa where more and more nations see, in the system of free enterprise, salvation for economies crippled by excessive state control.
 
Collapse of Despotism
East and west, north and south, on every continent, we can see the outlines of a new world of freedom.
Of course, freedom's work remains unfinished. The trend we see is not yet universal. Some regimes still stand against the tide. Some rulers still deny the right of the people to govern themselves. But now the power of prejudice and despotism is challenged. Never before have these regimes stood so isolated and alone, so out of step with the steady advance of freedom.
Today we are witnessing an ideological collapse - the demise of the totalitarian idea of the omniscient, all-powerful state. There are many reasons for this collapse. But in the end one fact alone explains what we see today. Advocates of the totalitarian idea saw its triumph written in the laws of history. They failed to see the love of freedom that was written in the human heart. ...
 
Strengthening Freedom
Our challenge is to strengthen the foundations of freedom, encourage its advance and face our most urgent challenges - the global challenges of the 21st century: economic health, environmental well-being, the great questions of war and peace. First, global economic growth. During this decade a number of developing nations have moved into the ranks of the world's most advanced economies, all of them - each and every one - powered by the engine of free enterprise.
In the decade ahead others can join their ranks.
But for many nations, barriers stand in the way. In the case of some countries, these are obstacles of their own making - unneeded restrictions and regulations that act as dead weights on their own economies and obstacles to foreign trade.
But other barriers to growth exist and those, too, require effective action. Too many developing countries struggle today under a burden of debt that makes growth all but impossible. The nations of the world deserve better opportunity to achieve a measure of control over their own economic fate and build better lives for their own people.
The approach the U.S. has put forward - the Brady plan - will help these nations reduce that debt and at the same time encourage the free market reforms that will fuel economic growth.
 
The Debt Crisis
In just two days, I will be speaking to the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank and I'll discuss there, in more detail, the steps that our nations can take in dealing with the debt problem.
But I can say now the new world of freedom is not a world where a few nations live in comfort while others live in want.
The power of commerce is a force for progress. Open markets are the key to continued growth in the developing world.
Today the United States buys over one half of the manufactured exports that all developing nations combined sell to the industrialized world.
It's time for the other advanced economies to follow suit, to create expanded opportunities for trade. I believe we'll learn, in the century ahead, that many nations of the world have barely begun to tap their true potential for development.
The free market and its fruits are not the special preserve of a few. They are a harvest that everyone can share.
 
Threat to the Environment
Beyond the challenge of global growth lies another issue of global magnitude - the environment.
No line drawn on a map can stop the advance of pollution.
Threats to our environment have become international problems. We must develop an international approach to urgent environmental issues. One that seeks common solutions to common problems.
The United Nations is already at work on the question of global warming and the effort to prevent oil spills and other disasters from fouling our seas and the air we breathe.
And I will tell you now the United States will do its part. We have committed ourselves to the world-wide phase-out of all chlorofluorocarbons by the year 2000. We've proposed amending our own Clean Air Act to insure clean air for our citizens within a single generation.
We've banned the import of ivory to protect the elephant and rhinoceros from the human predators who exterminate them for profit. And we've begun to explore ways to work with other nations, with the major industrialized democracies, and in Poland and in Hungary, to make common cause for the sake of our environment.
The environment belongs to all of us. In this new world of freedom the world citizens must enjoy this common trust for generations to come.
 
Banning Chemical Weapons
Global economic growth. The stewardship of our planet. Both are critical issues. But as always questions of war and peace must be paramount to the United Nations.
We must move forward to limit and eliminate weapons of mass destruction.
Five years ago, at the United Nations Conference on Disarmament, in Geneva, I presented a United States draft treaty outlawing chemical weapons. Since then, progress has been made but time is running out. The threat is growing. More than 20 nations now possess chemical weapons or the capability to produce them. And these horrible weapons are now finding their way into regional conflicts. This is simply unacceptable. For the sake of mankind, we must halt and reverse this threat.
Today I want to announce steps that the United States is ready to take - steps to rid the world of these truly terrible weapons. Towards a treaty that will ban, eliminate, all chemical weapons from the earth 10 years from the day it is signed. This initiative contains three major elements.
 
Three Steps to a Treaty
First, in the first eight years of a chemical weapons treaty, the U.S. is ready to destroy nearly all - 98 percent - of our chemical weapons stockpile, provided the Soviet Union joins the ban, and I think they will.
Second, we are ready to destroy all of our chemical weapons - 100 percent - every one - within 10 years once all nations capable of building chemical weapons sign that total-ban treaty.
And third, the United States is ready to begin now. We will eliminate more than 80 percent of our stockpile even as we work to complete a treaty if the Soviet Union joins us in cutting chemical weapons to an equal level and we agree on the conditions, including inspections, under which stockpiles are destroyed.
We know that monitoring a total ban on chemical weapons will be a challenge. But the knowledge we've gained from our recent arms control experience and our accelerating research in this area makes me believe that we can achieve the level of verification that gives us confidence to go forward with the ban.
The world has lived too long in the shadow of chemical warfare. So let us act together beginning today to rid the earth of this scourge.
 
Conventional Arms
We are serious about achieving conventional arms reductions as well. And that's why we tabled new proposals just last Thursday at the Conventional Forces in Europe Negotiations in Vienna, proposals that demonstrate our commitment to act rapidly to ease military tensions in Europe and move the nations of that continent one step closer to their common destiny - a Europe whole and free.
And the United States is convinced that open and innovative measures can move disarmament forward and also ease international tensions. And that's the idea behind the ''open skies'' proposal about which the Soviets have now expressed a positive attitude. It's the idea behind the ''open lands'' proposal permitting, for the first time ever, free travel for all Soviet and American diplomats throughout each other's country.
Openness is the enemy of mistrust. And every step towards a more open world is a step toward the new world we seek. 1990 Summit Meeting And let me make this comment on our meetings with the distinguished Foreign Minister of the Soviet Union, Mr. Shevardnadze, over the past few days. I am very pleased by the progress made. The Soviet Union removed a number of obstacles to progress on conventional and strategic arms reduction. We reached agreements in principle on issues from verification to nuclear testing. And, of course, we agreed to a summit in the spring or early summer of 1990.
And I look forward to meeting Mr. Gorbachev there.
Each of these achievements is important in its own right. But they are more important still as signs of a new attitude that prevails between the United States and the U.S.S.R.
Serious differences remain. We know that.
But the willingness to deal constructively and candidly with those differences is news that we, and indeed the world, must welcome.
 
Regional Conflicts
We have not entered into an era of perpetual peace. The threats to peace that nations face may today be changing but they've not vanished.
In fact, in a number of regions around the world, a dangerous combination is now emerging: Regimes armed with old and unappeasable animosities and modern weapons of mass destruction.
This development will raise the stakes whenever war breaks out. Regional conflicts may well threaten world peace as never before. The challenge of preserving peace is a personal one for all of you right here in this, in this hall.
Mr. Secretary General, with great respect, you have made it your own.
The United Nations can be a mediator, a forum where parties in conflict come in search of peaceful solutions. For the sake of peace, the U.N. must redouble its support for the peace efforts now underway in regions of conflict all over the world.
And let me assure you the United States is determined to take an active role in settling regional conflicts.
Sometimes our role in regional disputes is and will be highly public. And sometimes, like many of you, we work quietly behind the scenes. But always we are working for positive change and lasting peace.
 
The Drug Scourge
Our world faces other, less conventional, threats no less dangerous to international peace and stability.
Illegal drugs are a menace to social order and a source of human misery wherever they gain a foothold. The nations who suffer this scourge must join forces in the fight. And we are.
And let me salute the commitment and extraordinary courage of one country in particular, Colombia, where we are working with the people and their President, Vergilio Barco, to put the drug cartels out of business, bring the drug lords to justice.
And finally, we must join forces to combat the threat of terrorism. Every nation and the United Nations must send the outlaws of the world a clear message: Hostage-taking and the terror of random violence are methods that cannot win the world's approval. Terrorism of any kind is repugnant to all values that a civilized world holds in common. And make no mistake, terrorism is a means that no end, no matter how just that end, can sanctify. ...
 
The Dream of Peace
When I began today, I spoke to you about peacekeeping.
I want to speak to you now about peacemaking.
We must bring peace to the people who have never known its blessings. There's a painting that hangs on the wall of my office in the White House and it pictures President Abraham Lincoln and his generals meeting near the end of a war that remains the bloodiest in the history of my country.
Outside at that moment a battle rages - in this picture - and yet what we see in the distance is a rainbow - a symbol of hope, of the passing of the storm. That painting is called ''The Peacemakers.'' For me, it is a constant reminder that our struggle, the struggle for peace, is a struggle blessed by hope.
I do remember sitting in this hall. I remember the mutual respect among all of us proudly serving as representatives.
Yes, I remember the almost endless speeches. And I don't want this to be one of them. The Security Council sessions, the receptions, those long receiving lines, the formal meetings of this assembly and the informal discussions in the delegates lounge over here.
And I remember something more - something beyond the frantic pace and sometimes frustrating experiences of daily life here. The heartbeat of the United Nations. The quiet conviction that we could make the world more peaceful, more free. What we sought then - all of us - now lies within our reach.
 
Unity of Purpose
I ask each of you here in this hall: Can we not bring a unity of purpose to the United Nations? Can we not make this new world of freedom the common destiny we seek? I believe we can. I know we must. My solemn wish today is that here among the United Nations, that spirit will take hold and that all man and all nations will make freedom's moment their own.
Thank you. God bless you. And may God bless the work of the United Nations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (70%); HUNGARY (64%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: CHEMICAL WARFARE; STOCKPILING; TREATIES; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (94%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); ARMED FORCES (66%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (65%); TERRORISM (51%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



628 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: With September's Rains Come Baby Showers

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

 BODY:
''Teeming autumn, big with rich increase,'' is what Shakespeare called it. At maternity wards all over the country, it's called chaos.
Since 1942, when the first reliable nationwide birth records were used, a September baby boom has made the year's ninth month the demographic equivalent of rush hour in America. 
In 1987, for instance, about 11,135 children were born every day in September, 700 more children per day than the annual daily average and nearly 1,300 more per day than in January, the low point for births.
Why the annual baby boom? Does the frenzy of Christmas shopping beget other frenzies? Is it a function of New Year's Eve celebrations, of resolutions, of people making sure old acquaintance is not forgot? Does a national craving for human warmth ride in on the Canadian winds at autumn's end?
 
Hypotheses in Search of Facts
Jeffrey Miron, an economist at the University of Michigan, and a colleague there, David Lamb, a demographer, have tried these and a number of other hypotheses only to find no single explanation that matches the facts.
''The obvious conjecture is a Christmas effect,'' said Mr. Miron. ''You know, leisure time, a warm family glow. But it also occurs in India and Israel, so calling it a Christmas effect is not necessarily appropriate.''
And in northern Europe, homeland of the Christmas tree, King Wenceslas and any number of merry gentlemen, September is not the big birth month, he said. ''There's a blip upward in September in places like northern England and the Scandinavian countries,'' Mr. Miron said, ''but the big birth peak is in the spring.''
 
Temperature and Long Nights
The latest Miron-Lamb hypothesis, still being tested, assumes that the seasonal increase is governed by some interaction between temperature fluctuations, the length of nights and the intensity of daytime light. But as Mr. Miron contemplates a growing heap of discarded hypotheses, he says, he is not sure this one will work either.
Demographers first started looking at the boom-and-bust birth cycle as early as the 1930's; nobody can remember a September without many births. There were some expectations that the wide availability of birth control measures in the 1960's, and of abortion in the 1970's, would even out the seasonal peaks. But in this case, science and medicine were apparently powerless against some more primeval imperative.
''The seasonal pattern doesn't change - on births it hasn't changed for 30 years,'' said Stephanie Ventura, a demographer for the National Center for Health Statistics. ''The September thing has been there for as long as we can remember.''

GRAPHIC: graph of number of births by month (Source: National Center for Health Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); ENGLAND (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (69%); NORTHERN EUROPE (69%); INDIA (54%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

SUBJECT: POPULATION CHRISTMAS (91%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); BABY BOOMERS (89%); STATISTICS (70%); HEALTH STATISTICS AGENCIES (67%); 

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY



629 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1633 words

HEADLINE: Poll Finds Broad Support for Bush but Skepticism About Drugs and Taxes

BYLINE: By R.W. APPLE Jr.

 BODY:
The American public thoroughly approves of the way President Bush is handling his job and supports most of his programs, but doubts whether many of them, including Mr. Bush's highly publicized plans to fight illegal drugs and clean up the environment, will really work.
Such skepticism also applies to the President's campaign pledge not to increase taxes. Most voters have read Mr. Bush's lips and endorse his opposition to new taxes, but they do not think that he will be able to stick to it. Almost three out of four Americans, an unusually large majority, expect the President to ask Congress for a tax increase sometime in his four-year term.
Those are some of the main findings of the latest New York Times/CBS News poll, a survey that includes plenty of political reassurance for Mr. Bush, but also perhaps an early warning that his Presidency has not yet generated great enthusiasm or full confidence in his leadership. 
 
Few Apprehensions Found
By the same token, the poll suggests that the electorate has relatively few apprehensions about the state of the nation.
The poll, based on telephone interviews with 1,347 adults nationwide from Sept. 17 to 20, had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
Over all, 69 percent of the public approves of Mr. Bush's job performance and 18 percent disapproves, according to the new poll. The figures have been more or less steady since July, and are generally in line with other recent polls. On foreign policy the approval rating is 60 percent, up 7 points since it was last measured in April, and on the economy it is 55 percent, up 10 points since April.
 
Rating of Other Presidents
None of the last three elected Presidents before Mr. Bush - Richard M. Nixon, Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan - stood that tall with the nation's voters eight months into their terms. Indeed, Mr. Bush's rating is now about the same as Mr. Reagan's highest personal rating, which was 68 percent, reached in New York Times polls in December 1985 and May 1986.
But Dwight D. Eisenhower, John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson all recorded higher scores at this stage in Gallup polls - 75 percent for President Eisenhower in September 1953, 76 percent for President Kennedy in September 1961 and 74 percent for President Johnson in June 1964, seven months after Kennedy's assassination.
All three Presidents subsequently suffered sharp declines in popularity, notably Mr. Johnson, whose approval rating fell to 35 percent in 1968. Aides to Mr. Bush say he will be subject to those same shifts of the public mood.
 
A Hint From Sununu
John H. Sununu, the White House chief of staff, recently sent to friends of the Administration copies of a graph showing that at about this stage both Mr. Carter and Mr. Reagan started to lose popularity, as if to warn people, ''Don't be too terribly surprised if the President stubs a toe some day soon.''
Taxes might turn out to be a big problem, it appears from the poll.
When asked what the President should do to pay for domestic programs, 53 percent said he should not raise taxes but only 40 percent said he should. However, when asked specifically whether they would be willing to pay $100 more a year in Federal taxes to increase spending on the war against drugs, 58 percent responded that they would.
Mr. Bush's difficulty is that he has never been able to persuade the country of his determination not to raise taxes. Last January, as he was assuming the Presidency, 73 percent of the respondents to an earlier Times/CBS poll said he would seek to raise taxes. In the current survey the number was the same despite all that he and his aides have said on the subject since he took office.
 
Good Grades on Education
In a number of areas Americans have a good deal of confidence in the President. For example, 57 percent believe he will be able to improve education, which is down a bit from January, but still encouraging for a man who says he wants to be remembered as ''the education President.'' And 79 percent think he will be able to maintain the current good relations with the Soviet Union.
But 54 percent say Mr. Bush will not be able to improve the environment significantly, and 51 percent say he will not be able to ''significantly reduce the drug problem.''
Nonetheless, 69 percent say they approve of Mr. Bush's handling of the drug issue, which suggests that the intractability of the problem and not the President's approach is what makes the public so skeptical of success. Fifty-four percent of the respondents identified drugs as the nation's No. 1 problem, down from 64 percent earlier in the month, when sentiment was measured immediately after the President's speech outlining his Administration's drug strategy. But this still demonstrates an intense public focus on this one domestic issue.
The poll indicated, however, that different people mean different things when they speak about ''the drug issue.'' What bothers 17 percent of those who named drugs as the big problem is children using drugs. But 15 percent of those citing drugs said violence and crime connected with drugs caused them the greatest concern.
 
Drugs as Crucial Yardstick
If the current intensity of concern persists, making progress on drugs could become the crucial measurement of the Bush Administration's political success or failure.
Mr. Bush's popularity extends to all segments of society. More than 55 percent of those in all age groups approve of his performance so far, as do more than 60 percent of those with each level of education, and a majority of those at all income levels. Men like him slightly more than women (73 percent vs. 65 percent), white Protestants like him better than Roman Catholics (76 per cent vs. 66 percent). Even among Democrats, liberals, blacks and Hispanic Americans, his ratings are high.
There are, nonetheless, some findings in the poll that might give the President and his aides pause.
Only 13 percent of the respondents in the survey expressed a favorable view of Vice President Dan Quayle, with 19 percent holding an unfavorable opinion. Months of intensive television and newspaper exposure have created only a faint picture of Mr. Quayle in the public mind, with 45 percent saying they know too little about him to form an opinion. That number has been rising since the election; apparently, the more people hear and see about the Vice President the less they understand him.
Such figures are sure to make Mr. Bush's political strategists think hard about whether Mr. Quayle should stay on the ticket in 1992, even if the President, for whom loyalty is a political watchword, continues to oppose a change.
 
A Split on Eastern Europe
Another soft spot in public opinion concerns Eastern Europe, an area of extremely rapid change where the Administration concedes it is still feeling its way.
On the question of American aid to countries like Poland and Hungary, which are becoming more independent of the Soviet Union, opinion is fairly closely divided, with 40 percent favoring more aid and 51 percent opposing it. Likewise, on the question of American help for Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's reforms by removing trade restrictions, 41 percent say yes and 48 percent say the United States should not get involved.
Voters see no very clear pattern emerging in Mr. Bush's relations with the Democratic-controlled Congress, a topic that apparently excites more interest inside Washington than outside. Forty percent think the Democrats are cooperating with the President, while 36 percent think they are obstructing him. In any event, only a little more than a third of the public thinks control of the White House and the Congress by the same party is better for the country than divided control.
Looking toward next year's midterm elections, the poll gives the Republicans some reason for optimism. If the election were held now, 39 percent of the registered voters said they would back the Democratic candidate in their district while 38 percent would opt for the Republican candidate. That kind of voting pattern would almost certainly greatly shrink the current Democratic majorities on Capitol Hill.
 
How the Poll Was Taken
The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Sept. 17 to 20 with 1,347 adults around the United States, excluding Alaska and Hawaii.
The sample of telephone exchanges called was selected by a computer from a complete list of exchanges in the country. The exchanges were chosen so as to assure that each region of the country was represented in proportion to its population. For each exchange, the telephone numbers were formed by random digits, thus permitting access to both listed and unlisted numbers. The numbers were then screened to limit calls to residences.
The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of residential telephone lines and to adjust for variations in the sample relating to region, race, sex, age and education. In theory, in 19 cases out of 20 the results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults.
The percentages reported are the particular results most likely to match what would be obtained by seeking out all adult Americans. Other possible percentages are progressively less likely the more they differ from the reported results.
The potential sampling error for smaller subgroups is larger. For example, for either men or women it is plus or minus four percentage points.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll.

GRAPHIC: graphs of poll results of questions on President Bush and Vice President Quayle (Source: NYT & CBS News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US); PUBLIC OPINION; DRUG ADDICTION AND ABUSE; DRUG TRAFFIC POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); DRUG POLICY (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); TAX LAW (76%); TAX INCREASES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (72%); STATISTICS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (51%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); QUAYLE, DAN (VICE PRES); APPLE, R W JR GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN F KENNEDY (89%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); 



630 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 31, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: ON MY MIND;
The Case For Slavery

BYLINE: By A. M. Rosenthal

 BODY:
Across the country, a scattered but influential collection of intellectuals is intensely engaged in making the case for slavery.
With considerable passion, these Americans are repeatedly expounding the benefits of not only tolerating slavery but legalizing it:
It would make life less dangerous for the free. It would save a great deal of money. And since the economies could be used to improve the lot of the slaves, in the end they would be better off. 
The new anti-abolitionists, like their predecessors in the 19th century, concede that those now in bondage do not themselves see the benefits of legalizing their status.
But in time they will, we are assured, because the beautiful part of legalization is that slavery would be designed so as to keep slaves pacified with the very thing that enslaves them!
The form of slavery under discussion is drug addiction. It does not have every characteristic of more traditional forms of bondage. But they have enough in common to make the comparison morally valid - and the campaign for drug legalization morally disgusting.
Like the plantation slavery that was a foundation of American society for so long, drug addiction largely involves specifiable groups of people. Most of the enchained are children and adolescents of all colors and black and Hispanic adults.
Like plantation slavery, drug addiction is passed on from generation to generation. And this may be the most important similarity: like plantation slavery, addiction can de-stroy among its victims the social resources most valuable to free people for their own betterment - family life, family traditions, family values.
In plantation-time America, mothers were taken from their children. In drug-time America, mothers abandon their children. Do the children suffer less, or the mothers?
Anti-abolitionists argue that legalization would make drugs so cheap and available that the profit for crime would be removed. Well-supplied addicts would be peaceful addicts. We would not waste billions for jails and could spend some of the savings helping the addicted become drug-free.
That would happen at the very time that new millions of Americans were being enticed into addiction by legalization - somehow.
Are we really foolish enough to believe that tens of thousands of drug gang members would meekly steal away, foiled by the marvels of the free market?
Not likely. The pushers would cut prices, making more money than ever from the ever-growing mass market. They would immediately increase the potency and variety beyond anything available at any Government-approved narcotics counters.
Crime would increase. Crack produces paranoid violence. More permissiveness equals more use equals more violence.
And what will legalization do to the brains of Americans drawn into drug slavery by easy availability?
Earlier this year, an expert drug pediatrician told me that after only a few months babies born with crack addiction seemed to recover. Now we learn that stultifying behavioral effects last at least through early childhood. Will they last forever?
How long will crack affect neurological patterns in the brains of adult crack users? Dr. Gabriel G. Nahas of Columbia University argues in his new book, ''Cocaine: The Great White Plague,'' that the damage may be irreversible. Would it not be an act of simple intelligence to drop the legalization campaign until we find out?
Then why do a number of writers and academicians, left to right, support it? I have discussed this with anti-drug leaders like Jesse Jackson, Dr. Mitchell Rosenthal of Phoenix House and William J. Bennett, who search for answers themselves.
Perhaps the answer is that the legalizers are not dealing with reality in America. I think the reason has to do with class.
Crack is beginning to move into the white middle and upper classes. That is a tragedy for those addicted.
However, it has not yet destroyed the communities around which their lives revolve, not taken over every street and doorway. It has not passed generation to generation among them, killing the continuity of family.
But in ghetto communities poverty and drugs come together in a catalytic reaction that is reducing them to social rubble.
The anti-abolitionists, virtually all white and well-to-do, do not see or do not care. Either way they show symptoms of the callousness of class. That can be a particularly dangerous social disorder.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ADDICTION AND ABUSE SUBSTANCE ABUSE (91%); SLAVERY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); CHILDREN (89%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (89%); FAMILY (89%); DRUG POLICY (88%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); COCAINE (73%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (66%); GANGS (60%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M



631 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1686 words

HEADLINE: Dinkins Gaining Support Among Business Executives

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
New York City's business community, without an incumbent mayor to support for the first time in 16 years, is largely following the public-opinion polls and finding a familiar face in David N. Dinkins, the Democratic nominee.
Mr. Dinkins, the Manhattan Borough President, has already inherited prominent fund-raisers and contributors from the three-term incumbent he toppled in the September 12 primary, Mayor Edward I. Koch, even though there is a credible Republican candidate.
A sampling of executives found substantial, though sometimes conditional, support for Mr. Dinkins. Many business people who have dealt with him as Borough President described him as experienced and reasonable. That he would be the city's first black mayor appeals to executives who are concerned that racial polarization may crimp economic prosperity. 
 
A Degree of Wariness
His Republican rival, Rudolph W. Giuliani, achieved fame as the United States Prosecutor in Manhattan, but he is a political novice. The independent and fresh perspective he promotes as an asset is regarded skeptically by some business executives, who complain that he lacks experience in city government and a coherent platform.
Moreover, until early this year, he was prosecuting individuals and companies in the securities industry, from which he is now seeking support, with some success.
Even among Dinkins supporters, however, some executives expressed concern about what they labeled a ''liberal triumverate'' - Mr. Dinkins and two other Democratic candidates who are virtually assured of election: Elizabeth Holtzman, the Brooklyn District Attorney, who would replace a four-term incumbent as comptroller, and Ruth W. Messinger, a West Side City Council member, who would succeed Mr. Dinkins as borough president.
Some real-estate executives are nearly apoplectic about Mr. Dinkins's support for what they consider a form of commercial rent control.
 
Unease About Labor Ties
And still other executives fear that generous labor settlements with the municipal unions that are supporting Mr. Dinkins will cost them more in taxes and in demands from their own employees.
''He has to come out with a sincere and honest statement to the business community, many of whom didn't vote for him, that the new administration would understand and be receptive to what businesses' needs are,'' said Lewis Rudin, a landlord and developer who heads the Association for a Better New York.
The executives' concern was tempered, though, by their expectation that any return to profligacy would be constrained by monitors installed after the city's fiscal crisis in the 1970's.
 
Koch Supporter Backs Dinkins
Among the Koch fund-raisers who have joined Mr. Dinkins since the primary is Jerry Speyer, a real-estate developer. He called the nominee ''a reasonable person and a good listener'' whose position on commercial rent arbitration merely proved that ''nothing is perfect.''
With Mr. Giuliani, Mr. Speyer said, ''I don't think the issue is his competence; it's his lack of experience.''
Mr. Rudin's brother Jack, also a landlord and developer, said of Mr. Dinkins: ''He's a very responsible guy. David is up to calling it as he sees it for the good of the city as a whole.''
The business community has lost some of its political influence because the city's new campaign finance law limits individual contributions to $3,000 for the general election race. But an influential donor can encourage colleagues to give and, more importantly, can provide an imprimatur that money alone cannot buy. Money represents the most tangible sign of political support, though, and Mr. Giuliani has been lagging in overall contributions.
Ordinarily raising money for a Republican candidate in New York city is tough enough; none has been elected mayor on the party's line in 24 years. The moderate or conservative ideological bent of many executives often is subordinated to common sense, which holds that it is bad for business to buck an incumbent or the party in power.
 
Eyes on the Polls
''Better take the guy we know than the guy we don't know, unless he comes up in the polls,'' was how Lawrence Mandelker, Mr. Koch's campaign treasurer, put it.
Mr. Giuliani's Republican credentials may be suspect to some, since he also has the endorsement of the Liberal Party. Some real-estate executives are uncomfortable with Mr. Giuliani because he, like Mr. Dinkins, supports legislation that would prohibit landlords from keeping apartments off the market.
He also would consider limits on commercial rents in some neighborhoods, while Mr. Dinkins favors legislation that would trigger binding arbitration when a landlord seeks to raise commercial rent beyond a percentage set by law. Both say they would raise taxes only as a last resort.
Mr. Giuliani has harped on corruption to people who are worried less that public officials will do the wrong thing than that they will do nothing.
 
Support for Giuliani
''When Rudy first ran, I remember people saying that because he had cracked down on Wall Street, we were not going to have business support,'' said John H. Gross, a lawyer who is the Giuliani campaign treasurer. ''In fact, we have done very well with the financial community and with the legal community.''
Among those who have helped raise money, Mr. Gross said, are William E. Simon, the former Treasury Secretary; George L. Ball, chairman of Prudential-Bache Securities; Jeffrey B. Lane, president of Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.; Alton G. Marshall, a banker and investor; E. John Rosenwald Jr., vice chairman of Bear Stearns & Company; and Frank Zarb, chief executive of Smith Barney Inc.
''I think he has a record of success in the things he has done, and the city needs new blood,'' said Mr. Lane, a Republican.
''I'm looking for people who are hedging their bets,'' Mr. Marshall said. ''In the old days, when a guy was putting $50,000 on the line, he wanted to know everything about a candidate down to the last clause. But now, when a guy is writing a check for $3,000, he looks at the situation, which is that this is the first time in a long time that there is at least a possibility that someone other than the Democrat might have a shot at winning, because of the unique situation we have this time.''
The situation to which he referred is Mr. Dinkins's race, which has injected an element of uncertainty when otherwise a Democrat would be considered a prohibitive favorite.
 
Unknown Factors Acknowledged
''David Dinkins is a very intelligent, amiable gentleman, but I'm not sure good guys, frankly, finish first, as far as running the city goes,'' said Charles J. Urstadt, who heads his own real-estate company. ''Dave may well stand up to the unions and his own constituencies, but he may not.''
''I've been a Republican all my life, so I naturally lean toward the standard-bearer,'' Mr. Urstadt said. ''But Giuliani is an unknown, too.''
Different components of the city's business community often have different agendas, but they share many common concerns. Moreover, said Ronald K. Shelp, president of the city's Chamber of Commerce, ''there has been a convergence of so-called business issues - the tax climate, regulation -and what might be called social issues - education and affordable housing and good race relations.''
William Prensky, president of Harry Gitlin Inc., a custom architectural design and manufacturing company in Manhattan, said his biggest concerns were the cost of doing business in the city, crime and education. He expressed reservations about both major party candidates but said, ''I don't think Dinkins will be an anti-business mayor.''
 
Concern About Crime
Crime is the major concern of Kenneth J. Buettner, chief executive of the York Scaffold Equipment Corporation in Long Island City, Queens. But Mr. Buettner, an enrolled Republican, said that while Mr. Giuliani was able to focus effectively on crime as a prosecutor, ''I don't know if he becomes mayor he would be able to direct his attention to that while running the whole city.''
Joseph H. Flom, a lawyer who was co-chairman of Mr. Koch's finance committee and now is raising funds for Mr. Dinkins, said that ''we've already seen a palpable easing'' of racial tension as a result of Mr. Dinkins's nomination.
Among others identified by the Dinkins camp as supporters were Arthur L. Liman, the lawyer; Milton J. Petrie, chairman of Petrie Stores, and Steven J. Ross, co-chairman of Time Warner Inc.
Donald J. Trump, the developer and casino operator, hedged his bets in the primaries. By contributing to Mr. Dinkins and to Mr. Giuliani, he won twice. Mr. Trump said he had been too preoccupied with celebrating Mr. Koch's defeat to choose between the winners.
 
'Reduced Tension' Stressed
Felix G. Rohatyn, a partner in Lazard Freres & Company, the investment banking concern, and chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation, said: ''On balance, people in the business community think that reduced tension has to be the highest priority, that it's impossible to govern with any requirement for sacrifice unless the people who are going to be asked to sacrifice feel they are being treated fairly. Dave has a lot of personal qualities that lend themselves to that kind of approach.''
''The coming to the fore at the same time of a number of elected officials of strongly liberal background and with whom labor unions have significant influence is going to be of some concern,'' Mr. Rohatyn said. ''But you can be a philosophical liberal and a financial conservative. Dave is an extremely careful man. Careful people don't go about throwing money away. And he is as conscious of the need to maintain fiscal balance and a vibrant economy as much as we in the business community are of maintaining a stable social base.''
Who would make a better mayor? Mr. Rohatyn was asked. ''Suffice it to say that I would be extremely comfortable with David Dinkins as mayor of the city,'' replied Mr. Rohatyn, who is a Democrat. ''Other than on crime and corruption issues, Giuliani is still a blank slate.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; BUSINESS ROLE IN POLITICS MAYORS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CITIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (86%); RENTAL PROPERTY (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); FUNDRAISING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); POLITICS (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); LAWYERS (70%); RENT CONTROL (68%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (68%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (62%); 

PERSON: ROBERTS, SAM; DINKINS, DAVID N (BORO PRES); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 



632 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: Looting on St. Croix Linked to Island's Tensions

BYLINE: By JEFFREY SCHMALZ, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN JUAN, P.R., Sept. 25

 BODY:
As food and other relief supplies poured into St. Croix today, residents and Federal officials began asking why, of a dozen Caribbean islands devastated by a hurricane last week, only one erupted in widespread violence and looting.
The answer, Federal officials and residents say, lies in a number of factors involving class, race, isolation and a general lack of government authority.
Unlike many Caribbean islands that have their own government, the main government controlling St. Croix is 40 miles away on St. Thomas, the capital of the Virgin Islands, a territory of the United States. As a result, St. Croix has long been a little less controlled, a little more lawless. Although the crime rate is high throughout the Virgin Islands, it is particularly high on St. Croix, with its rate of violent crime running three times the national average. Crack use is also more widespread on St. Croix than on most other Caribbean islands, Federal officials and private study groups say. 
 
Racial and Class Tensions
When many National Guard troops and police officers failed to report for duty the day after the hurricane, Federal officials said, that reinforced the feeling of many that there was no authority.
Like other Caribbean islands, St. Croix has racial tensions, with more than three-quarters of the island's 55,000 people being blacks who hold mostly low-paying labor jobs. Whites own most of the businesses and many hire whites from the mainland instead of blacks from St. Croix. And unlike other Caribbean islands, blacks on St. Croix have to compete for jobs with black and Hispanic residents from other islands who come to St. Croix to work in the tourist industry.
''I'm not surprised about the looting,'' said Ann Brittain, an assistant anthropology professor at the University of Miami who has studied the Virgin Islands. ''When you look at the isolation, the crime already there, the low wages, the fact that blacks cannot afford to rent or buy a house, it was bound to happen.
Charles Fisher, an editor at The St. Croix Avis, the only black-owned paper in the Virgin Islands, said: ''This is a class fight. The rich guys come down from New York or wherever and build a hotel, but they can't be bothered to build us a hurricane shelter or a playground.''
 
Unemployment Rate Is High
Statistics that could offer a barometer of the economic status of blacks on St. Croix were not available today. Federal figures - for unemployment, for example - are kept for the Virgin Islands as a whole, not individual islands. The islands themselves keep their own statistics, but since St. Croix officials was occupied today by the hurricane cleanup, it was unable to supply them.
But some private groups, including the Council on Hemispheric Affairs, said they believed unemployment on St. Croix is as high as 30 percent.
Larry Birns, the director of the council. a Washington-based research group, said: ''St. Croix has been a Watts or a Harlem in the waiting, The United States is not good at being a colonial power. It pays some attention to St. Thomas as a commercial center. But St. Croix is treated as backwoods. It has few paved roads, poor schools, poor medical care. If it wasn't the hurricane that touched things off, it would have been something else.''
But some white residents are not so sure that last week's incidents are part of a class fight. They point out that in separate incidents after the storm, a dozen tourists said they had been set upon in the streets by blacks, who called them ''whitey'' and told them to get out of town.
Such incidents, combined with the looting, panicked white residents. They armed themselves with shotguns and knives, and overran boats and airplanes to flee the island.
On the mind of virtually every white was the incident that has dominated race relations on St. Croix for 17 years: On the night of Sept. 6, 1972, during a time of heightened racial tensions, eight white Americans, four tourists and four St. Croix residents, were murdered by five black men at the Fountain Valley Golf Club.
 
Troops Annoy Some
''I woke up and heard Rastafarian drums right after the storm,'' said a 40-year-old woman who lived on St. Croix 10 years and was at the airport there on Friday to flee to Miami with her two small children. ''All I could think of was Fountain Valley, and I thought: ''My God! I have to get out of here.''
''White people,'' said Larry Willett, who owns a liquor store on St. Croix, ''saw what some blacks were doing looting the stores and they figured that when the stores were depleted, they would turn to the homes of the whites. That's why the whites were so desperate to get help. All they saw was Fountain Valley.''
The arrival of more than 1,000 Federal troops on Thursday brought relief to white residents, at least for now. But many blacks seemed annoyed.
Some said that blacks were not the only ones to blame for the looting, adding that they had seen white store owners tell people to come in and take what they wanted so the stores could claim a 100 percent loss on their insurance.
Other blacks said they resented the presence of the troops because it reinforced a perception by some whites that they were not accountable to the local black government and that the government of the whites is the Federal Government. Whites responded that many members of the local government are corrupt and ineffectual.
Today, St. Croix remained without electricity and telephones, but the streets were calm. Officials concentrated on cleaning up 40,000 gallons of No. 6 fuel oil that leaked into a St. Croix harbor from a hurricane-damaged 1.6-million-gallon tank.
Meanwhile, officials said that 140 of 200 convicts who escaped from prison during the storm had been recaptured, but they would not say how many people were arrested for looting. There was no indication when Federal troops would be withdrawn.
''I can't tell you what a relief it is to have them here,'' said Scott Hemeon, a white who owns the Danish Manor Hotel, where looters had climbed the walls in an unsuccessful effort to break in. ''I'm in no rush to see the Army go.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ST CROIX (US VIRGIN ISLANDS)

SUBJECT: HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; HURRICANE HUGO; LOOT AND LOOTING; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET CRIME RATES (91%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); VIOLENT CRIME (77%); US TERRITORIES (75%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (74%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (73%); WEATHER (73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (69%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); COCAINE (53%); TOURISM (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: SCHMALZ, JEFFREY



633 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

 
 
Companies
Columbia Pictures Entertainment got a $3.4 billion offer from Sony and its board is expected to approve the sale, a person close to the talks said. It would be the second time recently that a foreign buyer agreed to buy a major American movie company. [Page A1.] 
The consolidation of the American beer industry continued as Stroh agreed to sell most of its brands and breweries to Coors for $425 million in cash and assumed debt. [D1.]
Texas Instruments and I.B.M. will seek contracts to automate large factory operations together. [D1.] Digital Equipment demonstrated technical breakthroughs that it said would allow the packaging of multiple computer chips at densities up to 30 times greater than currently possible. [D6.]
G.M. announced substantial discounts on most 1990 vehicles through cash rebates and subsidized financing. [D1.] Sales of cars built in the U.S. surged 10.2 percent in mid-September. [D5.]
American Suzuki announced a management shake-up, with four top executives resigning or being transferred. [D5.]
Marvin S. Traub may find himself helped by substantial foreign interest in American retailing as the chairman and chief executive of Bloomingdale's seeks to buy the 17-store chain. [D6.]
RJR Nabisco agreed to sell Del Monte's processed food unit for $1.475 billion to an investor group led by Merrill Lynch. [D18.]
Seaman Furniture reached an agreement in principle with its senior lenders that would allow it to reorganize its debt. [D15.]
The St. Louis Sun began publication, the first time in three years St. Louis has had two major dailies. [D24.]
Merieux offered $800 million (Canadian) for Connaught Biosciences, setting the stage for a bidding war. [D5.]
 
International
The I.M.F.'s member nations are likely to increase the fund's resources by as much as 67 percent, or $80 billion. The money would be used in part to take an expanded role in Eastern Europe. [A1.]
The Government of Venezuela is dropping its demands for a 50 percent debt reduction and is offering other proposals it believes will be more acceptable to its creditor banks. [D1.]
Vice President Quayle brought Japan a message of cooperation and reconciliation. [A5.]
 
 
 
Markets
The dollar dropped sharply after the U.S. and its economic allies sent a strong message that they wanted a decline. The dollar ended the day down almost four yen and more than five pfennigs against the West German mark. [D1.]
Stock prices plunged across a broad front on the heels of a steep decline in the dollar and in bond prices. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 22.42, to 2,659.19. [D10.] Prices of Treasury notes and bonds fell sharply. [D21.]
Prices of gold bullion advanced, buoyed by the sharp drop in the dollar's value against major foreign currencies. [D22.]
 
 
 
The Economy
The Transportation Department expressed concern about the role of foreign companies in the acquisitions of U.S. airlines and asked United Airlines for information about a proposed buyout of its parent in which British Airways would be a partner. [D2.]
A steam pipe exploded in front of Young & Rubicam's 26-story office building, closing the building for the day. [B3.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
The contact lens industry is hoping to offset research showing that the risk of contracting serious illnesses increases if the lenses are worn overnight. Business and Health. [D2.]
The junk bond market is awaiting more than $800 million in new securities this week. Market Place. [D10.]
Kirshenbaum & Bond is growing and, some say, growing up. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D25.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (70%); TXN (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (57%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (55%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA PICTURES INDUSTRIES INC (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (70%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (57%); KRAFT NABISCO (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); BONDS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); CURRENCIES (84%); APPROVALS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); BEER & ALE (76%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (76%); SALES REBATES (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); BREWERIES (71%); COMPUTER CHIPS (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (66%); BOND MARKETS (64%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (58%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (57%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (52%); 



634 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: Venezuela Eases Stance On Its Debts

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 25

 BODY:
Trying to revive negotiations with commercial banks, the Government of Venezuela is dropping its demands for 50 percent debt reduction and offering other proposals it believes will be more acceptable to the banks.
The revised plan may signal a change in the way that deals to reduce debt will be negotiated under the Bush Administration strategy devised by and named for Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady.
The changes were detailed in an interview today with Miguel Rodriguez Fandeo, Venezuela's minister of planning in charge of the debt negotiations, who said an agreement was near on a $600 million interim loan from the banks. The loan would enable Venezuela to meet some interest payments missed over the last several months ''in order to create the atmosphere so the negotiating process could speed up.'' Another party to the negotiations indicated that the agreement on the interim loan could come Tuesday. 
Mr. Rodriguez said the changes were made to ''accommodate the realities of the banks'' - referring to the different legal and accounting rules in different countries. But he also said Venezuela had not changed its position in response to moves in the last couple of weeks by three New York banks to increase their cushion against bad third-world loans. Some bankers have suggested that these moves will make negotiations tougher for debtor nations.
The revision of the debt proposal comes even as the new President of Venezuela, Carlos Andres Perez, continues to criticize the banks. In a speech in Venezuela Friday, he called the negotiations a ''kind of war, of financial war, economic war in which each side wants to use all the missiles it has to defend its interests.''
The President also said, ''Banks are organizations that have electronic brains, that have no heart, that have no soul, that have business to do and transact it in the interest of their shareholders.'' He repeated that criticism today, in somewhat milder terms, in a speech to the United Nations General Assembly.
Instead of a 50 percent debt reduction across the board on its $21 billion in loans from commercial banks - a goal that banks rejected months ago - the Venezuelans will now offer the banks a broad range of options on debt reduction, said Mr. Rodriquez, who is in Washington for the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.
 
Choice of Levels
The options, he said, would give the banks a choice of levels of debt reduction, starting at 60 percent and going to below the 35 percent level negotiated in the debt restructing agreement with Mexico, which was the first package concluded under the Brady plan. The plan, announced in March, revised the Administration's debt strategy to put a new emphasis on debt reduction as part of the solution, which also includes new lending, to the $1.3 trillion debt problem of the world's less developed nations.
Mr. Rodriquez also said banks would have an option to make new loans, a proposal not in the original plan.
''We cannot be held hostage by a mighty number,'' Mr. Rodriquez said, acknowledging the difficulty of reaching an agreement on a single debt reduction level. What makes such an agreement difficult, as was discovered in the Mexican negotiations, is that the American banks and foreign banks involved have different priorities and operate under different tax and accounting rules that make agreeing to a set level of debt reduction more difficult.
''We understand the difficulty of imposing one level of discount,'' Mr. Rodriquez said. ''With this type of approach, we can get rid of the lowest common denominator.''
 
Hindering Negotiations
Since the basic Mexican agreement was reached in July, bankers, including John S. Reed, the chairman of Citicorp, have said that setting such an across the board rate hinders the negotiations. Under the Mexican plan, the banks must choose between a 35 percent debt reduction, either by a cut in interest rates or a drop in the face value of their loans, and the lending of new money.
Bankers and Government officials have said each negotiation would be different and that Mexico would not be a standard. In the Philippine negotiations, the second completed under the Brady plan, no set level of deficit reduction was agreed to.
Mr. Rodriguez said that the Venezuelans would still push for as much debt reduction as they can get but that a final agreement could be less than they had sought.
One banker involved in the negotiations with Venezuela, who asked not to be identified, responded positively to the new initiative. ''The clearing up of interest arrears and a flexible approach with respect to the medium-term package will clearly enhance the atmosphere in which the negotiations proceed,'' he said.
 
No Official Reaction
But there was no official reaction from Venezuela's bank advisory committee, which is headed by the Chase Manhattan Bank in New York and negotiates on behalf of the American and foreign banks with loans to Venezuela.
Venezuela was one of the first countries singled out by the Bush Administration as a candidate for debt reduction under the Brady plan. It was felt that attention was needed quickly after bloody riots erupted in February over the imposition of an economic austerity program by the new President.
Until now, the negotiations have been rocky. Both the demand for an across-the-board debt reduction of 50 percent and the bank advisory committee's contention that Venezuela is not in as much economic trouble as it contends have soured the talks. Bankers also did not want to negotiate while Venezuela remained behind on the interest payments on its debt.
Some bankers on the committee contend that Venezuela is just trying to take advantage of the apparent urgency created by riots and capitalize on a chance for debt reduction under the Brady plan.
 
Argentinian Stresses Growth
Separately, Argentina's President, Carlos Saul Menem, said today that his country would honor its foreign debt but needed to grow and develop to be able to pay. ''In order to be able to repay you, we must grow,'' he added in a speech to the Americas Society in New York, Reuters reported.
The burden of Argentina's foreign debt ''is a typical case of co-responsibility,'' he said, adding: ''They lent to us irresponsibly, we happily became indebted and the real interest rates on those loans increased unfairly.''
Mr. Menem is on a five-day trip to the United States to promote his largely successful economic program.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VENEZUELA

SUBJECT: CREDIT EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); DEBTOR NATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ (54%); 



635 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Dollar Falls As Central Banks Act

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 25

 BODY:
The dollar dropped sharply today after the United States and its economic allies sent a strong message that they wanted a decline.
It ended the day down almost four Japanese yen and more than five pfennigs against the West German mark.
Traders said that the Federal Reserve and other central banks began selling the dollar in an effort to push down its value when trading began in Toyko. That provided the punch needed to back up Saturday's policy statement by the leading economic nations saying the dollar was too high. 
The statement, reaffirming a policy of coordination aimed at stabilizing the dollar, was issued after a meeting in Washington of the Group of Seven - the United States, Japan, West Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada.
 
Stocks and Bonds Down
Both stock and bond prices fell on the dollar's decline as traders apparently became concerned that the weaker currency would deter foreign investment in the American markets. The Dow Jones industrial average slipped by 22.42 points, to 2,659.19. And the benchmark 30-year bond fell by more than a point, or more than $10 for each $1,000 face amount of securities. [Pages D10 and D21.] But some traders were quick to predict that the dollar might not remain at the lower level unless the Group of Seven nations made broader economic policy changes, including the lowering of interest rates in the United States.
''They were trying to give a show of force that proved the statement was a strong one,'' said James T. McGroarty, a senior vice president at Greenwich Capital Markets Inc. in Greenwich, Conn.
 
'Market a Little Scared'
''They have gotten the market a little scared,'' said Richard E. Witten, vice president for foreign exchange at Goldman, Sachs & Company in New York. ''The dollar will be soft for a while.''
By the time trading began in New York, the dollar was already down five pfennigs against the mark and three Japanese yen from its close on Friday. By the end of trading, with some more Federal Reserve selling, the dollar slipped somewhat further, to levels that at least for the moment are within or fairly close to their presumed ceilings of 1.90 marks and 140 yen. The dollar ended the day at 1.8992 marks and 142.15 yen, down from 1.9530 marks and 146.05 yen on Friday.
Members of the Group of Seven were happily pointing out that the action of their central banks proved that they meant what they said in their communique and were ready to back it up. The French Finance Minister, Pierre Beregovoy, referring to the dollar's drop, smiled when he told reporters at a breakfast: ''Perhaps today may well clarify matters for you. You saw what happened, so the statement meant what it said.''
Nigel Lawson, Britain's Chancellor of the Exchequer, in a separate comment, said, ''I am perfectly satisfied with the position.''
For the Group of Seven, the drop of the dollar was a small victory after a spring and summer when the nations were unable to restrain its rise. In May the dollar burst though the 1.90-mark and 140-yen ceilings. And the dollar was soon over 2 marks and 150 yen, despite enormous selling by the central banks, including $12 billion by the Federal Reserve in May, June and July.
The dollar fell below the ceilings temporarily in July but then began rising again in August, briefly hitting 2 marks again and nearing 150 yen again. The market had expected the official communique for some time as traders waited to assess how unhappy the group was about the level of the dollar.
''The ministers and governors considered the rise in recent months of the dollar inconsistent with longer-run economic fundamentals,'' said the communique, which was issued during the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank.
''They agreed,'' the communique continued, ''that a rise of the dollar above current levels or an excessive decline could adversely affect prospects for the world economy. In this context, they agreed to cooperate closely in exchange markets.''
The dollar first began to drop when trading opened in Sydney, Australia, which begins while it is still Sunday in New York. Traders said it fell because of the impact of the Group of Seven communique, although there was disagreement over how strong it was. Then in Tokyo, the Federal Reserve, the Bank of Japan and the Bank of Canada were all seen selling dollars aggressively, traders said.
What added to the impact was that the Federal Reserve and the Bank of Canada rarely made such interventions outside of their national markets, which require keeping traders working at night because of the time differential. The last time the Federal Reserve intervened in Tokyo was in January 1988 as part of an aggressive, coordinated effort to support the dollar.
When the foreign exchange markets opened in Europe, traders said that European central banks, including those in West Germany, Belgium, France, Switzerland and Italy, joined in the sales of dollars. Both Mr. McGroarty and Mr. Witten said that the intervention could keep the dollar down for a while. But they suspect that after stepping back for a while traders will begin to see the dollar as a good buy again at these much lower levels. This is when the resolve of the Group of Seven will be tested, they said.
The real move to cap the dollar, traders and economists agree, will require a change in interest rates in the United States and abroad. By lowering American rates and raising them in West Germany and Japan, dollar-denominated assets would become a little less attractive for foreign investors. But such a move is not expected soon because the Federal Reserve will not lower rates until it see signs that the United States economy has slowed down.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (94%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); GREENWICH CAPITAL MARKETS INC (66%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN; WEST GERMANY

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM US DOLLAR (92%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GERMAN MARK (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); EXECUTIVES (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN



636 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1356 words

HEADLINE: Tiffany's Lure for Japanese Retailer

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 25

 BODY:
The five models stepped down the runway in Giorgio Armani fashions, swaying to a rock beat, but they finished with a telling flourish: Arrayed around the three-story corporate symbol of the Japanese retailing giant Mitsukoshi, the women dropped their poses and bowed humbly to the audience.
The gestures provided a vivid insight into the strategy of Japan's oldest department store chain. Even with Mitsukoshi's highly visible foray into American retailing with the announcement last week that it will pay $93 million to raise its stake in Tiffany & Company to 13 percent, the retailer remains focused almost exclusively on serving its Japanese audience rather than invading Western markets.
And for good reason. Japan's affluent consumers regard the West as a rich source of exotic goods, and they have gone on something of a buying binge for luxuries. Like the Victorian emporiums that brought the bounty of Britain's colonies to London, Mitsukoshi aims to satisfy those tastes by bringing the spoils of Japan's economic success back home, be they Christian Lacroix and Chanel fashions, live Maine lobsters, Italian furniture or Coach handbags. 
 
Japan Comes First
Whether operating in Japan or through its overseas outlets, Mitsukoshi ''is catering to Japanese customers first,'' said Motoyuki Homma, managing director of the company's international division. ''We regard our overseas business as a way to enhance our image domestically,'' he said.
He added that in the next five years it plans more overseas steps; its agreement with Tiffany allows Mitsukoshi to increase its holding to 19.9 percent, Mr. Homma said. But over that time the company will still receive less than 5 percent of its sales outside Japan.
Mr. Homma said that Mitsukoshi was decidedly lukewarm on the prospect of acquiring all or part of Bloomingdale's, the New York-based department store chain. Teams of American investment bankers have been trying to peddle the company here after its parent company ran into severe financial problems several weeks ago.
 
'Interested in Consistency'
''When we heard it was for sale, our reaction was how had so many changes in ownership affected the corporate identity and the perceptions of the workers and the customers,'' Mr. Homma said. ''We are interested in consistency.''
But the acquisition of the larger interest in Tiffany does have important symbolism for the once-sleepy Mitsukoshi, which operates 17 department stores in Japan and 94 smaller satellite shops, in addition to real estate, consumer finance, wholesale and construction management businesses.
After stumbling badly in the wake of a scandal over its display of Persian art treasures that turned out to be fakes and then a divisive board room battle in 1982, the prestigious, conservative - some say dowdy -department store chain is back on its feet, trying to distinguish itself as the most stately and glamorous of Japan's big retailers.
The 316-year-old merchandiser is spending heavily to remodel and expand its stores to win back its once loyal upper-middle-class clientele.
 
Their Parents' Store
Mitsukoshi is even experimenting with new stores in the more fashionable shopping districts it has usually shunned, to wrest Japan's growing ranks of big-spending young professionals from more innovative retailers. It is a crowd that still regards Mitsukoshi as a place where their parents shop.
For instance, Mitsukoshi plans to build a store in Shinjuku, a brassy district of Tokyo with glass skyscrapers and nightclubs.
That will provide a striking contrast to its flagship store, the sober stone structure where the Armani fashion show was held, which stands in a business district across from the conservative old Bank of Japan building and in the shadows of the imposing Corinthian columns of Mitsui & Company headquarters; the Mitsui group sprang up from Mitsukoshi and the retailer is still a member of the industrial group.
Mitsukoshi Ltd. had net income of 5.932 billion yen, or $41.2 million at the current exchange rate, for the fiscal year that ended Feb. 28. That represented 40.6 percent growth from the previous year, when net income jumped 32.6 percent from the year before that. Sales grew by 10.8 percent in the last fiscal year, to 712.6 billion yen, or $5.6 billion.
That gave Mitsukoshi gross margins of 24.3 percent, average for the industry here and below the top publicly listed retailing performers; Isetan had margins of 27.6 percent and Takashimaya had 25.2 percent, said Mike Allen, retailing analyst with Barclays de Zoete Wedd.
 
'A Whole New Company'
''It's a whole new company today with all the restructuring they've done in the past five years, but they haven't reached their peak profitability yet,'' Mr. Allen said. The company's stock price rose by 10 yen today, to 2,390 yen, or $16.80 a share.
The changing tastes of Japanese consumers are expected to work to the advantage of Mitsukoshi, though. In general, these consumers are increasingly buying Western goods. But they remain discerning, analysts say, looking for status and willing to pay exorbitant sums for goods only when they feel they are of top quality. Consumers here also want to be entertained when they shop, even awed, and Mitsukoshi obliges them.
Mitsukoshi's main store, which generates 44 percent of the company's sales, assaults the senses and provides constant diversions.
 
Customers Are Pampered
The store is filled with novelties, like an antique corkscrew collection featuring one ivory-handled model at $18,000. Elsewhere, a craftsman carved traditional lacquered vases and experts demonstrated Japanese and Western cooking methods. Customers are pampered, constantly offered samples of tasty foods and other items, as well as brochures.
Almost daily there are events in front of the company's corporate symbol, the Statue of Sincerity, in the main atrium, which is surrounded by booths crammed with expensive Western goods. Or one can go to the golf department and buy a set of $9,500 golf clubs, then try them out at an enclosed driving range, where video monitors record one's swing.
There is a pet shop, Shinto shrine and children's play area on the roof and a food hall in the basement with everything from Kobe beefsteaks at $100 a pound to huge salmon being carved at a counter and trays of fresh vegetables. Rows of open buckets against a wall contained 21 varieties of muddy brown miso, the soybean paste used for soups. $35,000 Kimonos The Japanese character is, indeed, unmistakable. Upstairs from the Gucci and Tiffany boutiques, traditionally garbed saleswomen kneel on straw tatami mats, selling custom-made kimonos that can cost $35,000. And in the housewares department, there is row on row of lacquered kitchenware and the low furniture used in traditional homes.
But as those homes fill up with Western goods, Mitsukoshi is prepared to give consumers more of what they want. That is why some speculate that the Tiffany deal will be one of many similar Japanese acquisitions.
An undisclosed Japanese buyer acquired slightly more than 7 percent of Christie's, the auction house, two weeks ago and a Japanese company earlier attempted to buy into the shipper of one of Burgundy's most famous wines. As sake consumption declines and young Japanese consume more fine wine, Japanese companies are acquiring interests in California vineyards to secure supplies.
 
Tiffany's Goods Sought
Mr. Homma said Mitsukoshi wanted to use its new position in Tiffany as leverage to win the right to distribute Tiffany goods elsewhere in Asia. But the principal aim, he added, was to find more opportunities for retailing the silver, gold and bejeweled items in this country.
Even Mitsukoshi's growing number of outlets overseas - in places like New York, where there is a branch at 465 Park Avenue at 57th Street, as well as Honolulu, Paris, Rome and Munich - will continue to aim at Japanese customers. The strategy, Mr. Homma said, repeating himself to emphasize the point, is to cultivate Japanese living temporarily overseas as long-term customers when they return home.

GRAPHIC: Photo of a show featuring Italian fashions at the main Mitsukoshi store in Tokyo (Picture Group/Dennis Budd Gray) (pg. D1); graph of Mitsukoshi's figures for fiscal years ending Feb. 28 or 29th (source: Mitsukoshi Ltd.) (NYT) (pg. D20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TIF (NYSE) (71%); COH (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (85%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (85%); NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (71%); NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (71%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (71%); NAICS315990 APPAREL ACCESSORIES & OTHER APPAREL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3151 LEATHER GLOVES & MITTENS (58%); SIC2389 APPAREL & ACCESSORIES, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (71%); UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

COMPANY: MITSUKOSHI LTD (85%); TIFFANY & CO (71%); COACH INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: TIFFANY & CO; MITSUKOSHI LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES RETAILERS (92%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (89%); FASHION SHOWS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); PARENT COMPANIES (75%); CONSUMER LENDING (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); AFFLUENT MARKET (69%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES GIORGIO ARMANI (91%); GIORGIO ARMANI (91%); 



637 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: G.M. to Start '90 Model Year By Offering Large Discounts

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 25

 BODY:
In a surprising move intended to forestall a drop in retail sales and to spur its dealers to stock cars more aggressively, the General Motors Corporation today applied substantial discounts to its 1990 car and truck lines through cash rebates and subsidized financing.
G.M.'s action, which excludes its Cadillac models, marks the first time the No. 1 auto maker will begin its model year on Monday with a wide range of discounts. Its decision is evidence of widespread apprehension that automotive demand may be softer this year and that competition for sales may be tougher.
G.M. dealers and other franchise dealers, citing high financing costs, have been saying for several months that they are less willing to risk stocking large inventories of cars and trucks unless they have a better idea of prices and market conditions. 
Unofficially, some G.M. executives acknowledge that factory orders for 1990 vehicles have been soft. The company had temporarily idled plants for up to three weeks in Arlington, Tex.; Pontiac, Mich.; Linden, N.J.; Wilmington, Del.; Moraine, Ohio, and Shreveport, La., because of slow dealer orders and swollen inventories.
''We wanted to let our buyers of 1990 models know that there was going to be an incentive program,'' said Robert E. Coletta, the general sales manager of G.M.'s Buick division. Last October, many buyers stayed away from showrooms anticipating rebates, which came at the end of the month, he said.
 
Chrysler and Ford Plans
The Chrysler Corporation and the Ford Motor Company declined to match G.M.'s discounts immediately, although the analysts predicted that the auto makers would soon follow. The companies have rebates on their 1989 models. Chrysler has announced rebates on its 1990 midsize pickup trucks.
G.M.'s rebates, ranging up to $1,000, affect most Oldsmobile, Pontiac and Buick car models and several Chevrolet car models, including the new Lumina sedan, which was introduced this spring. The GMC truck division is offering rebates of up to $1,250. Cadillac was apparently excluded because of robust sales that pushed the division 6.3 percent ahead of last year.
Ronald Glantz, an analyst for Montgomery Securities in San Francisco, said G.M.'s share of the American vehicle market had been eroding for several months, reaching a low of 33.7 percent in August. That is one reason why G.M. initiated the rebates instead of waiting for its smaller competitors do so, he said.
''They need more share, and their dealers have the worst inventory overhang,'' Mr. Glantz said.
A significant omission from the list of discounted products is General Motors' new mini-van, which is being sold as the Oldsmobile Silhouette, the Chevrolet Lumina APV and, later in the year, as the Pontiac Transport. The futuristic-looking vans are G.M.'s first true mini-vans and are meant to compete with Chrysler's successful mini-van.
 
Paying for Requirements
The Big Three have raised the retail prices on 1990 models by 3 percent to 5 percent, and more in some cases, partly to reflect the cost of mandated safety requirements like driver-side air bags. With the rebate, the 1990 prices may be less than the 1989 retail prices, although the 1989 prices were also discounted for much of the year.
The G.M. incentives are almost certain to encourage some buyers and dealers to buy G.M. cars, but the extent to which they can continue the strength of recent sales is unclear.
Mark Herrmann, a Buick dealer in Yonkers, said he had ordered about a hundred 1990 Buicks, compared with 150 to 175 cars at this time last year. But he said the new rebates did not influence his order.
''I'm going to wait and see what my customers do,'' Mr. Herrmann said. ''If they come in and start buying, then I'll order more cars.''
A Ford spokesman said the company would not announce any rebates for 1990 models until Oct. 4, when the rebates on the 1989 models expire. The auto maker is offering up to $1,500 off on various models. The spokesman acknowledged that 1990 orders from dealers were also soft and had resulted in scattered shutdowns of assembly plants.
Ford said today that it would idle its truck plant in Louisville, Ky., for a week and its plant in Lorain, Ohio, that assembles the Ford Thunderbird and Mercury Cougar for two weeks, both beginning on Oct. 2.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (70%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%); OHIO, USA (55%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (55%); SHREVEPORT, LA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES; REBATES; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; DISCOUNT SELLING SALES REBATES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MINIVANS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); INVENTORIES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); RETAIL SALES (78%); FRANCHISING (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SEDANS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); PICKUP TRUCKS (73%); MARKET SHARE (69%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P



638 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: Car Sales in Mid-September Surged Forward by 10.2%

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 25

 BODY:
Sales of cars built in the United States surged by 10.2 percent in mid-September, as buyers continued to buy 1989 models to beat price increases for the 1990 model year.
The seasonally adjusted annual sales rate for the period of Sept. 11 to Sept. 20 was 8.4 million. The 1989 model year ends this weekend and the 1990 models officially go on sale on Monday. 
''People were out getting the best deals they could,'' said Wendy Beale Needham, an analyst for Smith Barney, Harris, Upham & Company in New York. She said the General Motors Corporation, whose sales reached 106,780, or 11.2 percent higher for the period, appeared to increase its market share at the expense of its domestic rivals.
G.M.'s market share had been sliding throughout the summer.
 
Rebates Are Planned
General Motors today announced rebates for many of its 1990 cars and trucks, and analysts have predicted that the Ford Motor Company and the Chrysler Corporation will follow, leading to widespread discounts.
''If one manufacturer is offering rebates and the others aren't,'' said Harvey E. Heinbach of Merrill Lynch and Company in New York, ''the ones who aren't will soon hear from their dealers who will scream for something competitive.''
The seven domestic automobile makers sold 211,966 cars, compared with 170,988 cars in the corresponding period last year. This year, the mid-September period had nine selling days, compared with eight last year.
Ford sold 52,347 cars, up by 2.6 percent, while Chrysler sold 28,098, up by 2.1 percent.
The Honda Motor Company, which has opened a second American assembly plant, increased its sales by 65 percent, to 11,033 cars. The Toyota Motor Corporation raised its sales by more than threefold, to 5,445. Toyota has been increasing production of its Camry model in Georgetown, Ky.
The Mitsubishi Motor Corporation reported sales of 1,422 in its first mid-September sales report, reflecting the production of its Eclipse sports coupe by Diamond Star Motors, a venture with Chrysler in Normal, Ill.
 
Sales Drop Expected
For the first 20 days of the month, domestic car sales were up by 5.5 percent compared with a year ago. Sales for the month could finish strong, Mrs. Needham of Smith Barney said, but she said she expected a drop at the beginning of October. She cited falling indicators of consumer confidence in her forecast.
The sales of light trucks for the period were also robust. Ford, General Motors, Chrysler and the Nissan Motor Company sold 129,570 light trucks, up by 17.1 percent from a year ago. G.M. showed the biggest increase of the period, with sales of 60,929, compared with 37,095. General Motors has just introduced a new mini-van, which is considered a truck.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); TYT (LSE) (84%); TM (NYSE) (84%); 7203 (TSE) (84%); HMC (NYSE) (83%); 7267 (TSE) (83%); 7201 (TSE) (61%); GM (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (83%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (93%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (85%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (84%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (84%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (83%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (83%); SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO INC (71%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (61%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING AUTOMOTIVE SALES (91%); SALES REBATES (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); MINIVANS (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MARKET SHARE (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (67%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P



639 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Interest Widens in Bid To Buy Bloomingdale's

BYLINE: By ISADORE BARMASH

 BODY:
Marvin S. Traub, the chairman and chief executive officer of Bloomingdale's, has received expressions of substantial interest from foreign retailers and other investors in his quest to buy the chain he has worked for for almost 40 years.
Financial executives familiar with the process said substantial interest in investing in Mr. Traub's effort was coming from both large Japanese and European retail chains. But no specific names were mentioned by either Mr. Traub yesterday or financial sources familiar with the situation.
''Bloomingdale's is seen as perhaps the epitome of the best in American retailing,'' one investment banker said, ''and foreign retailers are showing their excitement in investing substantial sums in it.'' He noted, for example, the 10 percent stake bought by the Japanese retail chain Mitsukoshi Ltd. last week in Tiffany & Company. 
The Campeau Corporation, owners of the 17-store chain, put Bloomingdale's up for sale earlier this month when the company began experiencing a severe cash squeeze. The store is one of the nation's most innovative retailers in fashion and design presentation and had been expected to bring as much as $2 billion.
 
Weeklong Financial Crisis
Between the early September announcement that Bloomingdale's would be sold and this week, as the prospectus for the sale is being prepared to show serious bidders, however, Campeau experienced a weeklong financial crisis that may have undercut the price that Bloomingdale's may get. Analysts now expect it may bring only slightly more than $1 billion.
Mr. Traub and his backers will have to compete for Bloomingdale's with at least 10 other individuals or groups that have expressed their interest in the company to the First Boston Corporation, Campeau's financial advisers. Among them are the Crown American Corporation, the fifth-largest mall developer; the Limited Inc.; the Maus family group of Switzerland, which recently bought Carson, Pirie, Scott, the Chicago department store, and Joseph E. Brooks, chairman of Ann Taylor, in conjunction with Merrill Lynch.
For his part, Mr. Traub remained carefully noncommittal in an interview yesterday, saying, however, that ''a lot of people seem to be interested.''
Asked particularly about reports of Japanese and European interest, he replied, ''Frankly, there has been interest shown from all over the world.''
 
Investment Firms Consulted
In addition to other retailers, Mr. Traub has been looking for advice and support for his bid from certain investment houses. A spokesman for the Blackstone Group, an investment banking house that often invests in mergers and has a substantial buyout fund, confirmed yesterday that the firm had talked with Mr. Traub but added, ''Everything is in an early stage and nothing can be considered final.''
He indicated that Blackstone was considering a dual or separate role as financial adviser and/or investor. Blackstone's $800 million buyout fund could furnish some of the financing, he said. He said he understood that the investment firm of Drexel Burnham Lambert would probably be involved as an adviser.
The Wall Street Journal reported yesterday that Mr. Traub was talking to the Blackstone Group and Drexel Burnham.
Since Mr. Traub announced his own intention to develop a buying group for Bloomingdale's, the response has been ''very satisfying.'' He added: ''A substantial number of people have indicated their interest in investing in the leveraged buyout group. Many of our employees - though I don't want to seem immodest - came to me to express their enthusiasm because they respect me and they feel that only good things can happen if we take over.''
 
Support of Suppliers
Suppliers, too, demonstrated their support in a Monday meeting, he said. He declined to elaborate. But Mr. Traub, widely considered one of the country's best merchants, is now in a completely new arena where his decisions on financial criteria - trying to generate the highest bid for the 17 Bloomingdale's stores - mean more than his opinions on designer fashions or Italian furniture.
Mr. Traub plans to propose a leveraged buyout - that is, using the assets of the company to borrow to finance the management-led acquisition bid - at a time when analysts have said that such debt-laden transactions in retailing have appeared to dampen risk-taking and innovation. But he is convinced that this will not happen if he succeeds in winning Bloomingdale's. ''If we allowed that, it just wouldn't be Bloomingdale's,'' the 64-year-old executive said.
Accordingly, he said he was pursuing both short- and long-term retailing plans for the store. These include the recent opening of ''Vive la France,'' a seven-week French promotional event in all 17 stores; the imminent opening of the first Museum of the Louvre shop at 59th Street; the opening of four new stores and carrying out a plan to open two or three small stores in Moscow.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Marvin S. Traub, chairman and chief executive of Bloomingdale's (NYT/William E. Sauro)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (74%); TIF (NYSE) (69%); LTD (NYSE) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (83%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (83%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (74%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (74%); NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (69%); NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (69%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (69%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (65%); NAICS448190 OTHER CLOTHING STORES (64%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (64%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (64%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

COMPANY: MITSUKOSHI LTD (83%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (74%); CAMPEAU CORP (69%); TIFFANY & CO (69%); CROWN AMERICAN CORP (65%); L BRANDS INC (64%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CARSON PIRIE SCOTT & CO (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: BLOOMINGDALE'S

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE RETAILERS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (75%); MERGERS (74%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (50%); 

PERSON: BARMASH, ISADORE; TRAUB, MARVIN S



640 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 10, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Fall Broadly as Dow Drops 22.42

BYLINE: By PHILLIP H. WIGGINS

 BODY:
Stock prices plunged across a broad front yesterday on the heels of a steep decline in the dollar and in bond prices.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 22.42, to 2,659.19, after being down as many as 28 points during the afternoon.
Declines on the New York Stock Exchange led advances by 1,031 to 445. Volume on the Big Board continued to be slow, with 121.1 million shares changing hands. On Friday, 133.4 million shares were traded. This was the lowest volume since July 3 when 68.9 million shares were traded. 
In the broader market, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 2.82 points, to 344.23, while the New York Stock Exchange composite index slipped 1.45 points, to 191.28.
Key economic reports to be released this week include durable goods orders for August, which are scheduled to come out today and leading economic indicators for August, which will be released on Friday.
After meeting in Washington over the weekend, the Group of Seven determined that the dollar had become too strong. This spurred a precipitous decline in the United States currency and in fixed-income securities.
''Unusually harsh G-7 statements to the effect that a strong U.S. dollar is inconsistent with long-run economic fundamentals caused a crumbling cascade of dollar-denominated securities all day,'' said Robert H. Stovall, president of Stovall/21st Advisers in New York.
Yesterday, several central banks sold dollars, as did the Swiss and others.
''With the Fed apparently on hold and the German central bank muttering about rising interest rates, stocks had little reason to rally,'' Mr. Stovall said.
Transports were adversely affected by Transportation Secretary Samuel K. Skinner's comments over the weekend that he has second thoughts about foreign ownnership of American airlines and about the airline merger trend in general. This pushed the transports down by 20.09 points, to 1,428.17.
The UAL Corporation, parent of United Airlines, dropped 7 1/8, to 274, on news that the Department of Transportation is seeking details on the financial structure of the carrier's planned buyout. AMR, parent of American Airlines, dropped 1 3/8, to 77 7/8; Delta Airi Lines fell 1 point, to 70, and USAir was unchanged at 46 7/8.
The market's most notable strength came in Japanese stocks. Kyocera rose 5 1/2, to 79 1/4; Matsushita gained 4 1/2, to 164, and Hitachi added 2 7/8, to 111 1/4.
The group gained strength from rumors that a Japanese company might be holding talks with Columbia Pictures. Sony, which declined comment, was the leading candidate mentioned. The stock rose 1 3/8, to 59 1/2.
Columbia Pictures Entertainment jumped 5 1/4, to 26 3/8, as was the most active Big Board stock on a volume of 6.2 million shares.
On the American Stock Exchange, the Amex market value index edged up 0.02, to 381.40, but in over-the-counter trading the Nasdaq composite index slipped 1.36 points, to 466.71.

GRAPHIC: Favorite Stocks chart

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (82%); LCC (NYSE) (55%); KYO (NYSE) (51%); 6971 (TSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (82%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (82%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (82%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (82%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (55%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%); KYOCERA CORP (51%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (87%); MERGERS (79%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (79%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); DURABLE GOODS (74%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); FACTORY ORDERS (73%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: WIGGINS, PHILLIP H



641 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 17, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 254 words

HEADLINE: Economists Are Optimistic

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 25

 BODY:
The economy will continue to grow through 1990, forestalling a recession until at least 1991, top business economists said today.
Nearly two-thirds of the 72 forecasting experts surveyed by the National Association of Business Economists said they thought a recession was not likely before 1991. A third of them said a recession would not arrive until 1992 or later.
The nation's economy is enjoying record peacetime growth, which will be seven years old in December. The longest expansion ever occurred in the February 1961-December 1969 period, which included the Vietnam War.
The survey was presented at the association's annual meeting in San Francisco. A copy was made available here.
In its previous quarterly survey last May, the economists group found that 63 percent of the respondents expected the next recession next year. Now, only 37 percent foresee a serious downturn by 1990.
The survey responses did imply a slowdown in economic growth in the last half of this year, however. The forecasters' median growth rate for the gross national product in the final three months of 1989 is 2.1 percent. That compares with a 3.1 percent growth in the first half of the year. The survey found a substantial majority expected growth to continue at about the same 2.1 percent rate throughout 1990.
At the same time, the economists scaled back their inflation forecast to 5 percent for the October-December quarter, down from 5.3 percent in the May survey. The median forecast for inflation in 1990 is 4.3 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSINESS ECONOMISTS, NATIONAL ASSN OF

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); VIETNAM WAR (55%); 



642 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 21, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 281 words

HEADLINE: FINANCE BRIEFS

 BODY:

Debt
* Federal National Mortgage Association, also known as Fannie Mae, is offering $700 million in real estate investment conduit securities, or Remics, through Goldman, Sachs & Co. Yields range from 8.94 percent to 10.35 percent, with spreads over Treasury securities of from 60 basis points to 205. They are backed by Fannie Mae 8.5 percent mortgage-backed securities, which in turn are secured by 30-year fixed-rate mortgages. The estimated average life of these Remics runs from one year to 21 years. In addition, four out of the 20 tranches offered are floating rate, and tied to the one-month London interbank offered rate.
* Sysco Corp. has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a $330 million offering in liquid yield option notes due 2004 through Merrill Lynch Capital Markets. The offering is expected to result in gross proceeds of about $130 million.
 
Common Stock
* Energy Service Co. has filed for 9.5 million common shares through Alex. Brown & Sons Inc.
* Immunogen Inc. has filed for an initial public offering of 1.5 million common shares through Paine Webber Inc.
* Manufacturers Hanover Corp. has filed for 12 million common shares, 10 million to be offered in the United States through Morgan Stanley and 2 million to be offered overseas, through Morgan Stanley International.
* Lattice Semiconductor Corp. has filed for an initial public offering of 3.2 million common shares through Dillon, Read & Co.
* Uncarco Inc. has filed for an initial public offering of 3 million common share through Alex. Brown & Sons Inc.
 
Ratings
* Cleveland's general obligation debt rating has been increased to A- from BBB+ by S.&P.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (93%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); SYY (NYSE) (70%); IMGN (NASDAQ) (69%); LSCC (NASDAQ) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (93%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (93%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (93%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS722310 FOOD SERVICE CONTRACTORS (70%); NAICS424420 PACKAGED FROZEN FOOD MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (70%); NAICS424130 INDUSTRIAL & PERSONAL SERVICE PAPER MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (70%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (69%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (69%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (67%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (93%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%); ALEX BROWN & SONS INC (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); SYSCO CORP (70%); IMMUNOGEN INC (69%); LATTICE SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (67%); DILLON READ & CO INC (66%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS COMMON STOCK (92%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); REAL ESTATE MORTGAGE CONDUITS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); DEBT NOTES (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (79%); BONDS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); INTERBANK LENDING (55%); 



643 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 22, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 156 words

HEADLINE: High Prices In Japan Cited

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 25

 BODY:
Despite their higher per-capita income, the Japanese have less purchasing power than consumers in other advanced industrial countries because Japan's prices are so high, the nation's Economic Planning Agency said today.
In an annual report, the agency estimated that prices in Tokyo were 39 percent higher than those in New York and 47 percent higher than those in Hamburg, West Germany. Its conclusion was based on a survey of prices of 400 selected items in the three cities.
The survey showed that rent and food that is subject to import restrictions were particularly costly in Tokyo, but consumer durables like automobiles were not much more expensive than in the other two cities, it said.
The agency said prices of imported brand items, which should have fallen as the Japanese yen rose in value against other currencies, had remained very high relative to their prices in New York, Paris and Dusseldorf, West Germany.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (50%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: HAMBURG, GERMANY (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: PRICES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); TRENDS (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); IMPORT PRICES (88%); DURABLE GOODS (87%); POLLS & SURVEYS (87%); IMPORT CONTROLS (68%); JAPANESE YEN (65%); 



644 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 24, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Careers;
Updating The Training Of M.B.A.'s

BYLINE: By Elizabeth M. Fowler

 BODY:
GRADUATE schools of business have been struggling with change in recent years. Their administrators face problems such as how to make courses more globally oriented, what to do about foreign languages, and how to instill values like leadership and creativity in students.
''Everybody says we must change,'' Peter Veruki, a top placement officer for Vanderbilt University's graduate school of business, said last week. He was an organizer of a forum for placement officers and 80 recruiters from top companies held at the Citicorp headquarters. 
''It was agreed that we have got to make courses more relevant to what international executives will be doing in the 1990's,'' he said.''The problem is partly our tenure system, because faculty have to approve curriculum changes, and often their specialty is not globally oriented,''
H. J. Zoffer, dean of the University of Pittsburgh's graduate school of business, who was in New York last week to raise funds, said that it was not ''faculty unwillingness as much as it is the state of knowledge.'' He noted, for example, that there are not enough good international business textbooks.
Bruce Hutton, professor of marketing at the University of Denver's graduate school of business who was in New York for a meeting, said, ''Integration is the key for us - the weaving of international aspects into all courses.''
As for students, Mr. Veruki said, ''We must admit more broadly educated ones who have studied at least one foreign language and taken courses in international relations along with lots of history and courses in other cultures.''
But Dr. Zoffer said business schools should not teach language courses because curriculums were already crowded. ''We cannot make a graduate school a remedial place,'' he added. But he said that internships abroad might give students foreign language skills. He said he hoped to organize such internships at a West German business school.
Dr. Hutton said one approach at Denver had been for students to learn about foreign cultures from foreign students on campus.
There was a consensus at the forum that corporations should distinguish among the different types of M.B.A.'s - accountants, marketers, financial specilaists, economists and entrepreneurs.
''Corporations'' Mr. Veruki said, ''must do a better job of identifying M.B.A.'s they hire, because training and aspirations are so different.''
Dr. Zoffer said that with more than 70,000 M.B.A.'s graduating each year ''quality control is impossible.''
Also, Mr. Veruki said, students must realize that when some companies, like the Exxon Corporation and the General Motors Corporation, hire M.B.A.'s, they hope the new employees will spend their careers with the company. But investment banking and consulting firms often want instant traders and deal makers, and ''they do not have the cradle-to-grave philosophy,'' he said.
Such companies tend to be flat organizations, he explained, which do not have a hierarchy of managers. ''They want M.B.A.'s who can hit the ground quickly and start running with the ball,'' he said.
Just as companies differ, so do business schools. ''I urge companies to come to our campus and learn firsthand what is unique,'' Mr. Veruki said.
Another need, Mr. Veruki said, is to find more ways to develop students' leadership and managerial skills. ''We use the case method, teamwork and internships,'' he said. All help, but we need more.''
Dr. Hutton said that Denver had recently adopted survival training techniques - a method that was tried for a short time at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh. The supervised wilderness training is believed to promote teamwork and creative problem solving.
So far, three groups of Denver M.B.A. students and professors have gone through such programs, which included activities like rock climbing.
''One test involves leading a blindfolded person for a 30-minute hike, including crossing a stream on guy wires, Dr. Hutton said. The team is not allowed to speak during the hike.
The idea, Dr. Hutton explained, is that early in the M.B.A. program students are learning group skills. ''Also, they get to know the faculty in a different way from the classroom experience,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CAREERS (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (60%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (60%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (60%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (60%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (57%); VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (56%); 

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; GRADUATE SCHOOLS AND STUDENTS GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); CURRICULA (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (79%); FUNDRAISING (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); 

PERSON: FOWLER, ELIZABETH M



645 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: $660 MILLION PLAN OF AID TO HUNGARY AND POLAND URGED

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Sept. 26

 BODY:
The European Community's executive commission today proposed a $660 million economic aid program for Hungary and Poland next year, more than double the total already pledged by the industrial democracies this year.
The response from the 24 major non-Communist economic powers gathered here to decide how to encourage evolution in Eastern Europe was overwhelmingly positive. And many officials made it clear that the amount, which would come from all 24 countries, could be greatly exceeded.
''The 24 met today at a decisive moment in the process of democratization and economic reforms in Poland and Hungary,'' a communique issued at the end of the meeting concluded, ''but it remains fragile.'' 
 
A Floor, Not a Ceiling
The United States delegate, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State Ralph Johnson, told the group that the United States regarded the European Community proposal as a floor rather than a ceiling and that it was looking at additional commitments beyond the $169 million in food and economic aid that President Bush has already promised Poland, according to a spokesman for the community. The United States has also pledged $25 million to Hungary.
As the 24 nations met to discuss aid to Eastern Europe, in Washington the Bush Administration was reported to be working on a new aid package for Poland that would rely on the International Monetary Fund. [Page A13.] The discussions in Brussels today show that there is no longer any basic doubt among the Western governments that it is in their interest to help these Eastern European countries throw off the shackles of state-run Communist economic and political systems, several NATO diplomats here said. Bigger Issue: What Is Europe? Much more fundamental questions are coming to the fore instead, they said. Many of them go to the heart of what Europe is, how much longer its division will last and whether the United States will take the lead in devising a comprehensive Western strategy to deal with the implications of economic and political change in the Soviet Union, Hungary and Poland.
The questions concern the NATO alliance as much as the European Community, which was asked by the United States, Japan and the five other participants in the economic summit in Paris in July to coordinate the aid effort. Food aid already pledged to Poland has now totaled $298 million, the community spokesman, Claus-Dieter Ehlermann, said today.
For next year, the community proposed a package of aid including direct investment, agricultural equipment, management training programs and environmental protection measures, all on the condition that Poland and Hungary do away with the state trading monopolies and market controls imposed during 40 years of Communism. $660 Million Suggested The community suggested $660 million worth of financing for the projects, half of it to be contributed by the community and its 12 member states, and half by the 12 other participating countries.
At the meeting, Sweden, Denmark, Norway and Finland pledged development projects and credits totaling about $121 million, mainly for projects to control air and water pollution from Central Europe that are killing trees and befouling the seas of Scandinavia. Iceland pledged $330,000, most of it in herring.
''Help for Polish reforms is not just an economic issue,'' said a Polish Government appeal to the 24 that was handed over to the community's commission on Sunday. ''It will determine also the success of political changes which are of importance to Europe as a whole.''
The appeal, like those reportedly made by Polish representatives at the International Monetary Fund meetings in Washington this week, did not have a price tag. It was a vast catalogue of wishes for new technologies for eliminating pollution and for training plant managers, economists, bankers and teachers to transform its economy. #1992 Could Be Anticlimax Things are moving so fast in the Soviet Union and parts of Eastern Europe, a NATO diplomat said today, that the removal of remaining trade barriers between community members in 1992 as envisaged by the Single European Act could turn out to be almost an anticlimax.
Jacques Delors, the community's President, spoke in ambitious terms today to a group of European dignitaries in Strasbourg. ''The changes in Central and Eastern Europe and in the Soviet Union, the acceleration of European integration since the Single Act, all allow us to pursue the objective of overcoming the division of the old continent,'' he said.
After the election of a Parliament with a non-Communist majority in Poland and the opening of Hungary's border with Austria, those words no longer sound as visionary as President Bush's did after the last summit meeting, in May, when he called upon the allies and the Soviet Union ''to heal Europe's tragic division, to help Europe become whole and free.''
NATO's North Atlantic Council meeting here on Wednesday will be devoted to change in Eastern Europe, diplomats said, because it could create as many problems for the Alliance as opportunities, unless the change was managed.
 
Alliances' Reasons for Being
One NATO official, asserting that the goal of a verifiable conventional arms agreement reducing Soviet and American troops in Europe to 275,000 on each side now seemed to be something that could be achieved by the end of next year, said the problem now was to convince public opinion in the member countries that NATO would still have a reason for being - and the Warsaw Pact as well.
''If the negotiations are successful, they will also produce a new security system - with extensive verification measures, controls over how many tanks can be where, exchanges of information on troop strength and deployments - the management of which will be in the hands of the two alliances,'' he said.
NATO officials concede, however, that it will be next to impossible to get West Germany to agree to go forward with a modernized short-range nuclear missile system for the alliance, as the United States and Britain proposed earlier, if the troop reduction talks succeed.
And West Germany's intentions for aid to Poland remained unclear at today's meeting, although Chancellor Helmut Kohl is expected to bring a sizable package with him when he visits Warsaw later this year. ''The West German delegation referred to negotiations under way with Poland and Hungary and gave a positive reception to the plan of action outlined,'' the community spokesman said.
The Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development, to which all 24 countries belong, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the major countries holding third-world debt all attended as observers. Poland's foreign debt amounts to $39 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); HUNGARY (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); POLAND (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (94%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (79%); FINLAND (79%); DENMARK (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORWAY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (50%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HUNGARY; POLAND; BRUSSELS (BELGIUM); EUROPE, EAST

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); POLITICS (72%); TRENDS (72%); MANAGER TRAINING (50%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R GEORGE WALKER BUSH (69%); RALPH M JOHNSON III (56%); 



646 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1731 words

HEADLINE: After Hurricane, Relief Gives Way to Despair

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHARLESTON, S.C., Sept. 26

 BODY:
Only today did Debra Deas stop and think about what comes next. After the worst week of her life, the future is the most frightening part of all.
Her uninsured mobile home was crushed like a matchbox by Hurricane Hugo. She has no work because the houses she cleans have been destroyed. Her husband has no work because the commercial fishing boats he works on no longer exist. And their four sons do not know where they will go to school.
''I guess it just hit me,'' she said. ''I can't describe how sad all this is. I have no idea what we'll do.'' 
Like a photograph slowly developing before people's eyes, the full extent of the devastation from the hurricane has finally become clear, leaving most of South Carolina and much of North Carolina staggered and dazed.
The storm did vast damage, from the graceful streets of Charleston to the seaside arcades and T-shirt shops of Myrtle Beach to towns a hundred miles from the shore, like Sumter, Camden and Bishopville. Its victims ranged from Charleston's upper crust living in Colonial-era homes to the working class and the poor living in small houses, apartments, trailers and rickety shacks.
Officials say the economic toll of what may be the nation's costliest storm could take a decade to overcome. Estimates for South Carolina alone have ranged from $1 billion to $3 billion.
The human cost to one of the nation's most evocative cities and one of its poorest states will never be known. But it is clear that rather than a short-term catastrophe, the storm will have a lasting impact here.
 
Symbol of Nature's Wrath
For those close to it, it has already become an indelible symbol of nature's wrath, much like the storm that virtually destroyed Galveston and killed 6,000 people in 1900 or Hurricane Camille's rampage across the Gulf Coast in 1969 that killed 256 people and did $3.8 billion in damage.
''There are so many people that have lost a part of themselves, and for them this is something that will last forever,'' said Bob Linville, who just six weeks ago became Mayor of Folly Beach, a barrier island community that took the full force of the storm's fury when its 135-mile-per-hour winds hit late Thursday night. ''If we ever saw anything to top old Hugo, we would be gone from the face of the earth. We would be nothing.''
For many people, certainly for most of them in Charleston and the surrounding South Carolina Low Country, it is far too early to think about Hugo's place in history.
 
Still Without the Basics
Much of the area remains without electricity and running water. Thousands of volunteers have descended on the city bringing food and supplies, but life remains a obstacle course of appliances that do not work, traffic lights that hang uselessly in clogged intersections, leaking roofs with giant oak trees resting on top of them and debris-strewn streets.
In Charlotte, N.C., more than 200 miles from here, about half the city remains without power and National Guardsmen carrying M-16 rifles are still guarding the streets against looters. President Bush today declared Mecklenburg County, which includes Charlotte, as well as three other nearby counties disaster areas. Twelve counties in South Carolina had already received disaster designations.
The continuing force of the storm as it moved away from the coast is still a source of shock to people.
In Sumter, 100 miles inland, 109-m.p.h. winds destroyed houses and businesses. Damage was estimated at $100 million in the town, which had only expected to get the last gusts of a dying storm.
''I was talking to someone who lived in Florida for a number of years, and he said he had been through a number of hurricanes, but he had never seen anything like this,'' said Talmadge Tobias, assistant city manager of Sumter.
 
Loss in Historic Areas
But because of the storm's path through historic Charleston and some of the most popular islands nearby, the toll goes far beyond dollar figures for damages. Although most of the city's most historic buildings survived, the storm's powerful winds brought with it extraordinary sorrow as well as pain.
''There's no doubt in my mind that our greatest loss is in terms of beauty,'' said Bob James, who lives in one of the historic homes downtown. ''We've lost almost everything that gave me such great joy of living in the Low Country.''
While the cleanup continues, people throughout the region are slowly turning to the long-term questions of putting their lives back together.
For some, the problems are so large they do not know where to start.
Mr. and Mrs. Deas spent the night of the storm in a shelter and have been staying with relatives since then. But now they and their four sons, aged 9, 11, 14 and 16, have to find a place of their own.
''Right now, all we have is the clothing on our back,'' Mr. Deas said.
 
In the Shelter
At a shelter nearby, Laura Oliphant, sat looking blearily into space while her 81-year-old mother, Irene Clark, rested in a cot reading.
Mrs. Oliphant, who lives with her mother, daughter and two grandchildren, said they cannot stay in their house because of water damage. She does not know when she will be about to return to her work as a seamstress because her shop, the Stitching Post, was also damaged. She has insurance on both, but does not know what will be covered, when she will get the money and who will be available to help her rebuild. Nor does she know when her daughter will be able to get back to work.
''When it started to rain yesterday, it felt like the bottom had fallen out,'' she said, as she smoked a cigarette and surveyed the half-filled shelter. ''You don't really know where to start. You don't know what you can do.''
For the poor the burdens are more crushing still.
At the same shelter as Mrs. Oliphant was Frank Green, who is blind and 89 years old and does not know when he can go back to his home in a Charleston housing project. Andrea Taylor sat nearby. She had been living in a homeless shelter that was badly damaged in the hurricane and working in a convenience store. Now she has one baby with her and another in a hospital and does not know if she will be able to return to her job.
Most homeowners expect that insurance will cover their losses. But so far, few residents have been able to reach their insurance agents or get estimates. And many without insurance are trying to figure out if they will be able to rebuild.
 
Once a Landmark, Now Rubble
Tommy Browne lived in a 60-year-old frame house facing the ocean on Folly Beach, where houses blown off their foundations now sit in the middle of what were island roads. Just down the street was the Atlantic House restaurant, once a landmark eating place, now a pile of rubble.
Mr. Browne's house is still largely intact, but it was blown off its foundation and knocked back 10 feet. Mr. Browne, who had no wind or flood insurance, estimates the house will need $20,000 to $40,000 in repairs.
''I guess I'm going to go to the bank, and see if they'll give me a loan,'' he said. ''If they won't, I guess I'll try to do it myself, which is probably impossible.''
Today brought more bad news for island dwellers. Many residents of the exclusive Isle of Palms and Sullivans Island returned to their homes for the first time.
There was serious property damage on Sullivans Islands and large portions of the Isle of Palms were all but destroyed by the storm. On the Isle of Palms, returning homeowners found pools of raw sewage and piles of splintered wood where stylish island homes once stood.
 
Trees Still Rest on Roofs
The concerns about rebuilding are not limited to those who lived near the coast. On Highway 378, for example, which runs east to west through the state, trees still rest on rooftops from Conway near Myrtle Beach to Columbia. Parts of Columbia, the state capital, are still without power.
For Pavrin Patel, who bought the Sharolyn Motel near Sumter two years ago, the damage was hard to fathom.
He said his 20-unit motel, valued at $300,000, was a total loss.
The story was the same across much of the eastern part of South Carolina, where many victims are poor and uninsured.
State officials said the storm had thrown a quarter of a million people out of work. Some will be back relatively soon as businesses reopen. Others could be out for months or longer, officials said.
Governor Campbell asked Federal officials for help in putting the unemployed back to work rebuilding the areas destroyed by the storm.
 
Damage to Tourism Industry
The damage to the state's tourism business, however, provides more long-term concerns.
Tourism is now the second largest business in South Carolina, behind textiles. It is centered on the 300 miles of coastline, of which about half was badly damaged in the storm.
Tourism provides 98,000 jobs, $4.7 billion in direct spending and $7 billion to $8 billion in overall economic impact, officials say.
''We're badly wounded, but we're not in danger of death,'' said Robert Liming, director of the tourism division of the South Carolina Department of Parks, Recreation and Tourism.
Some experts estimated that the storm could cut the business by about 10 percent next year.
''A 10 percent change would have $150 to $160 million impact on the state's output,'' said Douglas Woodward, research economist for the University of South Carolina. ''That is aside from property damage and everything else. The tourist dollar, in turn, would have a ripple effect on the rest of the state. We are in for rough times, rough seas I guess, for several years.''
He said part of the problem was that the state must now use its resources to get back to where it was, instead of where it wants to be. South Carolina ranks 42d nationally in per capita income.
''The state obviously is going to have to spend a lot of money on recovery instead of enhancement,'' Mr. Woodward said. ''For example, they need to build a new theater to handle the Spoleto Festival. It is going to be some years before they are going to be able to look at that project.''
The damage could hurt in other ways.
In Charleston, for example, $50 million of the $125 million for the school district comes from property taxes. If destroyed buildings are taken off the tax rolls and damaged ones are assessed at lower levels, it could cripple financing for local schools, officials warned.

GRAPHIC: Photos of the Deases, who lost their uninsured mobile home to the storm along with their sources of income (NYT/Alan S. Weiner) (pg. A1); a lineman working to restore electricity to a neighborhood (NYT/Alan S. Weiner) (pg. B11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: HURRICANE HUGO

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (94%); MYRTLE BEACH, SC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MYRTLE BEACH PELICANS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH CAROLINA; CHARLESTON (SC); NORTH CAROLINA

SUBJECT: HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS HURRICANES (91%); TROPICAL STORMS (91%); MOBILE HOMES (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); WEATHER (89%); COASTAL AREAS (88%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); VOLUNTEERS (72%); POWER FAILURES (72%); MAYORS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (56%); MARINE VESSELS (56%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (52%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER



647 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1970 words

HEADLINE: Excerpts From the Speech by Shevardnadze Before the General Assembly

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the address yesterday by Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze of the Soviet Union to the United Nations General Assembly. The speech was translated by a United Nations interpreter and recorded by The New York Times through the facilities of Cable News Network. . . . Yesterday we listened with close attention to the speech of President George Bush of the United States, a statement which in our view contained a number of very important and interesting ideas.
As always during these days of the General Assembly's regular session, representatives of the world community have together been recreating a panorama of the last year in the life of mankind. Its overriding idea is that of peace and security. Its ideal composition is harmony of universal human values and national interests.
In making our own national contribution to this grand mural, each of us, I am sure, wants it to become a part of an organic and unitary whole. Unfortunately, in some places the overall composition is still marred by cracks that impair its integrity. 
 
U.S.-Soviet Dialogue
I would permit myself to touch upon the U.S.-Soviet dialogue only because I am convinced that its importance far transcends the frontiers of the two states.
In the view of the Soviet leadership, this is not a kind of privilege, but a clearly understood responsibility toward the world community. Therefore my account of the results of our talks with President Bush and Secretary of State Baker is my report to you.
These talks demonstrated increasing awareness by both sides of the need to cooperate for the benefit of mankind and growing confidence that such cooperation, such interaction is possible.
Extraordinary efforts at the highest level will be needed to attain the goal of concluding treaties. I am referring particularly to the preparation of the agreement on 50 percent reductions in strategic offensive arms.
We have proposed to the U.S. side options for resolving the key issues in that agreement, the antiballistic missile treaty and space and long-range sea-launched cruise missiles. Our partners have accommodated us on mobile I.C.B.M.'s and positions on other outstanding problems have become closer to each other.
In our view, by the time the summit meeting is held next year, late spring or early summer, we may have passed the last turn on the road toward a treaty reducing strategic offensive arms. These are real prospects.
 
The Bush Proposal
The protocols to the 1974 and 1976 treaties on nuclear explosions could also be signed at the summit so that they could enter into force very soon after that. We are confident that the summit will give powerful momentum to the talks on major reductions in armed forces and conventional arms in Europe.
We welcome the proposal concerning chemical weapons put forward yesterday by President Bush. Generally consistent with the initiatives of the Soviet leadership, it indicates to us that we share the same desire to rid mankind of these barbaric weapons.
The Soviet Union is ready, together with the United States, to go further and assume mutual obligations prior to the conclusion of a multilateral convention; cease the production of chemical weapons, as we've already done - I'm referring here to binary weapons - and on a bilateral basis radically reduce or completely destroy Soviet and U.S. chemical weapons, viewing it as a step toward the global destruction of chemical weapons; renounce the use of chemical weapons under any circumstances, and institute rigorous verification of the cessation of production and elimination of chemical warfare agents.
I think there is no need to state how beneficial all this would be for the overall world climate.
 
The Nuclear Threat
I would say that the world community has as yet no reason for complacency or euphoria. The nuclear threat has only been reduced by the U.S.-Soviet treaty eliminating intermediate- and shorter-range missiles. We believe that reliance on nuclear weapons serves the national interests of none. It is also an obstacle to more democratic international relations. Only the elimination of nuclear capabilities would help us to attain real security.
The advocates of nuclear deterrence do not believe that this will be possible in the foreseeable future. They respond with concepts of so-called minimum nuclear deterrence. . . .
But first we have to define what we mean by minimum nuclear deterrence and what capabilities should be considered sufficient. The Soviet Union proposes that these questions be discussed at a meeting of representatives of nuclear powers and the states on whose territories nuclear arms are placed.
What is the way out of the vicious circle? it lies in asserting glasnost and openness and building a wide-ranging infrastructure of pervasive verification . . . To that end the Soviet Union is proposing that all nuclear powers conclude multilateral agreements on measures to reduce the risk of outbreak of nuclear war. Detailed discussions to work out such an agreement could be held in consultations among the permanent members of the Security Council.
 
Nuclear Testing
Guided by its obligations to the world community, the Soviet Union has revised its nuclear testing program by reducing the number and yield of explosions.
Let me point out, however, that the efforts of one state are not sufficient for a comprehensive solution to this problem. We see a number of possibilities here.
First of all, the U.S.S.R. is ready to reinstate its moratorium on all nuclear explosions any day and hour, if the United States reciprocates.
Second, it is time finally to end the procedural impasse at the Conference on Disarmament and start concrete discussions there on the problem of a complete test ban.
Third, as one possible way toward such a ban, we are now considereing the possibility of extending the 1963 test-ban treaty to cover underground nuclear explosions.
 
Plutonium Production
There is an urgent need for verifiable cessation of the production of fissionable material for weapons purposes. We have declared that this year we are ceasing the production of enriched uranium and that in 1987 we closed down one reactor producing weapons-grade plutonium and that we plan to close down a few more such reactors in 1990.
By the year 2000, all remaining reactors will have been shut down. In addition, the Soviet Union is proposing that all nuclear powers should begin preparing to conclude an accord on the cessation and prohibition of the production of such material.
In response to our alliance's initiative, the NATO countries have made some meaningful proposals that go a long way toward accommodating the positions of the Warsaw Treaty countries. . . .
Going back to the topic of the obligations of individual countries to the community, I feel it my duty to emphasize that reluctance to engage in active talks on reducing naval forces is a sign of neglecting those obligations. Leaving naval forces outside the process of reducing armed forces and arms would be harmful to universal security.
 
On Disarmament
If NATO countries agree to start talks on tactical nuclear weapons, the U.S.S.R. will respond by further unilateral cuts in its tactical nuclear missiles in Europe. The problem of missile proliferation is also ripe for multilateral discussion. The number of countries possessing such weapons is approaching 20, while the trend toward further geographical spread is still strong.
The approach to this issue could be two-pronged: barriers could be erected that, first, would preclude the proliferation of combat missiles and associated technology across the globe and, second, would not impinge on the legitimate interests of countries in gaining peaceful access to outer space.
No one in the world can yet bid farewell to arms but we can abandon once and for all, and do it now, the practice of unconstrained and uncontrolled international arms sales.
To that end, the principles of glasnost and openness should be asserted here as well. The U.S.S.R. reaffirms its willingness to take part in the establishment of a U.N. register of sales and transfers of weapons, including work on parameters.
Along the same lines, the Soviet Union and the People's Republic of China have agreed to start talks shortly on putting an end to their military standoff. The Soviet Union expresses the hope that other states, too, will engage in this process.
 
'Open Skies,' and More
A civilized world is an open world. Breaking the seals on many secrets, the Soviet Union has revealed to the international community detailed data about all reductions in its armed forces and arms, their strength, and the size of its military budget and so on. We reaffirm here the position of the Soviet Union: our ultimate goal is not to have a single Soviet soldier outside our country.
But speaking of equal responsibilities, let us roundly condemn the continuing encirclement of our country - and not only our country - by military bases of other states.
The Soviet Union attaches fundamental importance to a transition from individual measures of confidence building, openness and glasnost in international affairs to a global policy of openness that would become an integral part of comprehensive security and international peace.
The President of the United States, Mr. Bush, has proposed the idea of ''open skies.'' We like that idea. In welcoming and supporting this initiative, the Soviet Union calls for opening up the lands, the waters and outer space. Let's also have open land, open seas and open space. Only then shall we attain absolute transparency and the necessary level of confidence.
 
No Threat in Poland
It is no secret that we were not enthusiastic about the election setback of the Polish Communists. Nor should it be a secret that we hope that they can overcome the crisis. Nevertheless, we see nothing threatening in the fact that in accordance with the will of the Polish people a coalition government has been formed.
We are in no way prejudiced against that Government. We wish it every success and are ready to cooperate with it most actively. Tolerance is the norm of civilized behavior. But if it is obligatory for us in our attitude toward the Government of Poland, why are others so intolerant toward, for example, Cuba? And if a non-Communist Prime Minister is possible in a socialist country, why should the appearance of a Communist as head of a Western Government be perceived as heresy? That's something we shouldn't exclude.
 
Socialism Is Not Spent
And I would like to take this opportunity to say just a few words about my own country. We are building a new model of society, a new model of relations among people and nations, a new model of socialism.
As a great concept, socialism is by no means a spent force. Indeed, it is revealing its humanistic potential in the bitter and often dramatic confrontation with the forces and flaws that are organically alien to it.
We in our country are not just repainting the facade, but rebuilding the entire structure in which the rules of living together must and will be based on the supremacy of law, people's power, openness to the outside world, inter-ethnic harmony.
In every sphere of the common life of our state and our people, the national economy, the political system, the intellectual endeavor of our people, rejection of the ossified relics of the past goes hand in hand with the enthusiasm of new construction.
And even though in the words of a poet, there may be a gloomy day or two, we are confident that perestroika, which began as a revolution of hopes, will keep these hopes alive. Our people, our nation will keep perestroika going for it embodies the aspirations that they cherish.

GRAPHIC: The Soviet Union linked President Bush's proposal for reductions in chemical weapons to a halt in production of new binary weapons by the United States. Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze outlined the Soviet position yesterday in his speech to the United States. (NYT/Don Hogan Charles)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: CABLE NEWS NETWORK INC (72%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CHEMICAL WARFARE; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (88%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (86%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (67%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (66%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (61%); 

PERSON: SHEVARDNADZE, EDUARD A (MIN) GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 



648 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: White House Plans to Aid Poland Through I.M.F.

BYLINE: By BERNARD WEINRAUB, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 26

 BODY:
The Bush Administration is working on a new ''package of support'' for Poland that relies strongly on the International Monetary Fund to channel money to the new Government in Warsaw as part of a major multilateral effort, White House officials said.
In agreeing with plans by the International Monetary Fund to expand its role in Eastern Europe, the Administration has apparently committed itself to more ambitious aid to Poland than the direct assistance previously proposed by the White House. The new idea for aid through multilateral institutions was discussed today by the National Security Council, officials said.
Administration officials say there could be a substantial difference between direct aid from Washington to Warsaw - which some Democrats have criticized as paltry - and international aid provided by the I.M.F. But they could not say exactly how much the fund might actually offer. 
The Administration has been under pressure to help the Government of Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki, the Solidarity supporter who is the head of the first Government in the Eastern bloc not led by Communists. Mr. Mazowiecki took charge of a nation reeling from a deteriorating economy that is crippled by numerous problems, including obsolete industries, consumer-goods shortages, and a staggering foreign debt.
 
'More Clout' in New Approach
President Bush plans to address the fund on Wednesday morning, and State Department officials said he might use the forum to generally endorse an I.M.F. aid package to the economically desperate Polish Government. But they said he was not likely to offer details of the new package in the speech.
Officials said Mr. Bush and his Administration were now convinced that the most effective political, diplomatic and economic vehicle for aid to Poland is not a nation-to-nation approach but an international program that would involve Western donors and Japan. That applies to Hungary as well, they said.
Such an approach, the officials said, would carry specific conditions, like calling for a reduction in inflation, cuts in the budget deficit, a slower growth in the money supply and a competitive exchange rate.
Administration officials also said aid through the fund provides ''more clout'' and ''international discipline'' than bilateral aid. The United States is the largest lender to the I.M.F., providing about 18 percent of the organization's money.
 
Democrats Fault Direct-Aid Plan
Administration officials said the United States, by working through the fund, can better insure that Poland's Government will take steps needed to restructure the economy. Administration officials assert that a preference for a multilateral approach does not represent a change in policy. Nor, they said, would it circumvent Washington's concerns that American aid would permit Poland to postpone the fundamental economic changes that American officials consider crucial to rebuilding Poland's economy.
In political terms, the Administration could use aid through the I.M.F. to counter Democratic criticisms that Mr. Bush's nation-to-nation direct-aid program is paltry. A ranking White House official indicated that more aid to Poland was likely in some form, given the more than $1.2 billion in aid over three years proposed by Democrats, as compared with $146 million proposed by Mr. Bush.
Polish officials have told the I.M.F. that Poland is seeking $700 million a year over the next three years from the fund.
Perhaps most significant, the American contribution to agencies like the fund is not an outlay in budget terms, so it does not contribute to the deficit. Essentially, the funds are United States reserves that are made available to the fund but are always at the disposal of the United States if it wants the money returned.
 
Expanded I.M.F Role in Poland
''The U.S. does not want to spend budgetary resources in Eastern Europe,'' said Richard Feinberg, executive vice president of the Overseas Development Council, a leading economic-policy research organization. ''That's the beauty of the multilateral agencies. It enables us to participate in lending to Eastern Europe, but only paying less than 20 percent of the bill.''
Officials at the I.M.F. meeting in Washington said Monday that the fund is likely to agree by the end of the year to increase its resources as much as 67 percent, or $80 billion. That would be used, in part, to play an expanded role in Poland as well as Hungary, Yugoslavia and Rumania - the four Eastern European nations that are members of the fund. The Soviet Union is not a member of the fund.
I.M.F. and Administration officials said it was virutally impossible to calculate how much Poland would receive if the agency increases its resourtces - although the $700-million-a-year figure over three years was a ''starting point,'' said one official.
Economists and former Administration aides say that international agencies, like the World Bank and I.M.F., are the most viable way of lending abroad, and that the White House strategy is a sensible one.
 
Avoiding U.S Budget Process
''There's the simple point of financial leverage - by operating through the I.M.F. where the U.S. is a large capital holder, more money can flow into Poland than by operating through the U.S. budget process,'' said Lawrence A. Kudlow, chief economist of Bear, Stearns & Company, and former chief economist at the Office of Management and Budget in the President Ronald Reagan's first term. ''There's another agenda here too. The Administration wants the I.M.F. to guide Poland's economic development. They also want the I.M.F.'s monitoring.''
Meanwhile, Finance Minister Leszek Balcerowicz has called on Western governments to provide a $1 billion ''stabilisation loan'' to back a tough anti-inflation program in his country and build up its international reserves.
Western officials said today that Mr. Balcerowicz, in a series of talks with finance ministers from major industrial nations over the last days, had set out an ambitious timetable to transform Poland's crippled economy into the free-market mold.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); POLAND (97%); EUROPE (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); HUNGARY (79%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (93%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (97%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POLAND

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (66%); EXCHANGE RATES (50%); 

PERSON: WEINRAUB, BERNARD; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 



649 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: Nearly Half of U.S. Rural Bridges Found Lacking

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 26

 BODY:
Nearly half the bridges in rural America are ''structurally deficient or functionally obsolete,'' an Agriculture Department report says.
The department's Office of Transportation said its analysis was derived from the national bridge inventory by the Department of Transportation. As of last Dec. 31, there were 578,094 highway bridges, with 81 percent classified as rural. 
According to the report, which was issued Monday, 26 percent of the 468,095 rural bridges were classified as ''structurally deficient'' and 20 percent as functionally obsolete.
The remaining 54 percent were listed as ''neither structurally deficient nor functionally obsolete.''
 
Reassurance on Safety
Wesley R. Kriebel, deputy administrator of the Office of Transportation, said the classification of bridges as structurally deficient or functionally obsolete ''does not necessarily mean the bridges are unsafe.''
''The definition of structurally deficient is a term the Federal Highway Administration uses in their definitions,'' Mr. Kriebel said. ''A structurally deficient bridge is either closed or restricted to lighter vehicles only because of deteriorated structural components.''
In response to questions, Mr. Kriebel added that functionally obsolete refers ''to the age of the bridge, and that, too, doesn't necessarily mean the bridge is unsafe.''
The report showed that Missouri has the most structurally deficient rural bridges, and Texas has the most that are functionally obsolete. Arizona ''appears to have the most adequate rural bridges,'' the report said.
On average, the age of all United States bridges was found to be 35.5 years - 36.6 years for rural bridges and 30.9 years for urban.
''Half of all rural bridges are less than 50 feet in length, while half of urban bridges are less than 123 feet,'' the report said. ''Their average lengths, however, are 111 and 257 feet, respectively.''
 
Responsibility for Bridges
The report said counties and other local governments were responsible for 56 percent of all rural bridges but responsible for only 38 percent of the city bridges.
Nationwide, 59 percent of the 468,095 rural bridges are off the Federal highway system. A third are in six states: Iowa, Onio, Kansas, Texas, Illinois and Oklahoma.
In contrast, only 23 percent of all urban bridges are off the federally subsidized road system.
The report said the 41 percent of the rural bridges that are on Federal highway systems carry nearly 90 percent of the average daily traffic.
But average daily traffic, ''in and of itself, does not measure the economic value of a bridge,'' the report said. ''A third of all rural on-system (Federal) bridges are in seven states - Texas, Kansas, Ohio, Illinois, California, Missouri and Mississippi.''
Martin Fitzpatrick Jr., administrator of Office of Transportation, said that although reponsibility varied, most responsibility for the below-standard bridges lay with local governments.
''Various and complex bridge funding and management arrangements exist throughtout the United States,'' Mr. Fitzpatrick said. ''This means that future improvements will require continued intergovernmental support, along with policies that acknowledge the importance of rural bridges to the nation's economy.''
In June, the National Association of Counties issued a survey of county bridges, reporting that three-fourths of them need to be repaired or replaced, at a cost of billions of dollars. But the survey did not take into account bridges under state or Federal jurisdiction and used different criteria to evaluate the structures.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (58%); FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION (56%); FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGRICULTURE, DEPARTMENT OF (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: BRIDGES AND TUNNELS; RURAL AREAS; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY BRIDGES & TUNNELS (94%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); CITY LIFE (68%); CITIES (68%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%); 



650 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Once Again, Louisianians Get Chance to Vote on Tax Increase

BYLINE: By FRANCES FRANK MARCUS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Sept. 26

 BODY:
For the second time this year, Louisiana is trying to reinvent prosperity. The state's voters, who rejected a tax referendum in April, will go to the polls again on Oct. 7 to consider a tax increase intended to lift the state's nearly flat economy.
The new proposal, a modified version of the earlier one, came out of a recent session of the Legislature that political analysts here said was notable for the mounting tensions between the lawmakers and the Governor, Buddy Roemer.
Last fall Mr. Roemer, a 45-year-old Democrat and former Congressman from Shreveport, saw his first fiscal program crushed by the Legislature, and Louisianians voted down a less ambitious package last spring. The Governor, who fought hard for both programs, has been uncharacteristically quiet about the upcoming vote. 
The tax proposals are designed to create jobs by building roads, expanding ports and airports and helping to restore wetlands. Through an amendment to the State Constitution, the proposals would also nibble at the edges of a tax system that the Governor says is in need of an overhaul.
 
A Legacy of Huey Long
Louisiana has an unemployment rate of 8.3 percent, the highest in the nation, and its tax system is one of the country's most archaic. The former partly reflects a decline in the oil industry; the latter is a populist legacy of Huey P. Long, who was Governor 60 years ago but has had a great and enduring effect on Louisiana. Today, by constitutional fiat, few homeowners pay property taxes.
Economists say the proposed constitutional change, called Amendment 1, will energize the economy with a $1.4 billion construction program. The program would be financed by an increase in the gasoline tax of 1 cent a gallon, and the money would be used to build highways and expand and improve ports and airports in an effort to attract industry. The amendment would also create a trust fund similar to those in other states that confine the use of gasoline taxes to highway and other transportation systems.
The amendment was part of a larger tax package that voters rejected last April. Voters next month may choose among 13 amendments, some of them on issues unrelated to the state's economy.
Another proposal, Amendment 2, would set up a trust fund to curb coastal erosion. The state's wetlands, which have been estimated to be vanishing at the rate of about 40 square miles a year, yield a billion dollars annually in fisheries, fur trapping and related commerce.
 
Federal Matching Funds Sought
The trust fund could raise as much as $25 million a year from oil and gas revenue to help provide a start in rebuilding the marshes, environmentalists said.
''It's a downpayment on what we think we need from the Federal Government,'' said Paul Kemp, director of the Coalition to Restore Coastal Louisiana, a group that hopes to attract matching Federal dollars.
While business leaders, economists and others are speaking out in favor of Amendments 1 and 2, Governor Roemer has maintained a low profile this time. Last spring he campaigned aggressively throughout the state for the tax proposals.
The Governor, who has an M.B.A. from Harvard, spent much of last week in Manhattan courting potential investors and bond raters. Louisiana's bond rating is the lowest in the nation.
''Personalizing referenda is not a good idea,'' said P. J. Mills, a former state legislator who is the Governor's new chief of staff. ''This time we want it to pass.''
 
'Frayed Feelings' Conceded
Mr. Mills, who also is a New Orleans businessman, said Mr. Roemer's problems with lawmakers stem from the state's financial crises and ''almost continuous'' sessions of the Legislature in an effort to balance the budget.
He said the Governor had been ''addressing problems head on,'' and added, ''It's logical you're going to leave some frayed feelings.''
A recent statewide poll has found voters unhappy with both the Governor and the Legislature, and dispirited about the direction of the state.
''They're saying, 'A plague on both your houses,' '' said Edward F. Renwick, a political analyst who conducted the poll of 900 voters after the Legislature adjourned in July.
Proponents of Amendment 1 said a positive vote would revive the optimism in Louisiana.
''I'm tired of sending my members out of state all over the country to go to work,'' said Peter Babin, business manager of Local 406 of the International Union of Operating Engineers, who is a member of an unusual business-labor coalition working for the amendment. In two years, from July 1986 to July 1988, 167,000 Louisianians moved out of the state.
Mark Drennen, president of the Public Affairs Research Council in Baton Rouge, the state capital, said legislators have patched the budget with temporary taxes for four years.
''October 7 doesn't deal with basic budget problems,'' Mr. Drennen said. ''Unless the price of oil more than doubles, next spring the state will be facing budget cuts and-or tax increases of between $700 and $800 million. Nobody's talking about that.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of Gov. Buddy roemer (Matt Anderson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); SHREVEPORT, LA, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOUISIANA

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFERENDUMS; ELECTIONS TAXES & TAXATION (95%); TAX LAW (92%); REFERENDUMS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); FUEL TAX (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); WETLANDS (88%); MATCHING GIFTS (85%); ELECTIONS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); POLITICS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (76%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (73%); LAND RECLAMATION (73%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (73%); GASOLINE (70%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (70%); FUNDRAISING (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); JOB CREATION (68%); EROSION CONTROL (68%); EROSION (60%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (60%); COASTAL AREAS (60%); 

PERSON: MARCUS, FRANCES FRANK; ROEMER, BUDDY (GOV) CHARLES ELSON 'BUDDY' ROEMER III (71%); 



651 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 29, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: A Drug War, With Little Ammunition

BYLINE: By Robert M. Morgenthau; Robert M. Morgenthau is District Attorney of New York County.

 BODY:
The key to understanding the Administration's national drug strategy lies not in reading President Bush's lips but in reading his proposal's fine print. The closer one looks, the clearer it is that the budgeteers have gutted the President's and drug czar William Bennett's strategy.
Take state and local law enforcement. The report states that the ''first challenge facing [us] is to reclaim neighborhoods that have been rendered unsafe by drugs.'' That is an understatement. 
For many citizens, domestic tranquility has become a forgotten ideal. They feel imprisoned in their homes, in fear of crack dealers who own their street corners - or worse, their apartment buildings. Their parks are havens for drug trafficking and their protests are increasingly met with violent retaliation.
The media quickly reported that the Administration's plan responded to this challenge by requesting $350 million for state and local law enforcement for fiscal 1990 - a 133 percent funding increase.
Hidden in the report's fine print, however, is the real truth: The $350 million figure is for ''budget authority'' - but actual spending in 1990 is slated at merely $149 million. That represents a paltry $39 million increase over this year's expenditures. Spread over 50 states, it is hardly the sum needed to reclaim our streets.
Worse still, to finance its new initiatives the plan would cut other state and local grant programs, including monies for economic development, housing and juvenile justice.
A soon-to-be-released study estimates that if the proposals become law, state and local governments will be net losers. Overall, they would receive $95 million less in Federal assistance in 1990 than they now are scheduled to receive. New York State would be a lucky winner: It would gain all of $4 million in Federal funds if the new plan is enacted.
Most harmful would be the proposed cuts in U.S. grants for juvenile justice. Most of that money goes to programs for delinquents and ''at risk'' youth - the very youngsters most likely to abuse drugs if not given some alternative.
In New York City, the cuts would eliminate programs such as the South Bronx AIDS Outreach Program, which works with adolescent intravenous-drug users, and the Educational Workshop for Homeless Youth, which offers tutorials for children living in welfare hotels. To fund a war on drugs by cutting such programs is as cruel as it is absurd.
There is an even more fundamental problem. The new drug strategy details the costs incurred in fighting the war on drugs but fails to calculate those associated with treating casualties of the war: It nowhere reckons the costs of caring for crack-addicted babies and abused children. It figures in the strains on the prison system -but not on our health care and educational systems.
Those sums are staggering. Florida estimates it will spend $700 million for health care, social services and special education to prepare for kindergarten 17,500 infants born in 1987 and exposed to cocaine. Nationwide, the costs of intensive hospital care for crack-addicted babies will total $2.5 billion this year. These figures starkly demonstrate that if we do not pay up front to stem the drug epidemic, we will pay far more later to attend to its victims.
We need $500 million a year (the cost of one Stealth bomber) for five years, not $149 million for one year, to enable state and local law enforcement to regain control of our neighborhoods.
Whatever else our priorities, we must take back our streets. It is simply unacceptable to plead budget deficits as an excuse for abandoning the law-abiding people who live in drug-infested neighborhoods.
We also need a national commitment to the education of our children, especially those in inner-city schools. In New York City, the dropout rate is 32 percent; in other cities, the figure is higher. We cannot permit that to continue. As long as there are legions of young people disaffected from society, there will be a ready supply of drug dealers and a ready market for their product.
If we try to fight the war on drugs on the cheap, we are bound to lose -and, in the future, will be condemned to pay far more in dollars and human misery.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MEDIA EDGE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: DRUG TRAFFIC; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; DRUG ADDICTION AND ABUSE CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); CHILDREN (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (86%); LEGISLATION (78%); COCAINE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); GRANTS & GIFTS (72%); BUDGET CUTS (71%); HOMELESSNESS (70%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (70%); PRISONS (70%); CHILD ABUSE (69%); 

PERSON: MORGENTHAU, ROBERT M (DIST ATTY); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BENNETT, WILLIAM GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



652 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: $900 Million Tax Rise Leaves Voters in Connecticut Upset

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Sept. 26

 BODY:
Business leaders, politicians and poll-takers say that across this state both Republicans and Democrats, employees and employers, are unhappy with what happened under the Capitol dome in the spring when Connecticut confronted its budget deficit.
They say the solution to the deficit - $900 million in new and increased taxes enacted by the Democrat-controlled General Assembly and signed by Gov. William A. O'Neill -has combined with other concerns to produce a potent brew of voter discontent.
One such voter is Scott Ledbetter, a 38-year-old Greenwich entrepreneur who has invested in television programming and cable TV companies and whose political activity had been confined to local issues. Now, however, he is concerned that an increase in the top bracket of the state's tax on capital gains, to 14 percent, could discourage people from investing in new companies like his. 
 
'A Mediocre State Government'
''We've had a mediocre state government for years, but people didn't get alarmed because the mediocrity didn't affect them,'' said Mr. Ledbetter, who was spurred by the tax increases to contribute time and money to Joel Schiavone, a New Haven developer who hopes to run as the Republican opponent to Mr. O'Neill, a Democrat. ''People have got to stand up and do something about it if they can,'' Mr. Ledbetter said.
Surveys showing Mr. O'Neill's job performance rating at or near its lowest ebb have also encouraged rivals in his own party - notably Representative Bruce A. Morrison of New Haven, who announced on Monday the formation of a committee to raise money for a campaign to challenge the Governor at the Democratic convention.
Underlying the various challenges is Mr. O'Neill's own longevity as Governor. Sworn into office in 1980 upon the resignation of Gov. Ella T. Grasso, Mr. O'Neill, who is 59 years old, is already among the longest-serving governors in Connecticut history. He has said he will run again next year, if his health permits, and become the first three-term governor since Colonial days.
The question being asked among hopeful Republicans and ambitious challengers like Mr. Morrison is whether Mr. O'Neill, having ridden a wave of popularity during the boom years of the 1980's, can overcome his association with the era's end.
Some of the Governor's supporters say a turnaround in his image has already begun, however slowly.
 
Governor's Performance Rated
The most recent poll conducted by the Institute for Social Inquiry at the University of Connecticut, for example, showed 29 percent of the 500 people surveyed rating Mr. O'Neill's performance as ''poor,'' compared with 34 percent three months ago, just after he had signed $900 million in new and increased taxes into law.
The Governor's performance was rated ''fair'' by 36 percent of those surveyed, and ''good'' by 29 percent, up from 26 percent. Few people, however - 3 percent in both June and September -thought Mr. O'Neill was doing an excellent job.
The results, published today in The Hartford Courant, came from randomly selected people who were questioned between Sept. 12 and 20. The poll has a margin of error of plus or minus 5 percentage points.
 
Federal Government Blamed
''People in Connecticut are not fools,'' John F. Droney Jr., the state Democratic Party chairman, said in defending Mr. O'Neill's performance. ''They know that the Federal Government has backed away from its commitments. He raised taxes to pay for those programs.''
Mr. Droney said that before the general election in November 1990, Connecticut residents would realize that raising taxes was necessary to maintain the state's commitments to things like public education and local town grants and that they would once again vote for Mr. O'Neill.
But in interviews with business leaders, union officials, and citizens groups, many people said the issues troubling voters go far beyond an aversion to taxation.
The issues they cite range from an explosion of drug-related crime and a resulting wave of prison construction in 14 communities across the state to changes in the international economy that could threaten Connecticut exporters. There is an increased sense of vulnerability to forces beyond the small state's control.
''I give the Governor and the legislature high marks for maintaining services, but I'm still uneasy,'' said George C. Springer, president of the 20,000- member Connecticut Federation of Teachers. ''The world we live in today is very, very different from the world we lived in when Governor O'Neill took office - what we did over those years may not be good enough for what we will face.''
John R. Rathgeber, executive vice president of the Connecticut Business and Industry Association, said: ''There's a real feeling that we're at a crossroads. Our economy is primarily manufacturing, insurance and financial services, and all are facing severe global pressures.''
 
Crisis in Jobs Foreseen
Mr. Rathgeber said that expected declines in Federal defense spending were likely to hurt major employers like United Technologies, while the cluster of giant insurance companies, mostly in Hartford, would probably find it increasingly economical to decentralize their thousands of employees rather than expand or pay for relocations to Connecticut.
''The question is, do we act in advance of the crisis or wait for the crisis to be upon us?'' he said. ''We have that option now.''
For Republicans, who have controlled the governor's office for only 10 years since World War II, failing to re-elect any governor during that time, the apparent weakness of Mr. O'Neill and the possibility of a split in the party, because of Mr. Morrison, has already raised hopes.
 
Republican Challengers Available
Although four major contenders have expressed interest, the current front-runner appears to be Representative John G. Rowland, who - like Mr. Morrison -was in Washington during the state's debate on taxes and played no role in raising them.
Two other possible Republican contenders, in addition to Mr. Schiavone, who has never before run for political office, are State Representative Robert G. Jaekle of Stratford, the House minority leader in the General Assembly, and State Senator Reginald J. Smith of New Hartford, the minority leader in the Senate.
''The Democrats are divided and split, and generally people think they're worse off than they were,'' said Richard Foley, the state Republican Party chairman. ''Things like that bode well.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES; PUBLIC OPINION POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); TAX INCREASES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); POLITICS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); TAX LAW (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (55%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK; O'NEILL, WILLIAM A (GOV)



653 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: CAMPAIGN STOP: GREAT KILLS, S.I.;
Great Kills Favors Koch But Supports Giuliani Bid

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
In Great Kills, S.I., a three-bedroom town house sells for $140,000, but a round-trip drive to Manhattan can cost $10 in tolls. Well-tended lawns slope gently toward tidy marinas, but the main roads running past them are clogged with cars and flood at the first heavy rain. It is a place where peace comes at a price.
Now people in Great Kills see that peace threatened by the prospect of a new face in New York's City Hall. For 12 years this has been Koch country, and despite their disaffection from a city they feel forgets them, more than a few voters here seem reluctant to lose the Mayor whose sympathy they say they had.
''I'll probably vote for Koch - I guess he's pretty good,'' said Anne Griffiths, 81 years old, as she paused with a shopping cart on Amboy Avenue last week. Told that the Mayor had lost the Democratic primary and was no longer a candidate, she gave a start and said, ''Oh - I don't know anything about the other guys.'' 
Indeed, voting for Mayor Edward I. Koch is an option many people interviewed in this conservative community midway down the island's south shore said they wished they still had.
More than half of the voters surveyed in this area by The New York Times on Primary Day said they had chosen Mr. Koch, but might vote Republican or stay home Nov. 7 if David N. Dinkins won the Democratic nomination. Now that Mr. Dinkins is the nominee, a number of voters stopped on the street last week said they would do just that, and some did not disguise the role race played in their choice.
 
'I Hate to Say Color, But'
''I tell you, I'm a Democrat, but I think I'm going to go for the other guy,'' said Fred King, a 69-year-old retired grocery store produce manager as he passed the Lucky Fortune Chinese restaurant. ''I've seen what people of the opposite sex have done. I hate to say color, but you know what I mean. I've seen what they've done in Brooklyn and other places, you know.
''I mean, I don't have anything against the guy personally,'' he said of Mr. Dinkins, the Manhattan Borough President, who is black. ''He may be a very good man, you know.'' Nick Petrie, 63, makes pizzas at the Village Maria restaurant down the street. He is a Republican who has voted for Mr. Koch in the past, but he said this year he would probably vote for Rudolph W. Giuliani.
''I think he's a good man,'' he said, quickly adding: ''I think Dinkins is a good man, too.'' He said he thought the race might be close. ''They vote here the same way they vote in Harlem,'' he said. ''I think it's a biased vote, personally.''
No precise demographic snapshot of Great Kills is available. But figures from the City Planning Department based on the 1980 census show that the population of Community Board 3, which covers Great Kills and a dozen other communities, is 94 percent white, 1 percent black, 3.3 percent of Hispanic origin and just under 2 percent of Asian descent. Nearly half of the population is Italian-American.
It is a solidly middle-class area, home to many police officers and other civil servants. Its median household income is $24,645, compared with $13,855 for the city as a whole. By far the most prevalent crime is car theft, with 1,502 cases reported in the 122d Precinct - which cuts a broad swath through the middle of the island - in the first six months of this year.
''If there's an overriding thing, it's quality of life issues, youths hanging out, people complaining,'' said Assistant Chief Joseph R. Borrelli, the borough police commander. ''There are some burglaries, but street robberies and all that, thank God, that's not a real big problem.''
 
Early Waves of Immigration
Politically, the area is mixed. In the 60th Assembly District, which includes Great Kills, there are just under 27,000 registered Democrats, just over 20,000 Republicans and about 10,000 Independents, according to the Board of Elections.
Many residents of Great Kills moved from Brooklyn or Queens after the building of the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge 25 years ago, but the early waves of immigration were small compared with the growth of the last decade. Last year, 2,000 new building permits were issued in the Board 3 district, more than in any other community district outside Manhattan, according to Maxine Spierer, the board's chairman.
''The major issue here is the fact that there's been so much development over the past decade that the infrastructure hasn't been able to keep pace,'' Ms. Spierer said. ''There are not enough good roads, not enough mass transit, terrible traffic congestion, not enough storm or sanitary sewers.''
Moreover, Ms. Spierer said, as the one place in the city with substantial amounts of vacant land, ''we're petrified that we're going to be the repository of a lot of these unwanted facilities'' from jails to homeless shelters. Already Staten Island has the city's last remaining large landfill, where there are plans to build a pyramid of trash.
 
Future Policies Are Uncertain
Some residents seem concerned that if such problems persisted under the Koch administration, which they considered sympathetic, they might be worse under a new mayor, whose future policies are uncertain. Mr. Dinkins, for example, has mentioned Great Kills as one of several areas in the city ripe for further economic development. Mr. Giuliani has said he does not favor building a proposed new jail in the nearby Rossville section of the island, but has not said where it should go.
''I'm a Democrat, but it's a tossup between Giuliani and Dinkins,'' said John Colon, 32, an operations supervisor at Morgan Stanley, the investment house, in Manhattan. ''Experience-wise, both of them seem to lack that.''
''Mayor Koch, a lot of times we disagreed with what his proposals were,'' Ms. Spierer said. ''But at least we knew more about him, more about his priorities. David Dinkins and Giuliani are sort of unknown quantities to us.''
Ginny Paladino, a 25-year-old Tupperware saleswoman who was shopping with her 21-month-old son, Mikey, said she had wanted Mr. Koch to win, but would now vote for Mr. Giuliani.
 
'I Think He's an Honest Man'
''I like his policies,'' she said. ''I think he's an honest man.'' She said she was disturbed by Mr. Dinkins's failure two decades ago to pay income taxes for four years. He has said the lapse was the result of inattention, not evasion, and he eventually paid the taxes with interest and penalties.
''I don't like the idea of his income tax,'' Mrs. Paladino said. ''I don't think he's so honest.''
Of some two dozen people stopped on the busy commercial strips and quiet residential side streets of Great Kills, only one 29-year-old woman said she definitely intended to vote for Mr. Dinkins. She would give her name only as Nancy.
''I think maybe he can do something with some of the racial stuff that's going on,'' she said. ''I think maybe he can do something to make people be a little kinder to each other.''
 
'They'll Take Over the City'
Others offered much harsher assessments.
William Malast, 63, a retired accounting manager for an insurance company whose parents emigrated from Czechoslovakia, is a registered Republican who favored Mr. Koch but will vote for Mr. Giuliani.
''Not to be prejudiced,'' he said of Mr. Dinkins. But he added: ''If he gets in, we're dead. They'll take over the city. I've got nothing against the man, but it might get out of hand.''
''Liberalism just gets out of hand,'' added Mr. Malast's neighbor, Joseph Passalaqua, also 63, who stood chatting with him in the shade in front of the trim houses on Bay Terrace, a quiet street near the water.
Mr. Passalaqua, a retired processor in a motion picture film laboratory in Manhattan, said he was concerned that government spending for welfare and social programs was undisciplined. ''For people who need it, O.K.,'' he said. But too many people get it who don't need it.''
 
Changes in City Charter
Islanders are also concerned about proposed changes in the City Charter that would abolish the Board of Estimate - where the Staten Island borough president has the same vote as the Brooklyn borough chief, who represents six times the population. Many of the board's powers would go to the mayor and an expanded City Council of 51 members, in which Staten Island would have three seats.
An uneasy sense about the future pervades many residents' comments.
''I'm worried,'' said Peggy Glensor, who stopped outside the local post office and described herself as ''55 plus.''
''I don't like the whole thing,'' Mrs. Glensor said. ''I just don't see how the city can get pulled together again.'' She, too, said she would be voting Republican.
''If I lived in New York, I would probably go the other way.'' she said. ''But living on Staten Island, I like Giuliani.''

GRAPHIC: photos of Great Kills residents (NYT/Sara Krulwich); map of Staten Island (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (56%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (56%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; GREAT KILLS (NYC); STATEN ISLAND (NYC)

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CITIES (78%); ELECTIONS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (74%); WEATHER (72%); CONSERVATISM (70%); RESTAURANTS (66%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (57%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W; DINKINS, DAVID N (BORO PRES); KOCH, EDWARD I (MAYOR); PURDUM, TODD S RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 



654 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Taiwan Picks Yonkers Company for Subway Cars

BYLINE: By JAMES FERON

DATELINE: YONKERS, Sept. 26

 BODY:
A Japanese-owned rail car manufacturer here that has built subway cars for the New York City and PATH systems was awarded a $170 million contract today to build the first 132 subway cars for a new mass-transit system under construction in Taipei, Taiwan.
The company, U.R.C., enlisted leaders of the Yonkers government as well as of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which leases the rail car manufacturing plant, to travel to Taiwan as part of an intense campaign for the subway car contract.
The contract, with the first cars to be delivered in 1992, will mean the employment of up to 250 skilled laborers in a city that has seen its once-vibrant manufacturing diminished by the movement of companies to the South. Mayor Nicholas C. Wasicsko said he was happy to hear ''some good news for a change in Yonkers.'' 
He was referring to the city's division over a housing desegregation plan imposed by a Federal judge. City officials have feared that the dispute, which attracted national attention for its constitutional implications, would keep new business away.
 
'Too Excited to Sleep'
Mr. Wasicsko announced the awarding of the subway car contract flanked by beaming officials of the Nissho Iwai American Corporation, a subsidiary of the Japanese conglomerate Nissho Iwai, and Kawasaki Rail Cars, a division of Kawasaki, which jointly own U.R.C., which stands for United Rail Car.
News that U.R.C. had won the contract arrived in Yonkers late Monday night, according to Japanese company officials who had arrived for what they hoped would be a celebration. Noboru Sakamoto, a vice president of Nissho Iwai, said ''we were too excited to sleep.''
Hats Kageyama, general manager of the Transit Systems and Equipment Division of the Nissho Iwai American Corporation, said two companies, U.R.C. and an American-Canadian consortium that included a Canadian company, ''had qualified as American companies'' for the purpose of the contract Taiwan has an $18 billion trade surplus with the United States, and the State Commerce Departments have been pressing Taiwan to reduce that imbalance. Taiwan indicated that it would do so, virtually eliminating foreign rail car makers as bidders.
Yonkers itself has been seeking to reverse an economic drain, most recently exemplified by the move of the manufacturing division of the Polychrome Corporation, which makes printing supplies, to Atlanta. Mr. Wasicsko said he hoped U.R.C. would be able to hire some Polychrome workers and retrain them to build subway cars.
 
Space Is Leased
The contract awarded to Yonkers by the Department of Rapid Transit in Taiwan is for the Tamshui-Hsintein line, one of the radial spokes on the semicircular system being built in Taipei. Two other rail car contracts will be put out for bid before the system is finished.
U.R.C. leases space in a structure that was the original home of the Otis Elevator Company and the site of the first safety elevator. It was purchased by the Port Authority in 1985 from United Technologies Corporation of Hartford, which had acquired Otis. The city helped United Technologies modernize the structure and its leaders were furious when the company moved to Connecticut.
Kawasaki's first contract for subway cars in the United States came in the 1970's with the export of 125 units from Japan to Philadelphia for its subway system. The Yonkers plant was opened for rail-car production in 1986 and its first job was the manufacture of subway cars for the PATH (Port Authority Trans-Hudson) system.
It built 95 cars in the Yonkers plant. U.R.C., under the Kawasaki name, assembled 325 R-62 cars used on New York City's Lexington Avenue IRT line.
Company officials said a ''cadre'' of 100 skilled workers was now employed in the Yonkers plant, rehabilitating cars for the New York City Transit Authority and building ''people mover'' rail cars, which are much smaller than subway cars, for the Las Vegas airport.
The U.R.C. officials said while engineering studies were being completed for the Taiwan system, U.R.C. would be producing 75 double-decker rail commuter coaches for the Massachusetts Bay Transit Authority in a $105 million contract. The company also expects to build ''people movers'' for Kennedy International Airport, when that system is introduced there.

GRAPHIC: photo of Nicholas C. Wasicsko, Lee Singer, Masakazu Fudo and Noboru Sakamoto (NYT/Jim Estrin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS423510 METAL SERVICE CENTERS & OTHER METAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); SIC5051 METALS SERVICE CENTERS & OFFICES (84%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (72%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (72%); NAICS323120 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR PRINTING (62%); SIC2796 PLATEMAKING & RELATED SERVICES (62%); 

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SOJITZ CORP OF AMERICA (84%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (72%); POLYCHROME CORP (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: URC (YONKERS CO); KAWASAKI HEAVY INDUSTRIES LTD; NISSHO IWAI CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TAIPEI (TAIWAN); TAIWAN; YONKERS (NY)

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (93%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TRAINS (90%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK MFG (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); CONTRACT AWARDS (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); CITIES (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); PORT AUTHORITIES (71%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (66%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (61%); 

PERSON: WASICSKO, NICHOLAS C (MAYOR); FERON, JAMES



655 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: Survey Says Mid-Sized Companies Debate Leaving

BYLINE: By SUSAN CHIRA

 BODY:
One in every five medium-sized businesses in the New York metropolitan area is considering leaving New York, and most of those would move to New Jersey, according to a survey released yesterday by Bank Leumi.
The survey of 599 businesses in New York City, Long Island and Westchester County with annual revenues from $10 million to $250 million suggested that, although most executives believe their New York locations help their companies, many fear that an economic slowdown and urban social problems like crime and drugs will hurt their companies.
Studies of larger corporations have yielded similar findings, but the survey by Bank Leumi, an Israeli bank, whose clients are largely medium-sized companies, is one of the few to concentrate on the medium-sized businesses. 
''The findings present a glum outlook for the New York regional economy,'' said Emanuel Tobier, a professor at New York University's Graduate School of Public Administration, who commented on the survey at a news conference yesterday at the Plaza Hotel. ''Drugs and crime are a mask for our unease about what's going to happen. We're in for a period of restrained growth.''
 
Beyond the Predictable
Daniel S. Bayer, vice president of the New York Partnership, a business group formed to address social issues, said that this and other surveys' findings suggested an agenda for state and city officials concerned about keeping businesses in New York. They must address crime, drugs, education and other urban problems, he said, as well as respond to predictable business concerns about taxes and housing costs.
In a study of the financial services industry conducted this spring, the partnership found that advances in telecommunications enable many large companies to move substantial numbers of employees out of their New York headquarters without business disruptions.
But it is difficult to say how many companies would actually go, or how many are simply considering leaving. Half the medium-sized companies surveyed said that more than half of their sales are within New York, a strong incentive to stay in this area.
Nicholas J. Tortorello, chairman of Research and Forecasts, the company that conducted the survey, said that in his experience, about half of those who said they would move their businesses would be likely to do so. Of the 23 percent of executives who said they would be ''very likely'' or ''somewhat likely'' to move, most were heads of manufacturing or wholesale businesses. Service businesses were more likely to stay, a good sign because services are becoming more important in the New York economy, Mr. Tortorello said.
 
New Jersey Is Preferred
Fifty-six percent of those businesses considering leaving would go to New Jersey. New York City officials have promoted the boroughs outside Manhattan as a low-cost alternative to New Jersey. But Mr. Bayer said the survey indicated that executives were also concerned about security and drugs in these boroughs.
While several of the findings were similar to those of other studies, some defied conventional wisdom. Executives overwhelmingly pointed to crime and drugs as their most serious concerns about living and working in New York, but a relatively low 24 percent said that local governments' top priority should be improving public education. By contrast, Mr. Bayer said, the executives he sees name education as the most important problem.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LUMI (TASE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE AND OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL AND RESIN MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3089 PLASTICS PRODUCTS, NEC (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: BANK LEUMI LE ISRAEL BM (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK LEUMI

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; NEW YORK CITY; LONG ISLAND (NY); WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; DRUG ADDICTION AND ABUSE POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RELOCATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (75%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (75%); WHOLESALERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (63%); 

PERSON: CHIRA, SUSAN



656 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1890 words

HEADLINE: EDUCATION;
Schools Trying to Link Good Jobs and Skills

SERIES: SKILLS VS. JOBS: THE CLASSROOM MISMATCH - LAST OF THREE ARTICLES

BYLINE: By WILLIAM E. SCHMIDT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT

 BODY:
Teachers used to tell Gaylon Jefferson he should stay in school if he wanted a good job, but he says he did not see the point then. He knew too many people who had high school diplomas and were still working at McDonald's.
Besides, it was dangerous at Mumford High School here, and he said he was often robbed. ''They took my shoes once,'' said Gaylon, a tall, quiet-spoken 17-year-old. ''They got my coat. They stuck a gun in my back and took it from me, on the corner right outside school. It was the middle of winter, and it was freezing.''
So Gaylon dropped out, joining more than four million other Americans 16-to-24 years old who have failed to complete high school. Instead of completing his freshman year in 1988, he took on the Detroit job market. 
 
Failure, Then Hope
It was a mismatch. Armed with junior high skills in math and reading, and no high school diploma, he soon found himself, like tens of thousands of young men and women, most of them black or Hispanic, in large urban areas, out of school and out of work.
''There was nothing but fast-food restaurant jobs,'' Gaylon said. ''Jobs that paid maybe $5 or $6 an hour.''
But he turned out to be luckier than most. He was accepted into a machinists' training program run by Focus Hope, a nonprofit community group, and is learning to operate the kind of computer-operated equipment that makes up the city's new factories.
For decades, the students who dropped out and the high school graduates whose diplomas did not necessarily mean they could read, write or do basic arithmetic had a refuge of sorts. They could usually find work in factories in Detroit and many other cities. That was when industry needed a steady supply of raw labor, unskilled workers who, if they just kept showing up, might eventually earn enough to raise a family, buy a car, often even a house, and hope for something better for their children.
But in the last decade, Wayne County, which includes Detroit, has lost more than 124,000 manufacturing jobs, most of them for unskilled labor. The remaining factories have trimmed their work forces and invested in automation and new technology, robots and computer-aided machinery that require workers who not only can read, but also can think on their feet.
That is exactly what companies are not getting, at least not nearly enough of it, business executives around the country say.
 
A 50 Percent Dropout Rate
Of the nearly 14,000 students beginning ninth grade in Detroit's public schools this month, it is estimated that about 40 percent will drop out well before graduation. Nationally, according to a 1986 study on urban dropouts, about 50 percent of inner-city youths never graduate from high school.
But even among those who do finish, only a relatively small number leave school with the kind of academic and social skills that will make them attractive to college recruiters or employers. According to a study by the Business Education Alliance of the Detroit Chamber of Commerce, about 6,000 of 7,000 recent high school graduates had math and reading skills below 11th-grade levels.
School districts, states and the Federal Government use various methods to calculate dropout rates, making direct comparisons difficult, but however it is stated, the nation's dropout rate and ways to improve the skills its graduates are sure to be raised today or tomorrow at the education meeting that President Bush is holding with the nation's Governors in Charlottesville, Va.
''We are at a point where we have to realize the traditional way of educating young people doesn't work for everyone,'' said Dr. Thomas Steele, an Assistant Superintendent in Detroit who heads the city's dropout prevention program. ''How do we motivate these young people to see a direct relationship between reading and math and the jobs on the outside?''
In the last two years educators, community groups and business people, alarmed about the declining skills of the city's pool of young workers, have started several pilot projects and collaborative programs intended to redeem some of these young people.
One is the Detroit Compact, organized by the Detroit Chamber of Commerce in cooperation with the city's schools. It enrolls sixth graders, who sign an agreement in which they pledge to maintain a C average and at least a 90 percent attendance rate in return for a guaranteed job or a college scholarship when they graduate.
The Detroit Compact is among more than a dozen collaborative projects involving the city's schools and local universities, businesses and community groups. The projects are aimed at providing incentives, counseling, tutoring and other assistance to young people at risk of dropping out. Similar projects exist in many other cities as well.
 
Building Pride and Confidence
''The problem is not just academics,'' said Dr. Steele, who oversaw a new program this summer that offered six weeks of intensive academic and social counseling to 240 elementary and junior high school students who were identified as potential dropouts. ''We have got to build pride, self-esteem and confidence.''
Charles Grenville, an official with Focus Hope, which recruits students from the Detroit schools to enter job training, said the schools and the community as a whole had failed tens of thousands of youths.
''A lot of teachers, consciously or unconsciously, reinforce the idea that education is pointless unless you are going on to college,'' he said. ''For starters, the schools need to do better representing the new reality of the job market to these kids. We need a kind of cultural change all across the system, to sell young people on the relationship between good jobs and skills.''
But to these young people already struggling in the system, the insistent pleas by educators and business people to stay in school in the hope that it will prepare them for a good job often seem badly out of synch with the gritty reality of their day-to-day lives.
Dia DeBoest is a 14-year-old eighth grader at Cleveland Junior High School on the city's West Side, Like his twin brother, Diabate, he says he wants to go to college and become a lawyer. He also recalls how others in his school, in a tough inner-city neighborhood, would dress up at Career Day, wearing doctor's gowns or suits, even carrying briefcases, like the business executives and lawyers they aspired to be.
But for many of Dia's classmates Career Day had little meaning. For them, he said, the job that holds the greatest immediate appeal is selling drugs. ''At my school, lots of kids sell drugs. They can make $250 a week right now, being a lookout for a crack house, or working there,'' he said. ''When the teachers talk about staying in school, they don't pay attention. They are making money already, so why do they need to learn to read?''
 
Blaming the System
Inner-city schools here and around the nation not only reflect the social pathologies of their neighborhoods - the crime, the drugs, the hopelessness - but in many ways also perpetuate them.
Frederick Wallace dropped out of high school when he was 15, not long after he learned he was going to be a father and needed to work to help support the baby. The child's mother dropped out, too. Detroit school surveys have found that 42 percent of the young women who drop out do so because they are pregnant.
Like many young people, Mr. Wallace blames the system for not trying to intervene more on his behalf. ''I was drinking and smoking and carrying on,'' he said. ''But nobody tried to talk me out of dropping out. They just let me slide.''
Others blame themselves. Maurice Moore was expelled from Cooley High School for truancy. ''The principal sat me down and told me about life and about jobs,'' Mr. Moore said. ''He said that even the Army wouldn't take me unless I got a degree. But I didn't listen. Maybe I was just stupid.'' Many dropouts say now that they might have stayed in school if they had had more vocational opportunities, more real work experience, while still in high school.
For example, Gaylon Jefferson said he had always been interested in electronics. But when he tried to enroll in one of the city's special vocational high schools, he was told he could not, because his grades were too low.
Detroit school officials like Dr. Steele say the city's five vocational schools have not done a good job in dealing with students like Gaylon who are at risk at dropping out. ''We have to do a better job of exposing these young people to work experiences, in the hopes of catching their interest and keeping them in school,'' Dr. Steele said.
 
Students' Recommendations
Two years ago, the school sytem here asked a panel of students to offer advice on what could be done to convey the message that staying in school was necessary for anyone hoping to get a good job.
The students offered a long list of recommendations. Teachers needed to be more caring, they said. The system needed to create more positive role models. Students needed more field trips and better career programs, to give them a clearer picture of the work place.
''A lot of students here just need someone to look up to,'' said Trina Williams, a 16-year-old junior at Redford High School, where she is a member of the varsity tennis team and a good student. ''I went back to my eighth-grade class one day and saw the same thing there. How do you talk about jobs and school when the person they look up to most is a drug dealer?''
To help address the growing shortage of skilled workers in Michigan, the Governor's Commission on Jobs and Economic Development formed a study group of employers last spring, who then composed an inventory of the kinds of skills that businesses say they will require of young people coming into the labor market.
While the foundation of the report involved academic skills, like the ability to read graphs, charts and displays, and to write, read and understand the language in which business is conducted, most of it the report addressed the developmment of better personal management and teamwork skills.
It said schools must do a better job turning out workers who exercise a sense of responsiblity, are fair and honest, demonstrate self control, show pride in their work and are able to function well in groups.
 
Broad Changes May Be Needed
To develop these kinds of skills better, said Gary R. Bachula, a co-author of the report, public schools may have to make changes that go well beyond tougher academic standards and more time in the classroom.
''We may eventually have to move toward more flexibility, more site-based management in the classroom, the same way the American manufacturing process has changed in recent years,'' he said.
But among some of the products, and the failures, of the urban public school system, there is a great deal of doubt about how much substantial change is possible. James Snow is 25, a high school dropout who, after four years in the Marines and a succession of jobs as a security guard, is now enrolled in the machinists' training program with Gaylon Jefferson.
''I have a 3-year-old daughter of my own,'' Mr. Snow said. ''I've been in the Detroit public schools, and I think I know what the answer is. I'm going to put my child in Catholic schools. There is no way she will go to the schools I did.''

GRAPHIC: photos of Gaylon Jefferson; Frederick Wallace; Maurice Moore (NYT/Peter Yates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

TITLE: EDUCATION PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (95%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;DETROIT (MICH); UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; LABOR HIGH SCHOOLS (92%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (89%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (87%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (74%); FAST FOOD (72%); LABOR FORCE (72%); MACHINE TOOLS (69%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (68%); RESTAURANTS (65%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (64%); 

PERSON: SCHMIDT, WILLIAM E SIR GEORGE YOUNG (55%); 



657 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: EDUCATION;
Meeting on Education Starts Today in Virginia

BYLINE: By EDWARD B. FISKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va., Sept. 26

 BODY:
President Bush will face the most important test yet of his pledge to be ''the education President'' here Wednesday when he assembles Cabinet members and the nation's governors to a two-day conference on education.
The meeting, to be held on the campus of the University of Virginia, is only the third time that a President has convened governors to discuss an important national issue. Theodore Roosevelt did so in 1908 to discuss the ravaging of forests, and Franklin Delano Roosevelt did so in 1933 to deal with the Depression.
Mr. Bush called for the meeting in August, explaining that it would provide an opportunity ''to strengthen our schools, to enlarge opportunities, and to improve our nation's educational performance.'' After a series of working groups Wednesday afternoon and Thursday morning, he will address the forum on Thursday morning. 
The White House has not released any agenda for the education meeting. Many governors have said, though, that they would like to see Mr. Bush use the conference to start developing a set of performance goals aimed at public schools that are struggling - many say failing - to equip young people with the reading, calculating and other skills needed in the emerging global economy.
 
Governor's Bad Dream
Gov. Bill Clinton, Democrat of Arkansas, said targets were needed to sustain the school improvement efforts made at the state level in the past six to eight years. ''I wake up at night with a bad dream that the education reform movement will go the way of the Hula Hoop, twist and Edsel,'' he said.
Education Secretary Lauro F. Cavazos said in an interview that his office was prepared to coordinate efforts to set national goals for education ''by the first of the year.''
Such targets, he said, might involve reducing the high school dropout rate, increasing the number of minority teachers and improving the math and science performance of American students compared with those from other countries. Other goals might specify what students in certain grades should know and be able to do.
At a meeting last August, the National Governors' Association set up its own study group on national goals, with Governor Clinton and Gov. Carroll A. Campbell Jr. of South Carolina, a Republican, leading it. It was not immediately clear how the governors' group, which expects to spend a year on the project, might be coordinated with Administration efforts.
 
Some Privacy Is Desired
Much of the work of the conference here will be carried out by small discussion groups of governors and Cabinet members out of the public eye. Mr. Bush will drop in on the groups.
Some governors, as well as educators around the country, expressed irritation that these meetings will be closed. But the meeting planners reply that the President wants participants to be free to express themselves candidly. Marlin Fitzwater, the White House spokesman, promised ample press access to plenary sessions, which will include reports of the working groups.
The first of the working sessions will be held Wednesday afternoon after welcoming remarks by Mr. Bush. One session each will be held on school governance, the improvement of teaching and problems like drugs that affect learning.
The second set of working sessions on Thursday morning will focus on increased parental choice in where children go to school, lifelong learning for workers and access to higher education.
 
Dinner at Monticello
Dinner Wednesday will take place at Monticello, the home of Thomas Jefferson, founder of the University of Virginia.
In addition to the setting of goals, participants are likely to push for two other outcomes of the conference, starting with an easing of Federal regulations to permit more flexible use of Federal aid to schools.
''If a school buys a computer with funds for special education, teachers cannot use it for, say, an adult literacy program in the evening,'' said Gov. Gary Carruthers of New Mexico, a Republican. ''That doesn't make any sense.''
Some governors are also pushing for a redefinition of the relationship between Washington and the states in some areas of education. They argue, for example, that the Federal Government might take responsibility for programs for prenatal nutrition in exchange for more state spending for early childhood education.
Officials say the conference is being held in Charlottesville, rather than the White House, to avoid any suggestion that education is a national responsibility - and thus something requiring lots more Federal spending.
In his decision to convene the conference but keep the agenda - and expectations of what it might accomplish - diffuse, Mr. Bush runs the political risk of being perceived as waffling on his commitment to be ''the education President.'' On the other hand, some governors argue that simply by calling attention to the national stake in improving education, the main benefit will have already been accomplished by the time the gavel comes down for the opening session.
''Most Americans still believe that when we talk about a crisis in education, we are talking about someone else's kid in some other schools,'' said Gov. Thomas H. Kean, Republican of New Jersey. ''If the Presidential summit can turn that attitude around and highlight the need for a national focus on education, that will be a major achievement.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: EDUCATION PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (58%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: VIRGINIA, UNIVERSITY OF

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHARLOTTESVILLE (VA)

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; GOVERNORS (US) GOVERNORS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); EDUCATION REFORM (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); MATHEMATICS (74%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); 

PERSON: FISKE, EDWARD B; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); BILL CLINTON (89%); 



658 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 9, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 174 words

HEADLINE: EDUCATION;
No One Leading Football Cheers For School Team

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: MONTPELIER, Vt., Sept. 26

 BODY:
When the Montpelier High School football team takes the field this year, something will be missing: cheerleaders.
No one tried out for the cheerleading squad, said Peter Clark, the school's principal. Instead, some signed up for field hockey, track and field, and the flag team, which accompanies the band at football games.
''There are a lot more choices for young women now than when I was in high school,'' Mr. Clark said. ''I think the real issue is that there are lots of different ways for girls to get involved in school affairs. Cheerleading is not so much a way of gaining social status.''
Donna McAllister, a home economics teacher who coached the cheerleading squad last year, agreed, saying, ''The girls who did it last year are doing different things this year - working or going out for field hockey.''
In fact, several girls on last year's squad have decided to manage the football team.
About 200 girls attend Montpelier High School. Ms. McAllister says cheerleading for basketball games is still planned for winter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: EDUCATION PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (90%); 

CITY: MONTPELIER, VT, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MONTPELIER (VT)

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; CHEERLEADERS; INTERSCHOLASTIC ATHLETICS CHEERLEADING (92%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); FIELD HOCKEY (77%); WOMEN (75%); BASKETBALL (73%); TRACK & FIELD (71%); 



659 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 9, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: EDUCATION;
About Education

BYLINE: By Fred M. Hechinger

 BODY:
If President Bush wants to be known as the education President, he competes with Lyndon B. Johnson, his only predecessor with that title. The way Mr. Johnson gained that distinction seems relevant to the education meeting that begins today.
The Johnson agenda recognized that education and the whole range of children's needs are inseparable. This was expressed by the simultaneous attack on inequality and poverty and on their impact on children's learning. Thus, after the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Elementary and Secondary Education Act to send Federal money to schools with poor children, and the creation of Project Head Start in 1965, which moved the care of poor children down to the pre-school level. 
But these programs lost momentum during the Nixon Administration. The Child Development Act, the first major attempt to help children at an even younger age, was vetoed by President Richard M. Nixon in 1971. Head Start has long suffered from inadequate financing and now serves only about 20 percent of the children who are entitled to it.
This may be relevant background when the White House and the governors meet today. Many school-reform leaders say the meeting will be of little use if it deals only with fragments of the education scene. It could be most effective if it looked at the total picture - from birth to graduation, at least graduation from high school.
Experts attribute the failure of past school reforms to a lack of comprehensive policies for children and youths - the division of the first 18 years into separate fiefs: child care, pre-school education, kindergarten, elementary, junior high and high school. Each fief is left with cleaning up the unfinished business of its predecessor, thereby building up the ultimate fief of remediation.
Since the Johnson education Presidency, many crucial discoveries have been made, none more persuasive than the magic effects of sound child care and early childhood education. Better and less painful ways have been found to measure students' progress and teachers' performance than by standardized tests.
Current reformers want to put an end to running the schools through top-down orders to principals and teachers. The last attempt to improve the system through orders from above was the 1983 report, ''A Nation at Risk,'' but it at least alerted the public to the need for change.
Its recommendations have long since been superseded. Among the later blueprints are: Ernest L. Boyer's ''High School,'' published by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching; ''A Nation Prepared: Teachers for the 21st Century'' and ''Turning Points,'' aimed at improving the education and development of adolescents, both by the Carnegie Corporation of New York; ''Children in Need,'' by the Committee for Economic Development, and ''The Forgotten Half: Non-College Youth in America,'' by the William T. Grant Foundation.
The National Governors' Association has supported the proposals in these works, thus sending its members well prepared to the meeting. And the White House is no longer tied to the role of scolder-in-chief held by former Education Secretary William J. Bennett.
So the meeting's promise may be the chance to use wide-ranging reform proposals to draw a road map toward continuity in education from birth on.
But the education meeting faces two powerful movements that may seem in conflict: demands, at the same time, for national standards and for greater autonomy at the schoolhouse level. In reality, these movements need not clash. It would be foolish to give principals and teachers more power without letting them know what is ultimately expected of them and their students.
Of course, national standards already exist, set by such yardsticks as the Scholastic Aptitude Tests, the National Assessment of Educational Progress and a variety of national reading tests. But many critics see these tests as either basically flawed or as dictating what teachers must teach. Reformers say: Let's have national goals but let teachers reach them in their own way. They want no national curriculum but clearly spelled-out goals for an intellectually, socially and economically sound and internationally competitive nation.
The Bush Administration's theme of letting parents choose their children's school fits easily into this pattern. If choice is to have any meaning, principals and teachers must be able to give their schools distinctive content and character. Competition can improve the system.
These issues, not educational details, are before today's and tomorrow's meeting in Virginia. The meeting itself cannot proclaim Mr. Bush the education President; it can commit the President and the governors to school reforms which, as all polls show, are demanded and supported by parents, teachers and business.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: EDUCATION PAGE (NYT); ABOUT EDUCATION (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE CORP LTD (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHARLOTTESVILLE (VA); UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION US PRESIDENTS (90%); CHILD POVERTY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATION REFORM (90%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); CHILD CARE (89%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); VETO (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION LAW (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (76%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (75%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (66%); FOUNDATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: HECHINGER, FRED M; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RICHARD NIXON (73%); 



660 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1989
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 15, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: FILM FESTIVAL;
A Twainlike Twist for Flint, Mich.

BYLINE: By VINCENT CANBY

 BODY:
America has an irrepressible new humorist in the tradition of Mark Twain and Artemus Ward. He is Michael Moore, the writer, producer and director of the rude and rollicking new documentary feature ''Roger and Me.'' Much in the manner of those 19th-century forebears, Mr. Moore celebrates the oddities of the American frontier, once defined by the historian F. J. Turner as ''the meeting place of savagery and civilization, where democracy is strengthened.''
The American frontier of tall tales and garrulous fables has long since been developed into extinction. Mr. Moore's frontier is his hometown, Flint, Mich., population 150,000, the birthplace of General Motors. As a result of the closing of various G.M. plants and the elimination of 40,000 jobs, Flint has become one of the more embarrassing eyesores in the landscape of what is supposed to be a booming American economy. 
All sorts of attempts have been made to save Flint. ''Just when things were beginning to look bleak,'' Mr. Moore recalls on the soundtrack, ''Ronald Reagan arrived in Flint and took 12 workers out for a pizza.'' Somebody walked off with the pizzeria's cash register, though it's unclear whether the two events were connected.
When Money magazine named Flint ''the worst place to live in America,'' ABC planned to devote an entire ''Nightline'' show to the subject. The program was canceled at the last minute. The television power truck had been stolen.
Depressing figures and nutty anecdotes bubble out of ''Roger and Me'' nonstop, leaving the frequently appalled audience roaring with laughter, the kind of response that Twain would cherish.
''Roger and Me,'' which does not yet have a commercial distributor, will be shown at the New York Film Festival today at 9:30 P.M. and tomorrow at 6:15 P.M.
The film takes its title from Mr. Moore's attempts to reach Roger Smith, the G.M. chairman. Mr. Moore's plan is to take Mr. Smith on a tour of Flint and to persuade him of G.M.'s responsibility in attending to the problems of the unemployed. A modest goal, it seems, though Mr. Moore knows as well as anybody that it's not a goal that stands any chance of being achieved. It is, however, a wonderful premise for an angry, biased, witty movie.
The portly, beady-eyed Mr. Moore, as sharp and sophisticated a documentary film maker as has come on the scene in years, manifests a down-home wonder at the world's idiocies. With a toothpick stuck in the corner of his mouth, wearing a down jacket, jeans and the sort of cap that should have the name of a feedlot on it, he stalks the G.M. chairman in the assorted sanctuaries of the seriously rich and powerful.
He shows up at the G.M. offices in Detroit, where he has some hilarious, comparatively polite arguments with security guards and public relations people, who bite their lips as they try desperately to to hang onto their well-paid cool.
He is hustled out of both the Grosse Point Yacht Club and the Detroit Athletic Club. He attends the annual G.M. stockholders' meeting and successfully gets the microphone, only to be cut off. On the dais, Mr. Smith brags to an associate about the fleetness with which he managed to avoid the embarrassment, not realizing that his microphone is still on.
''Roger and Me'' is stuffed with such remarkable ''found'' moments, which are not really found at all. They may be unplanned, but only a film maker thoroughly at ease with his subject, and aware of various possibilities, is going to be in a position to find those moments.
They include Mr. Moore's not terribly warm encounter with Mr. Smith at a reception following the G.M. chairman's annual ''Christmas message,'' a scene cross-cut with the Christmas Eve eviction of an unemployed G.M. worker.
To save their city after the G.M. pullout, the Flint city fathers approve a series of schemes that sound as if they'd come out of the head of Evelyn Waugh, reborn as a Flint booster. They spend $13 million to build a Hyatt Regency Hotel and $100 million or so more for a theme park called AutoWorld, both of which quickly go broke. They attempt to boost morale by bringing in Pat Boone and Anita Bryant to perform for the tired masses. The television evangelist the Rev. Robert Schuller is paid a reported $20,000 to tell his audience, ''You can turn your hurt into a halo.''
After photographing a radiant Miss Michigan in a Flint parade waving to crowds standing in front of closed stores, Mr. Moore tries to get her reaction to Flint's ever-present poverty. Her smile vanishes as she tries to show concern. Does she have any message for the people of Flint? The smile returns. ''Just keep your fingers crossed for me as I go for the gold!'' Miss Michigan did, indeed, become Miss America that year (1988).
Mr. Moore is clearly someone who believes that poverty and corporate neglect are sins, and he doesn't pull his punches. He doesn't appeal to easy sentiment. He demolishes the television personality Bob Eubanks, of ''The Newlywed Game,'' just by letting him talk on and on.
Mr. Moore makes no attempt to be fair. Playing fair is for college football. In social criticism, anything goes, as it goes triumphantly in ''Roger and Me.''
 
EXECUTIVE SEARCH
 
ROGER AND ME, directed, written and produced by Michael Moore; cinematography, Christopher Beaver, John Prusak, Kevin Rafferty and Bruce Schermer; edited by Wendey Stanzler and Jennifer Beman. At Alice Tully Hall, as part of the New York Film Festival. 83 minutes. This film has no rating.
 
The Bunny Lady . . . Rhonda Britto
The Tourism Chief . . . Steve Wilson
Narration . . . Michael Moore
 
WITH: Roger Smith, Ronald Reagan, Miss America, Pat Boone, Anita Bryant, the Rev. Robert Schuller, Bob Eubanks, Deputy Fred Ross

CORRECTION-DATE: October 2, 1989, Monday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
A film review of ''Roger and Me'' on Wednesday listed the credits incompletely in some copies. The editors were Wendey Stanzler and Jennifer Beman.

GRAPHIC: A scene from Michael Moore's ''Roger and Me.'' Flint, Mich., is the film maker's hometown.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: ROGER AND ME (MOVIE); NEW YORK FILM FESTIVAL

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); 

CITY: FLINT, MI, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FLINT (MICH)

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; DOCUMENTARY FILMS AND PROGRAMS FILM (92%); FESTIVALS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); WRITERS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); HISTORY (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); RESTAURANTS (66%); VISUAL ARTISTS (62%); 

PERSON: CANBY, VINCENT; SMITH, ROGER B; MOORE, MICHAEL RONALD REAGAN (55%); 



661 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

COMPANIES
 
B.A.T. said it would sell its vast retailing empire, including the Saks and Marshall Field chains, as part of a revamping aimed at thwarting Sir James Goldsmith's $21 billion hostile takeover bid. [Page A1.] The Saks and Marshall Field stores are expected to draw substantial interest. [D5.] 
 
Citizens and Southern plans to merge with Sovran Financial in a deal that would create the nation's 11th-largest bank. [D1.]
 
Toys ''R'' Us said it would begin selling toys in Japan within two years, in a venture with McDonald's (Japan). [D1.]
 
Peter Guber is expected to replace Victor A. Kaufman as president and chief executive of Columbia Pictures. [D1.]
 
Arthur Andersen and Price Waterhouse will not merge, saying they could not resolve differences. [D1.]
 
CBS and Turner Broadcasting agreed on a deal for the cable network to carry some Olympic events in 1992 and 1994. [D2.]
 
I.B.M. plans to increase significantly the speed of its Personal System/2 computers. [D16.]
 
Sun Oil is expected to begin test-marketing a cleaner-burning gasoline. [D4.]
 
A.T.& T. will pay $180 million for Istel, a privately held information and technology services company in London. [D4.]
 
United Airlines' machinists want to negotiate a new contract rather than participate in a buyout of UAL. [D4.]
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
The European Community proposed $660 million in economic aid for Hungary and Poland next year. [A1.] In agreeing with I.M.F., the Bush Administration has committed itself to more ambitious aid to Poland than the direct assistance it proposed. [A13.]
 
MARKETS
 
The dollar held its own despite aggressive dollar-selling by central banks of the Group of Seven. [D1.]
 
Stocks ended slightly higher after losing substantial early gains on a late wave of futures-related trading. [D8.] Shares sold short and not yet covered rose 1.1 percent in over-the-counter trading in the four weeks ended Sept. 15, Nasdaq reported. [D26.]
 
Prices of Treasury securities rose modestly, rebounding from Monday's big selloff. [D15.] Yields were slightly down for C.D.'s and money market accounts. [D25.]
 
A forecast of ideal harvest weather sent some grain futures prices lower, but the selloff helped to bolster cattle prices. [D18.]
 
THE ECONOMY
 
Three men and a military contractor pleaded guilty to bribery or conspiracy charges stemming from a scheme to win contracts from the Marine Corps. And a Federal grand jury indicted two men, including a military consultant, Thomas Muldoon. [D1.]
 
Durable goods orders jumped 3.8 percent in August for the best gain in eight months. [D20.]
 
The U.S. oil and gas industry continued to contract last year, as did the value of its known reserves. [D17.]
 
TECHNOLOGY
 
A mass-transit bus designed to be powered by natural gas is in the works. [D6.]
 
Union Carbide hopes to eliminate large amounts of harmful solvents in spray paints. [D6.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
 
Can U.S. networks pay less for rights to the Olympic Games? Two researchers say yes. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
 
Some people on Wall Street wonder whether investment banks need safeguards against their bridge loans. Market Place. [D8.]
 
American magazine publishers have begun to look overseas, especially Europe. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D19.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: TOY (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (54%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); FUTURES (87%); CABLE INDUSTRY (79%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (79%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (77%); CONTRACT AWARDS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); US DOLLAR (76%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (75%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (75%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (74%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (73%); DURABLE GOODS (72%); TEST MARKETING (72%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); BIOFUELS (71%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); CURRENCIES (68%); FACTORY ORDERS (67%); OLYMPICS (67%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (65%); GRAIN MARKETS (63%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (61%); ARMED FORCES (60%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (60%); GRAND JURY (60%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); BRIBERY (60%); GUILTY PLEAS (60%); CONSPIRACY (60%); INDICTMENTS (60%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (50%); 

PERSON: JAMES 'MICHAEL' GOLDSMITH (73%); PETER GUBER (57%); VICTOR A KAUFMAN (56%); 



662 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Its Allies Sell Dollars

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER; Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 26

 BODY:
The central banks of the leading industrial democracies sold dollars aggressively again today but the dollar held its ground, after falling sharply on Monday.
The dollar fell slightly today against the West German mark and some other currencies and rose against the yen. The dollar's resilience signals persistent underlying support despite the new coordinated effort to drive it down. And it may mean, traders said, that changes in interest rates, along with more intervention, will be needed to cap the dollar's rise. 
The United States and its economic allies began their concerted intervention Monday after stating on Saturday that the dollar was too strong.
 
Drops Against Mark
The dollar ended today at 1.8918 West German marks and 142.35 yen in New York, down from 1.8992 marks Monday but up from 142.15 yen. But the currency is still down six pfennigs and is almost four yen lower than it was on Friday, before the communique was issued by the Group of Seven - the United States, Japan, West Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada.
The intervention came as the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank formally opened their annual meeting here and as bankers, finance ministers and other officials focused on the debt problems of the world's developing nations.
At a reception he hosted today, President Bush called on the 65 bankers and various foreign officials present to support the plan advanced by Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady to alleviate third world debt burdens.
''He strongly urged adherence to the Brady plan,'' Alixe Glen, a White House spokeswoman, said tonight. Mr. Bush addresses the I.M.F. meeting on Wednesday.
 
Sign of Progress
In one development that reflected some progress, a member of the delegation from Argentina, said an agreement with the I.M.F. on a standby loan of about $1.5 billion over 18 months ''is almost ready.'' He said signing could come this week.
The agreement would be another major step in Argentina's effort to overhaul its economy and negotiate a debt reduction and restructing deal with its commercial bankers.
Argentina has been unable to get financial aid since it stopped making interest and principal payments on most of its debt in April of 1988 and is about $4.4 billion in arrears.
The new President, Carlos Saul Menem, initiated an economic plan after his inauguration in July that will sell state-owned businesses, slash Government subsidies, improve tax collection, cut the budget deficit and restrain wages and prices.
An agreement with the I.M.F. would allow the release of $150 million from the World Bank and open the door to a longer-term agreement with the fund. The fact that the I.M.F. also approved of the economic reform program would set the stage for new debt negotiations.
Venezuela said it had received a $600 million interim loan from 15 commercial banks that would allow it to bring its interest payments up to date by the end of 1989.
Its Government will also draw $400 million from its reserves to make interest payments. At present, Venezuela is about $700 million behind in payments, said Miguel Rodriguez Fandeo, the Minister of Planning who is in charge of the debt negotiations.
The interim loan and Venezuela's decision to drop its demand for a 50 percent across-the-board debt reduction should revive negotiations over the restructuring of its $21 billion in debt to commercial banks.
At a news conference announcing the change in the proposal, Mr. Rodriquez said the country would offer an array of debt-reduction alternatives ranging from a discount of 60 percent to below 35 percent. The new plan will also include an option for new loans.
Sir Kit McMahon, the chairman of Midland Bank of Britain and a member of the bank advisory committee negotiating with Venezuela, praised the move. ''I'm glad they have dropped their initial demand,'' he said.
In another development, Mexican officials, including Finance Minister Pedro Aspe, met with more than 300 bankers to discuss the country's recently concluded debt reduction and restructuring plan. Under the agreement with a committee representing creditor banks, each bank must decide whether to accept a 35 percent reduction in the value of existing loans or provide new loans.
In foreign exchange trading today, the central bank intervention began in Tokyo and continued in Europe and New York.
Traders said as many as 10 central banks, including the Bundesbank of West Germany, the Federal Reserve, the Bank of Japan and the Bank of England, joined in the dollar-selling, which one trader said might have totaled $1.5 billion.
But the dollar did not fall immediately. It rose at first in Tokyo. After intervention in Europe and in New York, the dollar fell below the key 1.90 mark level, which is believed to be the ceiling the United States and its allies had set for the dollar. The dollar also fell against the yen in New York but rebounded to end higher.
''I think they mean it,'' said Liliana Nealon, vice president of foreign exchange at the Union Bank of Switzerland in New York. ''The issue is will they continue and will they couple it with a change in interest rates.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ARGENTINA (93%); GERMANY (91%); FRANCE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (53%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES US DOLLAR (92%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); JAPANESE YEN (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (66%); APPROVALS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 



663 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Olympians Play, U.S. TV Pays

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
ABC paid $309 million for broadcast rights to the 1988 winter Olympic Games in Calgary, Alberta. Western European television paid a total of $5.7 million.
No, that is not a misprint: The United States, with roughly the same income and fewer viewers than Europe, forked over 50 times as much money to the International Olympic Committee.
In the latest issue of The Brookings Institution Review, Robert Z. Lawrence and Jeffrey D. Pellegrom explain why the American networks always pay an olympian share of the Olympic television bill. More important, the two Brookings researchers offer a clever plan to right the balance - and in the process raise hundreds of millions to support amateur athletics in the United States. 
According to the International Olympic Committee, there is no conspiracy to force American television to underwrite most of the cost of the Games. The committee negotiates the best deal it can with the networks in each country. American rights have simply proved to be far more valuable because the Games are shown here on commercial television. In Japan and Europe, most Olympic broadcasts are commercial-free.
Mr. Lawrence is unconvinced. ''When it comes to the rest of the world,'' he says, ''the I.O.C. extends its hand with a kid glove rather than a tight fist.''
In any event, Mr. Lawrence argues, the key to understanding why United States networks shell out so much lies in the bargaining process. Western Europe negotiates through a single entity, the European Broadcast Union. Once the E.B.U. cuts a deal, it apportions the cost among its members.
The three American networks, by contrast, compete with each other for rights. Bidding for the 1988 winter Games pushed the price far above the price expected by the International Olympic Committee. And in only slightly less frenzied competition, NBC paid $300 million for the 1988 summer Games in Seoul.
One consequence, Mr. Lawrence asserts, is that American viewers are stuck with advertising overkill. In what proved to be an unsuccessful attempt to recoup its costs, NBC larded 179 hours of summer coverage in 1988 with 5,000 commercials. ABC, similarly pressed in the winter Games, chose to interrupt live hockey coverage in order to slip in more advertising.
Mr. Lawrence would increase American bargaining leverage by adopting a variation of the European system. Washington - or the U.S. Olympic Committee - would set broadcast standards for the Games, limiting commercial time and forbidding interruption of live action. Rights would be auctioned to the highest bidder, with the cash going to the U.S.O.C. The Committee would then bargain directly on the amount paid to the I.O.C. During some transition period, Mr. Lawrence reckons, the United States might cover half the total television bill. Thereafter, he argues, America ought to hold out for a formula in which payments were tied to population, per capita income and prime time viewing hours. The millions left over after the U.S. Olympic Committee paid its share would be funneled into training for American athletes.
The proposal has already received a potent political boost in the form of an endorsement in principle from Bill Bradley, a former Olympic athlete and - more important - a senior member of the Senate Finance Committee.
Any plan that imposed legal limits on commercial time would buck a 10-year trend toward deregulation and would certainly be opposed by the owners of television stations. If that opposition proved unshakable, Mr. Lawrence would opt for a less ambitious auction alternative that placed no limits on commercials but did capture the bulk of television revenues for American athletes.
Stripped to basics, Mr. Lawrence notes, such an approach would not actually require the involvement of the Government or even much help from the U.S. Olympic Committee. If, for example, the networks merely pledged in advance to match, dollar for dollar, any payments to the International Olympic Committee with donations to U.S. athletes, their maximum potential bids for television rights would automatically be halved.
Indeed, the act of threatening to circumscribe competition between the networks would increase American bargaining leverage.
The International Olympic Committee has already agreed to rebate 10 percent of U.S. television revenues from the 1992 and 1994 Games. And in negotiations set to begin next month on the percentage to be returned to the U.S. Olympic Committee in 1996, the I.O.C. might respond to pressure for tough, unilateral action by the United States by offering a substantially larger share of the pie.

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); CANADA (91%); WESTERN EUROPE (90%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: ALBERTA, CANADA (91%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (58%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (72%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (84%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (84%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (83%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION REVIEW

SUBJECT: OLYMPIC GAMES; TELEVISION OLYMPICS (93%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (89%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (89%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); AMATEUR SPORTS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (74%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (72%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; LAWRENCE, ROBERT Z; PELLEGROM, JEFFREY D



664 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 8, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: Dow Closes Up a Bit After Losing Big Gain

BYLINE: By PHILLIP H. WIGGINS

 BODY:
Stocks ended slightly higher yesterday after losing substantial early gains on a late wave of futures-related trading.
Fears that a possible rise in West German interest rates might spark similar moves by Japan and other major economic powers also contributed to the selloff, traders said.
The Dow Jones industrial average finished 4.75 points ahead, at 2,663.94 points, after being up about 22 points at midday, virtually erasing its 22.42-point drop on Monday. 
But in the last hour before the close, arbitragers sold shares represented in the Standard & Poor's 500 index and simultaneously bought futures based on that index. This was done because the futures toward the close were cheaper than the stocks in the index.
The S.& P. index finished up 0.10, to 344.33, while the spot, or nearest, futures on this index, December, closed at 350.25, up 1.30. The New York Stock Exchange composite index added 0.19, to 191.47.
 
Volume Climbs
Advances on the New York Stock Exchange outnumbered declines by 740 to 634. Volume was moderate, but at 158.4 million shares was solidly ahead of the 121.1 million that exchanged hands on Monday.
''The dollar's stabilization at slightly lower levels provided a trampoline for equities throughout most of the day,'' said Robert H. Stovall, president of Stovall/21st Advisers in New York.
''The bond market rallied off of the U.S. currency's firmness but later weakened after a senior German official said the West German central bank was considering a small interest rate rise,'' he added.
Mr. Stovall pointed out that stocks that had been damaged by Hurricane Hugo recovered some of their recent losses. The Travelers Corporation rose 7/8, to 40 3/4, and Aetna Life and Casualty was up 3/8, to 56 1/4. Sears, Roebuck, which also owns an insurer, Allstate, was unchanged at 42 1/2.
Among individual issues, the spotlight remained on Columbia Pictures, which slipped 1/8, to 26 1/4, on a volume-leading total of nearly 4.2 million shares. The entertainment company is expected to accept an offer worth more than $3 billion from the Sony Corporation, although neither concern would comment on details. Sony rose 2 1/8, to 61 5/8.
Coca-Cola, which owns 49 percent of Columbia and stands to gain substantial cash that might be used for expansion overseas or share repurchases, rose 1 1/8, to 64 1/8.
 
Japanese Stocks Gain
Other Japanese stocks benefited for the second straight day from the Columbia Pictures activity. Matsushita Electric jumped 3 1/2, to 167 1/2, and the Kyocera Corporation added 2 3/4, to 82.
In a sympathetic reaction and on substantial Japanese buying, several foreign funds were among the bigger net gainers. The Spain Fund soared 12 points, to 38 3/4; India Growth Fund jumped 3 3/8, to 19 3/4; Thai Fund rose 3 1/2, to 26 1/2, and Germany Fund rose 3, to 15.
Paramount Communications, which Harold Vogel, an analyst at Merrill Lynch, rated yesterday as a long-term buy, was up 1 1/2, to 56 1/4.
On the American Stock Exchange, the Amex market value index added 0.79, to 382.19, while in over-the-counter trading, Nasdaq advanced 1.13 points, to 467.84.

GRAPHIC: favorite stocks chart

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (83%); C (BMV) (83%); 8710 (TSE) (83%); SON (LSE) (81%); SNE (NYSE) (81%); 6758 (TSE) (81%); KYO (NYSE) (60%); 6971 (TSE) (60%); AET (NYSE) (53%); ALL (NYSE) (52%); KO (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (81%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (81%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (53%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (52%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (52%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (83%); SONY CORP (81%); TRAVELERS CORP (65%); KYOCERA CORP (60%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); AETNA INC (53%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (53%); ALLSTATE CORP (52%); COCA-COLA CO (51%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME STOCK INDEXES (94%); FUTURES (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BONDS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (79%); BOND MARKETS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (63%); HURRICANES (50%); 

PERSON: WIGGINS, PHILLIP H



665 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 15, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
U.S. Issues Rebound Somewhat

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities rose modestly yesterday, rebounding from Monday's big selloff.
The gains, which were recorded in fairly light trading, were started by better-than-anticipated demand for $9.75 billion worth of two-year Treasury notes that were auctioned yesterday.
''The yield on the two-year backed up enough so that investors came back,'' said William M. Brachfeld, an executive vice president at Daiwa Securities America Inc.
 
Japanese Bids Scant
Although rumors circulated through the market that one Japanese client had bid for $1 billion of the securities, Mr. Brachfeld said bids placed through Japanese firms for the new notes were light. 
''We have seen a backup in the market, and conceivably we could see some more,'' he said. ''If the economy is still chugging along and the Fed is not going to ease policy, then yields might have to back up a bit more in order to deal with the new supply that still has to be sold.''
At the auction, the two-year notes were sold at an average yield of 8.39 percent, the highest yield level since the two-year note sale in May and slightly above the average 8.37 percent yield on two-year notes auctioned on Aug. 22.
Today the Treasury is expected to sell $7.75 billion worth of four-year notes. The notes were offered on a when-issued basis late yesterday at a price to yield 8.32 percent.
Mr. Brachfeld and other market participants said foreign investors were likely to show more interest in the four-year issue.
 
Durables Report Cited
Most market participants had little reaction to the news that durable goods orders had posted a bigger-than-expected 3.8 percent increase in August. Some analysts suggested the report may have warranted more attention than it got.
''Conditions at most durable goods industries are moving from being soft to clear-cut weakness,'' said Donald J. Fine, chief market analyst at the Chase Manhattan Corporation. ''This report does not bode well for the manufacturing sector, and it bolsters the argument that the Fed should lower interest rates to help manufacturing.''
Prices of Treasury bonds and longer-term notes posted the biggest gains yesterday, recouping at least some of Monday's losses. By late in the day, the Treasury's 8 1/8 percent bonds were offered at a price of 98 3/4, up 1/2 of a point, or $5 for each $1,000 face amount of securities, to yield 8.23 percent. Monday's big selloff pushed yields on the closely watched bellwether bond above 8.25 percent for the first time since late June. 10-Year Notes at 8.27% Among secondary Treasury note issues, the 8 percent 10-year notes were offered at 98 5/32, up 1/4 of a point, to yield 8.27 percent. And the 8 1/4 percent five-year notes were offered at 99 27/32, up 5/32, to yield 8.27 percent.
Short-term Treasury bills were mixed. In late trading, three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 7.75 percent, up five basis points, or hundredths of a point. Six-month bills were offered at 7.79 percent, up two basis points. Meanwhile, one-year bill rates dipped by one basis point, to a late offered rate of 7.71 percent.
Elsewhere, investors in the high-yield ''junk bond'' market snapped up a $375 million offering of Petrolane Gas Service. The senior subordinated debentures, which mature in 2001, were priced at par, or $100, to yield 13.25 percent. By late afternoon, commitments for the entire issue had been received.
The First Boston Corporation acted as lead manager for the underwriting, which is rated B-2 by Moody's Investors Service and B by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
A $125 million offering of Petrolane senior secured notes was pre-placed, and not reoffered.
 
Corporate Activity Light
Activity in the secondary market for investment-grade corporate bonds was light yesterday, dealers said, with prices of most issues down by 1/8 of a point to 1/4 of a point.
Prices of secondary tax-exempt municipal bonds ended a two-week slide as prices of most issues rose by 1/2 of a point to 5/8 of a point.
The rally in the municipal market occurred despite the offering of a slew of new issues, including a $175 negotiated deal for the San Diego County Regional Transportation Commission.
The issue includes serial bonds with maturities ranging from 1991 to 1999. The bonds were preliminarily priced with coupons from 6.30 percent in 1991 to 7.10 percent in 1999.
First Boston acted as lead manager for the transaction, which is rated A-1 by Moody's and A+ by S.&P.
Following are the results of yesterday's auction of two-year Treasury notes:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
An error occurred in the processing of a table at this point in the document. Please refer to the table in the online document.

 
The two-year notes mature Sept. 30, 1991.

GRAPHIC: graph of 2-year treasury yeild

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: DAIWA SECURITIES AMERICA INC (72%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS AND BONDS TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (68%); INTEREST RATES (63%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N



666 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 15, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 276 words

HEADLINE: FINANCE/NEW ISSUES;
General Obligation Bonds Priced by New York City

 BODY:
New York City yesterday tentatively priced $700 million in general obligation bonds through a group of underwriters led by Goldman, Sachs & Company.
The offering is the second for the city in its current fiscal year, which ends June 30. The first was a $750 million general obligation sale in mid-July. Since then, the cost of borrowing has increased and interest rates on tax-exempt issues have risen about one-half of a percentage point.
Yields offered in yesterday's issue include 6.40 percent on bonds maturing in 1990, 7 percent for 1994 maturities, 7.40 percent for 1999 and 7.70 percent for 2003 and 2004.
The financing includes a group of A-series bonds, which are insured by the Financial Guaranty Insurance Company, with maturities running from 2005 to 2008 and priced to yield 7.25 percent. There is also a series of B bonds, maturing from 2009 to 2015 at a price to yield 7.80 percent, and a group of C bonds with final maturites running from 2016 to 2019 and priced to yield 7.75 percent.
Underwriters said that becuase bonds in group A were insured by the F.G.I.C., they were rated triple-A by Moody's Investors Service and the Standard & Poor's Corporation. All other bonds carry an A rating by Moody's and an A- rating by S.&P. For New York City residents, the bonds are exempt from local, state and Federal taxes.
The yields being offered in this bond issue range anywhere from 25 to 70 one-hundredths of a percentage point higher than those initially offered at the July sale. The Bond Buyer's weekly index of 20 actively traded general obligation bond issues is currently at 7.33 percent, compared with 6.92 percent in mid-July.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (70%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (67%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE CO (70%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (67%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (94%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (90%); BOND ISSUES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); INSURANCE (78%); CITIES (78%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); CITY LIFE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); TAX LAW (71%); INTEREST RATES (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); 



667 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 20, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Durables Orders Jump 3.8%

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 26

 BODY:
Durable goods orders jumped a surprising 3.8 percent in August for the best gain in eight months, the Commerce Department said today, but fresh signs of weakness in the industrial sector crept into the monthly report.
Led by rising orders for transportation goods and non-electrical machinery, orders for durable goods reached a seasonally adjusted $126.7 billion, up from $122.1 billion in July.
Although the rise appeared healthy on the surface, economists said manufacturers were now receiving far fewer orders than they were shipping, signaling slower growth for United States industry ahead. 
 
'On the Soft Side'
''Over all, the report characterizes the durables sector as being on the soft side,'' said Jerry Zukoski, an economist with the Paine Webber Group.
Products built to last three years or more, durable goods ranging from baby carriages to battleships, represent a key part of the nation's manufacturing sector and are closely watched as an indicator of the economy's health.
The rise in durable goods orders was broad based, with gains in all sectors except for metals and electrical machinery, such as communication equipment.
The August gain was led by a 9.2 percent rise in machinery orders, where the increase was broad based. The 6.7 percent gain in transportation equipment was pushed up by autos, which more than offset a decline in aircraft and parts.
 
Shipments Rise 9.5%
Shipments of durable goods also rose a strong 9.5 percent after a 3.7 percent fall in July.
But in a troubling sign, unfilled orders fell by three-tenths of 1 percent, the first decline in that category since February 1987. The decline showed manufacturers were failing to win enough new orders to sustain the current robust shipment rate.
''New orders are not keeping pace with shipments, and thus some weakening is occurring in the industrial sector,'' said Cynthia Latta, an economist at Data Resources.
Economists are largely convinced the Federal Reserve Board has engineered a ''soft landing'' of moderate growth and low inflation, and the durable goods report gives further evidence that the economy has avoided a recession so far.
 
Home Sales Rebounding
Despite the apparent industrial slowdown, employment growth remains strong, personal income and consumption are healthy, home sales are rebounding and inflation has been tamed by falling gasoline and lower food prices.
The National Association of Business Economists projected on Monday that the current economic growth cycle would continue through next year and that a recession was likely to be avoided until 1991 or beyond.
Economists said the slump in new orders might be due to the higher dollar, which has made it more difficult for American manufacturers to continue achieving large export gains.
The Group of Seven industrialized democracies - the United States, West Germany, France, Britain, Japan, Canada and Italy - pledged at meetings held over the weekend to seek a lower dollar to correct the world's trade imbalances, especially the gaping American trade deficit. The dollar has since weakened after a heavy round of dollar sales.
Excluding military-related orders, which can fluctuate wildly from month to month, durable goods orders rose 3.9 percent in August, the department said. Orders for military capital goods rose 1.9 percent.

GRAPHIC: graph of durable goods orders from 3/88 to 8/89 (Source: Commerce Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (56%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SECURITIES DEALERS INC (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) DURABLE GOODS (97%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); SHIPMENTS (89%); NEW ORDERS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CONSUMPTION (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); FOOD PRICES (63%); TALKS & MEETINGS (61%); CENTRAL BANKS (61%); 



668 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: LOSS OF $4 BILLION IS FOUND IN AUDIT OF MORTGAGE FUND

BYLINE: By JEFF GERTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 27

 BODY:
An independent audit of several Federal funds that insure mortgages shows that they had a record loss of $4.2 billion last year.
The audit, released today at a Senate hearing, suggests that the troubles with the Federal Housing Administration funds are far more serious than had been thought. And the losses that the audit found at the F.H.A., part of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, provide the most costly indication yet of management problems at the department in the Reagan Administration.
Comptroller General Charles A. Bowsher, who released the new audit, said the F.H.A. losses would significantly affect the Federal budget deficit. He said Congress would have to appropriate at least $4 billion to $5 billion over the next few years to make up for losses in two F.H.A. insurance funds that rely on Congressional subsidies. 
 
Two Broad Problems
Congressional and H.U.D. investigations of the department's workings in the Reagan years have uncovered two broad problems: the more publicized political manipulation of housing money and the more costly mismanagement of housing programs. Today a former top assistant to former Housing Secretary Samuel R. Pierce Jr. refused to answer questions from a House panel investigating these problems. [Page A18.] Mr. Bowsher said the audit provided considerable evidence that H.U.D. did not properly oversee the work of the private lenders who gained significant control over loans in the early years of the Reagan Administration. The Administration promoted the division of risk between private lenders and the Government as part of its move to shift more Government functions to private contractors. But the Government retained most of the risk.
Investigators have said that many of the F.H.A. losses stemmed from some lenders' practice of vastly overvaluing property that was being mortgaged. Mr. Bowsher, who heads the General Accounting Office, Congress's investigative arm, also attributed some of the losses to economic downturns, especially in the Southwest, that caused a rising number of defaults. He added that a sluggish housing market cut the F.H.A.'s premium income.
 
Audit by Independent Firm
The audit was performed for the General Accounting Office by the accounting firm Price Waterhouse.
Only in the last two years have the F.H.A.'s financial statments been audited by an independent accounting firm. Both audits, conducted by Price Waterhouse, have uncovered large losses, most of them in 1988.
The audits were requested by Congress even before the problems at H.U.D. were revealed.
 
Difference in Loss Figures
The latest audit's findings are starkly different from what the F.H.A. itself has reported: while Price Waterhouse found a $4.2 billion loss for 1988, the F.H.A.'s audit found a loss of $858 million. A Price Waterhouse auditor attributed the difference in the figures to varying auditing techniques rather than an attempt by the F.H.A. to cover up the extent of its losses.
The Price Waterhouse audit found a dramatic decline in the value of the Government's equity, or stake in all of its funds combined. Just two years ago the equity was more than $3 billion, but, according to the new audit, there is now a deficit of $2.9 billion.
This $6 billion deterioration ''starts to show where the dollars went'' under H.U.D. management in the Reagan era, Mr. Bowsher said in an interview after his testimony before the Senate Banking Subcommittee on Housing and Urban Affairs.
 
Growth in Defaults Hits Peak
Mr. Bowsher offered some good news from the audit findings, namely that the growth rate in defaults seems to have peaked in 1988. But he tempered that by noting there will be more defaults in the future and the amount of 1988 losses reported in the audit may turn out to be a conservative figure.
The Price Waterhouse audit raises the possibility that there may be additional losses beyond what is contained in its report. The firm declined to give an unqualified opinion as to the accuracy of F.H.A.'s financial statements because of continuing investigations into possible diversions of F.H.A. money and misstatements of foreclosed porperties held in inventory.
Today's developments came as Congress is considering proposals to expand F.H.A.'s main insurance fund, which insures mortgages for single-family houses. Mr. Bowsher told the committee that a preliminary analysis showed that lowering downpayment requirements ''would be likely to increase F.H.A.'s claims and losses.''
Mr. Bowsher praised current efforts to reform the F.H.A. The head of the F.H.A., C. Austin Fitts, an Assistant Secretary of H.U.D., told the subcommittee that while the losses were ''extremely heavy,'' they were ''manageable and fixable and we're committed to solving the problems.''
 
Breakdown of Losses
The accounting firm's audit gave this breakdown of the F.H.A.'s losses:
* The mutual mortgage insurance fund, which is self-sustaining and F.H.A.'s largest and most conservative fund, incurred a loss of $1.4 billion in 1988, causing its equity to drop to $1.8 billion.
* The general insurance fund, which requires subsidies from Congress, incurred a loss of $2.6 billion, causing its equity, which was already negative, to worsen to a deficit of $3.1 billion. The largest loss in this fund was $960 million for the co-insurance program, which was overwhelmed by mismanagement. Another $275 million was set aside for losses in a hospital insurance program.
* The special risk insurance fund suffered losses of $300 million. The deficit in this fund, which also requires subsidies from Congress, widened to $1.6 billion.
Tom Craren, a partner at Price Waterhouse who supervised the audit, told the panel that the F.H.A.'s loss figure of $858 million was determined by looking at actual cash outlays to cover defaults, while the Price Waterhouse audit ''tried to look for real incidents of loss'' that more realistically reflect required ''outflows of cash in the future.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (85%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, DEPARTMENT OF; FEDERAL HOUSING ADMINISTRATION (FHA)

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES HOUSING AUTHORITIES (95%); AUDITS (91%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LENDER GUARANTY INSURANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); ACCOUNTING (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); CITIES (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (55%); 

PERSON: GERTH, JEFF; BOWSHER, CHARLES A RONALD REAGAN (79%); 



669 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-12
 
Canada is becoming a money haven for drug profits as traffickers try to avoid American banking laws intended to curb money laundering, law enforcement officials say. Page A1

 
A trial for Andreas Papandreou was ordered by Parliament. He is the first Greek prime minister to face criminal charges, including bribery and receiving stolen funds. A1

 
The Olof Palme case continues more than three years after the Swedish leader was killed. Though a man has been convicted of the crime, conspiracy buffs are having a field day A12 
 
 
British plans for Hong Kong citizens were outlined at the United Nations. The plans would make moving to Britain easier if China limits freedom taking control of Hong Kong. A1

 
More world economic aid for Poland was called for by President Bush, who pledged that the United States would be ''out in front of this effort'' to insure international success. A9

 
News analysis: Eastern Europe appears to have become a ground of agreement between Washington and Moscow. Both superpowers are treating the region delicately. A10

 
Latest Pentagon report lifts shadow of Soviet menace, a bit A10

 
Soviets reveal space secrets A3

 
Vietnam's Cambodian withdrawal has started a battle in the United Nations. The Cambodian opposition says the pullout is a sham and is trying to block U.N. approval of it. A8

 
Gadgets taken to Cambodia ease strain of foreign press A8

 
Johannesburg opened to all races the city's pools and recreational centers. It proceeded with plans to desegregate buses, after a poll showed that whites approve such moves. A3

 
El Carmen journal: South America blacks assert African past A4

 
NATIONAL A16-25, B13-14
 
An audit of Federal housing funds that insure home mortgages shows that they had a loss of $4.2 billion last year. H.U.D.'s troubles seem more serious than had been thought. A1

 
Ex-Pierce aide refuses questions A18

 
To avoid repeal of a health plan for older Americans, House Democratic leaders proposed eliminating most major features of the program and the surtax that would pay for it. A1

 
''Star Wars'' is facing trouble after six years of steadily increasing financing. Now the anti-missile project's budget and its role in military planning is declining. A1

 
NASA is dependent on contractors, officials say. That dependency may hurt the agency's ability to manage operations, maintain safety and control costs, they say. A1

 
Relief efforts in South Carolina are being hampered by fallen trees, as thousands of residents continue to live in shelters. Truckloads of supplies poured into Charleston. B14

 
Donations to help victims B14

 
The Senate agreed on a drug plan. It would cost more than $1 billion over President Bush's request, and aims more money at prevention, treatment and local law enforcement. B14

 
President Bush's education meeting with governors opened in an atmosphere of hope. But hope was tinged with division and uncertainty over how best to improve schools. B13

 
Election fever in Chicago schools as parents file for seats B13

 
E.P.A. is seeking tougher penalties against polluters it says dump untreated wastes into the Grand Calumet River, an industrialized waterway in northwest Indiana. A16

 
A sightseeing plane crashed on a hill near the Grand Canyon Airport, killing 10 people and injuring 11. A16

 
F.A.A. picks three more airports for advanced bomb detector A16

Braniff halts flights amid cash squeeze D1

Northwest deal seen changing D1

 
A high-speed train was proposed for Dallas-Houston travel by a private group. The train would be like those that travel at speeds up to 185 miles an hour in Europe and Japan. A22

 
In Atlanta, abortion opponents protest at prosecutor's home A25

Sony's vision for Columbia D1

I.B.M. sees profit shortfall D1

 
REGIONAL B1-12, B24

 
Yusuf Hawkins's father has a cause after his son's killing in the Bensonhurst section of Brooklyn last month. His goal is ''making black people aware that we are open game.'' A1

 
Rudolph Giuliani cut Jackie Mason from his mayoral campaign after Mr. Mason was quoted in a newspaper as making racially charged remarks about blacks and Jews. B1

 
Opposition to the proposed charter for New York City has been organized. A coalition of about 50 officials and leaders announced they would work for the charter's defeat. B1

 
Koch orders hiring freeze B3

Panel rejects plan for 400 new taxi medallions B3

 
An examination of the USAir jet that plunged into the East River last week at La Guardia Airport shows a rudder misalignment, a flaw that has drawn the attention of investigators. B1

 
In New Jersey's gubernatorial race, both candidates support the death penalty. But the Republican, Jim Courter, says he is for the death penalty more than his opponent is. B1

 
Homosexuality among priests, nuns and religious brothers was the subject of ''Our Lesbian and Gay Religious and Clergy,'' a conference of New York Roman Catholics. B2

 
Ex-aide says Mrs. Helmsley took millions from husband B5

Government's star witness against Garcia testifies B9

93 kilos of cocaine are seized B10

Phone-strike talks to resume B24

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CAMBODIA (93%); HONG KONG (92%); GREECE (90%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); POLAND (79%); VIET NAM (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); MONEY LAUNDERING (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); APPROVALS (77%); LARCENY & THEFT (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (75%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (73%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); BRIBERY (72%); RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY (72%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (71%); PUBLIC HOUSING (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (60%); MEDICARE (58%); 

PERSON: ANDREAS GEORGE PAPANDREOU (58%); SVEN OLOF JOACHIM 'OLOF' PALME (57%); GEORGE WALKER BUSH (56%); 



670 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 9, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL AID SOUGHT FOR POLES

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 27

 BODY:
President Bush called for greater international economic assistance for the new Government of Poland today, pledging that the United States would be ''out in front of this effort'' to insure success. But he offered few details about what the United States would do.
His speech, to the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, signaled a reinforced Administration effort to help officials of the new Polish Government, who have said that they will move toward freer markets.
The address was also an attempt to rebut accusations that the Administration help to the Poles has so far been paltry. The Administration is supporting a $169 million package of economic and food assistance that many in Congress deem inadequate. 
Last week, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee recommended passage of a $1.2 billion package of American aid for Poland and Hungary, and on Tuesday, the executive commission of the European Community proposed a separate $660 million program for the two countries.
 
Few Specifics Provided
Speaking to finance officials from the governments of the two international institutions, President Bush urged both lending agencies, which help countries carry out free-market economic reforms, to ''work rapidly with Poland.'' But he laid out no specific initiatives. ''In light of clearly growing needs, the recent accession of a Solidarity-led Government, and our self-evident stake in its success, we must do more,'' Mr. Bush said. Administration officials said that they had considered using the speech today to announce some specific new aid programs, but that no consensus had emerged, chiefly because of Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady's reluctance to move forward until Polish economic reforms are in place. Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d has been the principal proponent of greater aid. The 20-minute speech was politely received. It was not interrupted with applause, but Mr. Bush received a 25-second ovation.
 
Polish Finance Chief Speaks
Meanwhile, Poland provided fresh details today on the kind of assistance it wants. Leszek Balcerowicz, the Polish Finance Minister, said he had asked his counterparts in the seven leading industrial countries for $500 million in aid to cover an expected payments deficit in the fourth quarter that could keep Poland from importing essential industrial products, food and medicine.
Mr. Balcerowicz said Poland was asking for a $1 billion stabilization fund to help defend the exchange rate of the zloty and to make the currency convertible into Western currencies. The zloty is now practically worthless in much of the world.
The President praised work in the International Monetary Fund to increase its capital, which could be used to support economic change in Eastern Europe. ''The United States recognizes that the I.M.F. must have adequate resources to fulfill its critical role,'' he declared.
The fund, which helps countries meet immediate debts, is now considering assistance for Poland that, over three years, could total as much as $2.5 billion. Its managing director, Michel Camdessus, a former official of the French central bank, is expected to visit Warsaw next month.
 
A Big First Step
The World Bank, which helps countries with longer-term development projects like fertilizer plants and dock facilities, intends to lend Poland $300 million as the first part of a major commitment. The bank's International Finance Corporation affiliate, which supports private enterprise, already has a modest program, helping a Polish agricultural cooperative, and has recently offered to help Poland create a new financial system.
The President also called for more collaboration to ease debt burdens on third-world countries and remove trade barriers. With specific reference to the growing reluctance of commercial banks to lend money to third-world countries, he said that banks ''have a special role'' in furthering the Administration's debt strategy.
The strategy calls for commercial banks to forgive some existing loans and continue to provide new loans to debtor countries. Large American banks have recently been writing off some third-world debt and taking losses, raising concerns that they will not soon want to make new loans.
 
Bush Anticipates Progress
The President defended the strategy, saying that it has provided hope for countries like Mexico and the Philippines, which have agreements with the banks on debt-reduction plans, and urged that the effort be broadened.
Treasury Secretary Brady, in his speech, said ''unrealistic expectations'' among banks and debtor countries were among the main problems that the debt strategy aims to meet. He also disclosed that Costa Rica, Venezuela, Morocco, Uruguay and Chile are also seeking to negotiate debt-reduction packages.
In commenting on the Polish reform plan, Finance Minister Balcerowicz said that Poland was still hoping to maintain a stable trading relationship with the Soviet Union, especially in the supply of raw material. ''We are neighbors. There are advantages to both sides to trade,'' he said.
He also said that that one important feature of the reform will be the auction of some state enterprises to private businessmen. Such auctions, he added, would provide the Polish Treasury with badly neded funds.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: POLAND (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); HUNGARY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POLAND

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); CURRENCIES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); TRENDS (74%); FOOD CHARITIES (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); EXCHANGE RATES (60%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



671 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: Latest Pentagon Report Lifts Shadow of Soviet Menace, a Bit

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 27

 BODY:
It is not quite a paean to perestroika. But the Pentagon issued a new report on the Soviet military today that is a far cry from the catalogue of the Soviet empire's evils published annually by the Reagan Administration - and even a bit more muted than the public statements of Defense Secretary Dick Cheney.
Gone are blurry satellite photos of Soviet radar installations and drawings of submarines firing nuclear missiles. Instead, a photo of smiling Soviet soldiers leaving Afghanistan is on the cover of ''Soviet Military Power 1989.'' 
Talk of ''world domination'' has been soberly rewritten as the Soviet Union ''striving to increase its power and influence at the expense of the West.'' Even the subtitle, ''Prospects for Change,'' shows how the Pentagon's view of the Soviet Union has changed since 1988, when the book was subtitled, ''An Assessment of the Threat.''
It also is not nearly as gloomy about the political future of President Mikhail S. Gorbachev as Mr. Cheney was when he got in trouble with President Bush for suggesting that the Soviet President might not last long.
 
A Warning by Cheney
To be sure, the book says that the Soviet military remains a ''major threat'' to American security and that the extent of Mr. Gorbachev's changes are still unproven. Mr. Cheney, who is fighting off budget cuts on Capitol Hill, made a point of warning today that Soviet nuclear missiles ''threaten the very survival of the United States.''
In remarks to reporters today, President Bush said: ''I want to have a prudent defense policy. I don't want to do something naive or silly in defense just because we are working more closely with the Soviets.''
Some critics of the Pentagon said the new edition of ''Soviet Military Power'' contains inaccuracies and exaggerated figures that they said were intended to help get more money for military programs.
But, just as milder commentary on the United States in the Soviet press reflects the Kremlin's changing view of Washington, the new book is a graphic illustration of an evolution that has come hard to the Pentagon, where military planners once cut their teeth on ''the Soviet menace.''
Now, the Soviet military has direct contacts with the American military and arms control talks are moving forward. Next week, Mr. Cheney will be host to the Soviet Defense Minister, Dmitri T. Yazov, at the Pentagon.
 
Book Delayed for Months
Still, officials said there was a struggle over the 1989 book, which was delayed for several months and reflected compromises between those who wanted to recognize the changes in the Soviet Union and those who feared the Defense Department might appear naively optimistic.
There also was some concern that a too-rosy analysis might encourage lawmakers who want to cut money for weapons programs intended primarily to deter Soviet force.
''We are faced with a situtation in which Congress seems to be determined to take cuts in the defense budget now in anticipation of a kinder, gentler Soviet Union,'' Mr. Cheney said in releasing the new book.
Phillip A. Karber, vice president of the B.D.M. Corporation, a concern that does Pentagon consulting work, said the new book ''is a historic document in that it reflects the new ambiguity.''
''Two years from now,'' he said, ''if Gorbachev succeeds, we are going to look like a bunch of pikers for not forecasting how radical his changes turned out to be. If he fails, all of our hopes are going to look terribly naive. No matter what we say now, it's probably going to be wrong, so the ambiguous position is probably the most realistic.''
 
First Publsihed in 1981
''Soviet Military Power'' was first published in 1981 by Defense Secretary Caspar W. Weinberger. Over the years, it has stressed different aspects of military technology, depending on the hot issues of the day - space weapons, conventional armed forces in Europe, or, this year, long-range nuclear weapons.
''In 1981, all the public could think about was deployment of American medium-range missiles in Europe,'' said Richard Perle, who helped create the book as Assistant Secretary for International Security Policy. ''At a NATO meeting, we gave the ministers a briefing on Soviet capabilities and they pleaded with Weinberger to free up some of the information.''
The book rapidly became part of the Soviet-American debate, spawning Moscow's own version, titled ''Whence the Threat to Peace.''
The writing style heated up over the years, along with the Soviet-American war of words. In 1984, asked to sum up the report's findings, Mr. Weinberger said, ''World domination, it's that simple.''
Even in 1988, Soviet reforms were given little credence. The Soviets ''experience feelings of inferiority when they are not accepted as full participants in world affairs,'' the book said.
''Their national goals and objectives require that the Soviets expand their military power and political influence beyond their own borders to insure their security and satisfy their imperial urges.''
 
A Book of Facts
Mr. Perle disputed the suggestion that such alarming comments were intended to drum up Congressional support for big military budgets, but he added, ''It started out as a book of facts and that's what it should have remained, without the editorial comment.''
This year, Mr. Cheney's introduction warned that the United States ''cannot react unilaterally to Soviet initiatives that are not yet implemented or to proposals, which, if implemented, can easily be reversed.''
But he also spoke of the ''dramatic changes'' under way in the Soviet Union. The book is replete with upbeat, if cautious, assessments of those reforms.
At one point, it says: ''At present, the Soviets do not seem to anticipate war in Europe in the near future and are stressing political, diplomatic and economic alternatives to achieve their strategic goals.''
Mr. Cheney sought to play down the change in the book's tone, simply smiling when asked what had happened to the old references to ''world domination.''
''The publication I will bear responsibility for is the one we put out today,'' he said. ''I take no responsibility for ones that were put out before.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN SECURITY SHREDDING (54%); AMERICAN SECURITY DISTRIBUTION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); BUDGETS (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); BUDGET CUTS (64%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CHENEY, DICK (SEC); REAGAN, RONALD WILSON DICK CHENEY (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 



672 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: East Europe: Superpowers Quietly Shake Hands

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
The Bush Administration and President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union appear to have come to at least a tacit understanding about how their countries should relate to the Eastern Europe now emerging from the cold war.
Judging by recent remarks by the Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard A. Shevardnadze, and Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d, both countries seem for the moment to feel they can pursue their interests in a rapidly evolving Eastern Europe without antagonizing the other or stifling the process of change there.
The United States has signaled Mr. Gorbachev that it will not exploit the loosening of Moscow's grip over countries like Poland and Hungary to entice them out of the Warsaw Pact or, through either words or deeds, foment anti-Soviet activities. As President Bush put it, Washington will aid the Eastern Europeans without poking ''a stick'' into Moscow's eye. 
 
'Least Worst Option' for Moscow
At the same time, the Soviets have signaled Washington that they intend to allow Eastern Europe to take a more liberalized economic and political course, with whatever financial aid the West wants to provide, as long as the process of change there does not threaten either the solidity of the Warsaw Pact or the security of the Soviet Union.
''I think there is such a tacit undertanding, and I think the Bush Administration has handled it quite deftly,'' said Michael Mandelbaum, an expert on Eastern Europe at the Council on Foreign Relations.
''We must keep in mind, though, that the Soviets have not come to such an understanding for our sake. It is the least worst option for them, because the cost - both to their own reform programs and physically - of keeping Poland and Hungary in line are too great. Yet, having made that calculation, Gorbachev wanted to be assured that the United States was not going to rush into Poland and rope it into NATO. It is now clear that we have given the Soviets that assurance.''
Whatever tacit understanding Moscow and Washington have achieved on the future of Eastern Europe, it is likely to be only temporary, in contrast to the understanding that governed the last 45 years. As long as change in Eastern Europe is confined to Poland and Hungary, the Kremlin can easily live with the new order without its fundamental security being brought into question, provided the Americans play along. But what happens when this process of change spreads to East Germany or the Baltic republics?
 
Germany 'the Real Test'
''The real test is Germany,'' Mr. Mandelbaum said. ''If you have a Polandization of East Germany, you are not only talking about a change of regimes, you are talking about the very existence of the state. The end of Communism in East Germany immediately raises the prospect of German reunification. And since East Germany is both at the center of Europe and the strategic anchor of the Warsaw Pact, these changes would be extremely difficult, perhaps impossible, for Moscow to accept.''
Administration officials, of course, are loath to even hint that there is any sort of even a temporary or tacit understanding with the Kremlin on Eastern Europe since this evokes images of Yalta, the 1945 conference in which the United States and Britain were accused of giving Stalin their tacit consent to dominate the region.
Nevertheless, the signs of at least an informal understanding abound. For instance, Administration officials say, Mr. Baker told Mr. Shevardnadze explicitly and repeatedly that an American objective in the new Eastern Europe was ''stability.''
In the same breath, though, Mr. Baker emphasized that Washington believed that the only way to insure a stable Eastern Europe after an easing of Soviet control was through gradual, but steady, change to more free-market systems and popularly elected governments.
A recent description by Mr. Baker of the Administration's policy toward the Baltic republics could easily apply to all of Eastern Europe.
''We hope that whatever happens with respect to the desire on the part of the people in the Baltic states for more autonomy and more self-determination and more freedom happens peacefully,'' Mr. Baker said.
''Should there be self-determination? Should there be freedom? Should there be more autonomy? Yes - but it should not take place in the context of major instability, bloodshed and that sort of thing. That's our policy.''
Referring to the aspirations of Eastern Europeans to be free, Mr. Baker added, ''I think there is a way to speak to that without, at the same time, inciting rebellion and without, at the same time, creating instability which could have a significant adverse result, in terms of our relationship with the countries of Eastern Europe and, for that matter, our relationship with the Soviet Union.''
 
'Very Courageous' Choice
In private, though, Mr. Baker has not hesitated to adopt a more outspoken approach. On Tuesday, when the Secretary of State met with Hungary's Foreign Minister, Gyula Horn, he began the meeting by congratulating him on his Government's political and economic changes and its recent decision to open its borders to East Germans trying to go to the West.
''You're in a difficult position,'' aides quoted Mr. Baker as having told Mr. Horn. ''Your Government made a very courageous and correct choice.''
Speaking generally of Hungary's opening to the West, Mr. Baker added, ''We want to be helpful in a way that does not contribute to instability.''
An Administration official who briefed reporters after Mr. Baker's meetings on Tuesday with the Hungarian and Polish Foreign Ministers said:
''The President's course in Eastern Europe has been well received by all the parties. From the Eastern European point of view, obviously they don't want to have something that causes them trouble with either other Eastern European countries or with the Soviet Union. And from the Soviet's perspective we have not had any complaints in any form.''
 
Baker Meets Czech
Indeed, Mr. Baker felt comfortable enough to initiate a meeting yesterday with the Czechoslovak Foreign Minister, Jaromir Johanes, the first such contact between an American Secretary of State and a Czechoslovak Foreign Minister since 1978.
Aides said Mr. Baker told Mr. Johanes that the United States was prepared for a closer relationship with Czechoslovakia provided Prague first improved its human rights record. The Secretary also pointed out to him that at a time of great change in Eastern Europe, the Czechoslovaks had not kept pace with Poland or Hungary in either the economic or political spheres.
As for the Soviet side of the understanding, that was given explicit expression by Mr. Shevardnadze in his speech before the United Nations on Tuesday.
''It is no secret that we were not enthusiastic about the election setback of the Polish Communists,'' Mr. Shevardnadze said. ''Nor should it be a secret that we hope that they overcome the crisis. Nevertheless, we see nothing threatening in the fact that in accordance with the will of the Polish people a coalition Government has been formed. We wish it every success and are ready too cooperate with it most actively. Tolerance is the norm of civilized behavior.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); GERMANY (94%); POLAND (94%); HUNGARY (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (91%); BALTIC STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); WARSAW, POLAND (92%); 

COMPANY: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (54%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE, EAST; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; SHEVARDNADZE, EDUARD (MIN); BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 



673 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: $20 Million Fine Sought for Indiana Pollution

BYLINE: By WILLIAM E. SCHMIDT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Sept. 27

 BODY:
The Environmental Protection Agency is seeking a new and much tougher round of penalties against polluters it says are still dumping chemicals and untreated wastes into the Grand Calumet River in northwest Indiana, one of the nation's most highly industrialized and contaminated waterways.
The agency announced Tuesday that it would seek $20 million in fines against the City of Gary on the ground that the city's Sanitary District is releasing raw sewage and chemical wastes into the Grand Calumet. The river, which leads into Lake Michigan, is so dirty that neither swimming nor fishing is allowed anywhere along its five-mile length.
Three weeks ago, the E.P.A. proposed that the Gary Works of USX Corporation, the steel company's flagship mill, be barred from doing business with the Federal Government because the complex continues to dump sewage, oil, ammonia, cyanide, metals and other pollutants into the river. 
If the E.P.A. prevails in its proposal, contractors who do business with the Federal Government would be barred from using steel produced in the Gary Works in the manufacture of their wares, including military equipment like tanks and ships.
 
One-Year Ban Sought
The E.P.A. is seeking a one-year ban that would bar any Federal agency from entering into, renewing or extending any contract with the Gary Works. George Kuebler, a spokesman for the Gary Works, said the company did not know how much business it does with the Federal Government, either directly or indirectly.
Officials in both Gary City Hall and at the Gary Works say they intend to contest the E.P.A. moves. They argue that progress has been made in dealing with the pollution in the river, which ties Gary and its surrounding steel mills, refineries and other industrial plants to Lake Michigan.
But officials at the agency's regional office in Chicago say the E.P.A. has lost patience with the situation after nearly two decades of trying to force local governments and private industry to act.
Charles H. Sutfin, the water division director in Chicago for E.P.A.'s Region 5, which oversees Indiana and four other states in the Middle West, said the agency had decided to toughen its enforcement strategy because pollution from the river continued to threaten the waters of Lake Michigan.
 
'Very Little Improvement'
''Northwest Indiana is one of the most polluted areas on the Great Lakes, but we have seen very little improvement in the situation along the river in recent years,'' said Mr. Sutfin.
He said Gary's sewage treatment plant continued to dump untreated raw sewage into the river, in direct violation of a 1987 Federal court decree, which in turn had been filed to resolve repeated violations dating to 1978. Last year, in a similar action, the agency filed a motion in Federal court to collect a $1 million fine from the city. That case is pending.
''There has been absolutely no improvement even though the Federal Government has invested $122 million in Federal money to improve the city's sewage treatment plant,'' said Mr. Sutfin. ''But the facility is not managed well. In fact, it is not managed at all.''
The agency said, for instance, that the city does not properly staff the treatment plant, which is supposed to have 15 operators working over a 24-hour period, in addition to administrative and maintenance workers. E.P.A. inspectors said they had driven past the plant at times and not found any cars in the parking lot. Disagrees With E.P.A. Jackie Shropshire, a lawyer with the Gary Sanitary District, said the district had hired a private company to take over management of its sewage treatment plant within the next two weeks. ''I don't deny we have problems, but they are not as bad as the E.P.A. says they are,'' he said.
He said the city's efforts to run the plant had been hampered by the city's depressed economy and declining operating revenue because of a growing problem in collecting water and sewage fees from residents.
The E.P.A. enforcement strategy has cheered local environmentalists and conservation groups. Glenda L. Daniel, the executive director of the Lake Michigan Federation, an environmental organization, sent a letter earlier this month to William K. Reilly, the Administrator of the E.P.A., commending him for his ''forceful'' action directed at USX.
Mr. Sutfin said the action against USX and the Gary Sanitary District were part of a larger strategy to clean up the Grand Calumet River and the Indiana Harbor and Canal, which ties the river into Lake Michigan.
Much of the waterway's bottom already has up to 10 feet of highly toxic sludge, the legacy of decades of industrial dumping and sewage overflows. In some places, freighters carrying ore to local steel mills cannot reach their docks because of the accumulation of sludge. Dredges have not been able to remove the material because it is so toxic no one has been able to agree how to dispose of it safely.

GRAPHIC: map of the Grand Calumet River in northwest Indiana

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MRO (NYSE) (70%); X (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (70%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (70%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (70%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (96%); LAKE MICHIGAN (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); GREAT LAKES (79%); 

CITY: GARY, IN, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MARATHON OIL CORP (70%); UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (70%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (93%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GARY (INDIANA)

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION; FINES (PENALTIES) ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (91%); WATER POLLUTION (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (89%); LAKES (89%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (88%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (78%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (78%); RIVERS (77%); SANITATION DISTRICTS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CYANIDES (73%); LITIGATION (62%); 

PERSON: SCHMIDT, WILLIAM E



674 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: War: 1 Percent. Drugs: 54 Percent.

 BODY:
What do you think is the most important problem facing this country today?
The New York Times/CBS News Poll asked that question of a cross-section of Americans in January 1985. The proportion who answered war, nuclear war and defense was 23 percent. Last week, in response to the same question, the figure was 1 percent. 
In January 1985, 16 percent said the most important problem was unemployment. Last week the figure was 4 percent.
In January 1985, less than 1 percent said the most important problem was drugs. Last week the figure was 54 percent.
There's dramatically undramatic news in these figures, news that recalls Conan Doyle's story ''Silver Blaze,'' in which Sherlock Holmes called attention to the curious silence of the dog in the stable. In 1989, the poll figures call attention to a period of extraordinary peace and prosperity.
The low war figure is incredible, nearly as hard to accept as the stream of astonishments that flows almost daily from Mikhail Gorbachev's Kremlin. Not many months ago, this was the Strangelove generation. Teachers and parents were shaken by the nuclear nightmares experienced by anxious children. In June 1982 a nuclear freeze rally drew 600,000 people to Central Park. Compare: 1982, 600,000 people. 1989, 1 percent. The high drug figure is equally incredible - not because it's unreliable but because of comparative dangers. Crack, heroin and other narcotics daily imperil the health and welfare of millions and promote crime harming millions more. They undermine the integrity of institutions. That drugs has become an issue of such concern to so many may finally presage some effective responses.
But even so, the comparison is worth dwelling on. What does it mean when Americans fear drugs more than war, and by a margin of 54 to 1? The likely answer is that issues usually on the B list now clang loudly because the A list has fallen silent. Peace, knock wood, seems to proliferate; prosperity, at least for many citizens, endures.
All that can change in an instant. If unemployment rose, President Bush's high popularity figures would sink within weeks. Teflon or no Teflon, Ronald Reagan's standing dropped like a bobsled during the 1982-83 recession. The non-barking dog can, in short order, not only bark but bite.
The test that this period of extraordinary grace creates for Americans is not whether they stop to notice it, but what they do with it. Peace and prosperity stretch on, but so does homelessness; so does the need to give poor children a fair chance in life; so does rampant drug abuse. The test is how to array the invisible good news against the oh-so-visible bad - how to turn the blessings embodied in that 1 percent against the curses signified by the 54.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CBS CORP (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: DRUG TRAFFIC; EDITORIALS; PUBLIC OPINION; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CHILDREN (87%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (75%); HOMELESSNESS (71%); CHILD POVERTY (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (70%); HEROIN (70%); 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (75%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



675 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 27, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: ESSAY;
Who Lost Gorbachev?

BYLINE: By William Safire

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
The most resentful political question asked by American conservatives after World War II was ''Who lost China?'' The imputation was that Western irresolution, inspired by subversives in high places, enabled Mao to seize control from Chiang. Liberals hotly replied that China was never ours to lose, but the accusation-laden question bedeviled them for a decade.
Now the tables are turned. Hard-liners around the world are nibbling their nails at the possibility that Mikhail Gorbachev will fall or turn mean, and that accommodationists will bedevil us for years with ''Who Lost Gorbachev?'' We will stand charged with sourpussism - failing to help the Soviet leader with trust and trade, thereby losing the glorious moment of opportunity for peace with freedom. 
People like me don't trust the new Soviet dictator. We see the success of a cult of personality that concentrates power in one man's hands; we note the ease with which he manipulates the levers of Kremlin power, orchestrating permission to criticize so as to force out his critics; we gape at the skill with which he winkles West Germany out of the Western military alliance while ridding the Soviet Union of economic responsibility for the basket cases of Eastern Europe.
We are not persuaded that he is motivated by the ideal of democracy, or that his K.G.B. faction has permanently abandoned the goal of Communist supremacy. He is pouring weaponry into Cambodia, showing surprising strength in Afghanistan, doing nothing to restrain his Syrian client in the bloody occupation of Lebanon, and maintaining his investment in totalitarian regimes in our hemisphere. These are not confidence-building measures.
Nor are we taken in by arms-control stunts. His latest maneuver is to temporarily unlink a missile treaty from his previous insistence that we abandon a space shield but - in the fine print - reserve the right to tear up the treaty if we deploy a missile defense. We would be fools to negotiate such an ''iffy'' treaty; we are developing space defenses to use them, not to give the Soviets an excuse to resume all-out missile production when they can again afford it.
Though we are not dazzled by the footwork, we are not blind to major tactical retreats by our superpower opposition. The promised dismantling of the Krasnoyarsk radar, a flagrant ABM treaty violation, is significant. Flat on its economic back, the Soviet Union is making genuine concessions.
The Soviet motive may be solely to save money, to provide a safety valve for the pressures of dissent and to reinvigorate a system that is failing to feed the populace, but the daring and scope of the changes cannot be minimized.
Mr. Gorbachev has permitted Poland to install a non-Communist Prime Minister (and Solidarity leaders promptly installed the world's most telegenic spokeswoman). He has encouraged Hungary to open its Western border, beginning the exodus that will lead to German reunification - and Europe is holding its breath as the Kremlin boss prepares for a speech in East Berlin next week.
This is heady stuff. Boris Yeltsin is free to criticize, Rupert Murdoch is free to buy half of a newspaper in Hungary, and all the publicized movement is in the right direction. We have to give him credit, though we don't have to give his nation credits.
But the Soviet market is due for an anti-freedom correction; logic suggests crackdowns in store. In a private letter to Margaret Thatcher before her visit with the Soviet leader, President Bush warned of the adverse affect any reversal would have on American opinion toward the Soviet leadership; he urged a steadiness of Western policy in the face of these likely ups and downs.
When the bear finally turns and snarls, what will happen to Mr. Gorbachev? He is more Deng than Zhao, more survivor than victim; if he chooses not to fall, if he follows his practice of rushing to the forefront of the furious, then his will be the hardest of the hard faces.
At that point, our soft-liners will issue a keening geshrei: it was basically our fault, we are the devils who made him do it, our failure to embrace him cost us the magic moment. We did not recognize Mr. Good Guy; as a result, we lost the glasnostic opportunity for which the word Gorbachev has come to stand.
But the same internal pendulum that brought him forward will turn him out or turn him mean. Who lost Gorbachev? Gorbachev was never ours to lose. (See? that question already has me on the defensive.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); HUNGARY (79%); POLAND (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); LEBANON (73%); GERMANY (70%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (88%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (86%); CONSERVATISM (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (71%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (71%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (68%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (63%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S MIKHAIL SERGEYEVICH GORBACHEV (92%); 



676 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Koch Orders Hiring Freeze, Citing a $400 Million Gap

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
Facing what he said was a $400 million budget gap, Mayor Edward I. Koch yesterday imposed a municipal hiring freeze that is to remain in effect until the budget can be balanced.
The Mayor attributed $247 million of the gap to the fact that New York City may be prevented from selling the Coliseum site to the real-estate developer Mortimer B. Zuckerman in time to use the revenues in the current fiscal year. Mr. Zuckerman plans to build an enormous twin-towered complex known as Columbus Center on the site.
The freeze does not immediately affect the Police Department, because no hiring was planned in any case until January, when a new class will be mustered at the Police Academy. Nor does it affect firefighters, teachers, code-enforcement inspectors and workers in Special Services for Children, a division of the Human Resources Administration. 
The director of the Office of Management and Budget, Paul L. Dickstein, could not say yesterday afternoon exactly how many positions would not be filled while the freeze was in force.
 
Refusal to Drop Suit
The jobs that will not be filled he said, were those of clerks, administrators, park maintenance workers, street cleaners and pothole crews. The city's operating budget for the current fiscal year, which began July 1, is $27 billion, and a revised financial plan is to be issued in the third week of October.
Both Mr. Dickstein and Mr. Koch said there was an immediate need for the freeze, given the chance that lawsuits pending against the Columbus Center Development might delay or prevent the project.
''If the Coliseum suit proceeds, it's very serious,'' Mr. Dickstein said. ''There will either be a mid-year tax increase of substantial proportions, somewhere in the quarter-of-a-billion- dollar range, or there will be severe service reductions and layoffs.''
In a meeting last night, the Coalition Against Columbus Center refused to drop the suits, its counsel, John Van Der Tuin, said. He said coalition members ''discussed the political pressure that has been brought to bear by the current administration and vowed to press forward,'' although he did not rule out the possibility of a settlement.
Mr. Dickstein said that had a freeze not been put into effect, agencies would have accelerated their hiring in anticipation of budget cutbacks.
As a member of the Board of Estimate, Borough President David N. Dinkins of Manhattan, who is the Democratic candidate for mayor, voted for the Columbus Center project.
Mr. Dinkins's chief of staff, Barbara Fife, said yesterday that although he believed that ''including a one-time cash revenue in the expense budget was not a responsible fiscal practice, and he does not expect to use that device himself, nonetheless it is in the budget and we need to address the current gap.''
State Senator Manfred Ohrenstein, a Manhattan Democrat and a member of the Coalition Against Columbus Center, said he had told Mr. Dinkins it ''would be very difficult'' to persuade the coalition to give up the lawsuits.
''There is a lot of deep feeling involved,'' Mr. Ohrenstein said, ''and there seems to be no ready answer. When the Mayor of the City of New York tells me there are budget problems, I've got to listen. On the other hand, I have a sense of responsibility to my community.''
Mr. Dickstein said that if the lawsuits were dropped, the remaining $150 million budget gap could be overcome ''without layoffs and, we think, without any dramatic action or severe, sharp service reductions.'' However, he said, ''there would be an attrition program.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLISEUM (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BUDGETS (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (79%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); REAL ESTATE (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); LITIGATION (67%); TRENDS (63%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W; KOCH, EDWARD I (MAYOR)



677 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 13, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: Hope and Dissent Blend In Education Conference

BYLINE: By BERNARD WEINRAUB, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va., Sept. 27

 BODY:
President Bush opened his education conference with the nation's governors today in an atmosphere of hope tinged with division and uncertainty over how best to improve the nation's ailing schools.
Many of the Democratic governors and some of the Republicans distributed a document listing ''summit objectives'' and intended to serve as their own framework for the meeting.
Among the goals for the Federal Government and states in the memorandum were seeing that ''by the year 2000, all children will be ready for the first grade,'' largely by assuring that every eligible poor child is enrolled in Head Start, a Federal preschool program. Experts say Head Start now serves only about 20 percent of those eligible. 
Another goal was to raise American student achievement ''to internationally competitive levels, especially in math and science,'' where tests show the United States generally lags far behind many other nations.
 
Staking Out Turf
The memorandum on goals, while not announced, seemed to be an attempt by the governors to assert themselves in what has been a White House show. Nearly all of the nation's governors are attending the two-day conference at the University of Virginia.
Perhaps the sharpest criticism of Mr. Bush came tonight from Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York. While other Democratic governors generally refrained from publicly criticizing Mr. Bush's approach, which seeks to restrain Federal spending on education, Mr. Cuomo was unabashed in his criticism.
Mr. Cuomo said tonight: ''You can't do it with poetry. You need a little prose. You can't do it with garnish. You need a little meat and potatoes. You can't build a University of Virginia with a speech. It takes bricks, that means dollars and cents and let's be honest. If you really are for these things, you really are going to have to start producing resources.''
Mr. Bush, from his arrival at midday on the leafy campus ablaze with autumn colors until a dinner tonight in Monticello with the governors, proclaimed that the nation's schools were lagging and that ''measurable national goals'' were crucial.
 
'Get On With It'
''Accountability, flexibility, tougher standards and a results-oriented system - all of these have got to be on the table,'' Mr. Bush told the governors shortly after his arrival by helicopter from Washington. ''What I'm seeking at this summit is not just dialogue but a new sense of direction.
''We've got to challenge the education system if we're to meet the challenge of educational excellence,'' Mr. Bush said. ''It's time to stop debating over commissions and studies and set priorities, and it's time to get on with it.''
As Mr. Bush spoke in a packed 970-seat auditorium in Old Cabell Hall, the governors applauded unevenly. Also attending were most of President Bush's Cabinet.
Although some governors insisted that more Federal education aid was essential, Democrats generally refrained from calling for more money.
Two Southerners Comment ''What is needed most critically from the President and the Federal Government in the area of education is leadership,'' said Gov. Joe Frank Harris, Democrat of Georgia.
''Federal funding is not the major issue,'' said Gov. Bill Clinton, Democrat of Arkansas, one of the organizers of the event. ''It is not the main subject and is only a small part of what we want to achieve.''
Mr. Clinton said accountability to taxpayers on how education money was spent was a more important topic. Besides, he told an opening news conference, the bulk of the more than $350 billion spent annually on education comes from state and local sources, not from Washington.
The governors' document listing objectives mentioned these goals:
* ''Disparities in achievment levels of students of different races and economic backgrounds will be dramatically reduced.''
* ''The dropout rate will be reduced dramatically.''
* ''The percentage of high school graduates going on to some form of post-secondary education will be increased to a point sufficient to give them opportunities to get good jobs.''
* ''Illiteracy among adult Americans will be virtually eliminated.''
By inviting the governors to Charlottesville, Mr. Bush has drawn attention to the education issue - an issue he highlighted in the Presidential campaign, when he said he would become the ''education President'' and pledged to tackle such problems as school drop-out rates, adult illiteracy and many students' ignorance of geography, mathematics and science.

GRAPHIC: photo of President Bush with Peter T. Coleman, Terry E. Branstad and Gerald L. Baliles (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; CHARLOTTESVILLE (VA)

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS GOVERNORS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); CHILDREN (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); POETRY (64%); 

PERSON: WEINRAUB, BERNARD; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); TERRY BRANSTAD (58%); 



678 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 14, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: Senate Votes $9.4 Billion for Drug War

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 27

 BODY:
After a week of deadlock, the Senate agreed today on a $9.4 billion financing plan for President Bush's anti-drug strategy, more than $1 billion above the amount requested by Mr. Bush.
By a vote of 97 to 2, the Senate accepted a compromise negotiated by Senate Republicans and Democrats that would increase Federal spending on drug education, prevention and treatment programs while also providing more money for local law enforcement.
''The failure to commit these resources is to fight only half the war,'' the chief Democratic negotiator, Senator Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia, said on the Senate floor.
The chief Republican negotiator, Senator Mark O. Hatfield of Oregon, said of the compromise, ''We may differ on funding, but there is not an iota of difference in our desire to fight the war.'' 
 
House Speaker Optimistic
The House of Representatives has yet to act on the plan. Speaker Thomas S. Foley, Democrat of Washington, said it ''looks promising,'' but Congressional aides said some House members might not go along with the financing arrangement embodied in the compromise.
The plan would require a cut of 0.43 percent on all ''domestic and international discretionary programs'' run by Federal departments and agencies. But it would provide a flexible formula for cuts in the military budget, while imposing a more restrictive across-the-board cut on domestic programs. Programs like Social Security or Medicare, which provide automatic benefits to those who are eligible, would be exempt.
The compromise, approved as an amendment to a transportation appropriation bill, will be considered by House-Senate conferees with jurisdiction over various parts of the bill.
The two Senators who voted against the compromise were Jake Garn of Utah and Steve Symms of Idaho, both Republicans. Senator Jim Sasser, Democrat of Tennessee, was absent.
After voting for the drug financing plan, the Senate approved another amendment to the transportation bill that would add alcohol testing to the random drug testing required by Transportation Department regulations for flight crews, train crews and professional drivers. Those regulations, which have been held up by court challenges, are scheduled to take effect later this year.
The Senate also approved an amendment that allows state and local officials to spend money under the drug plan on voluntary drug testing for students who participate in extracurricular activities.
The vote on the drug plan cleared the way for the Senate's consideration of spending bills that had been stalled by Republicans until the drug dispute was resolved.
Votes in the House, meanwhile, demonstrated the political strength of businesses and well-to-do taxpayers, and the Democratic leadership continued to fight an uphill battle against a cut in the maximum tax rate on capital gains.
With the capital gains vote scheduled for Thursday, the House voted today to repeal a part of the 1986 tax law, known as Section 89, that prohibited businesses from giving more generous tax-free medical insurance to their executives than they provide for rank-and-file workers.
 
Pension Proposal Rejected
The House also rejected a proposal sponsored by the Ways and Means Committee that would give employees more say in the operation of company pension plans.
Of the drug plan, Senator George J. Mitchell of Maine, the majority leader, said the compromise gave greater emphasis than Mr. Bush's plan did to education and rehabilitation. ''The proposal submitted by the President was painfully inadequate for the task that we face in this country in dealing with drugs,'' Mr. Mitchell said. ''Now we have the opportunity to improve it.''
But Republican Senators credited Mr. Bush with stimulating action to combat drug use. ''I think the President's strategy is sound and going to be effective,'' said Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the minority leader.
Supporters of the compromise from both parties acknowledged that the plan was unlikely to win the war on drugs and represented merely the beginning of a broad Federal commitment that would ultimately consume billions of dollars more for years to come.
 
Concessions on Both Sides
Each side ceded ground in negotiating the financing plan that some Senators said would not increase the deficit or require new taxes. Republicans agreed to cuts in military spending, along with cuts in domestic programs, to help finance the expanded anti-drug campaign. Democrats accepted an increase in anti-drug spending that was half the amount they originally sought.
The White House accepted the compromise on Tuesday, but only on the condition that the Senate agree to consider at a later date several highly contentious anti-crime proposals backed by the Reagan Administration, including an expanded application of the death penalty.
Senator Byrd had demanded that $2.2 billion be added to the President's anti-drug proposal. The ensuing discussions involved the settlement of several disagreements over how to cut the Federal budget to pay for the expanded drug war and how the extra money would be spread among prevention, education, treatment and law-enforcement programs.
Mr. Byrd, the chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, said the compromise plan envisioned spending $1.1 billion more than Mr. Bush requested. The Bush plan was initially estimated to cost $7.9 billion, but that did not include $400 million for prison construction already requested by the Adminstration and considered by Senate negotiators as drug-related. The increase approved today, therefore, would bring total spending for the plan to $9.4 billion, some of which would be spent over several years.
 
Too Close to Call
In the House, the capital gains measure and the legislation involving Section 89 and pensions are part of a catch-all bill that was written to bring revenue and expenditures in line with overall budget targets worked out earlier in the year. The decisions made by the House will go before the Senate next month.
Both sides on the capital gains issue said publicly that the vote on Thursday was too close to call.
Capital gains are the profits from the sale of stocks and other property. The President and others who favor a reduction in the top tax rate on those profits to 19.6 percent, from 33 percent, maintain that the cut would stimulate investment and therefore the overall economy. Democratic leaders say it would be nothing but a tax break for the wealthy.
The Democrats have offered an alternative to the proposed cut. It would restore tax-deductible individual retirement accounts to upper- and upper-middle-income taxpayers who are now ineligible if they are enrolled in company pension plans. The Democratic measure would also raise to 33 percent from 28 percent the marginal tax rate paid by the 600,000 wealthiest taxpayers - those with taxable income above about $200,000 a year.
Under the rules, the House must approve one plan or the other in its entirety. It cannot accept both or neither.
The House rejected the Section 89 rules on medical benefits 390 to 36. The section was originally adopted as part of the 1986 tax law, but the rules were never put into effect.
The proposal to give workers equal representation with employers on the boards of most pension plans was rejected 250 to 173. Republicans were solidly against the plan; Democrats were divided.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: DRUG TRAFFIC; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FEDERAL AID (US); UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE DRUG POLICY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); APPROVALS (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); DRUG TESTING (85%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION (78%); STUDENT DRUG TESTING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); MEDICARE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); DEFENSE SPENDING (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (69%); BUDGET CUTS (66%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (62%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); ROBERT BYRD (58%); 



679 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 15, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: A Self-Taught Film Maker Creates a Comic Hit

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
Judging from the frozen smile on his face, the standing, cheering ovation caught Michael Moore by surprise. The film maker, a solitary figure wearing a nylon-mesh baseball cap, stood awkwardly before an audience of 500 cheering filmgoers. They had just seen his first movie, ''Roger and Me,'' at the Toronto International Film Festival this month.
''I wish that everyone back home could be here to enjoy this response,'' the 35-year-old director said into a microphone, his eyes tearing. But Mr. Moore, like his film, never lets a tear go unaccompanied by a laugh: ''I never made a film before - I think I'm going to keep doing this.''
Mr. Moore's ''Roger and Me'' is a highly personal, darkly comic vision of the closing of the General Motors Corporation plants in Flint, Mich., his hometown. The documentary depicts the Rust Belt blues in a way that is so original that now, two weeks after that giddy night in Toronto, American critics have celebrated the film as a comic masterpiece following its debut at the New York Film Festival yesterday. The film will be shown again tonight at 6:15 P.M. in Alice Tully Hall. 
This dark-horse entry was a hit at the Telluride Film Festival in Colorado last month and it also won the Most Popular Film award in Toronto - the first documentary to do so since ''Best Boy'' in 1979. That film, about a cheerful mentally retarded 52-year-old, went on to win an Academy Award. $1 Million Bids Currently, Mr. Moore said, the bidding war for rights to distribute the film has already reached $1 million, a high level for a documentary. After an unusually successful theatrical run, for example, ''The Atomic Cafe,'' the tragicomic 1982 compilation of film footage from the 1940's and 1950's extolling the glories of the atomic bomb, grossed $1 million.
The sudden arrival of this unlikely film maker at the locus of a media and movie-distributor be-in is a story ''that's a bit hard to believe,'' as Mr. Moore puts it. ''But I never doubted that the film would succeed,'' he adds. In fact, he sold his house, held yard sales and set up hometown Bingo games to pay for the film, which was completed so recently it nearly missed the deadline for consideration at the major film festivals.
Mr. Moore's 85-minute film is a documentary about what he calls ''the unemployment capital of America,'' his hometown, the birthplace of General Motors, which lost 30,000 jobs in the last decade through plant and assembly-operation closings. ''Roger and Me'' shows the effects of G.M. plant closings that began in 1986, and derides the calamitous attempts of civic boosters to pump life back into Flint by initiating a parade of failed schemes and cheer-up visits from dignitaries ranging from Pat Boone to Anita Bryant. ''It's as if someone was trying to use a cup to bail out the Titanic,'' he said. ''In fact, we once thought we'd call the film 'The Dance Band on the Titanic.' ''
''Roger and Me'' was done ''on the run and on the cheap,'' Mr. Moore said. The film cost $260,000, of which $100,000 is still owed. Mr. Moore sold his house in Flint for $27,000 to help finance the film, and he held two yard sales that raised $5,000. He also sold his bed.
 
'It's Not That Strange'
Part of the film's financing -$50,000 over the last three years -came from a weekly Tuesday-night Bingo game in Carman Plaza Hall in Flint, where 180 faithful players showed up last week. ''It's not that strange a fund-raising idea for one who grew up Catholic and spent time in a seminary,'' Mr. Moore said.
Mr. Moore, the film's writer and narrator, is also a sometime protagonist in ''Roger and Me.'' On camera, he is a natural deadpan comedian; in person, the bearlike 6-foot-2 film maker is a gentle presence, and before film-festival audiences he is a folksy and practiced public speaker. He was born and raised in Flint, and his father worked on a G.M. assembly line for 33 years.
As an 18-year-old, Mr. Moore began his lifelong civic involvement with Flint by being elected to the city's school board; at the age of 22, he started his own alternative newspaper, The Flint Voice, and kept it going for 10 years, until he went to San Francisco in 1986 to edit the muckraking magazine Mother Jones.
Mr. Moore lasted only four and a half months, until a falling out with the magazine's owner that he describes in ''Roger and Me.'' ''There I was, out in San Francisco, depressed, unemployed and eating chocolate croissants,'' he said in an interview. ''I went to a lot of movies to relieve my depression - I'd go to anything. I realized that if I set out to make a movie about Flint, I couldn't do any worse than the ones I was seeing.''
 
On-the-Job Training
Subsequently, Mr. Moore's lawsuit against Mother Jones for wrongful discharge - settled for $58,000 -helped to finance the film he began to make when he returned to Flint. So amateurish was his film-making group, he said, ''that we didn't know f-stop from F-Troop.''
''It was the first time any of us had made a film,'' said Kathleen Glynn, a production assistant in the Flint crew. ''We learned as we went along - and it shows.'' For the first week of shooting, she said, the Flint crew got some help from Kevin Rafferty, the co-director of ''The Atomic Cafe,'' as well as from experienced the documentary makers Anne Bohlen, Christopher Beaver and Judy Irving.
''We didn't want to go to film school for three years,'' said Mr. Moore, ''so they were our film school.'' At times, the crew's inexperience proved to be helpful, he said, because his subjects ''relaxed a lot when they realized that we looked like we didn't know what we were doing.''
At one point, they were filming an interview with the Rev. Jesse Jackson, one of the dozens of public figures who visited ailing Flint. Mr. Jackson told them that a knob on their tape machine was in the wrong position for recording, ''and he was absolutely right,'' said Mr. Moore.
''When Jesse Jackson is teaching you film making, you know you're in really bad shape,'' he added.
 
'We Wanted to Name Names'
''I made this film for personal and political reasons,'' he said. ''See, the homeless didn't just drop out of the sky, and we wanted to find out who was responsible. We wanted to name names.''
The principal name named in the film is that of Roger B. Smith, chairman of G.M. Through a spokesman, Mr. Smith issued the following statement: ''I haven't seen the film, but from what I have read, it does a great disservice to the community of Flint and the thousands of G.M. employees who are making a positive contribution to the city and to General Motors. How I personally feel is unimportant. It is unfortunate that people who have pride in the community and the products they build are subjected to public embarrassment at a time when they are producing some of the finest products in America.''
In the film, Mr. Moore says that ''my mission is a simple one: to convince Roger Smith to spend a day with me in Flint.'' Indeed, a subplot of the film involves the ''Roger and Me'' crew's attempt to video-ambush Mr. Smith in his office, his home and his clubs. ''This man eliminated 30,000 jobs and devastated the town and we wanted him to see just what that meant,'' Mr. Moore said.
To Mr. Moore, ''Roger and Me'' is the story of his life, of his city and ultimately of America as it portrays the human consequences of bottom-line decisions. ''Thanks to the decisions that big businesses make now, the majority of us don't have the simple things our parents had,'' he said. ''It's not the American dream anymore; it's a nightmare.''
Is the film a call for action? ''If people do see it as a call for action, I hope they're smiling at the time,'' he said, adding after a pause: ''The film doesn't provide solutions, or tell people what to do. We think people can figure that out for themselves.''
At the end of ''Roger and Me,'' Mr. Moore finally has an encounter with Mr. Smith, though certainly not the one he'd expected. ''I would still love for him to come to Flint,'' said Mr. Moore with a dreamy smile. ''I'd show him around. You know - to see the sights.''

GRAPHIC: photo of Michael Moore (NYT/G. Paul Burnett)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ROGER AND ME (MOVIE)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (90%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); COLORADO, USA (79%); 

CITY: FLINT, MI, USA (92%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); 

COMPANY: MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (83%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FLINT (MICH)

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; DOCUMENTARY FILMS AND PROGRAMS FILM (91%); FESTIVALS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (76%); MENTAL RETARDATION (71%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (63%); 

PERSON: COLLINS, GLENN; MOORE, MICHAEL; SMITH, ROGER B MICHAEL MOORE (93%); 



680 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: Cypress Opposes U.S. Memories Concept

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Sept. 27

 BODY:
Cypress Semiconductor Inc. said today that its president, T. J. Rodgers, had offered an alternative to the proposed joint venture that is intended to revive production in the United States of the most commonly used memory chips.
The venture, called U.S. Memories, would produce dynamic random access memory chips, or D-RAM's, using technology from the International Business Machines Corporation. It would be financed by large semiconductor and computer manufacturers, which would receive a guaranteed supply of D-RAM's. 
With the exception of Texas Instruments and Micron Technology, United States chip manufacturers all left the D-RAM business in the late 1980's after stiff competition and price cutting by Japanese makers.
Cypress, based in San Jose, makes static random access memory chips, a faster type of memory.
Mr. Rodgers has been an outspoken opponent of U.S. Memories, which he believes will imperil smaller entrepreneurial chip companies such as his own to bolster a few large players.
The Cypress announcement comes a day before the beginning of the third round of hearings before the House Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on Economic and Commercial Law, which is reviewing the formation of U.S. Memories and related antitrust legislation.
Mr. Rodgers said he had made a written request to I.B.M. to transfer its 4-megabit and 16-megabit D-RAM and associated technologies to Cypress for Cypress to manufacture them in return for royalties and a guarantee of supply.
''I believe that if the goal is to get an American-manufactured, 4-megabit D-RAM into volume production as quickly as possible, an I.B.M. partnership with Cypress Semiconductor should be an attractive option,'' Mr. Rodgers said.
In contrast to the $1 billion that U.S. Memories is seeking to finance a totally new production company, Mr. Rodgers said he could begin production for only $5 million to $10 million by utilizing unused capacity at a Cypress production facility in Round Rock, Tex.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MU (NASDAQ) (90%); IBMC (BRU) (84%); IBM (NYSE) (84%); IBM (LSE) (84%); TXN (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (90%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (90%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); 

CITY: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (90%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (84%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CYPRESS SEMICONDUCTOR INC; US MEMORIES INC

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS; SEMICONDUCTORS MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (93%); MEMORY CHIPS (92%); COMPUTER CHIPS (91%); SEMICONDUCTORS (91%); JOINT VENTURES (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); COMMERCIAL LAW (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (69%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M; RODGERS, T J T J RODGERS (90%); 



681 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Weakness In Prices Widespread

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Sept. 27

 BODY:
Across the country, companies are reporting difficulty in raising prices - providing strong anecdotal evidence that inflation, for the moment, is not a problem.
Fresh stories of price weakness were told this week at the annual convention of corporate economists. Often they fret about inflation dangers. But this year many said that weak demand and strong competition had forced their companies to hold down prices. 
''Raising prices is something we'd like to do and can't,'' said Robert E. Hayes, corporate economist at the K Mart Corporation, one of the nation's five largest retailers. ''Price increases this year have averaged less than 3 percent. If we try to get more, the consumer says goodbye.''
 
Same Story in Other Areas
Similar reports came from economists employed by manufacturers, among them companies that make paper, lumber, steel, chemicals, cars and other consumer products. Two railroad executives, at Conrail and the CSX Corporation, said car loadings were also off, putting a damper on freight rates.
''It's much harder to get price increases than it was a year ago,'' said John J. McDevitt of the Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company. He said 3M's domestic sales volume for an array of products is growing now at a 3 percent annual rate, down from 6 percent in the first quarter.
The stories of price weakness and sluggish sales suggested that the Government's inflation measures, particularly the Consumer Price Index, might continue to decline.
The C.P.I. in recent months has fallen to an annual rate of less than 5 percent, from more than 6 percent earlier this year. In August, the C.P.I. did not rise at all.
 
No Recession Expected
Nevertheless, with only a few exceptions, the more than 300 people at the National Association of Business Economists Convention, which ended today, did not see a recession in the offing.
The association's annual forecast, based on a membership survey, said that the nation's current economic expansion would last two more years, although the economy would grow only weakly, and that the C.P.I. would decline next year to 4.3 percent.
Some economists argued that the current price weakness was temporary, concentrated in manufacturing rather than the larger service sector and brought on by special factors.
Robert T. Parry, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, listed these factors as falling energy prices, a rainy summer that pushed down food prices and a stronger dollar.
 
Business Economists Agree
But whatever the future holds for inflation, more than a dozen business economists said in interviews and presentations that for the present prices are not going up and some are coming down.
Even in insurance, a major non-manufacturing industry, premiums on many policies are not rising, said Francis H. Schott chief economist at the Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States.
''Rather than premiums going up, companies are lowering the interest income that consumers earn on some policies,'' Mr. Schott said.
Bernard Lashinsky, chief economist at Inland Steel Industries, said that while his company is getting new orders, they were not bunched together, as they were in 1987 and 1988. In addition, he said, there are not as many big new projects involving an expansion of manufacturing capacity for petrochemicals and paper, appliances and food processing. That means steel production is exceeding demand for the moment, he added.
John D. Walter of Dow Chemical said prices of silicones, used for things like textiles, cosmetics and food processing, started to rise last year but had leveled off. ''In the absence of special supply shortages, there is no way to push up prices,'' he said.
Finally, the convention was told that monthly surveys of 2,000 independently owned companies, usually with fewer than 40 employees, show that 36 percent of these companies had raised prices in the first quarter. But in the second, the ratio plunged to less than 30 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSX (NYSE) (83%); MMM (SWX) (55%); MMM (NYSE) (55%); MMM (FRA) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (83%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (83%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (83%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (71%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (71%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (62%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (62%); NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (55%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (55%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (50%); 

CITY: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CSX CORP (83%); KMART CORP (71%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (62%); 3M CO (55%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES; INFLATION PRICE INCREASES (91%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); US DOLLAR (73%); FOOD PRICES (73%); RETAILERS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); INTERVIEWS (64%); LIFE INSURANCE (61%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (61%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS



682 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 17, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasuries Dip in Light Trading

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
As dealers struggled to absorb a new $7.75 billion issue of four-year notes, prices of Treasury notes and bonds dipped in light trading yesterday.
Almost all the price movement came after the results of the Treasury auction were announced. For much of the session, traders kept busy watching movements in the dollar but did little actual business.
''The market completely lacks direction, and there doesn't seem to be any catalyst that will change that,'' said Ward McCarthy, a managing director at Stone & McCarthy Research Associates, a Princeton, N.J., firm that provides consulting on the credit and foreign exchange markets. 
''At this stage,'' Mr. McCarthy added, ''customers aren't in any hurry to invest.''
 
Demand Called Light
According to market participants, demand for the new four-year notes was light here and abroad. ''It looks like the dealers ended up buying most of the issue,'' one government securities trader said.
The notes were sold at an average yield of 8.35 percent, up from the average rate of 8.19 percent at the last four-year note auction on June 28. It was the highest yield on a four-year issue since the 9.70 percent at the March 29 auction.
Prices of Treasury bonds and longer-term notes slipped after the auction results were announced. In late trading, the 8 1/8 bonds that mature in 2019 were offered at a price of 98 5/8, down 5/32, to yield 8.24 percent.
Meanwhile, the 8 percent 10-year notes were offered at 98 2/32, down 1/8 point, to yield 8.29 percent. And the 8 1/4 percent five-year notes were offered at 99 23/32, down 1/8, to yield 8.30 percent.
 
Treasury Bill Rates Rise
Short-term Treasury bill rates moved higher. By late in the day, three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 7.81 percent, up six basis points, or hundredths of a point. Six-month bills inched two basis points higher, to a late offered rate of 7.82 percent. And one-year bills were offered at 7.76 percent, up five basis points.
''The market is likely to remain in a narrow trading range at least until Oct. 6, when we get employment data for September,'' said Robert Chandross, chief economist at Lloyds Bank.
Activity in the tax-exempt municipal bond market was highlighted by a large negotiated offering of approximately $860 million worth of capital outlay bonds from Florida's Board of Education. The bulk of the issue consisted of three term bonds with maturities from 2023 to 2025. The bonds were reoffered with coupons ranging from 7.50 percent in 2023 to 7.35 percent in 2025.
Lazard Freres & Company, the underwriting's lead manager, said that the investor demand for the issue was very strong.
 
Florida Bonds Rated AA
The issue is rated AA by both Moody's Investors Service and the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
The big Florida issue did not have an adverse effect on the secondary market, traders said. Prices of most secondary issues rose by an eighth to a quarter of a point in slow trading.
In the taxable corporate bond market, Salomon Brothers acted as lead underwriter for a $65 million subordinated note issue from the Merchants National Corporation, an Indianapolis banking company.
The 9 7/8 percent notes, which mature Oct. 1, 1999, were priced at 99.282 to yield 9.99 percent, 1.70 percentage points more than the prevailing yield on the 8 percent 10-year Treasury notes at the time of pricing. The issue, which is noncallable for life, is rated Baa-2 by Moody's and BBB+ by S.&P.
Following are the results of yesterday's auction of four-year Treasury notes:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
Average Price ... 99.666
Average Yield ... 8.35%
Low Price ... 99.666
High Yield ... 8.35%
High Price ... 99.69
Low Yield ... 8.34%
Accepted at low price ... 86%
Total applied for ... $21,675,045
Accepted ... $7,786,997
N.Y. applied for ... $19,699,375
N.Y. accepted ... $7,268,835
Noncompetitive ... $474,000
Interest set at ... 8 1/4%
 
The four-year notes mature Sept. 30, 1993.

GRAPHIC: Graph of 4-year treasury notes (source: Treasury Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LYG (NYSE) (51%); LLOY (LSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: LLOYDS BANKING GROUP PLC (51%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; STOCKS AND BONDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; AUCTIONS BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); AUCTIONS (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); BOND ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (60%); CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N



683 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 17, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 145 words

HEADLINE: FINANCE/NEW ISSUES;
Offering by New York City Is Repriced to Lower Yields

 BODY:
New York City's issue of $700 million in general obligation bonds, which was initially priced on Tuesday, has been revised and repriced to offer slightly lower yields in the longer maturities. Serial bonds running from 1990 to 2002 remained unchanged. 
The underwriting was led by Goldman, Sachs & Company.
Bonds due in 2003, formerly uninsured, are now insured by the Financial Guaranty Insurance Company and priced to yield 7.40 percent.
The Group A bonds, which were insured by F.G.I.C., now include a 2004 bond and maturities have been extended to 2006. The interest rate on these securities was lowered a quarter of a percentage point and they were repriced to yield 7.40 percent. Maturities of the Group B bonds now range from 2007 to 2013 at a price to yield 7.775 percent, while Group C bonds now range from 2014 to 2019 at a price to yield 7.75 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph of Freddie Yield Macs (source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE CO (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (94%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (88%); INSURANCE (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (83%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); 



684 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 18, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Ends Slightly Lower On Selling by Central Banks

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Central banks sold dollars for a third straight day yesterday, pushing the currency lower after an agreement last weekend that it had risen too much in recent months.
In New York, the dollar fell a little more than two Japanese yen and one pfennig against the German mark.
The losses left the dollar 4 percent lower against the West German mark and Japanese yen than it was late last week, back to its levels of late July and early August. 
 
Early Rally Fizzles
The central banks squashed a rally attempt at midmorning in New York. The brief rebound in the dollar signaled to some traders that the central banks had succeeded for now in their efforts to influence the $300 billion-a-day currency market, but whether that influence would continue over the long term remained in doubt.
A strong dollar tends to swell the United States trade deficit by making imports cheap and pushing up the price of American goods in foreign markets. At a meeting in Washington, finance leaders of the Group of Seven industrial nations agreed Saturday that the dollar's rise was ''inconsistent with longer-run economic fundamentals.''
Traders said the frequency of sales rather than their size was pushing down the dollar.
The dollar fell against all major currencies except the Canadian dollar, which often moves in tandem with the dollar, and the British pound, which was weighed down by a worse-than-expected trade deficit report.
In London, the pound fell to $1.6155, from $1.6215 late Tuesday. In New York the pound fell to $1.6167 from $1.6190.
In Tokyo, the dollar fell 1.45 Japanese yen to a closing 141.35 yen. Later, in London, it dropped further to 139.45 yen. It was quoted at 140.32 yen in late New York trading, down from 142.35 late Tuesday.
In West German marks, the dollar ended the trading day in New York at 1.8805, down from 1.8918.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late rates on Tuesday, included: 1.6305 Swiss francs, down from 1.6415; 1.1771 Canadian dollars, up from 1.1756; 6.3655 French francs, down from 6.4110, and 1,361.7 Italian lire, down from 1,366.9.
Other late dollar rates in Europe, compared with late Tuesday's rates, included: 1.8830 West German marks, down from 1.8885; 1.6305 Swiss francs, down from 1.6390; 6.3485 French francs, down from 6.3990; 2.1215 Dutch guilders, down from 2.1480; 1,359.50 Italian lire, down from 1,377.00, and 1.1770 Canadian dollars, up from 1.1750.
 
Gold Prices Edge Higher
Gold bullion edged higher in active European trading. In London, the metal rose to $368 a troy ounce, from $367.75 bid late Tuesday.
In Zurich, gold rose to a late bid price of $368, from $367.75 bid late Tuesday. Earlier, in Hong Kong, gold rose $2.09 to close at a bid $369.92.
On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold bullion for current delivery fell to $367.60 an ounce from $368.50. Later, the Republic National Bank of New York said gold was bid at $366.20 an ounce, down from $367.30 late Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CARP (PAR) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (52%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); CANADA (93%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SWITZERLAND (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); ZURICH (52%); 

COMPANY: CARPINIENNE DE PARTICIPATIONS SA (52%); CARPINIENNE DE PARTICIPATIONS SA (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES CURRENCIES (94%); CENTRAL BANKS (92%); US DOLLAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); BRITISH POUND (89%); GERMAN MARK (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); 



685 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 22, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 286 words

HEADLINE: Arnold Johnson Is Dead at 84; A Leading American Communist

BYLINE: By JOAN COOK

 BODY:
Arnold Johnson, a member of the national leadership of the Communist Party for many years, died Tuesday at St. Vincent's Hospital after a long illness. He was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan. 
Mr. Johnson was born in a lumber camp in Seattle and began working at the age of 12 in a lumber mill. He worked his way through college and later received a master's degree from Teachers College at Columbia University and a bachelor of divinity degree from the Union Theological Seminary.
Mr. Johnson joined the Socialist Party in New York in 1929 while he was still a student. In 1931 he was arrested in Harlan, Ky., at a miners' strike. He later became a leader of the National Unemployed Leagues and the Workers Alliance.
 
Ran for the Senate
After joining the Communist Party Mr. Johnson moved to Ohio, where he was the party's state leader from 1940 to 1947. In the late 1940's he came to Manhattan, where he served as national legislative director, public-relations director and filled other posts in the party's national and New York State organizations. He also ran for the United States Senate on the Communist line.
In 1953, Mr. Johnson and a group of other party leaders were convicted in Manhattan of violating the Smith Act, which made it a crime to advocate the violent overthrow of the Government. Sentenced to a three-year term, he was released after two years and four months.
In 1970 he refused to testify before a subcommittee of the House Committee on Internal Security, which had subpoenaed him in an investigation of the New Mobilization Committee to End the War in Vietnam. He was cited for contempt of Congress, but the charge was later dismissed.
There are no immediate survivors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SUBPOENAS (87%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); SAW MILLS (72%); SENTENCING (72%); MINE WORKERS (72%); RELIGION (70%); ARRESTS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%); MINES & MINING (54%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (52%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, ARNOLD; COOK, JOAN



686 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1601 words

HEADLINE: U.S. TELLS ISRAEL IT PLANS TO SELL SAUDIS 300 TANKS

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
The Bush Administration has told Israel that it intends to sell Saudi Arabia about 300 United States Army battlefield tanks and will take steps to meet Israel's security concerns if Jerusalem does not actively oppose the sale, American officials said yesterday.
The officials said Defense Secretary Dick Cheney raised the plan to sell the M1-A1 tank to the Saudis with Israel's Defense Minister, Yitzhak Rabin, when they met in Washington three weeks ago. Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d followed up on the plan in talks this week with Israel's Foreign Minister, Moshe Arens.
The Administration has decided to try to reach an understanding in principle with the Israelis that they not use their influence with Congress to try and block the sale, before taking up the issue with Congress and giving it the required legal notification of the proposed transaction.
 
Each Costs $2.6 Million
Each M1-A1 costs about $2.6 million, so if the Saudis decide to buy all 315 under discussion, the deal could be worth between $700 million and $1 billion, depending on the associated equipment purchased, officials said. 
Military analysts say Washington is particularly interested in this sale not only because it would come at a time when many countries are simply upgrading older models, but also because the cash it would bring in would allow the manufacturer, General Dynamics, to keep its production lines open longer to make even more advanced models.
While certainly not enthusiastic about such a deal, the Israeli officials have not flatly rejected the compromise formulas sketched out by the Administration. But once the incendiary issue of arms sales becomes a matter for public and Congressional debate, no one can predict where it will end.
The Saudis have been considering buying M1 tanks, the principal tank of the United States armed forces, since the early 1980's. The Saudi Army has about 550 tanks, a mixture of French-made AMX-30's and American-made M-60's, both of which are based on designs of the Vietnam War era.
The M1-A1 is an improved version of the M1, and has a 120-millimeter cannon instead of a 105-millimeter cannon, thicker armor and more advanced computers and communications gear, making it what many believe to be the best tank in the world today.
Israel makes a tank of its own, the Merkava, that is roughly comparable to the M1.
The ideal arrangement for the Bush Administration appears to be the kind that the Reagan Administration worked out in July 1988 when it sold 40 F-18 fighter jets and 300 Maverick air-to-ground missiles to Kuwait. Congress and the Administration agreed to downgrade the technical level of the Mavericks, while the Administration gave Israel military sales benefits to help its military high-technology industry. Israel then perfunctorily opposed the Kuwaiti sale, but did not encourage its allies in Congress to block it.
In an effort to avoid a major battle with Congress and Israel over the prospective Saudi tank sale - the kind of battle that occurred over the 1981 sale of five AWACS advanced radar planes to Saudi Arabia and over several other sales - Mr. Cheney laid out the following arrangement to Mr. Rabin during his recent visit.
The United States, it was noted, has been pre-positioning weapons and other war materiel in Israel since the early 1980's, but most of the weapons involved are ''single use'' armaments, meaning that they do not fit with the parallel equipment used by the Israeli Army. They are for use by the American military only, in the event that it has to fight a war in the Middle East.
In South Korea, by contrast, the United States has long pre-positioned weapons which are of dual-use capacity, suitable for both the South Korean and American forces. The South Korean Army can draw on these weapons stocks on a ''pay as you use'' basis, if the United States approves.
According to officials, Mr. Cheney has decided ''in principle'' to begin a similar arrangement with Israel. The draft plan is for the United States to pre-position up to $100 million worth of military equipment in Israel that would be suitable for either army. Israel could draw on these stocks if Washington approves.
 
Israel Short of Arms Funds
The cash-starved Israeli Defense Ministry, for budgetary reasons, has allowed certain categories of weapons and ammunition to be reduced to below-normal levels of inventory. Thus, the idea that the United States would maintain some weapons inventories in Israel, in effect on Israel's behalf, has a great deal of appeal.
Mr. Cheney is said to have suggested to Defense Minister Rabin that the pace at which this prospective $100 million stockpile would be built up by the Pentagon might be affected by the degree of Israel's cooperation on the proposed Saudi tank deal.
Mr. Cheney also broached some other financial offsets, most involving complex bookkeeping arrangements by which the Administration could pay out Israel's annual $1.8 billion in military aid in a way that compensates Jerusalem for erosion from inflation.
Mr. Cheney told Mr. Rabin that the Saudis will buy the tanks from some European nation if they do not get them from the United States. And, Mr. Cheney added, while there might be a marginal weakening of Israel's security by the fact that the Saudis received higher-quality American-made tanks rather than slightly less advanced European models, that would be more than offset by the increase to Israel's security through American pre-positioning and better financing.
 
Compromise Is Possible
Mr. Rabin answered that Israel's official policy was to oppose any such arms sale to any Arab nation still technically at war with it, which applies to Saudi Arabia. Neverthless, while Mr. Rabin made clear that this would always be the official position, he did not rule out some sort of unspoken, unwritten compromise along the line that was reached in Kuwaiti arms deal. Foreign Minister Arens took the same line with Mr. Baker, Israeli officials said.
In Congress, there appears to be some sympathy for the long-expected Saudi deal, although the Administration may have antagonized some key pro-Israeli legislators by floating the idea by the Israelis before consulting with Congress.
''I think there is room for negotiations on this tank sale, but it would help if the Administration bothered to consult with the Congress, which it has promised to do and repeatedly failed to do on questions related to the Middle East,'' said Representative Mel Levine, the California Democrat who has been a central figure in several Administration-Congress battles over arms sales to Arab nations.
Mr. Levine said he would look at several factors in deciding whether or not to oppose the Saudi tank sale. He said he would want to know if the tanks would be equipped with depleted-uranium armor, an advanced technology that deflects penetrating shells, the type of weapons the tanks would carry, where in Saudi Arabia they would be stationed - that is how close to the frontier with Israel - and what type of overall threat they might pose to Israel's security.
 
Egyptian and Israeli Meet
On the Middle East diplomatic front, Secretary Baker played host yesterday to a meeting in his Waldorf Astoria suite between Mr. Arens and Egypt's Foreign Minister, Esmat Abdel-Meguid. Earlier in the day Mr. Arens met with the Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard A. Shevardnadze. The four men were in New York for the United Nations General Assembly session.
After his meeting with the Israeli and the Egyptian, Mr. Baker told reporters that there ''may be some possibility for progress'' in getting Israelis and Palestinians to discuss Israel's proposal for Palestinian elections.
The Secretary explained, however, that on the two key issues - which Palestinians Israel would talk to and on what basis - no breakthrough was forthcoming yesterday.
He said Mr. Arens had told him that next week the Israeli Cabinet would consider Egypt's 10-point proposal for bridging Israeli and Palestinian differences over how to organize elections in the occupied territories to choose Palestinian representatives who would negotiate peace with Israel. Mr. Arens said he could not commit himself until the Cabinet had made a decision.
 
The M1-A1 Tank at a Glance
 
Performance
The M1-A1 is the latest version in the M1 series of tanks developed by the United States in the 1970's. The $2.6 million tank has improved computers and communications gear. It can travel 41.4 miles an hour on the road, 30 miles an hour cross-country and four miles an hour up a 60 percent grade. It has a maximum road range of 300 miles. The tank is powered by a Lycoming Textron AGT 1500 gas turbine engine.
 
Armor
To deflect penetrating shells, the thicker hull is designed with low-level radiation uranium encased in steel, which is 2 1/2 times the density of steel, and reiinforced with depleted uranium mesh on the front and on the turret.
 
Weapons
The main weapon on the M1-A1 is a German Rheinmetall 120mm smooth-bore gun. To its right is a 7.62mm machine gun with another mounted on the left side of the turret. A total of 11,400 rounds of 7.62 mm machine gun, with 1,000 rounds of ammunition available, is mounted at the commanders station. It can be aimed and fired from within the turret in 360-degrees radius and at an angle up to 65 degrees. On each side of the turret is a six-barrelled smoke grenade gun.
 
Dimensions
The M1-A1 tank's hull is 26 feet long and 11.4 feet wide. Overall height is 8 feet.
 
Source: Jane's Armor and Artillery, 1988-89

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GD (NYSE) (54%); ALMUDON (KUW) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (54%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); SAUDI ARABIA (98%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (88%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (54%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SAUDI ARABIA; ISRAEL, STATE OF; MIDDLE EAST

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY VEHICLES; ARMS SALES ABROAD MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMS TRADE (89%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE MFG (69%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); DICK CHENEY (58%); 



687 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1876 words

HEADLINE: HOUSE, 239 TO 190, VOTES BILL TO CUT CAPITAL GAINS TAX

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 28

 BODY:
The House of Representatives today approved a reduction in the capital gains tax rate, giving President Bush a significant legislative victory that wounded the new Democratic leadership.
After weeks of arm-twisting and button-holing by both sides, the vote was not even close: 239 legislators voted to cut the tax rate through the end of 1991, while 190 opposed the plan. Sixty-four Democrats joined 175 Republicans in supporting the tax cut. One Republican voted against the proposal. [Roll-call, page D4.] The vote came on a Democratic alternative that would have restored tax-deductible individual retirement accounts to all taxpayers and raised the overall tax rate of the 600,000 taxpayers with the highest incomes. A vote for the alternative was a vote against reducing the tax rate.
 
Another Fight Ahead
The capital gains measure is part of a huge budget bill. Once the overall legislation is approved by the House, probably next week, the bill will go to the Senate. The Senate Democratic leadership is strongly opposed to lowering the capital gains rate, but proponents of a capital gains cut seem to have the upper hand. 
If the capital gains measure becomes law, it would represent a serious unraveling of the monumental Tax Reform Act of 1986. The basic principle behind that law was that tax rates would be lowered significantly in return for the abolition of dozens of tax breaks, including the differential for capital gains.
Proponents of reducing the tax rate have maintained, in the words of Representative Bill Frenzel of Minnesota, the senior Republican on the Budget Committee, that it would ''induce more savings,'' which in turn would lead to ''more investment, more jobs and more economic activity.'' Democratic leaders have countered that the cut would provide a tax break for the well-to-do and be a serious drain on Federal revenues.
 
Not All Assets Included
The plan approved today lowers the top rate on capital gains - profits from the sale of stock and other assets - to 19.6 percent, from 33 percent. It applies to income from sales of stocks, bonds, real estate and some raw materials. Income from sales of works of art, coins and other collectibles would continue to be taxed as ordinary income.
President Bush made lowering the capital gains rate a centerpiece of his election campaign last year. In a campaign with few concrete issues, this was one on which he and Gov. Michael S. Dukakis of Massachusetts strongly disagreed.
In the last week, Mr. Bush campaigned hard for the tax cut, and he was still calling lawmakers Wednesday from Virginia, where he was attending a meeting with governors on education matters.
After the vote, Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady praised the House for ''strengthening America's economy, creating new jobs and giving America's small businesses and entrepreneurs a fair chance to compete internationally.''
The vote was the House Democratic leadership's first real test on a highly partisan matter. The Speaker of the House, Thomas S. Foley of Washington, and the majority leader, Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, gained their posts in the summer. Both men had spoken strongly against the tax cut, saying it was a gift to the rich. In their alternative plan, the income tax would have been raised on the highest income taxpayers, like couples with income of more than $200,000 a year.
After the vote Mr. Foley said: ''We're proud of the position we took. We think it was the right position.'' He continued: ''This vote should not be read as going beyond the confines of the particular issue. We're going to win some and lose some.''
While the Democratic leaders tried to put the best face on their defeat, it was clearly a serious blow for them to lose the first time they took on President Bush on a matter of party principle. They were unable to maintain strict party discipline in the face of pressure from important constituents who stood to receive a tax break and the prevailing view that Republicans wanted to reduce taxes while Democrats wanted to raise them.
Most Democrats who broke ranks with the leadership were Southerners or from districts with timber interests. Under the proposal, timber investors would be allowed to count all their profits as capital gains while receiving other favorable tax treatment.
The only Republican to vote against the tax cut was Representative Doug Beuter of Nebraska.
 
The Political Reality of Taxes
''It's always popular to be seen as reducing anyone's taxes,'' Mr. Foley said. ''People who are going to get a tax break know about it and respond to it. Those who are not respond less.''
Representative Newt Gingrich of Georgia, the Republican whip, said the vote demonstrated the ''waning influence of the liberals in the Democratic party.''
But Mr. Gingrich more or less agreed with Mr. Foley's analysis, saying, ''It's hard for a politician to vote against a tax cut.''
The tax cut provision would be in effect until the end of 1991. After that the top rate would become 28 percent, but in calculating taxable gains a taxpayer would be permitted to adjust them to reflect inflation during the time the assets were held.
Until 1986, capital gains were taxed at a lower rate than other forms of income. But the sweeping tax law that year eliminated the differential in favor of a lower overall tax rate.
 
'A Foot in the Door'
The sponsors of the lower rates said they hoped the rate reduction would become a permanent one, and they characterized the temporary reduction as a ''foot in the door.''
According to the nonpartisan staff of the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation, 60 percent of the benefits from a capital gains cut would go to taxpayers earning more than $200,000 and 80 percent to those earning more than $100,000.
The committee staff calculated that while the cut would enhance revenue for the first two years as taxpayers sold assets to take advantage of the lower rate, it would lose billions of dollars in subsequent years. Republicans disputed those figures and argued that the economic growth created by the tax cut would lead to a permanent increase in revenues.
In the financial community, the prospect of a capital gains tax cut has been favorably received although concerns have been expressed about the temporary nature of the measure before Congress.
 
An Economist's Reservations
''If it is certain that the capital gains tax rate will go back up, then it is hard to see how it would trigger any capital formation,'' said Jerry L. Jordan, the chief economist of First Interstate Bank and a member of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Reagan. ''I'm for any tax cut I can get. But the motivation of this one, to generate revenue for the next fiscal year, is certainly short-sighted. Having a permanent capital gains tax reduction would be far superior.''
A person involved in venture capital financing, which supplies money to new businesses, said a capital gains cut would probably not significantly increase the money available for that, because much of the financing comes from pension funds and other tax-exempt institutions.
But Standish O'Grady, a general partner of Hambrecht & Quist Venture Partners, said the reduction might encourage people to start businesses.
''While it is a temporary cut,'' he said, ''for entrepreneurs thinking of starting a business, it would certainly make the economics more compelling, so long as they believe there is a possibility it will be extended. ''
In the debate today, both sides asserted that the issue was not so much one of tax policy as of political principle.
 
Philosophical Arguments
''The struggle is not between two policies but two philosophies,'' said Representative Bob Michel of Illinois, the House Republican leader. ''The Democratic Party believes in the redistribution of wealth. The Republican Party believes in creating wealth.''
Mr. Gephardt agreed that the issue was one of philosophical differences. Urging the House to ''do what's right for the country,'' he declared, ''The choice is between two different views of what it will take to make our country strong.''
In Democratic circles, much of the blame for today's defeat was placed on Representative Dan Rostenkowski, chairman of the Ways and Means Committee. Mr. Rostenkowski let it be known last spring that he might favor some form of capital gains tax reduction. By the time he reversed his position, he had lost his normally firm control of his committee.
Indeed, six Democrats on the panel, led by Ed Jenkins of Georgia, were in the forefront of the effort to reduce the gains tax.
 
The Honeymoon Factor
After the vote, Mr. Rostenkowski said he did not have the means to counter President Bush's honeymoon popularity.
''I have served in this House during the first term of six popularly elected Presidents,'' the chairman said. ''My experience has shown that they enjoy their greatest power and influence in their first year in office. George Bush is no exception.''
Mr. Rostenkowski criticized the President for not facing up ''to his responsibility to lead the deficit-reduction effort.''
''Make no mistake,'' Mr. Rostenkowski said, ''it is his job, and his alone.''
Under the House rules, lawmakers could not cast a vote for or against both provisions.
 
More Options in Senate
The situation will be different in the Senate, where the rules are more flexible and where the Finance Committee will begin drafting a bill next week.
Senator Lloyd Bentsen of Texas, the committee chairman, favors making deductible I.R.A.'s available to all taxpayers and permitting withdrawals for college tuition payments or first-home purchases. Interest and dividends earned in retirement accounts are not taxable until the money is withdrawn.
The I.R.A. proposal is quite popular. Moreover, Senator Bentsen's measure does not include a tax increase for the wealthy. The I.R.A. proposal rejected by the House today would raise, to 33 percent from 28 percent, the tax rate on the last dollar earned by couples making more than about $200,000 a year.
Some senators have held out the possibility that the Senate might approve both the capital gains reduction and more generous I.R.A.'s.
A quick assessment of the Senate showed that about 15 of the 55 Democrats were sympathetic to a capital gains reduction while only 3 or 4 of the 45 Republicans could be counted on now to oppose one. Unless some votes are changed, that means the tax cut stands a good chance of being passed.
 
Tax Plan Highlights
 
Capital Gains Tax: Would drop to 19.6 percent for those in the highest tax bracket, who now pay 33 or 28 percent. Would drop to 10.5 percent from 15 percent for those in the lower bracket.
 
Assets Affected: Stocks, bonds, real estate, tmber, livestock and some other raw materials.
 
Assets Excluded: Works of art, coins and other collectibles.
 
Effective for: Assets held at least one year and sold between Sept. 14, 1989, and Dec. 31, 1991. Tax jcut would not be pahsed in.
 
Expiration: In 1992, the capital gains rates would become 28 percent and 15 percent, but taxpayers would be allowed to deduct an amount attributable to inflation since the asset was purchased.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Speaker of the house, Thomas S. Foley and Rep. William H. Gray (NYT/George Tames)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES INC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TAXATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (IRA); INCOME TAXES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) CAPITAL GAINS TAX (95%); TAXES & TAXATION (94%); POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); JOB CREATION (73%); BONDS (73%); TAX REFORM (72%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (63%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (62%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (60%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



688 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: Bush and Governors Set Education Goals

BYLINE: By BERNARD WEINRAUB, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va., Sept. 28

 BODY:
President Bush and the nation's Governors agreed today on the need to overhaul the nation's education system by creating a set of goals that will focus on eliminating illiteracy, reshaping curriculums and holding teachers accountable for their performance.
''We believe that the time has come, for the first time in U.S. history, to establish clear, national performance goals, goals that will make us internationally competetive,'' said the joint statement issued here at the end of a two-day meeting called by Mr. Bush to discuss education. The statement was written by the White House staff, Administration officials and a bipartisan group of governors.
Earlier today, in a speech to the governors, Mr. Bush said: ''The American people are ready for radical reforms. We must not disappoint them. ''Education is our most enduring legacy, vital to everything we are and can become,'' Mr. Bush said. ''And come the next century - just 10 years away - what will we be? Will we be children of the Enlightenment or its orphans?'' 
 
'The First Step'
Specific goals and details will be shaped by the White House and governors to be ready for a meeting of the National Governors' Association in Washington in February.
''This agreement represents the first step in a long-term commitment to reorient the education system and to marshal widespread support for the needed reforms,'' the statement said.
Mr. Bush and the governors said that the caliber of the education system and the nation's economic future were inextricably intertwined. Developing a national strategy that includes new directions for education, Mr. Bush said, is pivotal to the nation's well-being.
The overall proposals carried few surprises, but they were hailed as the first time any President had outlined a framework for the Federal Government and states to work together to reform the nation's ailing schools.
 
Triumph for Bush
For Mr. Bush, who pledged in his campaign to serve as the ''education President,'' the agreement represented a triumph and clearly achieved one immediate goal, focusing attention on education, not just for the two days of meetings here but with the many special reports on education appearing all week.
''This is a major step forward in education,'' said Mr. Bush, standing near the sun-drenched steps of the rotunda on the University of Virginia campus. ''We've reached agreement on the need for national performance goals, on the need for more flexibility and accountability, the need for restructuring and choice.''
Obviously bowing to pressure from the Democratic governors, Mr. Bush added that the Federal Government was committed to ''more Federal support'' for preschool programs like Head Start for poor children.
Overall, said the beaming Mr. Bush, ''This has been historic.''
 
Test of Financing
But some Democratic governors, including Michael S. Dukakis of Massachusetts, said it was too early to forecast the agreement's scope and effectiveness.
''There's good news in the sense that 50 governors and the Administration seem to be committed to improving the quality of our schools,'' said Mr. Dukakis, the President's opponent in the 1988 campaign. ''But the test for all of us will be over the next couple of months. It means not only deciding who does what, but who pays for it.'' But most of the Democratic governors spoke positively, even warmly, about the agreement.
Mr. Bush won praise from several union leaders.
Albert Shanker, president of the American Federation of Teachers, said Mr. Bush's speech ''defined a vision of education that was not public relations.''
Mr. Shanker said he was surprised that Mr. Bush had offered some ''radically different proposals'' that departed from the ideas of conservative educators, notably in emphasizing the notion of diverse, nonrigid curriculums to meet the needs of students of differing ethnic and geographic backgrounds.
 
Hailed as a First
The joint agreement was announced hours after Mr. Bush addressed the governors, Cabinet officers, education officials and students and faculty members at the university.
The agreement was also the first time that the nation's governors, Democrats and Republicans, had agreed to forge a national education strategy.
''This is the first time in the history of this country that we have ever thought enough of education and ever understood its significance to our economic future enough to commit ourselves to national performance goals,'' said Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, a Democrat who helped draw up the agreement. ''It has never happened in over 200 years.''
With state and local governments providing more than 90 percent of the money spent on education, Mr. Bush squarely left the details and the burden of substantial education changes in their hands.
Mr. Bush had called the rare meeting with the governors largely because of the consensus with the Government and the education establishment that American schools were in turmoil and that the education system was increasingly lagging behind those of other industrial democracies.
 
More Than Three R's
In his speech at midday, Mr. Bush said his Administration envisioned ''tradition-shattering reform in five areas.''
''First, I see the day when every student is literate,'' he said. ''But literacy should mean more than the 'three R's.' We must be a reading nation. We must grapple with the hard sciences.''
Mr. Bush also said students ''must do more than identify names on a multiple-choice question. They must understand the generosity of Andrew Carnegie, the genius of Alexander Graham Bell and the heroism of Rosa Parks.''
Mr. Bush's second proposal centered on ''diversity'' in classroom curriculums and standards. Current lessons and procedures are often too rigid to meet the needs of the diverse ethnic groups of students around the nation, White House officials said.
''Of course all schools in a state will share a core curriculum and minimum standards of achievement,'' Mr. Bush said. ''But the means by which that curriculum is taught, and those goals met, should be as diverse and varied as America.''
These were the President's other proposals:
* Giving parents more choice in selecting the schools they want their children to attend. ''Children differ in their interests, learning styles and capabilities,'' said Mr. Bush. ''I see the day when choice among schools will be the norm rather than the exception.''
* Developing more accountability, where teachers, principals and administrators must clearly answer for poor performances. ''We must now evaluate ourselves on a tougher grading curve, one that includes that other major industrial nations,'' Mr. Bush said.
* Exploiting the potential of every student, not only those who are gifted, but also the ''average students'' and the disadvantaged.
''Some of our reforms and experiments are sure to come up short,'' said Mr. Bush. ''But for too many of our schools, experimentation is preferable to the status quo, because the status quo could scarcely be worse.''
''After two centuries of progress,'' Mr. Bush told the governors, ''we are stagnant.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (55%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; CHARLOTTESVILLE (VA)

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ILLITERACY; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES GOVERNORS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CURRICULA (90%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%); HISTORY (71%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); WEINRAUB, BERNARD GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



689 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: Groups Sue to Stop Shuttle Flight Because of Radioactive Payload

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD

 BODY:
Three private groups filed a suit in Washington yesterday to stop the next space shuttle mission, which is to take aloft a nuclear-powered space probe that the three groups say could cause thousands of deaths by cancer if it is involved in an accident. The probe's power source is radioactive.
The suit, filed in Federal District Court in the capital, is the first meant to stop a civilian space launching, the space agency said. The groups charge that the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the Energy Department and the White House suppressed public releasing of information about health and safety risks that the probe poses. 
James W. McCulla, NASA's director of media relations, yesterday quoted agency lawyers as calling the charge ''totally inaccurate and untrue.''
 
Using Radioactive Decay
The probe, code-named Galileo, is to be lofted Oct. 12 on an eight-year $1.4 journey to investigate Jupiter. It must be launched by Nov. 21 or wait two years for proper planetary alignment. It is powered by nearly 50 pounds of radioactive plutonium 238; it will swing too far from the Sun to be energized by solar cells.
Inside the Galileo probe, the heat of decaying plutonium is to be turned into electric power. Unlike a nuclear reactor, in which atoms are actively broken apart in a chain reaction, this power source is a kind of nuclear battery that uses natural radioactive decay to produce power. A similar power source was used on the recent Voyager probe of Neptune.
Disputes over the safety of the Galileo mission grew after the 1986 Challenger explosion and the subsequent estimate by the space agency that the risk of ''catastrophic failure'' for the shuttle in its fiery ascent is one mission in 78; that estimate's range of reliablity extends as high as one flight in 168 and as low as one in 36.
The nuclear risk is not unique here. The Soviets have sent dozens of nuclear reactors into orbit over the years.
 
Danger Substance Is Shielded
The Galileo plutonium is surrounded by multiple layers of shielding, including thick graphite shells NASA says are ''designed to withstand the extreme impact and temperatures associated with a mission abort.'' NASA said the greatest chance of a release of plutonium in a launching accident was less than one in 2,500.
The plaintiffs in the suit are the Florida Coalition for Peace and Justice, the Christic Institute and the Foundation on Economic Trends. The first group is based in Orlando, the others in Washington.
''Given what we know about the risks involved in the Galileo mission, it is our responsibility to stop it,'' said Lanny Sinkin, litigation director for the Christic Institute.
The groups estimate that an explosion on liftoff could shatter the nuclear-power pack and cause thousands of fatal cancers. But the space agency says so little plutonium would be released that there would be no deaths. When Plutonium Is Released . . . A Federal interagency panel that evaluated the Galileo probe's risks reported that at worst, a launching pad accident could release enough plutonium to cause an eventual 80 cancer deaths. The panel said that if the probe re-entered the atmosphere as it swung by the Earth, up to 2,000 cancer deaths could be caused by released plutonium. The report was prepared by 50 experts headed by officials of the Energy Department, the Defense Department and NASA.
The private groups contend that the release of that report was illegally delayed, preventing them from using the conclusions in comments for the environmental assessment of the mission that the space agency made in May. The suit names President Bush; the NASA Administrator, Richard H. Truly, and Energy Secretary James D. Watkins.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: JUPITER (92%); FLORIDA, USA (87%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (91%); CHRISTIC INSTITUTE (59%); CHRISTIC INSTITUTE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION (NASA); PEACE AND JUSTICE, FLORIDA COALITION FOR; CHRISTIC INSTITUTE; ECONOMIC TRENDS, FOUNDATION ON

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JUPITER

SUBJECT: ASTRONAUTICS; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; SPACE SHUTTLE; SPACE; PLUTONIUM; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; RADIATION SPACE EXPLORATION (93%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (92%); SPACECRAFT (91%); LITIGATION (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); SPACE INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SOLAR ENERGY (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); NUCLEAR CHEMISTRY (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); TRENDS (69%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS (51%); 

PERSON: BROAD, WILLIAM J



690 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 35, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: ON MY MIND;
Soldier in the Wall

BYLINE: By A. M. Rosenthal

 BODY:
The Prime Minister of Poland is strolling about his office, looking.
It is all new to him. He had been in other official Polish establishments, like jail, but until Solidarity chose him to head the new Government, Tadeusz Mazowiecki had never set foot in the large building in central Warsaw that houses all the Government ministries that are now supposed to report to him.
So after a day or two, he is walking around, inspecting the furnishings. He sees a button he had not noticed and gives it a little push. 
The wall suddenly parts. Out leaps a soldier with an automatic rifle. When they both recover from the shock, Mr. Mazowiecki is told a soldier is always behind the wall, to protect him.
The Prime Minister calls the head of police, a Communist minister, and says he would appreciate knowing about other soldiers and other breakaway walls.
That story was told to me in New York by a visiting Solidarity official to make a couple of important points. One was that although Solidarity holds the prime ministry and other important posts, it still does not know where the Government buttons are or who will leap out of the wall when they are pushed.
The second point is that almost the entire Government bureaucracy is still in the hands of tens of thousands of Communist apparatchiks.
And, of course, some of the most important ministries, like the police, are headed by Communists under the agreement setting up the new Government. Assuming every single one has not been converted to democracy, the possibilities for sabotage or slowdown are immense.
These points are important for Americans, who tend already to take Solidarity and its hold on power for granted, a political and psychological mistake.
The Bush Administration apparently will be more openhanded than it first intended. But in the United States, it has not yet come across that if Solidarity is to thrive, even survive, it will not only have to meet the savage economic crisis it inherited from the Communists but at the same time create an entirely new system of government.
Meanwhile, Solidarity has to keep a close eye on a man who is supposed to be its friend. Jozef Cardinal Glemp dealt the new Government a hard blow by making a carefully crafted anti-Semitic statement in effect proclaiming Jews to be enemies of Poland and its freedom.
Happily, it took Solidarity only a day to repudiate that statement and only a couple more days to organize a direct appeal to the Pope, who then distanced himself from the Cardinal. The Solidarity Government is also talking about recognizing Israel, ending four decades of Polish Communist enmity.
But Cardinal Glemp probably will be heard from again to add to Solidarity's troubles. Men of hatred are rarely silent for long.
One important American does understand the full range of Solidarity's problems and needs - Lane Kirkland, head of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., which has befriended Solidarity before, during and after the time it was outlawed.
Publicly and privately, Mr. Kirkland is giving members of Congress some suggestions specifically tailored to help Poland move from the failed Communist system to a free economy.
Among many, one Kirkland suggestion is a fund of $250 million a year to provide small grants to start businesses in light industry and services, where the Communists left a desert.
He also suggests an annual $100 million job-retraining fund for those Poles who will be thrown out of work when inefficient, corruptly run Government plants are closed down.
While it is struggling to keep alive economically, the new Government will be dealing with something Mr. Kirkland points out has not happened since the creation of Israel - transforming a labor movement into a Government, separating one from the other and allowing for democratic challenges to both.
Mr. Kirkland agrees with American financial experts who say Poland will have to wipe out many subsidies and artificially low prices. That is likely to bring a period of hyperinflation and unemployment.
But he warns that the Solidarity Government must not be left to deal alone with this heritage of Communism. With luck, Mr. Bush will listen to that point.
America and Western Europe must extend help before and during the new Government's period of economic trial, not wait until it is over and then look to see if Solidarity has managed to survive - or whether somebody else has jumped out of the wall.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (88%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOLIDARITY UNION (POLAND)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POLAND

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); JEWS & JUDAISM (60%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M; MAZOWIECKI, TADEUSZ (PRIME MIN) TADEUSZ MAZOWIECKI (73%); 



691 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 5, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: THE LAW;
Harvard Plans to Close a Public Service Placement Office

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Sept. 28

 BODY:
The new dean at Harvard Law School, the first law school to set up a separate placement program to help students find jobs in public service, plans to close the office, The plan by the new dean, Robert C. Clark, has led to protests by students worried that the school will abandon its commitment to support public interest law. Mr. Clark is considered an expert in corporate law who holds conservative views.
In an interview this week, Dean Clark called the planned closing a streamlining measure in which the general placement office would take on public interest counseling and placement. One new adviser will be hired to do some public interest placement. 
Last week, 1,055 of the 1,600 undergraduate law students signed a petition asking the dean to retain the 12-year-old Public Interest Placement Office. The office, which has been financed by the law school and run by a lawyer, encourages students to seek alternatives to working in large private firms. About 300 also attended a rally last week.
''We want to be the next generation of Harvard Law School graduates to do public interest law, and we're asking our school to help us,'' said Lori M. Wallach, a third-year law student who works with the Harvard Legal Aid Bureau, which assists low-income people in civil cases.
 
Assistance on Loans
Dean Clark said students facing high tuition costs and low-paying public service jobs would be better served by economic help than by counseling. Harvard's law school costs $62,200 for three years, and public service jobs begin at about $25,000 a year. The school's growing loan forgiveness program would assist such students, he said, since it reduces the tuition debt of graduates who work in some types of public interest law.
''This was not intended to downplay or challenge the school's support of public interest,'' said the dean. He added that he would consider suggestions made by the Alliance for Public Interest Alternatives, a group that joined the protest. The group wants a full-time lawyer working in a separate office, and it says public interest law should be further integrated into the law school curriculum.
Barry J. Fisher, a member of the alliance, said the plan to close the special placement office was ''negative, both practically and symbolically.'' He said eliminating the services would make it harder to find public service jobs, which have dwindled with government budget cuts, and diminish the value placed on public service at Harvard and at other law schools as well as law firms.
Geoffrey R. Stone, dean of the University of Chicago Law School, which opened a public interest placement service in July, said that while private law firms were able to recruit students on campuses, public interest groups were not.
''Students interested in public interest must profoundly buck the trend, and without support and assistance they simply give up,'' Dean Stone said. ''Why worry about loan forgiveness if you don't have people taking these jobs?''
Harvard set up the separate public interest placement program in 1977. In the past few years, 15 other law school have done so, according to Michael Caudell-Fagan of the National Association of Public Interest Law in Washington. Harvard's office not only encouraged its students and alumnae, it set up a national clearinghouse for 117 other law schools.
''If this goes through, other schools will think twice about establishing such services,'' Mr. Caudell-Fagan said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: THE LAW PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LEGAL AID BUREAU INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD LAW SCHOOL

SUBJECT: LEGAL PROFESSION LAW SCHOOLS (92%); LAWYERS (91%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); TUITION FEES (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (78%); CURRICULA (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LEGAL AID (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); PETITIONS (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); BUDGET CUTS (70%); BUDGETS (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (65%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (60%); 

PERSON: CLARK, ROBERT C (PROF)



692 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2596 words

HEADLINE: Autocrat With a Regal Manner, Marcos Ruled for 2 Decades

BYLINE: By ERIC PACE

 BODY:
Ferdinand E. Marcos was as tough as he was debonair, and he came to rule the Philippines with an iron hand before popular unrest forced him to flee in 1986 after two decades in power.
Mr. Marcos was first elected President in 1965 and converted his country's sputtering democratic system into a personal fief, with his luxury-loving wife, Imelda, as virtual co-ruler. He came to control most of the apparatus of power and acquired the right to rule by decree. For most of that time, he had the firm support of the United States.
While he was President, Mr. Marcos was not apologetic about departing from the norms of Western democracy. ''What we ask of the developed countries,'' he wrote in 1982, ''is to let the third world find a third way. We must now create a political and economic system responsive to our unique character and our special realities.'' 
A skillful lawyer and orator, Mr. Marcos entered public life in 1949 and served successively as a member of the Philippine House of Representatives, Senator and president of the Senate before he was first elected President in 1965. He was re-elected in 1969, later proclaimed that the governmental machinery was not operating and set about transforming it.
He entrenched himself as the Philippines' autocratic ruler during the nine years, from 1972 to 1981, in which he imposed martial law. He held on to sweeping powers afterward, and his regal manner and sumptuous way of life seemed to enhance his authority over his poverty-plagued, largely rural nation of 60 million people, a former American colony that became independent in 1946.
Defending his right to rule by decree, if he chose, he asserted that otherwise ''you will have Communists going back and forth, causing the dastardly ruin of our country, the killing of people and the rape of women.''
Over the years, Mr. Marcos's hand was strengthened by the support of the armed forces, whose size he tripled, to 200,000 troops, after declaring martial law in 1972. The forces included some first-rate units as well as thousands of unruly and ill-equipped personnel of the civilian home defense forces and other paramilitary organizations. In the martial-law years, he also consolidated his parliamentary power and curbed civil liberties, harassing or exiling political opponents.
Eventually, in the 1980's, corruption and mismanagement left the Philippine economy in obvious trouble, and Mr. Marcos's prestige and power shrank. His health faltered, the United States moved away from him and political opponents and Communist insurgents grew more assertive.
And he was put on the defensive after Aug. 21, 1983, when Benigno S. Aquino Jr., the main opposition leader, was shot and killed at the Manila airport as he returned home after three years of self-exile in the United States.
The indignation caused by the killing, coupled with longstanding discontent, led to demonstrations and rioting that undermined his authority and ultimately brought Corazon C. Aquino, Mr. Aquino's widow, to power.
 
Corruption Within
Mr. Marcos's aura was also tarnished by accusations and problems concerning his country's business and economic life. Under his rule, the Philippines was afflicted with widespread corruption and vast unemployment. There was widespread poverty, along with a few sectors of great wealth.
Mr. Marcos was said to suffer kidney problems, and 1984 there was speculation that he was close to death. A passionate golfer and physical fitness buff who was proud of his physique, he disputed the accounts.
With Mr. Marcos ailing, his long-powerful wife emerged as the Government's main public figure, meeting high-ranking visitors as though she were the chief of state. Her actual position was Minister of Human Settlements, which gave her cabinet rank.
Over the years, the life that the Marcoses came to lead in their riverside palace became regal indeed. When Pope John Paul II visited the Philippines in 1981, Mr. Marcos had bronze medals struck depicting himself and the Pope.
Ferdinand Edralin Marcos's early years were rather more austere. He was born Sept. 11, 1917, in the town of Sarrat in a rice- and tobacco-growing area in Ilocos Norte in northern Luzon. His father, Mariano R. Marcos, was a politician and educator. His mother, the former Josefa Edralin, was a teacher from a well-to-do landowning family.
The Marcos family moved to Manila in 1925, and the future President graduated from secondary school in 1934 and went on to study law on a scholarship at the University of the Philippines.
While he was a student, he was convicted of the murder of a political rival of his father, but the verdict was reversed by the Philippine Supreme Court after the young man argued his own appeal.
He then became a trial lawyer in his father's Manila law firm. In World War II, he was a much-decorated officer in both the Philippine and United States Armies.
 
Question of Medals
The decorations that Mr. Marcos claimed to have earned for military service against the Japanese became a campaign issue four decades later, when Mrs. Aquino denounced what she called his ''false medals.''
The Government's count of his war decorations ranged from 26 to 33. When their validity was challenged by American and Philippine journalists, his Government argued that documentation of his exploits as a wounded army officer and guerrilla leader had been destroyed by fire.
In 1946 and 1947, Mr. Marcos was special assistant to President Manuel Roxas. He was a member of the Philippine House of Representatives from 1949 to 1959 and of the Senate from 1959 to 1966, serving as president of the Senate from 1963 to 1965.
As President of the Philippines, Mr. Marcos ran the country jointly with a disputatious two-party Congress until he imposed martial law. He suspended Congress, declared himself absolute ruler and had a constitutional convention draw up a charter that gave the Philippines a Prime Minister as head of government. He then named himself Prime Minister under the new Constitution as well as President under the old.
Mr. Marcos remained Prime Minister from 1973 until 1981, when he stepped down from that post and, while retaining the presidency, also served as leader of the New Society Movement, his political party. He was easily elected again as President, Early Support, Then Furor Early in the martial law period, Mr. Marcos enjoyed widespread support, in part because crimes of violence decreased. Other successes of his presidency, over the years, included rural irrigation and electrification projects and increased rice harvests.
Yet the boasts of Mr. Marcos and his supporters seemed to be drowned out, in his final years, by the furor over the Aquino slaying, the Communist insurgency and the clamor of his emboldened political foes.
In the months after the killing, he made concessions to his opponents under pressure from the United States, which had provided hundreds of millions of dollars in aid. That assistance had been important over the years in buttressing his rule.
But by late 1984, there were signs that the Reagan Administration was distancing itself from his Government somewhat. And Mr. Marcos also had to contend with opposition from his country's Roman Catholic Church.
Many Filipinos came to believe that Mr. Marcos, a shrewd political tactician, had no hand in the killing of Mr. Aquino but that he was involved in cover-up measures.
A civilian investigative panel issued a report in October 1984 naming Gen. Fabian C. Ver, the armed forces Chief of Staff and a close friend of Mr. Marcos, and two dozen others, mostly soldiers, as ''indictable for the premeditated killing'' of Mr. Aquino and of Rolando Galman, who was earlier said to have been the lone assassin killed by airport guards. An indictment was handed up in February 1985.
Mr. Marcos asserted that the evidence backed the military's contention that Mr. Galman had been hired by Communists and had acted on his own. But some opposition politicians contended that Mr. Marcos had ordered the slaying, while others accused the military and Mrs. Marcos.
In late 1985, when the court found the defendants in the Aquino murder trial not guilty, the verdict was widely seen as a miscarriage of justice.
While the Aquino controversy continued in the capital, the Communist insurgency, which began in 1969, was making political as well as military inroads around the country.
Mr. Marcos estimated that the insurgent regulars numbered 10,000 to 12,000 by early 1985. But the rebel organization, the New People's Army, said it had around 20,000 armed fighters. And its popularity and influence were growing.
As a result, by May 1985, many opposition figures had begun striking a more nationalistic and anti-American note - partly in reaction to leftists' charges that the Marcos Government was dictatorial and was being sustained by United States aid.
His ties with Washington were of long standing. Early in his presidency, Mr. Marcos was a strong defender of American involvement in Vietnam, and he maintained close relations with Washington in the years that followed.
Those relations soured somewhat under the Carter Administration, which included the Philippines among the targets of its human-rights campaign. But Vice President George Bush appeared to signal a different tack in 1981 when he visited Manila and told Mr. Marcos: ''We love your adherence to democratic principles and to democratic processes. We will not leave you in isolation.'' Mr. Bush said the next day that he had been speaking generally of American allies in Southeast Asia, but his remarks were associated in the public mind with the Philippines and came to be quoted with ironic intent.
 
The Bases Factor
As criticism of the Marcos Government grew in the United States, American officials let it be known that the Administration was particularly worried that instability in the Philippines might impede use of the two major American military bases there, Clark Air Base and Subic Bay Naval Station. Accordingly, they indicated, the Administration wanted to prepare to deal with a Philippine power struggle after Mr. Marcos's rule.
By October 1984 the Reagan Administration had altered its attitude toward Mr. Marcos, and was prodding him to relax his authoritarian rule.
Mr. Marcos was evidently nettled by the American appraisals. Shaking his fist, he declared in one speech, ''I am surprised why some people would classify us with the Central and Latin American countries.''
''We don't want to appear to our Asian brothers as if we were the pet dogs of any Western ally,'' he said, suggesting that his handling of the Aquino assassination case was not meant just to satisfy Washington.
Criticism from the Philippine business sector, having flared up after the Aquino killing, continued, with many company executives urging that the economic power of Mr. Marcos and his entourage be reduced to permit decentralization and to bolster investor confidence.
After the assassination, the Philippine economy worsened so markedly that the nation was not able to keep pace with the payments due on loans from overseas. The country's foreign debt soared to more than $25 billion by the beginning of 1985, and international lending organizations and banks, ascribing the economic travail to cronyism and heavy-handed Government control of the economy, pressed for changes.
In the embittered political climate, Mr. Marcos found himself confronted by Mrs. Aquino.
The widow of his leading foe became a rival candidate for President in a special election that the confident Mr. Marcos, in a decisive political misstep, called for February 1986. The date was 16 months before the end of his six-year presidential term. The Marcos-controlled National Assembly declared him the victor, on the basis of a vote tally that was marked by pervasive violence and fraud by his side.
Resentment simmered, and later that month, Juan Ponce Enrile, the Defense Minister, and Gen. Fidel V. Ramos, the army deputy chief of staff, led an anti-Marcos military rebellion that was noteworthy for its lack of bloodshed. Hundreds of thousands of Filipinos turned out into Manila's streets, forming a vast human wall to protect Mr. Enrile, General Ramos and others who had barricaded themselves in a military installation.
The human buffer made it impossible for the Marcos forces to strike at the rebels without causing many civilian casualties, and it added to the manifold pressures on Mr. Marcos to cease trying to rule.
Finally, after asking in vain for Reagan Administration help in staying in power, he fled the Presidential Palace in the evening of Feb. 25, accompanied by his family, and a United States Air Force plane flew the Marcoses to Guam en route to Hawaii, where they took up residence in Honolulu.
In the months after his ouster, details emerged about the enormous wealth Mr. Marcos had amassed in his years in power.
 
Recovering the Plunder
A Manila commission, trying to regain what it called the concealed Marcos fortune, took over 268 companies, in many industries ranging from banking to mining to steel-making, by early 1987. Not long after Mrs. Aquino took power, Philippine officials estimated that the fortune built up by Mr. and Mrs. Marcos totaled $5 billion or more, and the Aquino Government estimated that as much as $10 billion in stolen wealth was involved. Mrs. Marcos was found to have left behind 1,060 pairs of shoes and slippers at the Presidential Palace, along with 508 floor-length gowns.
As time went by, the Aquino Government filed several civil suits before a Philippine court asking damages of as much as $100 billion against Mr. Marcos, his relatives and ''cronies.''
In 1986, the Government filed suit in the Honolulu Federal District Court to recover $100 million in assets that the Government charged the Marcoses had stolen. New legal dcouments were filed on June 20 in Los Angeles charging that the Marcoses stole $5 billion during the presidential years. The suit has not come to trial and is still pending.
Investigations were also carried out by American officials, and in October 1988, Mr. Marcos, his wife and eight associates, including Adnan M. Khashoggi, a Saudi businessman, were indicted by a Federal grand jury in New York in a racketeering case. It included charges that Mr. Marcos and the others had embezzled tens of millions of dollars during his presidency.
On April 6 Federal prosecutors said Mr. Marcos had become too ill to stand trial on the criminal charges pending in New York. But on June 9 they moved to guarantee claims against his fortune in the event of his death, filing a civil suit against him and his wife in Federal District Court in Manhattan.
Yet while Mr. Marcos remained of keen interest to investigators and prosecutors, as his years of exile went by, he became less of a political factor in the Philippines.
The mass support Mr. Marcos had once enjoyed mostly faded away, and his remaining supporters had come to be seen as a minority in his homeland. Indeed, even though his political legacy continued to trouble the nation, Mr. Marcos came to be widely seen in the Philippines as largely irrelevant.
He is survived by his wife, of Honolulu; a brother, Dr. Pacifico Marcos, and a sister, Fortuna Barba, both of Manila; two daughters, Maria Imelda Manotoc, who has been living in Morocco, and Irene Araneta, who lives in Menlo Park, a suburb of San Francisco; an adopted daughter, Aimee Marcos, of Honolulu; a son, Ferdinand, Jr., and five grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: President Ferdinand E. Marcos being carried by supporters at a 1969 rally. (UPI); Mr. Marcos, with his wife, Imelda, spoke from presidential palace after gaining re-election in 1986. Shortly afterward, he was forced to flee the country. (AP); Mr. Marcos with President Reagan during a visit to Washington in 1982. Ties between the Marcos Government and the United States were of long standing. (UPI); Airport security officers dragging the body of Benigno S. Aquino Jr. into a van after killing Rolando Galman, left, as Mr. Aquino returned to Manila from self-exile in the United States. The 1983 killings were widely attributed to the Marcos Government. (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); PHILIPPINES (95%); 

CITY: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PHILIPPINES, REPUBLIC OF THE

SUBJECT: DEATHS DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (67%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (66%); 

PERSON: PACE, ERIC; MARCOS, FERDINAND E (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); MARCOS, FERDINAND E RONALD REAGAN (79%); 



693 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 1; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1902 words

HEADLINE: The Infinite Variety of Velazquez at Met

BYLINE: By JOHN RUSSELL

 BODY:
''VELAZQUEZ'' at the Metropolitan Museum of Art is a show that no one ever expected to see. The first exhibition ever to be devoted to Velazquez, whether in Spain or anywhere else, it includes many great paintings by the pre-eminent master of the Spanish school. From the tiny head and shoulders of the poet Gongora (done when Velazquez was only 23 years old) to the tranquil mix of landscape, narrative and sainted portraiture in ''St. Anthony Abbot and St. Paul the Hermit,'' we know exactly where we are - in the presence, that is to say, of a painter who can make us feel both secure in the world and at one with it.
We believe in him completely. We recognize the tight, closed, wary features of Gongora as those of a difficult and idiosyncratic master of verse. We also recognize the economy, the rigor and the feeling for fact above all things in the way that Velazquez handled this tricky and very early assignment.
And when the raven brings the daily bread to St. Paul the Hermit in his rocky fastness, we recognize it as having come from the best baker in Madrid. 
Many visitors will prefer to most everything else in the show the irresistible portrait of the Infanta Margarita. Blessed with a charm not universal among members of the Spanish royal family at that date, the little princess could not be more winningly rendered. To the unerring helterskelter of the brush across her elaborate court costume there is added, as if by an afterthought of genius, the still life of roses, irises and daisies that is one of the supreme achievements of its kind in European art.
That particular white magic of his is wrought over and over again at the Met's show, which opens to museum members today and can be seen by the public starting Tuesday. Complete worlds are set before us with the casual-seeming aplomb of which Velazquez alone had the secret. (See, for that, ''Prince Baltasar Carlos in the Riding School,'' an elaborate outdoor subject in which every figure is portrayed with an offhand brilliance that is extended impartially across the whole gamut of humankind, from crowned head to dwarf.) To statesman and licensed buffoon, putative Sibyl and imaginary Aesop, Velazquez brought that noblest of attributes, the style that is no style. He did not rely, that is to say, on any one way of setting about his work to carry him along. He reinvented the act of painting every time he took up the brush.
Perhaps it was in part for that reason that his work is full of pentimenti - second thoughts, taken up on the instant. He put down some marks. He looked at them - so we dare to guess - as if they had forced themselves upon him. Did they have precisely the burden of fact that he wanted? If not, other and alternative marks then presented themselves. He tried them out, kept some and scrapped others until the final, definitive, inimitable image was right there on the canvas.
It is for the end result of all these commotions that just about everyone would rank Diego Velazquez (1599-1660) among the half-dozen greatest painters of all time. (Some of them would go further and higher.) But to pin Velazquez down! To say exactly what he did, and when he did it, and what kind of a person he was - these are terrible tasks. No two people agree as to how many paintings he produced - not much more than 100 is the current estimate - and within that small body there is an astonishing variety.
All visitors will have their own idea of a ''typical Velazquez,'' and they will find it fulfilled in close on 40 paintings at the Met, though not perhaps always by the examples that they most hoped to see. The royal portraits, to begin with. The court portraits. The occasional and sometimes enigmatic biblical scenes. The images of everyday goings-on in kitchen and street, with their incomparable passages of still life.
All those may qualify. So do the little paintings done in the garden of the Villa Medici in Rome - so transparently natural and unpretentious to our eyes, and so quietly adventuruous in their own day. But a Velazquez that summed him up once and for all? That would be hard to find, unless it were ''Las Meninas,'' now at the Prado in Madrid and not available for this show.
His nature was both complex and incomparably direct. As he came from nowhere, socially speaking, and rose in society until he was ennobled by his patron and friend, King Philip IV of Spain, he might be expected to take more trouble with grandees than with people of humbler station.
Perhaps the most immediately spectacular painting in the present show is, for instance, the equestrian portrait of the Count-Duke of Olivares. Even in the context of the comparable portraits by Titian and Rubens, with which Velazquez was familiar, this painting stands out for its brilliance and swagger.
The curvetting horse, the armor, the stupendous sash, the ostentatious hat, the luxurious boots, upheld baton (which might be a field-marshal's, but isn't) and the backward glance of the sneaky little eye - what are these, if not the marks of a great lord among lords? Even the wraith of a burning city in the distance might be related to a great feat of arms.
These traits were perfectly adjusted to the sitter. Olivares was not the man to play down either his personal attributes or his status in society as the favorite of King Philip IV. And in this portrait by Velazquez, sitter and style were one.
Or were they? All his life long, Velazquez saw right through everything and everyone. He did this not in a censorious way but with a limpid and impartial gaze. Is it not possible that the most discreet element of irony entered into this equestrian portrait, and that what he saw before him was not only a prepotent lord, but also an overdressed, overweight, self-satisfied courtier who was getting, in every sense, too big for his boots?
This was, after all, the man who was lately described by the Spanish art historian Camon Aznar as ''a prideful count-duke, more terrible to enemies from within than from without, and a general who was first and foremost a politician.'' Anyone who sees in this great painting a pre-echo of Olivares's fall from favor in 1643 may well be quite right.
But, as every visitor to the Met already knows, Velazquez did not need the apparatus of power and glory to be in his best form. He was never better, after all, than when he painted the slave of Muslim origin, Juan de Pareja, whom he met in Rome and brought back to Spain with him. The beautiful ease with which Velazquez addressed himself to all his sitters could hardly be better exemplified than in this perennial favorite at the Met.
When Velazquez looked at another human being he gave his whole self to the task, unconditionally and without any notion of formula or high style or spectacular effect. Turn to ''An Old Woman Cooking Eggs'' and ''The Water Seller of Seville'' at the Met, and you will see what resulted from that.
Already in the two big pictures that he painted in 1630, during his first stay in Rome, Velazquez had that capacity. Both in ''Joseph's Bloody Coat Brought to Jacob'' and in ''The Forge of Vulcan'' we feel a total confidence in his handling of gods, men and dogs. We stare in wonder at the appurtenances of every day, from a hammer that someone has dropped in amazement to a perfectly plain white jug.
We peek at the lavender-colored landscape in ''Joseph's Bloody Coat'' as if we had never seen anything like it before. The world is remade, redefined and reanimated by this painter. And what a storyteller, too! That storytelling faculty was used on occasion to biblical or mythological ends. But fundamentally, in his art Velazquez was a man of this world. Painting that great soldier of the church, Mother Jeronima de la Fuente, he produced what Julian Gallego in his catalogue entry neatly calls ''a memento mori in Franciscan serge, rather than a revered and beloved mother superior.''
In the domain of myth, likewise, his outlook was down-to-earth. Painting Mars, he portrayed the god of war as a beat-up military man who wonders if the time is not overdue for him to hang up his armor for good. Painting the boy-god Apollo, he presented him as an adolescent tease who took an urchin's delight in bringing Vulcan the news of his wife's infidelity.
If in this show there are one or two paintings that do not show Velazquez at his best, they too have their place, for Velazquez remains one of the more mysterious of the great European painters, and we need to see him at first hand as much and as often as we can.
In matters of this sort, New Yorkers are terribly spoiled. If, in any given exhibition, they don't get everything, prudence and reason notwithstanding, they feel affronted. If they can't have the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel peeled off and shipped over for their enjoyment, they sulk and stay home. Nothing, they feel, should be beyond their grasp and immune from their whim.
With this in mind it has to be said that as a comprehensive survey of Velazquez's greatest work, the present show has its lacunas. How could it be otherwise, given the limited number of Velazquez's finest paintings and the irresponsibility of sending them out on loan?
There will never be a substitute for a visit to the Prado, where ''Las Meninas,'' ''The Surrender of Breda'' and ''The Fable of Arachne'' would alone establish Velazquez as an artist of supreme stature. The ''Rokeby Venus'' and the ''Boar Hunt'' in London demand to be seen. So does the portrait of Pope Innocent X in Rome. Neither ''Philip IV'' in the Frick Collection in New York nor ''A Woman With a Fan'' in the Wallace Collection in London can ever be lent. The royal portraits in Vienna gain by being seen together.
But what should amaze us is, first, that we have this show in New York at all and, second, that it really does mark off, one by one, the domains in which Velazquez excelled. For that, we have to thank above all John M. Brealey, the Met's chairman of conservation. It was he who cleaned Velazquez's ''Meninas'' in the Prado - in a room that, at his request, was open to the public at the time - and thereby revealed its full splendor for the first time in many, many years.
Without his exceptional services to the Prado, both on that first occasion and during his later yearlong consultancy, the Met could never have hoped to secure 17 loans from that source alone and one from the Escorial near Madrid. This show is dedicated to Mr. Brealey, and the dedication is amply deserved,
''Velazquez,'' at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, opens to museum members today and can be seen by the public starting Tuesday. The show, which runs through Jan. 7, was sponsored by Banco Hispano Americano. The exhibition will not travel.
 
New Hours At Met Museum
Beginning next week the Metropolitan Museum of Art will extend its Friday and Saturday hours until 9 P.M., and will no longer be open late on Tuesdays.
The new hours will be 9:30 A.M. to 5:15 P.M. Sunday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, and 9:30 A.M. to 9 P.M. Friday and Saturday. The extended Friday hours are supported by a bequest from the estate of Ruth Lapham Lloyd, a Connecticut philanthropist.
In addition to extending gallery hours, the museum plans to present free lectures, gallery talks and films on Friday and Saturday evenings, and the museum's restaurant will serve dinner from 5 to 8 P.M. Reservations: 570-3964.

GRAPHIC: Photos of painting by Velazquez (pgs. C1 & C27)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SPAIN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (91%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC)

SUBJECT: ART; SCHEDULES AND TIMETABLES MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); PAINTING (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); 



694 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 3, Column 4; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Review/Opera;
'Porgy and Bess': Catfish Row at the Met

BYLINE: By DONAL HENAHAN

 BODY:
The contemporary world does not often intrude on the Metropolitan Opera, but there it all was on Wednesday evening: a hurricane battering Charleston, S.C.; a cocaine dealer plying his trade on the street; racially biased police officers; sex, violence and evangelism flourishing side by side . . . but, of course, you have guessed that the opera was ''Porgy and Bess,'' Gershwin's tuneful investigation of the folkways of Catfish Row in the 1930's. First produced by the company in 1985, ''Porgy'' has returned in a restaging by Arvin Brown, artistic director of the Long Wharf Theater.
Mr. Brown, making his Metropolitan debut with a cast that included 10 singers as new to the house as he, makes extensive revisions in the original Nathaniel Merrill production. The hurricane scene, for instance, shifts from a shack on the beach back to its proper site, Serena's room. It is one of many differences that make no difference. The total effect remains as before: this uncut ''Porgy,'' which exhumes virtually every scrap of music that the composer wrote for the work, continues to look and sound as overblown as ever. The affecting simplicity and directness of the famous songs (''Summertime,'' ''Bess, You Is My Woman,'' and the rest) still is smothered under the blanket of grand-opera pretensions. 
Part of the problem traces to Gershwin himself. His large-orchestra version of the score does singers no favors, regularly blotting them out when comprehension of words and clarity of vocal melodies should be uppermost. Very little of the text could be made out at Wednesday's performance. In this first ''Porgy'' of the season, that basic difficulty of comprehension was compounded by James Levine's insistence on thrusting the orchestration into prominence at just those moments when voices and text should have taken precedence. His conducting, which generally pays attention to such matters, was bluff, unidiomatic and insensitive.
Strange to say, however, considering the composing source, not many of the voices in this performance sounded good enough to deserve more sympathetic treatment. The Porgy, Michael Smartt, seemed vocally out of sorts, as if suffering from a cold. Though a reasonably adept actor, he swallowed or crooned many notes and rarely projected a tone out into the large house. As the bootlegger and dope pusher Sportin' Life, Ben Holt danced athletically and strutted in the appropriately raffish fashion, but his vocal inadequacies were hard to overlook even in a largely declamatory version of ''It Ain't Necessarily So.'' The community's female bulwarks (Camellia Johnson as Serena, Marjorie Wharton as Maria and Karla Burns as Lily) had little opportunity to do more than deliver accompanied recitative in a shrill, presumably humorous, style. Marvis Martin, as Clara, lent her excellent soprano to ''Summertime,'' but the song's evocative appeal was dissipated by a heavily dramatic, rather ponderous treatment.
On the plus side, Priscilla Baskerville's Bess could be listened to with pleasure, though her acting was tentative when not actually awkward. As for Porgy's nemesis, the brutal stevedore Crown, it would be hard to imagine a more formidable villain than Gregg Baker, who looked like a cross between Magic Johnson and Arnold Schwarzenegger. Among the cast's more promising newcomers were Raymond Bazemore as the divorce-peddling Frazier, Gordon Hawkins as Maria's husband Jake and, in cameo appearances, Linda Thompson as the Strawberry woman and Lynn Randolph as the Crabman.
The performance's flaws and virtues could be dwelled upon at more length. Such scrutiny would not change, however, the basic objection to the Metropolitan's ''Porgy'': this is a well-meaning inflation and hence distortion of a pioneering work in American musical theater. Mr. Brown, essentially a theater director, can hardly be blamed for the lingering musical misjudgments, but his restaging does little to bring the work into sharper dramatic focus. That probably will only be possible when ''Porgy'' is trimmed back to sensible proportions and performed as the durable, though minor, opera that it is, not as Wagnerian Gershwin.
 
The Cast
 
PORGY AND BESS, opera in three acts by George Gershwin, libretto by Du Bose Heyward, based on a play by Du Bose and Dorothy Heyward; conductor, James Levine; production by Nathaniel Merrill; stage director, Arvin Brown; sets and costumes by Robert O'Hearn; lighting by Gil Wechsler; choreography by Arthur Mitchell. At the Metropolitan Opera.
 
Bess ... Priscilla Baskerville
Clara ... Marvis Martin
Porgy ... Michael Smartt
Crown ... Gregg Baker
Peter ... Mervyn Wallace
Undertaker ... Edward White
Scipio ... Carl Findlay
Jasbo Brown ... Joseph Joubert
Serena ... Camellia Johnson
Sportin' Life ... Ben Holt
Jake ... Gordon Hawkins
Lily ... Karla Burns
Maria ... Marjorie Wharton
Strawberry Woman ... Linda Thompson
Mingo ... Michael Forest
Robbins ... Edward Payne
Crabman ... Lynn Randolph
Frazier ... Raymond Bazemore
Jim ... Michael Lofton
Mr. Archdale ... Jack Dabdoub
Detective ... Hansford Rowe
Policeman ... Andrew Murphy
Coroner ... Jack Sims

GRAPHIC: Photo of Priscilla Baskerville in Gershwin's ''Porgy and Bess,'' at the Metropolitan Opera. (Winnie Klotz)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: PORGY AND BESS (OPERA)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN OPERA

SUBJECT: OPERA; REVIEWS OPERA (91%); MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC REVIEWS (78%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); COCAINE (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (74%); 

PERSON: HENAHAN, DONAL



695 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 16, Column 3; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: Film Festival;
A Blissful 'Mystery Train' From Jim Jarmusch

BYLINE: By VINCENT CANBY

 BODY:
It's a slow night at the Arcade Hotel in Memphis ($22 a night for a double). Says the bellboy, as he reads from a tabloid, to the night clerk, who presides over a majestic account book, ''At the time of his death, Elvis Presley would have weighed 648 pounds on Jupiter.''
Elvis Presley - the myth, the music and (in one scene) the man -hovers over Jim Jarmusch's blissful new comedy, ''Mystery Train,'' providing the bridges between the film's three separate but vaguely interrelated vignettes. The Arcade doesn't offer its patrons television (not that the usual Arcade patrons would be interested in it anyway), but every room does have its own portrait of Elvis. One can't be sure, but the portraits look to be tinted.
What makes this night different at the Arcade is that these three most particular sets of patrons would prefer television to Elvis. That is, all except Mitzuko, the effervescent Japanese teen-ager who has traveled to Memphis on a pilgrimage with her dour teen-age-suave boyfriend, Jun. 
In the film's opening story, Jun and Mitzuko are first seen on the train taking them into Memphis, each in the private world of a Walkman headset, riding past small mountains of worn-out automobiles, most probably Japanese.
The Memphis that Mr. Jarmusch elects to show us in ''Mystery Train'' is no Memphis that any hometown booster would want to recognize. It's a place of abandoned movie houses, eerily empty streets and ailanthus trees growing like weeds in otherwise vacant lots.
To Mitzuko, who has come to pay her respects to Elvis at his shrine of Graceland, Memphis is magical. She admires the ''antique atmosphere'' of the dilapidated railroad station. Mitzuko and Jun walk through the city, each holding an end of the bamboo pole on which their huge red suitcase dangles.
Her eyes are saucers. Jun, who prefers Carl Perkins and Roy Orbison to Elvis, wants to visit the legendary Sun Studios where his idols recorded their masterworks. He remains unimpressed by the Memphis landscape. ''If you took away 60 percent of the buildings,'' he says, ''Yokohama would look just like Memphis.''
When, at the end of the day, they are finally ensconced at the Arcade, Jun starts taking pictures of their room. Why? He'll remember the sights outside, he says, but he'll need the snaps to recall everything else, including the airports they've passed through.
Jun and Mitzuko are tourists, serenely voyaging on the cheap as they make the grand tour of America's holy places. The second segment of ''Mystery Train'' is about Luisa, a pretty Italian widow, forced to spend a night in Memphis while accompanying the body of her husband back to Rome. In the lobby of the Arcade, she befriends DeeDee, a chattering young woman who, nearly broke, is running away from her boyfriend. Luisa offers to share her room with the younger woman.
DeeDee is fleeing Memphis while Luisa is just passing through. For her, Memphis is an anonymous stopover until, while sitting in a coffee shop, she is gently accosted by a tall, skinny man with a strange story. The gist of his tale is that the ghost of Elvis has entrusted him with a crummy pocket comb to be given to Luisa. She listens, amused and rather pleased, until the man suggests they continue their dialogue elsewhere.
Luisa has a startling vision in the night. The next morning, as she and DeeDee are packing to leave, they hear a sharp report from the next room. ''What's that?'' says DeeDee. ''A gunshot?'' ''Maybe a .38,'' says Luisa.
The third vignette, which more or less brings all the elements of the narrative together, involves the fellow DeeDee is leaving, an unemployed, working-class Englishman who is named Johnny and nicknamed Elvis, and his two pals. They are Will Robinson, a laid-back truck driver, and Charlie, DeeDee's brother, a fastidious barber who can't hold his liquor.
In the course of a feckless spree, Elvis holds up a liquor store for two bottles of whisky, and a gun goes off, forcing the three to seek a hideout at the Arcade. They wind up in a barren room equipped with two beds, an Elvis Presley portrait and a table to which a pair of joke-handcuffs are attached. This is the Arcade's kinky-sex room. It's not easy to describe the dizzy gaiety of Mr. Jarmusch's films, each set in a universe that seems to be even more torpid than that of the film before. ''Mystery Train'' is buoyantly funny from start to finish. One doesn't laugh out loud all that often. One grins and, as the odd events and eccentric information accumulate, one begins to recognize an enchanted vision within the seediness.
Mr. Jarmusch is an American original who, for all of his hipness, is remarkably benign. Like ''Stranger Than Paradise'' and ''Down by Law,'' the first two Jarmusch films to be commercially released, ''Mystery Train'' has something of the pragmatic craziness of the great Krazy Kat cartoons.
Nobody tosses bricks in ''Mystery Train,'' which, unlike Krazy Kat and the two earlier comedies, has been photographed (by Robby Muller) in brilliant colors. Yet there is a bluntness to the Jarmusch method that gives substance to the seemingly fragile narratives.
It's now obvious that calling his comedies shaggy-dog stories isn't good enough. They aren't really stories at all. Each is an amalgam of attitudes, images and music, especially music (blues, jazz, rock), which evoke something most cheering and comic about the human condition, even in extremis.
Watching ''Mystery Train'' for the second time, I was especially struck by what a fine screenwriter Mr. Jarmusch has become. The dialogue sounds as if it had been gathered by means of microphones hidden in diners, buses, waiting rooms, restrooms, motels and park benches. Sometimes hilariously banal, with never a word wasted.
He's equally good with actors. The ''Mystery Train'' performers fly. There isn't enough space to give them all their due, but those who must be mentioned include Masatoshi Nagase and Youki Kudoh, as Jun and Mitzuko, Nicoletta Braschi as Luisa, Elizabeth Bracco (who looks a bit like a young Rita Tushingham) as DeeDee, Joe Strummer as ''Elvis,'' Rick Aviles as the truckdriver Will, and Steve Buscemi as the unfortunate barber.
Presiding over these hapless folk are Screamin' Jay Hawkins, who plays the Arcade's unflappable night clerk, and Cinque Lee (Spike's younger brother), who plays the bellboy. John Lurie, the actor-musician star of ''Stranger Than Paradise,'' wrote the film's fine score, which is punctuated by Elvis hits.
''Mystery Train'' will be shown at the New York Film Festival today at 6:15 P.M. and tomorrow at 9:30 P.M. It will open its commercial engagement here Nov. 17.
 
Gaiety Amid Torpor
 
MYSTERY TRAIN, direction and screenplay by Jim Jarmusch; director of photography, Robby Muller; edited by Melody London; music by John Lurie; production design by Dan Bishop; produced by Jim Stark; released by Orion Classics. At Alice Tully Hall, as part of the 27th New York Film Festival. Running time: 110 minutes. This film has no rating.
 
Jun ... Masatoshi Nagase
Mitzuko ... Youki Kudoh
Night Clerk ... Screamin' Jay Hawkins
Bellboy ... Cinque Lee
Luisa ... Nicoletta Braschi
DeeDee ... Elizabeth Bracco
Johnny ... Joe Strummer
Will Robinson ... Rick Aviles
Charlie ... Steve Buscemi

GRAPHIC: Photo of Youki Kudoh, center, as Mitzuko, and Masatoshi Nagase, right, as Jun in Jim Jarmusch's ''Mystery Train.'' (Sukita)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MYSTERY TRAIN (MOVIE); NEW YORK FILM FESTIVAL

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (94%); 

CITY: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; REVIEWS FILM (91%); FESTIVALS (90%); HOTEL STAFF (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); TRAINS (75%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (70%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (69%); 

PERSON: CANBY, VINCENT JIM JARMUSCH (93%); 



696 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

 
 
The Economy
The House of Representatives approved a reduction in the capital gains tax rate, giving President Bush a significant legislative victory that wounded the new Democratic leadership. The Senate has not yet acted on the measure, which would reduce the gains tax through the end of 1991. [Page A1.] The vote was 239 to 190, as 64 Democrats joined 175 Republicans in supporting the tax cut. One Republican voted against the proposal. [D4.] 
 
Federal officials will permit an experimental AIDS drug, DDI, to be widely distributed while it is still being tested to determine its safety and effectiveness. The decision is a major depature from the agency's cautious approach. DDI is made by Bristol-Myers. [A1.] The F.D.A. said Bolar Pharmaceutical had failed to demonstrate that its generic version of the anti-high-blood pressure drug Dyazide was biologically equivalent to the original product. [D3.]
 
 
 
Companies
Braniff Airlines filed for bankruptcy protection, caught between the high cost of an aggressive expansion and the difficulty of securing financing in a troubled ''junk bond'' market. The airline said it would try to rebuild as a smaller carrier serving 11 cities, down from 36. [D1.] Travelers with Braniff tickets face difficulties now that the airline has filed for bankruptcy protection and canceled most flights. [D2.]
Delta, Northwest Airlines and T.W.A. agreed to combine their computerized reservation systems into an Atlanta-based global operation. [D2.]
Anheuser-Busch will pay $1.1 billion in cash for four Sea World theme parks and other properties of Harcourt Brace Jovanovich. The sale price is below the $1.5 billion some Wall Street analysts had expected. [D1.]
Merck and Du Pont announced a research and marketing agreement to develop drugs to compete in the $6 billion market for heart treatments. [D1.]
Two important ceramics companies agreed to merge. The Kyocera-AVX deal is believed to be the first merger of a Japanese company and an American company in an exchange of stock. [D1.]
After a three-year buying binge, Borden reversed course, saying it would close or sell 65 of its 265 plants. [D1.]
A Tandy subsidiary introduced a portable computer that can read printed handwriting, a development that may make computers accessible to people not accustomed to keyboards. [D1.]
Eastman Kodak will reorganize its 11 business units into three operating groups. [D3.]
Chevrolet expanded its incentive plans and added rebates to move its inventory of 1989 cars and trucks. [D3.]
 
International
The Supreme Soviet is about to take up legislation giving the State Bank of the U.S.S.R., or Gosbank, authority to issue foreign-exchange licenses to domestic banks. [D2.]
 
 
 
Markets
Stocks rose sharply in the final hour of trading, and the Dow Jones industrial average soared 21.85 points, to 2,694.91. [D6.]
Prices of Treasury notes and bonds eased slightly in thin trading, as dealers reacted to the sale of a large list of mortgage-backed securities by selling Treasury issues. [D12.]
The dollar moved mostly higher although central banks again put pressure on it. [D13.] Corn futures prices rose sharply. [D13.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
Before his death, Joseph A. Pechman had restated his arguments against cutting the capital gains tax. Leonard Silk: Economic Scene. [D2.]
Wall Street's ''go go years'' may be coming back, with an Asian flavor. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D6.]
U S Sprint has achieved remarkable success by using advertising and marketing as a one-two punch. Advertising. [D5.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (69%); KYO (NYSE) (53%); 6971 (TSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (69%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (54%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (54%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (69%); CIRCA PHARMACEUTICALS INC (57%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (54%); KYOCERA CORP (53%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (51%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (56%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS AIRLINES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); TAX LAW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); MERGERS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BONDS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (76%); GENERIC DRUGS (76%); ANTIVIRALS (75%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (75%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (73%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (73%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (72%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (71%); AIDS & HIV (71%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (70%); EXPERIMENTAL DRUGS (70%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (63%); POTTERY & CERAMICS MFG (62%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); SALES REBATES (58%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (52%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 



697 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Anheuser Is Buying Parks From Harcourt

BYLINE: By THOMAS C. HAYES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DALLAS, Sept. 28

 BODY:
The Anheuser-Busch Companies, the nation's largest brewer, said today that it would pay $1.1 billion in cash to acquire four Sea World theme parks and other properties from Harcourt Brace Jovanovich Inc.
The sale price is below the $1.5 billion expected by some Wall Street analysts after the parks were put up for sale in June. Some bond analysts, who asked not to be named, said Harcourt, the nation's second-largest book publisher, may now be forced to sell its profitable insurance business as well to meet heavy debt payments.
The low price also indicates that some companies that loaded up on debt through buyouts and recapitalizations in recent years may not be able to collect as much as anticipated from asset sales, analysts said. 
 
High-Priced Deals 'Are Suspect'
''I think you're getting some deflation in asset sale prices,'' said Michael F. Holland, president of Salomon Brothers Asset Management. The high-priced deals ''predicated on asset sales are suspect.''
Harcourt eluded a takeover by Robert Maxwell, the British publisher, two years ago by taking on $1.6 billion in high-yield ''junk bonds'' and paying much of the proceeds to shareholders as a special $40-a-share dividend. Bond analysts said the company, which paid $91 million in interest and lost $61 million in the second quarter, remains in a bind.
The publisher, based in Orlando, Fla., released a two-paragraph statement shortly after its directors approved the sale in New York, and it refused to comment further.
In the statement, the company said it would use cash proceeds of about $930 million after taxes to reduce long-term debt, which at the end of June amounted to $2.8 billion, including $1.1 billion owed to banks.
On the New York Stock Exchange, trading in Harcourt stock was halted in late afternoon shortly after the announcement, and it did not reopen. Around 4 P.M. one securities firm that trades stocks in the ''third market'' - in which brokers match trades between institutions outside of an exchange - handled a sale of more than 50,000 shares at $14, down from the last posted price of $16.25.
In the junk bond market, Harcourt bonds traded lower shortly after the announcement, although dealers said volume was light.
The sale will triple revenues of Anheuser's existing theme-park business to approximately $600 million a year, said Emanuel Goldman, an analyst with Paine Webber Inc., and may give it potentially valuable marketing rights to Sea World characters, like Shamu, the killer whale.
The agreement with Anheuser gives Harcourt the right to half of any money in excess of $100 million that Anheuser receives from land sales in the next 10 years involving property included in the transaction.
Most of the undeveloped acreage is in Florida, including prime land near the Orlando International Airport, but analysts said Harcourt was unlikely to recover much from that provision of the sale.
Some analysts criticized the transaction, saying August A. Busch 3d, chairman and chief executive, could best exploit the company's widely acknowledged prowess in consumer marketing by acquiring packaged food companies instead. $61.9 Million in Profits Anheuser said it paid $975 million for the theme parks and $125 million for undeveloped land. The parks earned $61.9 million last year on $388 million in revenues.
But attendance at the Orlando Sea World declined last summer because of competition from the new Disney-MGM Studio Tour at Walt Disney World. Attendance fell in San Antonio in the second year of operations at the newest and largest Sea World.
Other Sea World parks are in San Diego and Cleveland. Anheuser also acquired Cypress Gardens in Winter Haven, Fla., and the new Boardwalk and Baseball Park in Orlando.
W. Randolph Baker, an Anheuser group vice president and president of its family entertainment unit, said Anheuser does not plan to sell any of the parks.

GRAPHIC: The entrance to Sea World of Texas at San Antonio, one of four Sea World theme parks acquired by Anheuser-Busch from Harcourt Brace Jovanovich Inc.; table lists Anheuser-Busch's theme parks holdings; graph of 1988 earnings from beer sales, food products and other interests (Source: Company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BUD (PAR) (94%); BUD (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (94%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (94%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (78%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (74%); DALLAS, TX, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (94%); HARCOURT BRACE JOVANOVICH INC (91%); CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS HOLDINGS INC (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARCOURT BRACE JOVANOVICH INC; SEA WORLD INC; ANHEUSER-BUSCH COMPANIES INC

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; CREDIT AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BONDS (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); MARINE MAMMALS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); DEFLATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); BOOK PUBLISHING (70%); 

PERSON: HAYES, THOMAS C ROBERT IAN CHARLES MAXWELL (55%); 



698 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: Borden to Cut 7,000 Jobs And 65 Plants

BYLINE: By ROBERT J. COLE

 BODY:
After a three-and-a-half-year buying binge in which it spent $1.7 billion and more than doubled the number of its plants, Borden Inc. reversed course yesterday. The nation's No. 1 dairy company said it will close or sell 65 of its 265 plants in the next two or three years and cut worldwide employment by 7,000 people, bringing its payroll down to 39,000.
Borden said the streamlining would involve mostly food operations in the East and Southeast: 20 dairy plants and another 45 making grocery products and snack foods. Lawrence O. Doza, Borden's chief financial officer, said severance payments to workers and plant-closing costs would produce a third-quarter loss as high as $305 million and a loss for the year of between $47 million and $58 million. To meet the costs, Borden said it had set up a pretax reserve of $571 million, or $404 million after taxes, which it would take as a third-quarter charge to income. 
 
Sharp Cut in Dairy Business
After the announcement, Borden's share price jumped $2.25, to $36.75, on the New York Stock Exchange.
Under the plan, Borden's dairy business would shrink by a third, or as much as $750 million a year, from $2.2 billion in 1988. The plan would not affect ice cream. Some consumer plants abroad would also be affected, the company said. It declined to specify the plants that would close, until it had notified workers and customers. It said it would announce the first closings within 10 days.
Identified everywhere by Elsie the Cow, the corporate symbol that was introduced in the Depression years and popularized at the New York World's Fair in 1939, Borden will remain the leading dairy concern even after the plant closings.
The company also makes well-known brands like Cracker Jack popcorn, Wise potato chips, Creamette macaroni, Elmer's glue, Krazy Glue and Realemon juice. Borden is popular on Wall Street because it is so widely diversified, thus reducing its vulnerability to downturns.
 
Intense Competition Cited
Romeo J. Ventres, chairman and chief executive, attributed the downsizing in part to a record increase in raw milk costs and to intense price competition. Without naming the competitors, he described them as leveraged-buyout companies ''hunting volume and cash at any cost.''
He was understood to be referring to Morningstar Foods Inc., a Dallas-based company that last year bought the dairy business of the Southland Corporation, operator of 7-Eleven convenience stores. Morningstar has 15 regional dairy brands and has been conducting a price war in some areas.
''Our dairy earnings have been severely depressed,'' Mr. Ventres said, adding, ''We've concluded there are certain markets where recovery is years away.''
Food companies, including Borden, are rightly considered takeover targets. But Mr. Ventres denied that the revamping was a defensive move. Explaining what he called a streamlining, consolidation and dairy-restructuring program, he said Borden's rapid growth since 1986 ''has opened economies of scale we've never had before - opportunities to consolidate production into fewer and larger units and become low-cost producers in every business.'' Many of the closings, he said, involve smaller or older plants.
He said the programs were expected to improve total pretax earnings over the coming four years by more than $340 million but that little impact was expected through 1990.
Dairy-plant closings were attributed to heavy competition in Eastern and Southeastern markets, the proliferation of supermarket chains with their own dairies, the development of strong regional and farmers' cooperative dairies - plus no growth.
Borden said it planned to increase its advertising and promotional spending by $75 million to $100 million over the next two years, from $507 million this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SLCM (NASDAQ) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (51%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (51%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (76%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (76%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); 7-ELEVEN INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: BORDEN INC

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS (LABOR); FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; COMPANY REPORTS LAYOFFS (90%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); PLANT CLOSINGS (89%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ADHESIVES & SEALANTS MFG (89%); CONVENIENCE STORES (89%); PRICE CUTTING (87%); CLOSINGS (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); DAIRY FARMING (77%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (77%); ICE CREAM (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); FOOD MFG (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (72%); SEVERANCE PAY (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); BEVERAGE PRICES (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (68%); STOCK EXCHANGES (66%); RETAILERS (64%); 

PERSON: COLE, ROBERT J



699 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
A Champion Of Fiscal Principle

BYLINE: By Leonard Silk

 BODY:
WITH the showdown in Congress over the proposed cut in the capital gains tax fast approaching, Joseph A. Pechman, the economist who for four decades was regarded by both liberals and conservatives as the nation's leading authority on fiscal policy, was not here to play his usual role as ''happy warrior'' in the final phase of the battle. The House voted yesterday to support President Bush on cutting the tax, but the issue must still be fought out in the Senate.
But before his death last month, Mr. Pechman had made known his opposition to cutting the tax. He calculated - and his strength was not in ideology but in clear and forceful reasoning and the use of the best available data - that after a one-shot gain in revenues the proposed cuts in the tax would lose revenues for the Treasury for years, worsening the grave problem of inadequate national savings. He also feared that cutting capital gains taxes would start the process of undermining the entire Tax Reform Act of 1986 and return Congress to the course it loves so well: granting special favors to special interests. 
He further concluded that the tax cut would be inequitable in giving its principal tax breaks to the rich, rather than the middle class or the poor. Presenting the data to support that finding, in response to data and arguments in editorials in The Wall Street Journal, which asserted the contrary, Mr. Pechman said, ''The simple truth is that low-income people don't own many assets on which to earn capital gains and that a capital-gains tax cut would be a bonanza for high-income people.''
That was Joe Pechman: He called them as he saw them, and he saw them very sharply, as his opponents knew as well as his allies. Speaking last week at the Brookings Institution in Washington, President Bush's chief economic adviser, Michael J. Boskin of Stanford University, said that though he was often an ''antagonist'' of Mr. Pechman's on policy issues, ''we all respected and loved Joe.''
Mr. Boskin recalled how, after every national election, Mr. Pechman would send out word to selected economists, including Mr. Boskin, who had wound up on the losing side: ''Come to Washington,'' by which he meant ''Come to Brookings.'' Mr. Pechman regarded Brookings as a ''government-in-exile,'' not just for Democrats but also for Republicans of high intellectual quality. He felt that liberals and conservatives needed to confront each other in tough and honest argument, if the truth were to emerge.
He loved a good fight - in tennis, touch football or tax policy. A young fiscal economist at the Congressional Budget Office this week, while talking about the tax bill, remembered Mr. Pechman's boundless excitement over economics, and he said that Mr. Pechman's enthusiasm for what some people thought was dismal stuff had led him to his own career on the Hill.
Mr. Pechman never had any doubt that he was made for economics, and economics for him. After graduating from the City College of New York in the Depression, the mother of many economists of his generation, he went to the University of Wisconsin in Madison for his graduate studies. He quickly became assistant director of a major Wisconsin tax study under Prof. Harold Grove. During World War II, he did a brief stint in the Office of Price Administration as an economist, then went into the Army as a meteorological officer and saw action in Europe during the invasion and the Battle of the Bulge.
After the war, he joined the Treasury as a tax adviser, first under President Harry Truman, then in the Eisenhower Administration. A liberal in his own political philosophy, he respected conservatives with integrity. He served on the staff of President Eisenhower's Council of Economic Advisers under Arthur F. Burns. Later, during the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, while at Brookings, he was a key ''outside'' adviser to Walter W. Heller, a close friend from Wisconsin days, and Gardner Ackley and Arthur Okun, other close friends. Economics is not a monologue art. But Mr. Pechman never took a full-time job in Government again; some officials regarded him as too hot a potato to handle. But he found a home at Brookings, where he spent the rest of his career.
There he led the longest and deepest investigation ever of the nation's tax system: It eventuated in dozens of books and scores of journal articles, which, through Congressional testimony and press reports, heavily influenced public fiscal policy.
The Tax Reform Act of 1986, built on the cardinal principle of eliminating favored treatment of particular classes of income and thereby making possible deep cuts in tax rates, was the finest flower of Mr. Pechman's studies. In his garden, the capital gains tax cut would be a weed.
Tax policy was not the whole of his contribution. He directed, and partly wrote, the series of volumes called Studies in Government Regulation that paved the way for the deregulation movement.
With the crucial help of his colleague Charles L. Schultze, he led the Brookings program called Setting National Priorities, which tried desperately, brilliantly but so far unsuccessfully to give greater order and coherence to the way the United States Government spends the public's money. He hadn't finished his work.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY, DEPARTMENT OF THE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TAXATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; TAX REFORM ACT OF 1986; FINANCES TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX REFORM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); ELECTIONS (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (70%); POOR POPULATION (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%); 

PERSON: PECHMAN, JOSEPH A; SILK, LEONARD GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



700 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 3, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Campeau Halts Dividends

 BODY:
The Campeau Corporation's board said yesterday that it would not pay dividends scheduled to be paid tomorrow on the company's series B preference shares, series C preference shares, series D preference shares and convertible subordinate shares.
The board said the decision was made because of the company's cash shortage. The company said that the board would reconsider the payment of dividends before the end of the year. 
Separately, Reuters reported that a senior management group of Bloomingdale's, one of the department store chains put up for sale by Campeau to raise cash, said yesterday that it had hired the Blackstone Group and Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. to assist ''in evaluating its alternatives.''
Marvin S. Traub, the chairman of Bloomingdale's, added that Gotshal & Manges was also hired as legal counsel to help the managers.
Campeau's stock, which is traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange, fell $1.875, to $9.50, after it said it was suspending dividends after trading had closed for the day.
Campeau has been struggling with a financial crisis all month. It said on Sept. 19 that it had reached an agreement for a $250 million loan to help ease a cash shortage at its nine department store divisions in the United States. The agreement significantly reduced the power of Robert Campeau, the chairman and founder of the Toronto-based development and retail company who borrowed heavily to take over the American stores.
Campeau has denied reports that some of its department stores will soon cut prices to raise money.
The sale of Bloomingdale's and other Campeau retail stores is not the only one announced recently. The Hooker Corporation of Australia is selling its Bonwit Teller and B. Altman & Company chains, and earlier this week, B.A.T. Industries P.L.C. of Britain said it was putting its Saks Fifth Avenue and Marshall Field & Company chains on the block to escape a hostile $21 billion takeover bid from a group led by Sir James Goldsmith, the British-French financier.
Philip B. Miller, the chairman of Marshall Field in Chicago, said he and at least 14 senior executives would try to buy the 26-store chain with the help of ''a well-financed partner, a company with a strong capital base.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (57%); X (TSX) (56%); TXQ (FRA) (56%); BTI (NYSE MKT) (53%); BTI (JSE) (53%); BATS (LSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (53%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (53%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); CANADA (70%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (70%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (70%); 

COMPANY: CAMPEAU CORP (93%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (57%); TMX GROUP LTD (56%); BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO PLC (53%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: CAMPEAU CORP; BLOOMINGDALE'S; BLACKSTONE GROUP; DREXEL BURNHAM LAMBERT INC

SUBJECT: DIVIDENDS; FINANCES; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE PREFERRED STOCK (94%); RETAILERS (90%); DIVIDENDS (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); TAKEOVERS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); LAWYERS (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (52%); 

PERSON: ROBERT JOSEPH CAMPEAU (92%); 



701 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Is Stock Swap Good for AVX?

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
THE ''go go years'' of the late 1960's may be coming back, but with an Asian flavor.
The Wall Street of those years featured a favored group of conglomerates that had been awarded high price-earnings ratios by a stock market entranced by the supposed synergy of mergers. The companies were able to buy up other companies for stock that eventually came to be seen as ridiculously overvalued.
Yesterday, Kyocera, a Japanese electronics concern, agreed to buy the AVX Corporation, an American company, in what Kyocera said was the first stock swap involving companies from the two countries. 
Whether the AVX holders are getting a good deal depends on what numbers you look at. By market price, there is no doubt that they are benefiting. But book values and earnings tell a different story. AVX holders will be trading a share with a book value of $15.85 for stock with a book value of about $6.97. The share they give up represented earnings of $2.07. compared with profits of $1.08 for the stock they are to get, based on the most recent fiscal years of each company.
AVX shares leaped $8, to $29.625, in New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday as the offer was made to exchange each share for 0.39 American depository share of Kyocera, which rose 12.5 cents, to $80.625. At that price, the indicated value of the Kyocera stock being offered is $31.44.
Such stock swaps seem like a great idea for all concerned, and it will be no surprise if a trend is born. AVX holders get a big premium for their shares, and Kyocera holders get assets cheaply, considering the relative book values. Kyocera's earnings per share should rise as a result of the deal, although not by a large amount because Kyocera is a much larger company.
The go-go years of the 1960's were fun while they lasted, but eventually the bubble burst, and more than a few of the conglomerates went under. Some of the ones that survived did so in part because their managers had the wisdom to use their overvalued stock to buy real assets. If the stock market thinks a piece of paper is worth $5, when it is really worth $1, it is a good move to use that paper to buy assets worth $2.50. The seller thinks he is getting a great deal, and the buyer has improved the real value of the stock.
With a world economy that is becoming more integrated, and with companies increasingly owning productive assets in many countries, it is not so clear as it once was that companies that happen to be based in one country should be valued by widely differing standards from companies based in another. But that has happened as relates to Japan and almost every other country in the world, and Kyocera is taking advantage of the fact.
For now, AVX holders are clearly ahead. When the deal is completed later this year, they will have to decide whether to hold onto the Kyocera stock or cash in. In the American go-go years, the biggest winners were those who sold the overvalued shares while the investment fever was still raging. It is a precedent the AVX holders might wish to recall.
 
Viacom's Borrowing Success
The investment world views Viacom International Inc. as one of the success stories among leveraged buyouts. Yesterday, Viacom announced a deal with its banks, led by Citibank, that raises the amount of money it can borrow to $1.5 billion from $1 billion, reduces the rates it must pay and converts the loans to unsecured status, thus freeing assets to be pledged for other loans.
''The banks have given us more freedom to operate the company,'' said Thomas Dooley, Viacom's treasurer. For now, Viacom plans to leave $300 million of its new credit line unused. It could raise $400 million or more by pledging assets the banks have freed, Mr. Dooley said, adding that the company was looking at possible acquisitions.
Viacom will retire some of the payment-in-kind bonds it issued to help finance the buyout. By keeping $300 million of such bonds outstanding, Mr. Dooley said, it will increase its flexibility.
Viacom, which owns MTV, Showtime, the Movie Channel and distribution rights to ''The Cosby Show,'' ''Roseanne'' and ''A Different World,'' as well as 14 cable systems, 5 television stations and 8 radio stations, has also fared well in the stock market. The 1987 leveraged buyout, in which Sumner M. Redstone's National Amusements Inc., a movie theater owner, took control, left 17 percent of the stock in public hands, and those who bought then have seen the price more than double, to $56.25 a share yesterday, on the Big Board.
It may be worth noting that, if asset sales are excluded, Viacom has not reported a quarterly profit since the buyout, as interest payments have overwhelmed rising operating profits. That a company can be deemed a success under those circumstances shows the new era in finance is still with us, ''junk bond'' troubles notwithstanding.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: KYO (NYSE) (90%); 6971 (TSE) (90%); AVX (NYSE) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334417 ELECTRONIC CONNECTOR MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC3678 ELECTRONIC CONNECTORS (71%); SIC3676 ELECTRONIC RESISTORS (71%); SIC3675 ELECTRONIC CAPACITORS (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KYOCERA CORP (90%); AVX CORP (71%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AVX CORP; KYOCERA CORP

SUBJECT: STOCKS (CORPORATE); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD



702 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 12, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Prices Ease, and Trading Is Light

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury notes and bonds eased slightly in thin trading yesterday, as dealers reacted to the sale of a large list of mortgage-backed securities by selling Treasury issues.
As much as $800 million worth of the mortgage-backed issues were rumored to have been sold. Bigger amounts have been sold in the past, and the impact on Treasury issues has been slight.
But activity was so light that the mortgage-backed sale had a ripple effect. 
''The fact that the market went down when some mortgage-backed issues hit the Street suggests that it is still vulnerable to new supply,'' said James R. Capra, a senior vice president at Shearson Lehman Government Securities. ''The market's psychology continues to be fragile, and can be affected by the most minor development.''
 
Tracking the Dollar
Traders also tracked movements in the dollar, which moved lower early in the day but recovered ground later.
By late in the day, the Treasury's 8 1/8 percent bonds of 2019 were offered at a price of 98 5/8, down 2/32, to yield 8.24 percent.
Prices of secondary note issues also registered small declines.
In late trading, for example, the 8 percent 10-year notes were offered at 98, down 2/32, to yield 8.29 percent. And the 8 1/4 percent five-year notes were offered at 99 19/32, down 6/32, to yield 8.33 percent.
Yields on two- and four-year notes auctioned earlier this week rose in when-issued trading.
The 8 3/8 percent two-year notes were offered on a when-issued basis at a price to yield 8.44 percent late yesterday. And the 8 1/4 percent four-year notes were offered at a price to yield 8.40 percent. 3-Month Bills at 7.87% Treasury bill rates were mixed.
By late in the day, three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 7.87 percent, up 6 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point. And six-month bill rates were unchanged, at a late offered rate of 7.82 percent.
Word that the House had voted to cut the top capital gains tax to 19.6 percent from the current level of 33 percent had no impact on trading.
Analysts said lowering the capital gains tax, which is subject to approval by the Senate, was a mixed blessing.
 
'Favorable for Bonds'
''Obviously, the capital gains cut is favorable for bonds, but much less so than for other assets like stocks and real estate, because most of the return in bonds is in ordinary income,'' said Louis v. B. Crandall, chief economist at R. H. Wrightson & Associates, an economic consulting firm.
''But the economic impact of the change would be negative, because it dispels the notion that the 1986 tax act was the bill to end all tax bills,'' he said. ''This battle over capital gains, whether it passes or not, reminds every individual that the tax code is very changeable, and that you can't make any long-term planning.''
Issues that could be sold for capital gains purposes include Treasury bonds issued early in the 1980's, when interest rates were at double-digit levels, as well as corporate and tax-exempt municipal bonds that were purchased at a deep discount and have subsequently risen in value.
 
T.V.A. Dispute Resolved
In other developments, the Tennessee Valley Authority said that a four-month dispute with the Treasury over its ability to borrow from the Federal Financing Bank had been resolved, and that it intended to offer $1 billion or more of debt securities in the public market early next month.
The T.V.A. has been seeking to refinance $6.5 billion worth of high-interest debt it borrowed from the Federal Financing Bank in the early 1980's.
Until yesterday, the bank's position had been that if the T.V.A. sought to refinance the bonds in the public market, it would lose its status as a future borrower.
After an intense lobbying effort, the Treasury's position changed yesterday, said William F. Malec, the T.V.A.'s chief financial officer. $2 Billion Credit Line Mr. Malec said the Treasury had agreed to provide the T.V.A. with a $2 billion line of credit for the next two years. After that, the relationship will be reviewed again.
''What we now have is the best of all worlds,'' Mr. Malec said. The T.V.A. has been seeking to refinance its debt because with interest rates at current levels it will save up to $100 million a year in interest costs.
Mr. Malec said the coming issue, which could be offered during the week of Oct. 9, might be offered in several parts.
''There is a good possibility that it will be for more than one maturity,'' he said.
 
Tokyo Bond Issues
Elsewhere yesterday, two taxable bond issues, including a $175 million offering from the Metropolis of Tokyo, were priced in the new-issue market.
The 8.70 percent Tokyo notes, which mature on Oct. 5, 1999, were priced at $99.90 to yield 8.75 percent, 42 basis points above the prevailing yield on 8 percent Treasury notes at the time of pricing.
Goldman, Sachs & Company acted as lead manager for the issue, which is rated AAA by Moody's and Standard & Poor's. The offering is the fifth sale of Tokyo debt in the United States.
Morgan Stanley & Company acted as lead manager for a $100 million offering of floating-rate notes from the BankAmerica Corporation.
The notes, which have a final maturity of Oct. 21, 1992, are noncallable for life.
The one-month London interbank offered rate will serve as the coupon on the notes, which will be set monthly. The first rate will be set on Oct. 3. The issue is rated A-3 by Moody's and BBB by S.&P.
In other developments, the Federal Reserve Board reported yesterday that two of the three measures of the nation's money supply fell during the week ended Sept. 18. The third measure, M-2, rose by $3.9 billion.
The report had no impact on prices in the credit markets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY, DEPARTMENT OF THE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; MONEY SUPPLY (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); BONDS (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (84%); REAL ESTATE (79%); AUCTIONS (79%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (74%); MONEY SUPPLY (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); APPROVALS (60%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N



703 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 13, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Closes Mostly Up; Central Banks Still Active

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar moved mostly higher yesterday although central banks again put pressure on the currency, acting on a belief that the dollar's advance this year could have unpleasant economic consequences.
Gold prices finished with minor changes in the United States after moving lower overseas. The Republic National Bank of New York quoted a bid of $366.90 for an ounce at 4 P.M., up 70 cents from Wednesday's late bid. 
John McCarthy, chief currency dealer at the New York office of the Amsterdam Rotterdam Bank, said trading volume was moderate and punctuated by rounds of central bank intervention.
 
Dealers Unwinding Positions
Activity has slackened in recent days with dealers unwinding positions as the month ends. Trading maneuvers tied to the close of Japan's fiscal year on Sept. 30 have also reduced liquidity in the currency markets, he said.
''The central banks intervened three or four times,'' Mr. McCarthy said. ''It did have the desired effect -the dollar is closing lower than where it opened in New York'' but above Wednesday's late levels.
The United States and its allies in the Group of Seven have resolved to keep a tight leash on the dollar. They agreed at a weekend meeting in Washington that the dollar's rise this year threatened to hurt the delicate balance of economic growth among major trading partners. The other nations are Japan, West Germany, Britain, France, Canada and Italy.
In late New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 140.50 yen, up from 140.32 yen Wednesday. A pound fetched $1.61065, compared with $1.6167 late Wednesday.
 
Late New York Rates
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Wednesday's late rates, included: 1.88175 West German marks, up from 1.8805; 1.6308 Swiss francs, up from 1.6305; 1.17995 Canadian dollars, up from 1.1771; 6.376 French francs, up from 6.3655, and 1,370.50 Italian lire, up from 1,361.7.
Gold prices were mixed in the United States after declining in light trading overseas.
On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for October delivery rose to $368.10 an ounce, up 50 cents from Wednesday's settlement. The September contract closed at $367.60 on Wednesday, its final trading day.
Silver for October delivery rose to $5.265 an ounce, from Wednesday's settlement of $5.252.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); HSBA (LSE) (84%); HSB (PAR) (84%); HBC (NYSE) (84%); 0005 (HKSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (87%); FRANCE (79%); NETHERLANDS (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ROTTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (72%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (57%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (84%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (72%); AMSTERDAM-ROTTERDAM BANK NV (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES; GOLD; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (93%); CENTRAL BANKS (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); SILVER MARKETS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); GERMAN MARK (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (50%); 



704 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1562 words

HEADLINE: Hispanic Groups Organizing Drive for a Full Census Count

BYLINE: By ROBERTO SURO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 23

 BODY:
In the largest effort ever undertaken by Hispanic Americans to gain political power, advocacy groups are organizing a campaign to turn out the highest possible count in the 1990 census.
Many court actions are also being fought to insure that census figures are translated into electoral muscle. And Hispanic groups, among others, are challenging a provision adopted by the Senate and now before the House of Representatives that would exclude illegal aliens from the population figures used for reapportionment.
The Bureau of the Census estimates that the 1990 count will show a 34.5 percent increase in the number of Hispanic Americans over the 1980 figures, while the total population is expected to grow by only 9.9 percent.
 
Could Take a Long Time
Hispanic politicians are already planning to use this census data in support of their case for carving out electoral districts with predominantly Hispanic populations when the districts are redrawn to account for the population shifts. 
But Hispanic Americans want to be sure that the huge increase is accurately measured, and then it might take much of the next decade before they become an effective force at the polls.
For now, a disproportionately large number of Hispanic residents are not eligible to vote because they are either too young or because they are immigrants who are not yet citizens.
Organizations representing constituencies as diverse as the Puerto Ricans of Northeastern cities and Mexican-Americans of the rural Southwest are trying to overcome problems that have produced substantial undercounts of Hispanic residents. These include a language barrier, unstable housing arrangements due to poverty and the fear of Government agents.
Hispanic celebrities are now recording advertisements, census information centers are being established and neighborhood leaders are preparing to go door to door to spread the message that being counted brings benefits. Hispanic political leaders in several parts of the country say the census campaigns are the most concerted efforts made in the political arena by this diverse ethnic group,which is estimated to total more than 20 million people, or about 8 percent of the total population.
''Making sure that every Hispanic gets counted in this census is probably the biggest political challenge we have ever faced,'' said State Representative Lena Guerrero, a Texas Democrat from Austin. ''It is potentially a very important step on the long road to getting just political representation.''
Census data can be as important as vote tallies in the power struggles over redistricting that follow every census. And Hispanic political leaders view the 1990 census as an extraordinary opportunity because of the confluence of two trends: the Hispanic communities grew, and population statistics became a major weapon in civil rights battles that have already forced changes in the ethnic makeup of many state and local governments.
 
Helped by Voting Rights Act
In 1982 Congress made it easier to attack racial gerrymandering when it amended the Voting Rights Act of 1965; under the new rules, plaintiffs were no longer required to prove any intent to dilute minority voting strength. Since then it has been easier for black and Hispanic voters to file suits demanding the creation of electoral districts in which census data show they would make up a majority of the population.
A series of recent Federal court decisions, like the one that forced the revision of the New York City Charter this year, have been applied to order the reapportionment and redistricting of elected offices favoring minority representation.
In addition to providing the ammunition for redistricting, census counts help determine the distribution of Federal funds. Last month in Dallas, for example, the American Jewish Congress gathered representatives of every major ethnic group to begin a campaign to encourage participation. State Comptroller Bob Bullock of Texas told the meeting that his state had lost more than $30 million a year in Federal programs for low-income citizens because of the undercount of black and Hispanic residents in the 1980 census.
The census and the subsequent redistricting will open a period of increased emphasis on race and ethnicity as political battlegrounds, some political scientists say.
Tucker Gibson, a professor at Trinity University in San Antonio, said, ''Following the next census, minority groups are going to launch a more concerted effort than ever before to attack alleged inequities in political representation.''
He said that although the goals are important, differences among minorities could be heightened ''rather than promoting a community of interests.''
 
Hispanic Groups Stand to Gain
Although black and Asian groups in many cities are also mobilizing to get a full census count, Hispanic groups appear to have the most to gain because of the huge increase in population and its lack of representation.
Unlike blacks, who have frequently rallied around leaders or issues, Hispanic citizens have never shared a common agenda, except perhaps an interest in language issues. In fact, Hispanic political and civic leaders have often been divided by internal rivalries as well as by differences in national origins, class and political orientations. But now they appear to share a perception that the census is important to their various interests.
The Census Bureau says that at least 25 Hispanic organizations with national or regional constituencies have begun campaigns to encourage people to make themselves available to be counted. President Bush offered his support to the Hispanic effort earlier this month in an address to the United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce as it began a census campaign.
''Across the board and all over the country Hispanics understand that higher census numbers mean more opportunities for political office,'' said Guarione Diaz, president of the Cuban American Planning Council in Miami.
In Houston, for example, Hispanic politicians say a good census count and aggressive application of the Voting Rights Act could produce a predominantly Hispanic Congressional district as well as new slots in the State Legislature and City Council.
But electing Hispanic politicians might not be easy, particularly in the early 1990's. In Texas, for instance, only about 26 percent of the total Hispanic population was registered to vote in 1988 while the figure for non-Hispanics was 56 percent, said Robert Brischetto, executive director of the Southwest Voter Research Institute.
 
Change Won't Come Overnight
A few Hispanic leaders are concerned about unrealistic expectations. Leonel J. Castillo, a candidate for the Houston City Council, said: ''Census numbers are not going to translate into political power or economic benefits overnight. In the short term, anyway, we are not going to have the votes to elect people even in some nominally Hispanic districts, and the 1990's as the decade of political empowerment could become a big disappointment.''
Arturo Vargas, who heads a $1 million census campaign for the Los Angeles-based Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund, argued for a long view of the process. ''The demographic forces are on our side,'' he said, ''and as we get closer to the end of the century Hispanic political power will begin to snowball.'' He noted not only that a large number of Hispanic people will reach voting age in the next decade but also that three million illegal aliens will become eligible for citizenship in the 1990's under immigration amnesty programs.
''If we don't get the numbers in the census next year, however, all the rest is meaningless,'' Mr. Vargas warned.
The battle of the census has already begun. In addition to the wrangling in Congress over the inclusion of illegal aliens in the count, New York City has led a court fight demanding that the Census Bureau commit itself to making statistical adjustments of its 1990 tallies to correct the inevitable undercount of minority groups. After the 1980 census the bureau acknowledged an undercount of almost 6 percent of the black and Hispanic populations, although many demographers said the losses were actually much higher.
So far the Census Bureau has agreed only to consider a statistical adjustment, but it is working with Hispanic groups and others to maximize the initial tally next spring. The basic count will take place by mail with forms sent out only in English. Subsequently, some 200,000 census takers will visit as many as 30 million households to count some of those who have not responded.
''Fear and apathy are our greatest enemies, and we have to count on local leaders to help us overcome them,'' said Paula Wright, who directs promotional activites in the Census Bureau's Dallas office.
Many Hispanic leaders complain that the census methodology is flawed because so many in their communities lack permanent addresses, speak little or no English and frequently have low reading skills even in Spanish. The census campaigns are focusing mainly on a media blitz that will start early next year and on recruiting neighborhood leaders who can help census takers find residents who do not respond by mail.
''There is still going to be an undercount,'' Mr. Diaz said, ''but we will do everything we can to minimize it.''

GRAPHIC: Graphs of the Census Bureau population forecast for the United States; percentage of the population at each age level in '87 (source: Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (92%); US CENSUS BUREAU (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: POPULATION; SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); ILLEGAL ALIENS; CENSUS; ELECTIONS; REAPPORTIONMENT CENSUS (99%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (92%); REDISTRICTING (91%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); ETHNICITY (89%); ELECTION LAW (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); TRENDS (75%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); IMMIGRATION (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (64%); 

PERSON: SURO, ROBERTO



705 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1413 words

HEADLINE: SENATE DEMOCRATS WORKING TO DEVISE THEIR OWN TAX CUT

BYLINE: BY DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 29

 BODY:
Democrats in the Senate are searching for a less sweeping reduction in the capital gains tax than the one approved Thursday by the House of Representatives.
The party's leaders remain strongly opposed to giving a tax break on capital gains, one of the most highly partisan issues of the year. Still, they apparently have concluded that they do not have the votes to block a cut, and they are looking for a more palatable alternative than the House version.
A preliminary survey of senators indicates that at least 15 of the 55 Democrats and nearly all 45 Republicans are committed to voting for a reduction in some form, a senator said.
 
A Presidential Priority
President Bush has made a capital gains cut a top legislative priority, arguing that a lower tax on profits from the sale of stocks, bonds, real estate and other assets would stimulate investment and lead to a stronger economy. The lopsided vote in the House Thursday gave the President and his supporters momentum as the fight shifts to the Senate. 
As so often happens on tax questions, those who would benefit most - primarily well-to-do investors - are trying to exert influence on lawmakers, while most people express little interest in the matter.
''We're getting rolled,'' said Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York, a Democrat who is against a tax cut. ''We're being jerked around by a vocal, affluent constituency.''
Senator Lloyd Bentsen of Texas, chairman of the Finance Committee, said today that he still planned to fight for more generous individual retirement accounts as an alternative tax cut that would benefit more people.
 
Playing the Variations
Nevertheless, behind the scenes, a group of Democratic senators has been meeting regularly to fashion a capital gains proposal that would not be perceived as a giveaway to the wealthy.
''There are a lot of variations and a lot of plans but nothing like a consensus yet,'' said one member of the group, Senator David Pryor of Arkansas. Others attending the meetings include Alan Cranston of California, Bob Graham of Florida, Dennis DeConcini of Arizona, David L. Boren of Oklahoma, Richard Bryan of Nevada and Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut.
Senator Cranston is the party whip and Senator Pryor is the chairman of the Democratic Conference, making them the second- and third-ranking members of the leadership.
''I would like to see something that makes us look responsible,'' said Senator Pryor, his face reflecting exasperation.
Mr. Lieberman said he and the others who have been meeting consider it important for Senate Democrats to learn lessons from the party's defeat in the House.
One measure being examined by the group would restrict the cut in the capital gains rate to investments in high-risk start-up businesses.
Another would create two categories of assets: capital assets, like a direct interest in a business, for which a lower tax rate would be allowed, and trading assets, like stocks and bonds sold on the market, for which there would be no tax differential.
A tax specialist on a Congressional staff said the distinctions in either of those proposals might be impossible to draw.
''We would have trouble designing those kinds of provisions, and I'm sure the people on Wall Street would find loopholes they could drive trucks through,'' the specialist said.
The senators are also considering linking a cut in the capital gains rate to the length of time an asset has been held. One idea, Senator Lieberman said, is to give no tax break when an asset is sold in the first year after it is acquired, and then, over a six-year span, lower the rate in stages from a maximum of 28 percent to 14 percent.
 
A Suggestion on Timber
Senator Pryor, whose home state, Arkansas, is a leading timber producer, suggested that many timber growers might prefer an income-averaging rule to a lower capital gains rate applying to timberland. That would allow them to pay taxes on the average income over, say, three years, rather than having a large tax liability in the years they cleared their land.
Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady, testifying before the Finance Committee today, maintained that much of the benefit of a capital gains tax cut would be realized by people with a one-time-only gain from the sale of a business, farm or home.
But a new analysis by the nonpartisan staff of the Joint Congressional Committee on Taxation seemed to dispute that contention.
The study showed that in 1985, the last year for which figures are available, 82 percent of the money claimed on tax returns as capital gains was received by taxpayers who sold more than one asset during the year.
 
Dispute Over I.R.A. Proposal
In his testimony, Mr. Brady, the Bush Administration's chief spokesman on economic matters, took exception to Senator Bentsen's plan to allow tax-deductible I.R.A.'s to all taxpayers and to allow penalty-free withdrawals to pay for college expenses and the purchase of first homes.
Mr. Bentsen argued that such a plan would assist middle-income families and lead to more personal saving.
Mr. Brady said he had no conclusive evidence that the plan would generate more savings but he knew that it would be too costly.
The House was not in session today, but telephone calls around the country found plenty of recriminations among House Democrats in the aftermath of Thursday's vote.
 
Details of the Bill
With 64 Democrats breaking party ranks, the House rejected, 239 to 190, a Democratic alternative and approved a cut in the top rate on capital gains to 19.6 percent. That is a 30 percent cut for those in the 28 percent tax bracket, but those in the 33 percent marginal bracket would also pay capital gains taxes at a 19.6 percent bracket rate. The low rate would be in effect through the end of 1991. After that, the top rate would rise to 28 percent.
The Democratic alternative would have made all taxpayers eligible for deductible I.R.A.'s and would have extended the 33 percent bracket to cover the 600,000 taxpayers with incomes above about $200,000, who are now subject to a 28 percent rate.
Lawmakers said the capital gains cut was politically appealing because it could be characterized as a tax cut while the Democrats' plan could be protrayed as a tax increase.
A senior staff member said party leaders had to learn that, however right on the merits, they could not pass a tax increase, even for the very wealthy.
''It's a battle of the soundbites,'' the aide said, using the television term for a quick phrase with instant appeal. ''It's a soundbite you can't win if you're proposing a tax increase and not a tax cut.''
 
Appealing to Voters
Another reason for the political appeal of a capital gains cut, several lawmakers said, is that while they had relatively few constituents with capital gains, many people hope to have them in the future, and thus hope to benefit from the tax cut.
Both sides agree that the House measure would generate up to $4 billion a year in additional revenue for the Government over the first two years as investors sold assets to take advantage of the new rate. The Bush Administration maintains that it would not create a significant long-term loss of revenue. The rate cut would end in 1991, but after that taxpayers would be permitted to adjust their taxable gains to reflect inflation. The Joint Tax Committee staff has estimated that the inflation-adjustment provision would lower revenues by more than $5 billiion a year.
''What we have had is a serious flaw in the positioning of the party,'' said Representative Les AuCoin of Oregon, who favors a capital gains cut but voted against the proposal Thursday partly out of loyalty to his party's leaders and partly because he thought a temporary reduction was ''short-term instant gratification that did nothing to look out toward the horizon.''
 
'The Size of the Pie'
Mr. AuCoin said he feared that ''our party is being seen as quarreling over how the pie is sliced, when we ought to be talking about expanding the size of the pie.''
Republicans in the Senate do not like the temporary cut in the House bill, and they were working today on legislation that would make the reduction permanent.
Finance Committee members said Senator Bentsen might be able to win committee approval for his I.R.A. plan as an alternative to the capital gains cut. But most who were interviewed said they recognized that they did not have the votes on the Senate floor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION CAPITAL GAINS TAX (92%); TAX LAW (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); STARTUPS (78%); TAX REFORM (72%); BONDS (72%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (68%); PERSONAL FINANCE (68%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) MARK PRYOR (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (74%); JOE LIEBERMAN (59%); 



706 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Bogota Chief, at U.N., Asks U.S. to Curb Drug Demand

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 29

 BODY:
President Virgilio Barco Vargas of Colombia called on the United States and other nations today to curb the demand for drugs and to cut other assistance that he said the countries were giving to drug producers in the third world.
As speeches at the United Nations General Assembly continued for the fifth day, the Colombian President outlined a plan for his war on drug trafficking that emphasizes the role of drug-consuming nations.
Describing President Bush's national drug-control strategy as a step in the right direction, Mr. Barco echoed the statements of others from drug-producing nations, calling on the United States to do more to restrict demand for drugs.
''Every tactic and every weapon in the war against narcotics pales into significance compared with the need to reduce demand,'' he said, speaking in Spanish. ''Those who consume cocaine are contributing to the assassination of my people by the criminal drug cartels.'' 
 
Receives Standing Ovation
The Colombian President, who received the first standing ovation at this year's General Assembly, called for tighter controls on the manufacture and sale of chemicals used in cocaine production, which, he said, ''come mainly from North America and Europe.'' He also called for limits on the sale of arms to drug traffickers, steps to curb the foreign mercenaries who help Colombian traffickers and an end to the laundering of drug profits through the Western banking system.
''Somehow our sense of justice is warped when a poor farmer who feeds his family by growing coca is seen as the greater villain than the wealthy international banker who illegally transfers millions of dollars of drug money that finances terrorist acts against innocent people,'' he said.
Mr. Barco's suggestions reflect a widespread feeling among third world countries that produce the ingredients for cocaine and other hard drugs. The fact that his Government is engaged in a violent struggle against Columbia's powerful drug cartels gives him moral authority to argue the third world's viewpoint, diplomats say.
 
Chinese Criticizes West
As the 44th session of the General Assembly ended its first week today, the Chinese Foreign Minister, Qian Qichen, criticized Western nations he did not identify for accusing China of human rights violations in its suppression of the democracy movement in June.
''The overwhelming majority of the countries of the world have expressed their understanding of this action by our Government,'' he said.
He addressed the Assembly on the day Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar received a detailed report, entitled ''Massacre in Beijing,'' that sets out charges against the Chinese authorities from the International League for Human Rights, a New York-based watchdog group.
Mr. Qian joined the foreign ministers of the other four nations with permanent Security Council seats - Britain, France, the Soviet Union and the United States - at the five nations' traditional working lunch with the Secretary General today.
Those at the lunch discussed United Nations efforts to resolve regional conflicts around the world. In a statement, they reaffirmed support for the Secretary General's attempts to settle these disputes as well as for current Arab mediation efforts in Lebanon.
 
Address by Mubarak
Speaking of other developments in the Middle East, President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt said in his speech to the Assembly that ''conditions are now favorable'' for opening a Palestinian-Israeli dialogue without conditions. Such a dialogue, he said, would seek to eliminate conflict in the region once and for all ''on the basis of applying the principle of territory for peace, and attaining co-existence and cooperation among all peoples of the region.''
Mr. Mubarak, who also spoke as chairman of the Organization of African Unity, denounced the existing ''imbalances in the international economic order,'' and said he had been given a mandate by the African leaders to press for an international conference on the debt question.
''The problem for many third world countries, especially the African countries, is no longer one of growth and development, but rather one of survival in the literal sense of the word,'' the Egyptian President said.
Other speakers at the Assembly session today were Foreign Ministers Oskar Fischer of East Germany, Maj. Gen. Ike Nwachukwu of Nigeria, Gerard Collins of Ireland, Sheik Mohammed bin Mubarak al-Khalifa of Bahrain, Air Chief Marshal Siddhi Savetsila of Thailand, Jacques Poos of Luxembourg, Ali Akbar Velayati of Iran, and Ali Ahmed Sahlul of the Sudan. Also speaking was Josevata Kamikamica, Minister for Finance and Economic Planning of Fiji.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (96%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (76%); 

CITY: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (67%); 

COMPANY: BELGIAN AMERICAN RADIO CORP (90%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COLOMBIA; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: DRUG TRAFFIC; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; COCAINE; MONEY LAUNDERING CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); COCAINE (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); CARTELS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); MONEY LAUNDERING (88%); ASSASSINATION (79%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); DRUG POLICY (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); ARMS TRADE (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (68%); TERRORISM (63%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL; BARCO VARGAS, VIRGILIO (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (59%); 



707 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 5, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1307 words

HEADLINE: U.S.-China Falling-Out: Much Smoke but No Fire

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 29

 BODY:
At almost every opportunity, Chinese officials like Teng Teng, the Deputy Minister of Education, like to fulminate about American interference in China's affairs.
So Mr. Teng's wife raised a few eyebrows this month when she showed up at the United States Embassy seeking a visa. She said she wanted to visit the couple's three children now studying in the United States.
This seeming paradox - official attacks on the United States at every turn and private visa applications -characterizes the Chinese-American relationship these days.
Both sides have criticized the other; the United States has deplored the Chinese Army's violent suppression of the democracy movement and the subsequent crackdown, and China has attacked what it describes as American hypocrisy and interference in its internal affairs. But beneath the smoke, diplomacy and exchanges continue. 
The recriminations of June and July have been toned down. Although the overall coolness could continue indefinitely, perhaps even as long as the present Chinese leadership is in place, both sides are eager to keep talking and to try to work out the problems gradually.
 
Meeting With Baker
The latest sign of the continuing diplomacy was Foreign Minister Qian Qichen's arrival in New York on Wednesday for a weeklong visit including an address today to the United Nations General Assembly and a meeting on Thursday with Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d. He is also meeting an array of other foreign ministers at the United Nations and influential private citizens in New York.
''Beneath all the rhetoric, the Sino-American relationship pretty much continues,'' said a Western diplomat in Beijing. ''The fundamentals of the relationship haven't altered.''
The widespread perception in Beijing is that both Governments are trying to maintain contact beneath the icy surface. Chinese officials regard President Bush as making a good-faith effort to rebuild relations within the constraints of American public opinion and Congressional scrutiny.
On June 5, a day after the killings of hundreds in Beijing, President Bush suspended military exchanges and arms shipments to China. Since then, the United States has also banned high-level non-diplomatic exchanges and used its leverage in the World Bank and Asian Development Bank to defer new loans to China.
But the Bush Administration has allowed waivers of the sanctions to ship commercial planes to China, and meetings continue between Mr. Baker and Mr. Qian. The Administration has continued talks with Beijing about China's admission into the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
 
France Is Now Denounced
In China, Ambassador James R. Lilley, a longtime friend of President Bush, has re-emerged, appearing at signing ceremonies for American investors doing business with China.
In addition, Chinese dissidents in exile say they were discouraged from holding their organizational meeting in the United States, leading them to choose Paris instead. The headquarters of the dissident organization will now be in Paris, with a subsidiary branch in the United States.
These days it is France that is being denounced in ever-tougher terms, both because French officials have been less conciliatory than Americans and because China needs France less than it needs the United States. The perception here of French intransigence is helping Chinese-American relations by setting up a contrast with the United States and diverting attention from disagreements between Washington and Beijing.
''France is a much easier target,'' an Eastern bloc diplomat said. ''It's a small country, not so important to China's economy. But the United States plays an indispensable role in China's development.''
China also appears to have continued to cooperate with United States intelligence in providing information from listening posts that can monitor Soviet communications. Leaders' Children in U.S. Furthermore, despite the frostiness in Chinese-American relations, several Politburo members, including the Communist Party leader, Jiang Zemin, and the security chief, Qiao Shi, have children studying in the United States. They are among more than 70,000 Chinese students or scholars who have gone to the United States and not yet returned.
This academic exchange is part of the vast web of Chinese-American relations determined less by diplomatic negotiation than by the emotions and yearnings of ordinary people on both sides of the Pacific Ocean.
These kinds of unofficial ties, ranging from tourism to business investment, have been affected by the Chinese crackdown in a very lopsided way.
Reacting in horror to the bloodshed and the ferocity of the subsequent crackdown, Americans have been less enthusiastic about informal contacts. Many fewer business executives want to invest in China, American tourists have mostly vanished and probably fewer than a third as many Americans are studying in China this fall as a year ago.
Ordinary Chinese have reacted in precisely the opposite way. The more strains in the official relationship, the more the denunciations of ''bourgeois liberalism'' and United States interference, the more eager they are to go to the United States.
 
'China Will Be Dead'
On Chinese campuses, students these days are forced to spend much of their time studying political ideology; in their free time they study much more frantically than ever for the Test of English as a Foreign Language so that they can apply to go to America.
''China will be dead for the next few years,'' said a Communist Party official who is now trying to visit the United States on business and then overstay his visa indefinitely. Another trusted official who has long been near the center of power in China is quietly arranging an extended visit to escape the heartache of the crackdown.
Despite official calls for ''self-reliance,'' Chinese companies are also ever more eager for American partners to escape the desperate shortage of both foreign exchange and local investment capital.
Voice of America's Chinese-language broadcasts are mostly jammed, but they are still intelligible and immensely popular among officials and students alike. China's bookshops are obliged to stock various Communist works, but the books that sell are autobiographies of President Bush and Lee Iacocca, along with guides to American universities and Nabokov's ''Lolita.''
While the diplomatic relationship has thawed somewhat in the last two months, many analysts say it could deteriorate further before the end of the year. One reason is that Chinese dissidents in America may attract more attention soon when they set up a branch office in the United States. The second and more important reason is that the United States may approve further economic sanctions against China.
 
Congress Plans More Sanctions
''The big unknown right now is Congress,'' said Kenneth G. Lieberthal, director of the Center for Chinese Studies at the University of Michigan. Both the House and Senate have approved further economic sanctions, and a conference committee is trying to work out a compromise version that is expected to pass and be signed into law.
For American diplomats and business representatives in China, relations with counterparts are sometimes complicated by a sense of betrayal. No longer do most of them regard China as a trusted friend.
To some extent, their emotions reflect a generational split. Older diplomats in particular often appear less shaken by what happened and more interested in maintaining official ties; a repressive, suspicious China seems normal, for that is the kind they remember from their early days as China watchers. Younger diplomats frequently appear to feel more surprise and outrage at the crackdown, more of a sense that bilateral diplomacy should not be business as usual.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ATB (ASX) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (98%); FRANCE (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (63%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (84%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); ARMIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (61%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); ASIAN AMERICANS (58%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (87%); 



708 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: Bush Defends Carolina Relief Efforts

BYLINE: By BERNARD WEINRAUB, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHARLESTON, S.C., Sept. 29

 BODY:
President Bush today defended his Administration's handling of relief efforts for hurricane victims as he traveled past a vista of wrecked buildings, shattered pine forests and mangled vehicles in this state.
''I do know there's been a critic or two - that's less than I would have expected,'' Mr. Bush said at Charleston Air Force Base at the end of a two-hour visit to one of the areas devastated by Hurricane Hugo. ''But to the critics I simply say: 'I understand. We are trying very hard.' '' 
Aboard Air Force One on the flight to Charleston, Mr. Bush signed a $1.1 billion relief measure approved by Congress on Thursday. The flight here was hastily arranged Thursday night after criticism, largely by South Carolina Democrats, that Federal disaster relief was mired in bureaucracy and that Mr. Bush had shown scant interest in the disaster.
Mayor Joseph P. Riley Jr. of Charleston said, for example, said the Federal Emergency Management Agency's decision to open only two disaster aid offices in the Charleston area was ''a disgrace'' and ''absolutely ridiculous.'' Mr. Riley was not invited to join Mr. Bush, Gov. Carroll A. Campbell Jr. of South Carolina and several members of the state's Congressional delegation on today's tour.
 
More Relief Offices Planned
Marlin Fitzwater, the White House spokesman, said on the flight here that the President would expand the number of Federal disaster relief offices in South Carolina to nine from five. The 200-member staff of the Charleston centers of the Federal emergency agency would be increased by ''as many as it takes,'' Mr. Fitzwater said.
In Washington, the Senate today approved and sent to a House-Senate conference another $1.05 billion earmarked for disaster relief loans from the Small Business Administration. The funds, separate from those approved Thursday, will be used to provide low-interest loans to individuals or businesses ravaged by the hurricane.
And Commerce Secretary Robert A. Mosbacher announced that $5 million would be sent immediately to the Charleston area for rebuilding projects.
In Summerville, 22 miles northwest of Charleston, Mr. Bush stood near a school bus demolished by a pine tree uprooted in the storm and said, ''I'm here trying to mobilize the resources of the Federal Government.''
 
'It'll Never Be the Same'
Berlin Myers, the Mayor of Summerville, showed the President some of the storm damage near the Dorchester County Courthouse - trees snapped in half, roofs torn apart, vehicles crushed. ''This town is known for its pine and flowers,'' Mr. Myers said. . ''It'll never be the same again.''
Mr. Bush arrived in Charleston at daybreak and was greeted by Governor Campbell, a Republican, and Mayor Riley, a Democrat.
Before the President's arrival Mr. Riley had complained that the Federal Emergency Management Agency was engulfed in red tape and kept requesting an assessment of damage before supplying emergency food, electrical generators and temporary homes for the victims of the storm.
But Governor Campbell strongly defended the pace of relief efforts and brushed off criticisms. He told Mr. Bush that ''most people didn't realize how broad this devastation was.'' The Governor also said that 60,000 people were left homeless, 550,000 were displaced and 270,000 were out of work.
''There is frustration,'' Mr. Campbell added. ''They're tired. They're worn out. They're begging for help.''
The death toll from the hurricane was 29 in the United States, including 18 in South Carolina. The storm also caused 33 deaths in the Caribbean.
 
Hollings Assails Relief Agency
Senator Ernest F. Hollings, a South Carolina Democrat who has been one of the critics of the Federal effort, declined to fly with the President to Charleston, White House officials said. In a speech on the Senate floor Thursday, Mr. Hollings assailed the Federal Emergency Management Agency, which is responsible for coordinating Federal assistance to storm victims.
On the flight here from Washington, Mr. Fitzwater, the White House spokesman, said in response to the criticism, ''Everything the state's asked for, they've gotten.''
Poor visibility forced the President to travel by motorcade from Charleston to Summerville, but the weather cleared by midmorning, allowing a brief helicopter tour of the coast. A scheduled stop to view the devastation at Myrtle Beach was canceled because of the weather.
 
Praise for Storm Victims
At the end of the trip Mr. Bush told a small crowd at the air base, ''You couldn't help but be impressed to hear the people say, 'We're going to bounce back.' ''
Mr. Bush spent slightly more than two hours in South Carolina, squeezing in the visit before attending a previously scheduled ceremony in Annapolis, Md. The Presidnet participated in a retirement ceremony at the United States Naval Academy for Adm. William J. Crowe Jr., who is stepping down Monday as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
Mr. Bush apologized that his visit was so short. ''I commend the people of South Carolina,'' he said, adding that he was also proud of the response of hurricane victims in North Carolina, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.
On Puerto Rico, where local and American Red Cross officials estimate that 50,000 people were left homeless by the hurricane, the Federal Emergency Management Agency said today that it would greatly expand the number of areas on the island eligible for direct aid and loans. Originally, 16 municipal areas were declared disaster areas. Today, after further review by Federal officals, the number was raised to 56.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (95%); 

CITY: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (55%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHARLESTON (SC)

SUBJECT: HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; HURRICANE HUGO; FEDERAL AID (US) HURRICANES (91%); TROPICAL STORMS (91%); DISASTER RELIEF (91%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); WEATHER (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MAYORS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); AIR FORCES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (62%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (62%); 

PERSON: WEINRAUB, BERNARD; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



709 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: In Carolina Fishing Hamlet, Tired Cleanup Amid Doubts

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: McCLELLANVILLE, S.C., Sept. 29

 BODY:
A heavy fog lifted late this morning, and weary townspeople once more began hauling furniture out in the sun to dry and taking up shovels and hoses to remove the muck from their homes.
A week after Hurricane Hugo struck this town with 150-mile-an-hour winds and a storm surge that left homes in 10 feet of water, McClellanville's 500 residents are still without electricity, water or telephones.
Food is available from emergency shelters, but nobody is sure how long that will last. But everybody knows that the damage to this town and the many smaller, poor and mostly black communities around it is going to take months to repair. 
President Bush had intended to stop in McClellanville this morning on his tour of South Carolina, but the fog prevented his helicopter from landing. People here who had heard from visitors and the police that Mr. Bush would visit were eager for him to understand that their lives had been turned upside down and were likely to remain upside down for months.
 
Complaints About Federal Aid
Some homeowners said they were dissatisfied about not yet receiving financial assistance from insurance companies or the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Most insurance adjusters are focusing on the damage to Charleston, 37 miles south of here, and have not yet investigated conditions in tiny McClellanville.
The emergency management agency, which is providing loans, has established five offices in South Carolina, but the two closest are 30 miles away in Georgetown and in Mount Pleasant.
''And even if you go, the lines and confusion, it's hardly worth the trip,'' said Sally Warren, an office manager in Charleston who lives here in a 119-year-old house caked with mud. Ms. Warren's son, Bill, 29 years old, helped her today to lift furniture out of the house and remove the muddy carpets. And he comforted his mother. ''This is one of the few houses hit this bad that's still on its foundation,'' he said. ''You can see the watermark. It's above her head.''
 
The Flow of Support
This fishing village 37 miles northeast of Charleston was probably brutalized more than any other in South Carolina by the hurricane. At least 500 people in this region along the Santee River are homeless and living in shelters in Georgetown and on Highway 17 just south of town.
Red Cross volunteers at the St. James Santee Elementary School served 6,000 hot meals Thursday, said Anne Pilkering, the shelter's director. Food is being distributed to outlying churches and community centers. A volunteer worker said today that there were not enough people helping to do all the work. And in some cases, food is going undistributed.
''The storm did not leave anyone untouched in this area,'' said Ms. Pilkering. ''It affected all the lives of all the people here. It's the worst I've ever seen.''
McClellanville was settled about 1822, after a hurricane destroyed the prosperous rice-growing economy along the Santee. In the decades that followed, McClellanville existed apart from the rest of South Carolina as a fishing port and a summering village full of airy, handsome homes with wide porches. Tall oaks shaded the streets. Breezes washed in from the ocean five miles east across a green marsh-grass plain.
Hurricane Hugo jangled the rhythms of life here, once soft and gentle as the brush of Spanish moss. For homeowners living in town under martial law, there are no warm baths, no home-cooked meals, a scarcity of clean clothes and hours of shoveling mud out of kitchens, living rooms and dens.
People say they have enough to eat. Food has been distributed by the Red Cross and hot meals are available at shelters. Nobody has expressed certainty, though, just how long the kindness of strangers will last.
 
Peril for the Shrimp Harvest
''I'm so thankful so many people are helping,'' said Lyda Graham, a retired bank executive who lives with her brother, R. E. Graham Jr., and his wife, Maszy, in a flooded house on Pinckney Street, the town's main thoroughfare. ''The Marines are helping people take furniture out of the house and cleaning up. People are bring water and food. You just never imagined people could be this kind.''
More than 100 fishermen, some of them from North Carolina, moor their 80-foot shrimp boats along Jeremy Creek, where they supply seafood to two processors based here. Hurricane Hugo left about 40 of the boats on high ground. Some of them smashed against trees and buildings.
Shrimpers said they did not believe that the storm had ruined the shrimp beds in the estuaries where the fry develop in the winter before heading to the open sea in summer and fall; those are the prime harvesting seasons.
But the fishermen say they face financial ruin unless a crane is found to lift the boats into the water in time to lower their nets for this year's shrimp season.
''We need help getting these boats back in the water - we need it now,'' said Nathan Smith, a shrimp boat owner who spent his day by the docks commiserating with friends who had lost their boats. ''These guys in Washington need to know we're in trouble here. We're not looking for handouts. We're looking for a crane!'' The Strangers Who Help Two hundred marines from Camp Lejeune, N.C., are in McClellanville to operate heavy equipment to clear roads, cut trees and perform other cleanup duties. The National Guard also sent troops here to man outposts along the roads for security and provide transportation for equipment and supplies. In addition, people from Myrtle Beach and other towns were here as volunteers today to help townspeople to cope with the mess.
''We weren't as bad off as they were down here,'' said Kathryn Tilghman, an advertising saleswoman from North Myrtle Beach, about 80 miles north of here, during a break from cleaning a home on Pinckney Street. ''Ten of us came down and we'll be back tomorrow. You should see this woman's house. She lost antiques. Her bedding. Pictures. It's an awful lot of damage to cope with.''
Precisely. The mud oozed into every corner of every home in McClellanville. In one night last week, a way of life may have died here.
 
In the Middle of the Cleanup
''This is our family home since 1906,'' said Marian Standifer, a nurse standing in muddied clothes on the porch of her family's muddied home. The front yard was a tangle of dead marsh grass, pieces of piers and other debris washed in by the flood.
Her furnishings, covered in mud, were drying in the yard - a table, cabinets, chairs.
Her family's clothes dried on the railing, bright splashes of color amid the gray and brown.
''We're going to get this cleaned up,'' she said. ''We will.''

GRAPHIC: In McClellanville, S.C., weary residents are still sifting the debris left by Hurricane Hugo. Arch Van DeVender, who came from Maryland to help relatives, rested yesterday amid the rubble of their home. (NYT/Jose R. Lopez)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (51%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); 

CITY: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (51%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (51%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (55%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MCCLELLANVILLE (SC)

SUBJECT: HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; HURRICANE HUGO; BLACKOUTS (ELECTRICAL); TELEPHONES; WATER NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); WEATHER (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (90%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (76%); INSURANCE (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); INSURANCE CLAIMS ADJUSTING (66%); VOLUNTEERS (63%); 

PERSON: SCHNEIDER, KEITH GEORGE WALKER BUSH (70%); 



710 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: How the G.O.P. Can Nail Down the Black Vote

BYLINE: By Roger Stone; Roger Stone, a partner in the public affairs company of Black, Manafort, Stone and Kelly, has worked for Presidents Bush, Reagan and Nixon.

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va.

 BODY:
In 1985, New Jersey's Governor, Thomas H. Kean, won 62 percent of the black vote in his re-election bid. He swept the state's urban areas and crept close to carrying the cities of Newark and Camden. Was this an aberration or the beginning of a trend that will dissipate the Democratic Party's monopoly on black votes? 
Such a shift could have a profound impact on our political system, even putting control of the House within the Republicans' grasp.
Representative James Courter, who hopes to succeed Mr. Kean; the Republican national chairman, Lee Atwater, and even President Bush can learn and profit from Governor Kean's sweeping success.
Republicans have taken the position that spreading the message of economic opportunity is the key to winning urban blacks' votes. While it is true that the rising black middle class has the same concerns as the white middle class - housing, jobs, safe streets, high-quality education -there are threshold issues that must be addressed before the Republican message will find receptive ears in the black community.
Mr. Kean first established himself as an unbending proponent of civil rights. Then he possessed the credibility to seek votes in the cities on a broader scope of issues of concern to the black community.
If the Republican Party's economic strategy is going to have an opportunity to sell in the black community, the party must first reclaim its birthright as the party of Lincoln.
President Bush holds out this real possibility. A more aggressive Civil Rights Division at the Justice Department, a forthright activist stand on discrimination, even a position to provide a legislative remedy to the court decision that would allow individuals to sue institutions for discrimination - all are the pieces of a necessary new G.O.P. commitment to civil rights.
Attorney General Dick Thornburgh, no slouch at winning black votes as Governor of Pennsylvania, possesses the power to help lead this change in direction, and should capitalize on his unique opportunity.
The time is ripe. The emerging black middle class will find little to appeal to them in the Rev. Jesse Jackson's message of economic empowerment: They have already achieved this goal. Black voters will buy the message of expanded opportunity if the Republicans can meet the test of a real commitment to equality.
It took the Democratic Party 100 years to get beyond the racist baggage of the Civil War. In 1932, more blacks voted for Herbert Hoover than for Franklin D. Roosevelt.
Jack Kemp, the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, has said that Republicans were absent in the 60's struggle for civil rights. We must be in the frontline of the second struggle - the struggle for economic empowerment.
We Republicans must shed our racial baggage, including tax breaks for segregated schools and the policy of benign neglect. It may take 100 years to achieve a majority of the black vote nationally, but we must do it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); CIVIL RIGHTS VOTERS & VOTING (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); CITIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); DISCRIMINATION (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (72%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (71%); LITIGATION (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (64%); 

PERSON: STONE, ROGER J JAMES A COURTER (58%); JESSE JACKSON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



711 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Under Attack, Giuliani Calls His Ads 'Fair'

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
Rudolph W. Giuliani yesterday angrily defended his criticism of David N. Dinkins's association with the Rev. Jesse Jackson and said their economic policies and support for unions would bankrupt New York City.
And last night, Mr. Giuliani broadcast his first television commercial of the general election campaign, faulting Mr. Dinkins for failing two decades ago to file income-tax returns for four years, and for filing papers indicating he had filed his returns on time.
Together, they were Mr. Giuliani's harshest attacks yet on his Democratic opponent. Yet the 30-second television spot began, ''Some people will try to tell you this is a negative commercial. But it isn't. Because it's fair, and the facts are true.'' 
David Fishlow, a spokesman for Mr. Dinkins, said this morning that he hadn't seen the commercial, but that the two candidates had met in February to discuss ''certain principles to govern the campaign,'' and at that time, Mr. Giuliani had told Mr. Dinkins the tax returns should not be an issue. ''Presumably now because of what the polls think of his chances of success . . . , he now feels obliged to raise yet again this tired old issue,'' Mr. Fishlow said.
Earlier, Mr. Giuliani, the Republican and Liberal nominee, said his newspaper advertisement picturing Mr. Dinkins with Mr. Jackson was ''perfectly fair.'' He said he was the victim of a double standard of scrutiny that was not applied to Mr. Dinkins, who had called him a Reagan Republican.
 
Some Jewish Groups Criticize Ads
''It has nothing to do with the color of your skin, your religion or ethnicity,'' Mr. Giuliani said at a campaign stop in Manhattan in midday. ''If you subscribe to the philosophy of Jesse Jackson, the people of this city should know about that.''
At the same time, several prominent rabbis and Jewish groups criticized the advertisement in this week's issue of The Algemeiner Journal, the nation's largest Yiddish newspaper, as an effort to frighten Jewish voters uneasy about Mr. Jackson. The ad, a holiday greeting for Rosh ha-Shanah, the Jewish New Year, also pictured Mr. Giuliani with President Bush. Its headline read, ''Let the people of New York choose their own destiny,''
In the commercial, white lettering appears on a black screen, spelling out the words intoned by a solemn narrator. Mr. Giuliani's name is never spoken, and a small picture of him appears only in the last frames, with the notice that the ad was paid for by his campaign.
''For four years, David Dinkins failed to file his tax returns,'' the voice says, as a picture of Internal Revenue Service forms comes on the screen. ''Twelve returns in four years, Federal, state and city. He also filed false papers claiming he did pay taxes. In fact, he didn't. Until he was caught. Haven't we had enough city officials who wait until they get caught to obey the law? Think about it. Would you be a candidate for mayor if you didn't pay your taxes?''
 
Dinkins Blamed His Inattention
A review by The New York Times this year of Mr. Dinkins's tax history showed that while he sought and received extensions for filing returns, those documents sometimes erroneously stated that he had filed returns on time the previous year, or significantly understated the total amount of taxes he owed.
He has repeatedly said the failure was the result of inattention, not evasion. He attributed the erroneous information to a filing made by his accountant that he had not reviewed. He disclosed the failure to file when investigators asked routine questions about his taxes as he was about to be named deputy mayor in 1973. He withdrew from consideration and paid the taxes with penalties and interest.
Earlier yesterday, surrounded by television cameras, Mr. Giuliani lashed out at critics of the newspaper ad. He said that Mr. Dinkins had repeatedly attacked him as a ''Reagan Republican,'' and that he was responding in kind.
''David Dinkins himself says that he's proud to be a Jesse Jackson Democrat, so how could it possibly be in bad taste?'' Mr. Giuliani said of the ad. ''And was it in bad taste when David Dinkins for four or five months went around the city talking about 'Reagan Republican' and 'reactionary?'
 
'Double Standard' Is Charged
''And where the heck was the American Jewish Committee when that was being done?'' he asked, referring to a group that had criticized the advertisement. ''Or where were they when I was being tainted with Nazism, racism and lots of other charges? They were nowhere. I say there's a double standard.''
Mr. Giuliani said: ''Jesse Jackson stands for views and policies, that's what it's all about, that some people may think - I do - are antithetical with the good of New York City.''
''Unless you want to say you cannot campaign in this election, I've got to be able to raise issues regarding policies and programs,'' he added.
Mr. Fishlow responded: ''If Rudy Giuliani wanted to discuss the issues in an ad, he should have discussed the issues in an ad.
 
Dinkins: Jackson Is Not Running
''My objection to those ads is there are no issues in them,'' he said. ''They just say David is a friend of Jesse Jackson's. The fact is, they are different. They agree on some things and disagree on others. But Jesse Jackson is not running for the mayor of New York, David Dinkins is.''
Mr. Jackson's office in Washington said he was traveling on a hurricane-relief mission in Puerto Rico and unavailable for comment yesterday.
Mr. Giuliani said Mr. Jackson's ''policies and programs'' would ''bankrupt this city.'' Later, asked if Mr. Dinkins's policies would bankrupt the city, he replied: ''Absolutely. I think David Dinkins's policies, to the extent there are economic policies, would mean fiscal disaster for New York City and I think a lot of other people think that.''
Mr. Fishlow replied that Mr. Dinkins had voted on the budget for four years as a member of the Board of Estimate and ''has a record on which the public can judge his capacity to handle city government, Giuliani's opinion to the contrary notwithstanding.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of Rudoph W. Giuliani in Manhattan having lunch at Fountain House, where he spoke about expanding programs for the mentally disabled (NYT/Ruby Washington) (pg. 27)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; ADVERTISING; INCOME TAXES; ELECTION ISSUES MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INCOME TAX (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (86%); ROSH HASHANAH (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); TAX AUTHORITIES (71%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (70%); JEWISH HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (69%); RELIGION (69%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (60%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; DINKINS, DAVID N (BORO PRES); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W; JACKSON, JESSE L (REV) RUDY GIULIANI (92%); JESSE JACKSON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 



712 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST: SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1989

 BODY:

 
 
The Economy
 Senate Democrats are searching for a less sweeping cut in the capital gains tax than the one approved Thursday by the House of Representatives. The party's leaders remain strongly opposed to any tax break on capital gains, one of the most highly partisan issues of the year, but apparently have concluded that they do not have the votes to block a reduction. [Page 1.] The Government's index of leading economic indicators rose three-tenths of 1 percent in August. The second consecutive monthly gain, it suggests modest growth ahead without recession. [32.] Prices that farmers received for raw products dropped seven-tenths of a percent from August to September, the Agriculture Department reported. Lower prices for cattle, hogs and potatoes were responsible for most of the decrease. [33.] 
 
 
 
Markets
 The dollar fell again, putting it below the ceilings believed set for it by the leading industrial nations against both the yen and the mark. The dollar is now at its lowest since July. Since last Saturday, when the seven top industrial nations issued a communique urging a lower dollar, the dollar has fallen 4.2 percent against the mark and 4.8 percent against the yen. [31.] American companies seeking to borrow money found Wall Street a fertile environment in the third quarter because of declining interest rates, so long as the companies were investment grade. But the quarter was not particularly good for investment banks, because of a declining appetite for new issues of common stock and junk bonds, two normally lucrative areas. [31.] Stocks ended mixed. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 2.09 points, to 2,692.82, but advances on the Big Board led declines. For the third quarter, the Dow was up 10.4 percent, the best performance since it rose 21.6 percent in the first quarter of 1987. [34.] Many banks borrowed excess reserves from other banks and institutions to show lower liabilities on their third-quarter statements, sending the Federal funds rate well above 9 percent briefly. Prices of Treasury securities slipped early in the day, dealers said, but were little changed by the end. [34.] Wheat futures prices reached three-month highs on the Chicago Board of Trade. [39.]
 
 
 
Companies
 The group that has taken over Northwest Airlines agreed to reduce the equity held by KLM, the Dutch airline, and to restrict KLM's power on Northwest's board. The decision came in response to pressure from the Bush Administration. In exchange, the Transportation Department dropped its objections to the deal. [31.] Control Data has set up a committee to select a chief executive to succeed, Robert M. Price, who will retain the chairmanship of the struggling company. [31.] Japanese financial institutions are losing top merger specialists to the American institutions they had looked to as role models. The head of mergers at Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank, is quitting to join Goldman, Sachs & Company, investment bankers said, while his counterpart at Sumitomo Bank is job hunting in America. [31.] Campeau's American retail units said they should be able to meet their needs through the end of the year. Federated Department Stores and Allied Stores said they were paying for merchandise with cash from operations and borrowed money. [33.] Spelling Entertainment Inc. said it might put itself up for sale. The television production and distribution company is responsible for such hit series as ''Dynasty'' and ''Love Boat.'' [33.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
 Investors have visions of capital gains windfalls dancing in their heads. But before selling any assets in the expectation of benefiting from a capital gains tax cut, investors are well advised to consider the economics of holding versus selling. Your Money. [32.] I.B.M. researchers have won patent approval for superconductor materials. But the patent's reach remains unclear, partly because researchers at the University of Arkansas maintain they discovered the fundamental composition. Patents. [32.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

TITLE: BUSINESS DIGEST (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (81%); GS (NYSE) (56%); DAL (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (81%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (81%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (81%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (52%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CURRENCIES (88%); INVESTMENT BANKING (86%); MERGERS (86%); TAX RELIEF (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); COMMON STOCK (77%); BONDS (77%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (76%); FUTURES (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); GRAIN MARKETS (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (75%); COMMODITIES TRADING (75%); WHEAT MARKETS (75%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (75%); AGRICULTURE (75%); US DOLLAR (75%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (75%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (74%); BOND MARKETS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); GERMAN MARK (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); INTEREST RATES (65%); AIRLINES (64%); TREASURY SECURITIES (64%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (61%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%); 



713 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1833 words

HEADLINE: The Setback for Advanced TV

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
Proponents of a national effort to make American companies competitive in future television manufacturing are scrambling to regain lost momentum after a decision by the Commerce Department to abandon its plans for a focused initiative on HDTV, as the new technology is called.
But lack of support from the Bush Administration and the electronics industry's own uncertainty over the importance of high-definition television make it increasingly unlikely that the nation will mount a Government-industry program in that area, numerous Government and industry officials say.
The best that can be hoped for now, some say, are broader efforts to improve the nation's overall technological competitiveness. Some proponents of HDTV fear that such generic efforts will be too diffuse to allow American companies to re-enter the television business, which they largely abandoned to Japanese and European companies.
 
Shift by Mosbacher
Commerce Secretary Robert A. Mosbacher said recently that he was dropping his plan to develop a Government-industry initiative in high-definition television in favor of a broader policy. 
''What we've learned in the last six months is that there are a lot of other technologies that are equally important,'' said Wayne Berman, counselor to Mr. Mosbacher. A new policy, he said, would not identify a particular industry for Government assistance but would stress efforts like tax credits for research and development and relaxation of antitrust rules to allow companies to form consortiums that could make all American industries more competitive.
Proponents of a high-definition television strategy acknowledge that it is part of a broader issue but fear that a generic approach would be too weak to make much of a difference. They also suspect that some of the calls for a broader effort are really excuses for doing nothing at all. ''They're just saying it is a cop-out so they don't have to confront the HDTV issue specifically,'' said one Congressional staff member.
Even before Mr. Mosbacher's change of heart, the HDTV bandwagon, which once seemed virtually unstoppable, had been losing steam, the victim of attacks from two sides. Economic conservatives inside and outside the Administration had been opposing any Government effort to choose specific industries to assist. Michael J. Boskin, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, and Richard G. Darman, head of the Office of Management and Budget, are said to be leaders of this camp.
 
Too Narrow a Target
Others have been favoring some intervention but have said that high-definition television is either the wrong target or too narrow a target. Support for this view is likely to come from the National Advisory Committee on Semiconductors, a group of Government and industry leaders formed by last year's trade law.
The committee is expected to deliver a report to the President in November that will recommend Government action to help American companies enter consumer electronics ''as soon as possible and as broadly as possible,'' said Ian Ross, chairman of the committee and president of AT&T Bell Laboratories.
High-definition television is just one such product, and might not be the most desirable one to focus on because it is still years away, he said.
''I suspect you will have a hard time finding HDTV mentioned in the report as anything except a specific example,'' said Fred Horne, vice president for strategic development at the National Semiconductor Corporation, who is working on the report.
 
Proponents Not Giving Up
Despite the recent setbacks, proponents of an HDTV effort are not giving up. Recently, Mel Levine, Democrat of California, and Don Ritter, Republican of Pennsylvania, leading House proponents of a national effort in high-definition television, urged Mr. Mosbacher in a letter not to abandon his commitment to a policy backing the technology.
Edward J. Markey, the Massachusetts Democrat who is chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee's Subcommittee on Telecommunications and Finance, hopes to introduce a bill soon aimed at high-definition television as well as some other technologies like supercomputers, a spokesman for Mr. Markey said. He said it would probably include a mixture of broad steps like tax credits and antitrust relaxations, as well as aid to particular technologies.
Still, Congressional staff members say that a huge program for high-definition television, like the $1.3 billion Government effort recommended earlier this year by the American Electronics Association, an industry trade group, is all but dead, and any effort now will at least have to be couched in broader terms. The best that supporters can hope for in the short run is increased financing from the Defense Department.
 
Movie-Theater Clarity
High-definition television is a system that would display pictures with movie-theater clarity. Japan is already planning to begin high-definition broadcasts next year, and Europe is working on its own system.
Many industry and Government officials - including the American Electronics Association and companies like Zenith and A.T.&T., as well as, until recently, the Commerce Department - have been arguing that the United States needs to be competitive in the new television. Not only would advanced television prove to be a huge market, providing jobs and lowering the trade deficit, they say, but the technology used in such systems would also benefit industries like computers and semiconductors.
Part of the reason for this is that economies of scale in producing mass-market consumer products lower the costs for other products. Japan's consumer electronics industry has been an important market for its semiconductor companies, a market not easily available to American chip producers, they say.
Another factor is that technologies used in one product can be used in others, a phenomenon some industry officials call economies of scope.
High-definition television, industry executives say, would involve development of two key technologies: large, flat screens, and electronic chips for manipulating and displaying images quickly. Both would also have uses in areas like medical imaging and computer graphics.
 
Replacing All Sets
Advanced television represents a sharp change in technology, one that would eventually require all sets to be replaced. That would make it easier for newcomers - meaning the United States in the Japanese- and European-dominated television market -to enter a business. Otherwise, ''it's like saying, 'Let's go into an existing business and try to shove the existing competitors out,' '' said Pat Hill Hubbard, a vice president of the American Electronics Association. ''That is not a prudent business decision.''
Proponents of an HDTV effort said they never viewed the technology as a cure-all, only as a starting point for America's re-entry into consumer electronics.
If that was the intention, though, it got lost along the way. In Government and industry, high-definition television became almost the sole focus of attention, the key to restoring American competitiveness.
Such a focus was misguided, critics say. HDTV has never been the important thing, said Michael Borrus, deputy director of the Berkeley Roundtable on the International Economy at the University of California. ''High-volume high technology is the issue.''
 
High-Volume Products
He said high-volume products that use semiconductors and can drive other technologies include compact disk players, videocassette recorders, cameras, cellular telephones, facsimile machines, copiers and computer printers.
In August, the Congressional Budget Office issued a report that sharply questioned how important HDTV alone would be for American competitiveness. It pointed out that using the American Electronics Association's own rosy projections for development of the technology, sales would total only about $30 billion in 2010. That would be a small part of the total electronics equipment market, which even today is $500 billion.
By the trade association's own projections, the value of semiconductors used in American-made high-definition sets would be less than 1 percent of total world semiconductor sales, far too small for the technology to mean life or death for the United States chip industry.
''That's like saying that Ferrari or Porsche demand drives the tire market,'' said Philip Webre, principal analyst at the Congressional Budget Office.
 
Chip Demand Is Irrelevant
Mr. Webre, the main author of the report, said the often-made argument that high-definition sets use a lot of memory chips, and are therefore important to the semiconductor industry, was almost irrelevant. The main users of memory chips have been computers, an industry led by American companies. But that has not stopped the Japanese from dominating the memory-chip market. The presence of American television manufacturers will not necessarily change that, he said.
The HDTV lobbying effort suffered from other problems as well. Some people argued that the technology itself would soon be outmoded and that the nation should concentrate on what could be yet the next generation of technology - digital television delivered by optical fibers.
Another problem was that high-definition television had the image of being a trivial use of technology, one whose main advantage would be to allow viewers to see the blades of grass more clearly when they watch a football game.
Another factor, some Congressional staff members say, is that the industry never really presented a clear idea of what it wanted to do. The American Electronics Association, many people say, also erred in asking too quickly for more than $1 billion in Government aid. That alienated Mr. Mosbacher, who complained that the industry wanted to rely too much on ''Uncle Sugar.''
 
Hoping for More Money
The electronics group hopes that the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency will get more money to finance work in high-resolution displays and related technology. The agency, which began a program on HDTV that is spending $10 million a year, sees a need for the technology both for military uses like radar screens and for supporting the American electronics industry, on which it relies.
Backers of high-definition television hope to increase the amount to $100 million a year, but that does not appear likely. So far in the appropriations process for next year, the House has allocated $50 million and the Senate only $10 million.
More support could come from the National Institute for Standards and Technology, formerly the National Bureau of Standards. The 1988 trade law authorized the agency to support advanced technology development, but no money has been appropriated for this purpose. Senator Ernest F. Hollings, Democrat of South Carolina, has introduced a bill to give that program money, but the initial amount would be only $10 million, to be spread among several technologies.

GRAPHIC: Photos of Commerce Secretary Robert A. Mosbacher (NYT/Jose R. Lopez); Representative Edward J. Markey (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INDUSTRIES LIFE INSURANCE CO (58%); AMERICAN INDUSTRIES INC (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE, DEPARTMENT OF

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; HIGH-DEFINITION TELEVISION (HDTV) HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (92%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TRADE REGULATORY ACTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); TAX LAW (65%); BUDGETS (65%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) EDWARD J MARKEY (56%); 



714 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Falls On Selling By Allies

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
After a week of relentless effort to lower the value of the dollar, the United States and its economic allies succeeded yesterday in forcing the currency below key levels against the West German mark and the Japanese yen.
For the first time since early August, the dollar stood below the ceilings believed set for it by the leading industrial nations against both the mark and the yen.
The dollar had fallen below its 1.90 ceiling against the mark earlier in the week but it took five days to get it to close below the 140-yen ceiling. The dollar dropped more than seven pfennigs, or 4.2 percent, against the mark since Sept. 22 and more than seven yen, or 4.8 percent, against the Japanese currency. 
 
Started With Communique
The coordinated dollar selling was started with a communique last Saturday from the Group of Seven - the United States, Japan, West Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada -saying the dollar was too high. On Monday, the first day of trading after the communique, the seven central banks began immediately to support their intentions.
The dollar selling has revived respect for coordination, which has aimed at maintaining currency stability for the last two years but was overrun by a rising dollar this summer. And it has knocked much of the bullish feeling out of the market for now.
''Every other day this week the dollar has been lower,'' said Frank Watson, vice president of the Swiss Bank Corporation. ''So nobody is going to rush in and buy dollars. They want to see the decline stop first.''
 
Wave of Intervention
In late trading yesterday, after another wave of intervention by the Fed and other central banks, the dollar was at 1.8710 marks, down from 1.8818 Thursday and 1.9530 a week earlier. Against the yen, the dollar was 139.00, down from 140.50 Thursday and 146.05 a week earlier. The dollar also fell against other major currencies, including the British pound and the French franc.
But much of the decline this week, traders said, is based in part on the assumption that the United Sates, Japan and West Germany will soon back up the dollar selling by changing interest rates. Traders could be disappointed next week when the policy-setting committees of the Federal Reserve and the West German Bundesbank meet to review interest rates. Without the changes, the dollar could move higher again unless the huge intervention continues.
Many analysts expect the Bundesbank to raise rates on Thursday to help support the German currency, But the Japanese are not expected to move their rates higher. And the Federal Reserve is not expected to ease rates here, which would lower the value of the dollar by decreasing the attractiveness of dollar-denominated investments.
John Lipsky, director of international bond trading at Salomon Brothers in London, said the Group of Seven communique ''was an announcement that the G-7 was going to do strategic bombing and the traders naturally ran for cover.''
The bond trader added, ''But it is also inevitable that the all-clear will sound and unless there is a clear shift in attitude, the traders will come back and test again,'' trying to push the dollar higher.
 
Rate Expectations
He said he believes that many traders are expecting interest rate changes, especially from the West Germans on Thursday. So if there is not one, the reaction would be to push the dollar higher and raise some doubts about the commitment of Group of Seven to coordination on interest rates.
Mr. Watson expects the West Germans to raise rates, but does not think the Fed or the Japanese will act. But he said that continued intervention could hold the dollar down because he believes the underlying strength is weaker than some other traders contend.
The Saturday communique said the rise of the dollar this summer was ''inconsistent with longer-run economic fundamentals'' and that a continued rise ''could adversely affect prospects for the world economy.''
On Sunday, bankers who were in Washington for the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank were divided over how strong the communique was. But on Monday, when the Federal Reserve and the Bank of Canada were reported selling dollars in the Tokyo market the dollar fell quickly and was down more than five pfennings and almost four yen for the day.
 
Up to $5 Billion
Some traders have estimated that the central banks may have sold as much as $5 billion this week to push the dollar down. But just as important was the intervention outside of home markets, a technique that is rarely used because it means keeping staff members on duty all night. When that is done, it sends an extra signal of commitment that wakes up the market.
In trading yesterday, the Fed and the Bank of Canada joined the Bank of Japan in selling dollars in Tokyo and the Bundesbank said it sold dollars in Asia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (91%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; WEST GERMANY; JAPAN

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (93%); US DOLLAR (91%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); BRITISH POUND (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (68%); BOND MARKETS (67%); BONDS (67%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN



715 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: Control Data Searching for A New Chief

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
The Control Data Corporation's chairman and chief executive, Robert M. Price, said yesterday that the company's board had established a committee to select his successor as chief executive - a position he plans to give up in the next three months.
The Minneapolis-based company, which has struggled financially during the 1980's, withdrew from the supercomputer business earlier this year and declared a $497.3 million loss for the second quarter. Control Data was once a leading maker of mainframe computers, but Mr. Price had recently said that he would shift the company from hardware manufacturing to the information services business. 
Control Data had large losses in 1985 and 1986 and only small profits in 1987 and 1988. The company said yesterday that it expected to lose money in 1989.
 
Will Remain as Chairman
Mr. Price, who is 59 years old, said that he did not intend to give up the chairmanship, but he felt that he had already accomplished much of the turnabout. Taking note of criticism that has been leveled at the company's management, he said that replacing himself as chief executive officer would remove speculation and rumor.
''The company is positioned exactly where I set out four years ago to position it,'' he said. ''I think that at this point the company could benefit from a change of leadership. I don't think it would be bad if I stayed on; it's just that I think it would be better if I didn't.''
In addition to closing its ETA supercomputer subsidiary earlier this year, Mr. Price said yesterday that Control Data was completing the $450 million sale of its Imprimis Technology disk drive subsidiary to Seagate Technology Inc., a Scotts Valley, Calif., disk drive maker.
Much of Control Data's success with Imprimis has been credited to Larry Perlman, the subsidiary's president and chief operating officer, who is widely viewed as Mr. Price's likely successor.
 
Process Questioned
Several analysts said they were surprised that Mr. Perlman had not been immediately appointed chief executive and questioned the company's strategy of setting up a public search.
Company sources said that although Mr. Perlman was the leading candidate for the chief executive job, Mr. Price did not want it to appear as if he were single-handedly choosing a successor. Mr. Price said that the search committee would consider outside candidates, as well as Mr. Perlman.
Control Data also said yesterday that it had elected Charles Marshall to its board. Mr. Marshall was vice chairman of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company from 1985 until his retirement earlier this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ARB (NYSE) (93%); STX (NASDAQ) (84%); T (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (96%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (96%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (93%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (93%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (93%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (50%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (73%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: CERIDIAN CORP (96%); ARBITRON INC (93%); SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY PLC (84%); AT&T INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONTROL DATA CORP

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS EXECUTIVES (91%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MFG (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); COMPUTER MAKERS (76%); SUPERCOMPUTERS (71%); 

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN; PRICE, ROBERT M



716 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Top-Grade Issues Gain on Wall St.

BYLINE: By KURT EICHENWALD

 BODY:
Declining interest rates made Wall Street a fertile environment in the third quarter for American companies seeking to borrow, so long as their bonds were investment grade.
But the quarter was not particularly good for investment banks, as a declining appetite for new issues of common stock and the troubles of the high-yield ''junk bond'' market chopped two of the businesses where Wall Street earns much of its fees.
A total of $71.1 billion in domestic securities was issued in the quarter ended yesterday, according to the Securities Data Company. That was up 10 percent from $64.7 billion in the third quarter of 1988. 
 
Effect of 'Junk Bond' Troubles
In some ways, the increase in corporate debt issuance reflected the difficulties of the ''junk bond'' market, which were precipitated by the financial troubles of the Campeau Corporation, a large junk bond issuer, underwriters said. As the view spread that outside raiders would have more difficulty starting takeover bids because of the trouble in the junk bond market, the appetite among investors for investment-grade debt increased, they said.
''As the takeover environment has changed, the investors out there have perceived less risk in buying corporate bonds,'' said Roger M. Vasey, senior vice president at Merrill Lynch Capital Markets. ''It was an excellent quarter for us in a number of product areas.'' Buyers of high-grade corporate bonds have feared that takeovers could convert companies' debt from investment grade to speculative, causing bond prices to tumble.
Industrial and banking companies led the way in borrowing. Many of the industrial concerns were attracted by the decline of interest rates, and they issued bonds to replace high levels of commercial paper. The banking industry, faced with new international capital requirements, issued debt in an effort to conform to the rules, the underwriters said.
 
An 11.6% Rise in Bond Issues
Reflecting the demand in the debt market, a total of more than $61.6 billion in bonds was issued in the third quarter, up 11.6 percent from $55.2 billion in the third quarter of last year, according to Securities Data.
But despite record performance in the Dow Jones industrial average, corporations continued to shy away from issuing common stock, as they have since the market crash in October 1987. Equity issues dropped 20.1 percent in the quarter: companies issued $6.1 billion in common stock, compared with $7.7 billion in the third quarter last year.
Also, as uncertainty spread through the junk bond market, issues began to drop off. Only $5.3 billion in junk debt was issued in the third quarter, down 24.2 percent from $7 billion in the period in 1988. But for the first nine months, the volume of $20.2 billion in junk underwritings rose 4.5 percent from a year earlier.
 
Total Underwritings Up 1.9%
For the first nine months of the year, underwritings of all domestic securities totaled $214.5 billion, up 1.9 percent, from $210.4 billion in the period of 1988. Debt issues rose, but the volume of new common stock issues fell 37.5 percent to a five-year low of $15 billion, from $24 billion.
For the first nine months, Merrill Lynch Capital Markets ranked as the leading underwriter of domestic issues, being the lead manager of $35.5 billion in securities, or 16.5 percent of the total market. But for the third quarter, Goldman, Sachs & Company, which ranked second for the year to date, finished first, with $11.9 billion in underwritings, or 16.7 percent of the market. Merrill was second, with $10.3 billion.
For the first nine months of 1989, Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.'s legal problems may have cut into its dominance of the junk bond market. Although it remained the leading underwriter, its market share fell to 42.7 percent, from 49 percent a year earlier. In the third quarter, its market share fell to 33.1 percent, as it underwrote $1.7 billion in new junk issues. Still, that was more than twice the $775 million underwritten by Salomon Brothers Inc., which ranked second.
 
Leader in Common Stock Issues
In common stock issues, Goldman, Sachs was the leading underwriter for both the quarter and the first nine months.
Fees for the underwriters came to $2.2 billion in the first nine months, Securities Data said, down 26.7 percent from $3 billion a year earlier. In the quarter, the total fell 18.6 percent, to $768 million, from $943 million a year earlier.
Merrill ranked first in fees for both the quarter and the nine months, with $132 million in the quarter and $332 million for the year. Drexel was second for the nine months, with fees of $314 million, but fell to seventh in the quarter, with $53 million, a third of the fees it had in the corresponding quarter of 1988. Securities Data said $50 million of Drexel's fees came from junk bonds.

GRAPHIC: Chart of the leadng managing underwriters of corporate securities, ranked by dollar amount raised on new issues sold in the United States for the three quarters ended Sept. 29, with full credit given to the lead manager. It includs the dollar amount raised , issues, percent of market and rank one year ago. (Source: Securities Data Company)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (90%); MER (NYSE) (90%); 8675 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); SECURITIES DATA CO INC (83%); CAMPEAU CORP (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WALL STREET (NYC)

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; INTEREST (MONEY); CORPORATIONS HIGH YIELD BONDS (92%); BONDS (92%); TAKEOVERS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); NEW ISSUES (90%); CORPORATE BONDS (90%); COMMON STOCK (89%); BOND ISSUES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); DEBT FINANCING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (73%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (73%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); 

PERSON: EICHENWALD, KURT



717 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Your Money;
Gains-Tax Sales: Caution Advised

BYLINE: By Jan M. Rosen

 BODY:
Thanks to the House of Representatives, investors across the country have visions of capital gains windfalls dancing in their heads. But before selling any assets in the expectation that gains will be subject to a more favorable tax treatment than under the Tax Reform Act of 1986, which taxes them as ordinary income, investors are well advised to consider the economics of holding versus selling.
The House plan to cut the tax on long-term capital gains by 30 percent ''has widespread ramifications that require careful study before undertaking any action to take advantage of the break,'' said Sidney Kess, a tax lawyer who recently examined the subject at a symposium for the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
The first caveat, obviously, is that there will be no cut until the House has finished action on the budget bill and it has gone to the Senate and through a conference committee, where changes could be made. Nevertheless, most tax experts say there is momentum for a cut. So, it is prudent for those who hold appreciated assets to consider what action they should take if a cut is enacted. Mr. Kess passed along several observations from the practitioners at the institute's conference. 
Mr. Kess concludes a cut would be ''good for those who, for good and sufficient investment reasons, are ready to sell and for those who seek liquidity at a price.'' But before selling for the tax cut alone, he advises investors ''to sit down with a sharp pencil'' and figure out if they will really be better off.
If the tax break causes a wave of selling in the stock market, then it would not make sense to join in to qualify for the tax break, he said. Sellers in the 28 percent bracket would still pay 19.6 percent in Federal taxes, plus state and local taxes and transaction charges. Consequently, they might have only 75 percent of their holdings to reinvest. Longer term, the practitioners saw a capital gains tax cut as benefiting equities and negative for fixed-income securities.
Older people concerned with leaving a solid estate for their children or other beneficiaries may not have any advantage from the cut.
''Anyone along in years before selling assets with high appreciation will want to consider that wonderful provision of the income-tax code that still provides for a step-up at death and wipes out all tax liability for appreciation up to that time,'' Mr. Kess said. Of course, large estates are subject to estate taxes.
Collectibles, works of art, stamps and coins would all be excluded from the benefits of the tax cut, as well as from the House plan's later benefits of adjustment for inflation. And over time that exclusion could hurt these markets, the practitioners said. So it might make sense to sell some holdings ''while the unloading is good,'' Mr. Kess said.
Real estate is more complicated, said Bertil Westlin, co-editor with Mr. Kess of the Commerce Clearing House Financial and Estate Planning Reporter. The market is depressed in some areas, and the assets released by savings and loan failures has exacerbated the situation. So, while real estate would be a beneficiary of the tax cuts, market conditions can well militate in favor of holding.
Another consideration in the case of investment real estate is depreciation. The entire amount of depreciation deductions taken on some properties could be recaptured as ordinary income if they are sold now. A residence and raw land will not be subject to the recapture provisions. But with any real estate, there are commissions and legal fees.
Mr. Westlin pointed out one situation in which the new law could be particularly advantageous: gifts of appreciated property to children over age 13 who are in the 15 percent income tax bracket. The child could sell the assets, pay tax at a 10.5 percent rate and use the balance to pay college costs.
Family-owned businesses could also be affected if the rate is lowered. The House proposal would grant preferential treatment to assets sold between Sept. 14, 1989, and Dec. 31, 1991. Therefore, Mr. Westlin said, ''if an individual is a party to a buy-sell agreement that is triggered, among other events, by retirement, he or she might want to consider moving up the date of retirement to take advantage of the cut in capital gains.''
Timber owners and farmers might also want to consider accelerating transactions.
If the House version passes, investors have until 1991 to get the lower rate, Mr. Kess noted, ''so you don't have to act this year.'' They should consider their overall financial and tax situations and determine which year would be best. Assets must be held at least a year to qualify for the 30 percent exclusion.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (70%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available TAXES & TAXATION (93%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX CONSULTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); ESTATE PLANNING (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); BUDGETS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TAX REFORM (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%); LAWYERS (55%); ACCOUNTING (54%); 



718 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Leading Indicators Post 2d Consecutive Increase

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 29

 BODY:
A Government index used to forecast the nation's economic course rose three-tenths of 1 percent in August, the second consecutive monthly gain, the Commerce Department said today.
The increase in the index of leading indicators suggests modest growth ahead and no immediate recession.
The rise, which follows trendless ups and downs over the earlier months of this year, was in line with estimates and had little perceptible effect on financial markets.
''It's telling us there is no recession within view, and no great surge of economic activity ahead either,'' said Cynthia Latta, senior financial economist at DRI/McGraw Hill in Lexington, Mass. 
 
'Doing Relatively Well'
''The manufacturing economy is sluggish, but the rest of the economy is doing relatively well,'' said Tony Villamil, the Commerce Department's chief economist, who was senior vice president and chief economist with the Southeast Banking Corporation in Miami until April.
In pointing to further expansion, the report also signaled little likelihood of any Federal Reserve moves to lower interest rates, despite international efforts to push the dollar lower. The relatively high interest rates in the United States, which have been attractive to foreign investors, have been among the factors that raised the dollar in the last few months.
After a meeting of the finance ministers of the seven leading industrial powers here last weekend, however, the central banks have been intervening heavily in the currency markets to check the dollar's rise, which some economists fear could hurt future exports and growth. 5 of 11 Statistics Advance The composite index of leading indicators measures 11 sets of business statistics that generally point to directions of future business activity. Five of these showed positive movements that led to the August rise.
These were gains in manufacturers' new orders for consumer goods, by far the biggest influence; higher stock prices; higher money supply figures; lower initial unemployment claims, and increased business permits.
On the negative side were drops in an index measuring consumer confidence; lower prices for sensitive materials like scrap iron or lumber; declining unfilled orders for manufacturers; reduced plant and equipment spending; faster deliveries from suppliers, suggesting sluggish demand, and a shorter workweek.
The three-tenths of 1 percent rise in August followed an one-tenth of 1 percent gain in July. But the index had fallen one-tenth of 1 percent in June. Over the eight months of this year it has declined four times and risen four times. 2 Straight Gains July and August were the first two months that the indicator has been up consecutively since December and January.
Past performance has shown that the indicator has been far from infallible. A commonly held notion says three straight declines suggest that a recession is on the horizon, but five straight declines were recorded around the stock market crash in October 1987. These never interrupted a business expansion that will be seven years old in November, the longest peacetime growth in history.
''With the rate of inflation falling faster than the growth in demand for goods and services, the real gross national product should rise throughout 1990,'' said Lawrence A. Hunter, deputy chief economist at the United States Chamber of Commerce.
 
Economic Growth Predictions
Last July, the Bush Administration projected economic growth next year at 2.6 percent, against 2.7 percent expected this year. In 1987, the economy expanded by 3.4 percent. Given labor and productivity growth, economists believe the economy has a potential for noninflationary growth of around 3 percent.
The various changes in August left the index at 144.4 percent of its 1982 average of 100. So far this year, the index has risen at an annual rate of 3.8 percent, compared with an increase of 4.5 percent for all of 1988.
Despite the message of the Government's chief economic forecasting gauge, some economists, citing rising consumer installment debt and pressure on profits and cash flow of corporations, say they still foresee a recession next year.
David B. Bostian, president of Bostian Research Associates of New York, said his firm's macroeconomic index, which has 25 components against the 11 in the Commerce index, is pointing to a recession ''by January or February.''

GRAPHIC: Graph of leading economic indicators, March 1988-August 1989 (Source: Commerce Dept.); chart of component analysis of leading economic indicators (Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: SOUTHEAST BANKING CORP (69%); DRI/MCGRAW-HILL (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (92%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available ECONOMIC INDICATORS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); STATISTICS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%); 



719 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: Prices Paid To Farmers Decline 0.7%

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 29

 BODY:
Prices farmers received for raw products dropped seven-tenths of a percent from August to September, leaving the monthly average also seventh-tenths of a percent below the level a year earlier, the Agriculture Department said today.
Lower prices for cattle, hogs and potatoes were responsible for most of the decrease from the August average, dropping the ''prices received'' index to an 11-month low, the department's Agricultural Statistics Board said.
Higher prices for oranges, milk, lettuce and applies partly offset the decline for the other commodities in the month. 
''Compared with a year earlier, lower prices for soybeans, corn, tomatoes and oats more than offset higher prices for milk, cotton, potatoes and eggs,'' the report said.
Milk prices gained for the fourth consecutive month, winding up in September at the highest level since February 1985.
''Feed grain prices were mixed, but corn, the major component of this index, increased three cents from August,'' the report said. ''An 18-cent decrease in the price of soybeans moved the oil-bearing crop index lower.''
No change was reported in the prices farmers pay to meet expenses. Those are adjusted every three months, and the next will be reported in October. The July ''prices paid'' index was up six-tenths of 1 percent from April and 3.5 percent from July 1988.
Department economists say net cash income of farmers - gross cash income minus cash expenses - is expected to decline 5 percent to 13 percent from last year's record of $59.9 billion.
The 1988 drought forced commodity prices up, and many producers were able to sell harvests at the higher prices. Many farmers also had grain stored from previous crops.
Economists say the cash income decline this year is expected to stem from farmers' larger cash expenses as they increase plantings, and also because of lower Federal subsidies.
Consumer food prices are forecast by the department to rise an average of 5 percent to 7 percent this year, after rising 4.1 percent in 1988.
Overall crop prices rose eight-tenths of 1 percent from August but averaged 5.9 percent less than in September 1988.

GRAPHIC: Farm prices graph, April 1988-Sept. 1989 (Source: Agriculture Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGRICULTURE, DEPARTMENT OF (US)

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; FARMERS; PRICES AGRICULTURAL PRICES (96%); MILK (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); OATS MARKETS (79%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (79%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (79%); CORN MARKETS (79%); GRAIN FARMING (78%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (77%); GRAIN MARKETS (76%); COTTON MARKETS (75%); STATISTICS (73%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (72%); MEALS & FEEDS MARKETS (70%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%); 



720 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Mixed on Decline in Dollar

BYLINE: By PHILLIP H. WIGGINS

 BODY:
Stocks ended mixed yesterday, restrained by a softer dollar.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 2.09 points, to 2,692.82, after being up more than 15 points at 1 P.M. Advances on the New York Stock Exchange, however, topped declines by 885 to 565. For the week, the Dow, which see-sawed throughout the five days, rose 11.21 points. 
For the third quarter the Dow was up 10.4 percent, the best performance since it rose 21.6 percent in the first quarter of 1987.
In the broader market, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index edged up 0.55, to 349.15, while the New York Stock Exchange composite index added 0.42, to 193.97.
 
'Window Dressing' Support
''The declining dollar currently is putting modest pressure on interest rates,'' said Rao Chalasani, chief investment strategist at Prescott, Ball & Turben Inc. in Cleveland. ''Once the U.S. currency stabilizes, the stock market might make further gains.'' He added that disappointing earnings would be another potential hurdle for equities in the next few weeks.
''Window dressing,'' traders said, provided a modicum of support for the Dow, as institutions continued to fatten their portfolios at the end of the quarter.
Volume on the Big Board was155.3 million shares yesterday, down from 164.2 million on Thursday.
 
Advances Among Airlines
The Dow transportation average jumped 11.74 points, to 1,449.86, as airlines like the UAL Corporation, the parent of United Airlines, rose 4 1/2, to 282; Delta Air Lines gained 2 3/8, to 73 3/4, and USAir Group tacked on 1 3/8, to 46 1/4. The AMR Corporation, the parent of American Airlines, gained 2 3/4, to 86 1/2, on continuing rumors that Donald J. Trump is accumulating a stake in the company. AMR was the second-most heavily traded stock on the Big Board, on a volume of more than 2.6 million shares.
Harcourt Brace Jovanovich Inc., the most active issue on the Big Board, plunged 4 1/8, to 12 1/8, on a volume of 3.6 million shares. The Anheuser-Busch Companies announced yesterday that it would acquire six theme parks from the publisher for $1.1 billion.
Among active blue chips, the International Business Machines Corporation rose 1/4, to 109 1/4; the McDonald's Corporation slipped 5/8, to 29 3/4; the Bristol-Myers Company added 3/8, to 52 3/4; the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, added a point, to 44 7/8; the General Electric Company slipped 1/2, to 56 1/2, and the Chevron Corporation jumped 2 7/8, to 61.
Entergy rose 1/2, to 22 5/8. The company said it would ask the Securities and Exchange Commission for authority to buy back as much as 10 percent of its stock.
On the American Stock Exchange, the Amex market value index rose 3.01 points, to 388.76, while in over-the-counter trading the Nasdaq composite rose 1.78 points, to 472.92.

GRAPHIC: Favorite stocks chart

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (82%); IBMC (BRU) (62%); IBM (NYSE) (62%); IBM (LSE) (62%); MCD (NYSE) (61%); GNE (PAR) (60%); GEC (LSE) (60%); GE (SWX) (60%); GE (NYSE) (60%); CVX (NYSE) (60%); DAL (NYSE) (54%); ETR (NYSE) (50%); T (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (83%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (82%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (82%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (81%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (81%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (61%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (61%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (60%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (60%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (60%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (50%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: AMR CORP (83%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (82%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (81%); HARCOURT BRACE JOVANOVICH INC (63%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (62%); MCDONALD'S CORP (61%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (60%); CHEVRON CORP (60%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (54%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (54%); ENTERGY CORP (50%); AT&T INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYS); STANDARD & POOR'S CORP

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (95%); STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); PARENT COMPANIES (89%); AIRLINES (86%); CURRENCIES (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); US DOLLAR (78%); BONDS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (69%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); 

PERSON: WIGGINS, PHILLIP H DONALD TRUMP (50%); 



721 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Issues Recover After Early Drop

BYLINE: By H. J. MAIDENBERG

 BODY:
Many banks borrowed excess reserves, also known as Federal funds, from other banks and institutions yesterday, to show lower liabilities on their third-quarter statements, sending the Federal funds rate well above 9 percent briefly. That, along with a weaker dollar, depressed the prices of Treasury securities early in the day, dealers said.
But later in the session, the shorter maturities recovered as the funds rate declined and the longer issues improved somewhat as the dollar firmed. Some traders who had sold Treasuries short bought to cover their positions. 
Dealers said that the Government's report of a three-tenths of a percent rise in the leading economic indicators for August was slightly above expectations but had no impact on the fixed-income market. Nor did the rise in spot crude oil prices to over $20 a barrel, a new contract high, affect prices.
''Over all, the dollar remains the major influence in the Treasury debt market, but yesterday and today it was the end-of-quarter upward pressure on the Federal funds rate that moved prices,'' said William V. Sullivan Jr., senior vice president at Dean Witter Reynolds. ''Come Monday morning, we expect this pressure to evaporate and the funds rate to start easing.''
 
Temporary Loans
The Federal funds rate is what banks and other financial houses charge each other for temporary loans. The demand for the funds was so great that the rate rose despite the Federal Reserve's second infusion of $1.5 billion of reserves into the banking system in as many days.
As a result, Mr. Sullivan noted, the funds rate, which had traded between 9.20 and 9.5 percent on Thursday, jumped as high as 9.75 percent early yesterday, and then declined to close at 8.5 percent. Mr. Sullivan expects the funds rate to trade at 8.875 percent, where many money market analysts think the Fed wants it, sometime next week. ''There are ample reserves in the market,'' he said. ''It's just that they are not being efficiently allocated.''
Because most Treasury securities dealers finance their inventories at about the funds rate, their higher carrying cost prompted many to mark down inventories of the lower-yielding bills and notes.
Consequently, the discount rate on Treasury 90-day bills rose a basis point, to 7.90 percent; the six-month bills gained three basis points, at 7.87 percent, and the one-year bills added two basis points, at 7.86 percent. A basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point.
 
Prices of Notes
Elsewhere in the secondary market for Treasury issues, the new 8 3/8 percent notes that were auctioned Tuesday at an average yield of 8.39 percent were offered late in the day at an unchanged price of 99 28/32, to yield 8.44 percent. The new 8 1/4's of 1993 rose 1/32, to 99 17/32, for a yield of 8.39 percent. The new four-year notes were auctioned last Wednesday at an average yield of 8.35 percent. Many of the speculators who bought the new two- and four-year notes were prominent sellers of these issues yesterday, dealers said.
The bellwether Treasury long bonds, the 8 1/8's of 2019, climbed 7/32, to 98 26/32, after being as low as 98 5/ 32 early in the session. At 98 26/32, the yield eased to 8.23 percent, from 8.24 percent the previous day, but was above the 8.19 percent of a week earlier.
In Chicago, the spot December Treasury bond futures contract settled at 95.27, up 4/32 on the day, but down 12/32 on the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: DEAN WITTER REYNOLDS INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY, DEPARTMENT OF THE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (77%); AUCTIONS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); SPOT MARKET (77%); BONDS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (72%); ENERGY MARKETS (72%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (71%); 

PERSON: MAIDENBERG, H J



722 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 48, Column 5; Style Desk

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER'S WORLD: Guidepost;
Credit-Card Rates

 BODY:
Interest rates on bank credit cards are up an average one-quarter of a percentage point since the beginning of the year, despite the glut of cards in the marketplace. To retain card holders as rates rise, banks have extended periods for interest-free payments to make their cards more attractive, and many have eliminated annual fees. For people who carry over a balance, a low interest rate is desirable. But if you pay off your charges in full each month, look for a card with no annual fee. Many of these have variable rates, generally tied to short-term Government securities, with quarterly adjustments. Remember that since Sept. 1, the Government has required all issuers of credit cards to include full fee and rate details in applications and solicitations. Here are some cards that are among those with the lowest annual percentage rates, two with fixed rates (F) and two with variable rates (V). 

$	 	 	Bank	 APR	 Annual Fee	People's Bank,	 	 	Bridgeport, Conn.	 13.5 F	 $25	 	 	 	Empire of America,	 	 	Amherst, N.Y.	 13.75 F	 $18	 	 	 	USAA Fed Savings,	 	 	San Antonio	 15.21 V	 None	 	 	 	Manufacturers Bank of	 	 	Wilmington, Del.	 16.6 V	 None	
 
Source: Bank Credit Card Observer, Princeton, N.J.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CONSUMER'S WORLD PAGE (NYT)

TICKER: PBCT (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (74%); CONNECTICUT, USA (74%); DELAWARE, USA (74%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (52%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF ELKTON INC (55%); PEOPLE'S BANK & TRUST CO (55%); PEOPLE'S BANK OF ZANZIBAR (55%); PEOPLE'S BANK OF VIRGINIA BEACH (55%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS CREDIT CARDS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); 

 
