

401 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 14, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
The Dollar Declines Broadly On Fears of Lower Rates

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar sank against all major foreign currencies yesterday in a slide prompted by widespread speculation that United States interest rates were headed lower. Trading volume was heavy. ''The dollar came under intense pressure,'' said John McCarthy, chief currency dealer at the Amsterdam-Rotterdam Bank's office in New York. ''We saw a pretty substantial selloff. Volume was very, very heavy. I would characterize it as brisk with a capital 'B.' '' 
The setback for the dollar came after the Federal Reserve Board chairman, Alan Greenspan, said that if a credible budget-deficit reduction accord was reached between White House and Congressional negotiators, then the central bank would be inclined to relax its monetary policy.
 
How Dollar Would Lose Appeal
An easing in Fed policy would lead to lower United States interest rates, a development that would be bearish for the dollar. A decline in United States rates - especially after Japan pushed up its rates - would make the dollar less appealing to investors because it would reduce returns on dollar-denominated holdings.
Many analysts have been urging the Fed to follow an easier monetary policy to reinvigorate the failing economy.
The dollar started its trading day in Tokyo by stumbling against the Japanese yen. It fell to a closing 137.65 yen, from 138.30 yen at Wednesday's close. It was the lowest closing level in Tokyo since Aug. 3, 1989, when the dollar finished at 136.40 yen.
In London, the dollar fell to 137.25 yen. And it continued to lose ground in later New York dealings, ending the session at 136.25 yen, down from 138.08 yen late Wednesday.
 
Sharp Drop Against Mark
The dollar did not fare any better against the German currency. It tumbled more than 2 pfennigs, to 1.5680 marks in late New York dealing, from 1.5915 marks late Wednesday.
The British pound benefited from the dollar's weakness. In London, the pound rose to $1.8770, from $1.8650 late Wednesday. A pound fetched $1.8825 late yesterday in New York, compared with $1.8590 a day earlier.
Other late rates for the dollar in New York, compared with late rates Wednesday, included: 1.3025 Swiss francs, down from 1.3290; 5.2520 French francs, down from 5.3303; 1,170.00 Italian lire, down from 1,187.75, and 1.16175 Canadian dollars, down from 1.16355.
 
Gains for Gold Prices
Gold prices posted modest gains on world markets.
On the Commodity Exchange in New York, an ounce of gold for September delivery gained 80 cents to settle at $382.90. The Republic National Bank later quoted a bid of $384.00 an ounce, $2.50 higher than Wednesday's late bid.
Gold rose in London to a late bid of $384.00 an ounce, from $381.75 late Wednesday. In Zurich, gold rose to $383.40 an ounce, from $381.75 late Wednesday. Earlier, in Hong Kong, gold rose $1.62 an ounce, to $381.82.
Silver had a mixed day. The metal rose on the Comex, with the contract for September delivery closing at $4.773 an ounce.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (50%); HSB (PAR) (50%); HBC (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (92%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SWITZERLAND (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); ZURICH (70%); TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); 

COMPANY: AMSTERDAM-ROTTERDAM BANK NV (58%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (50%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT; GOLD; PRICES CURRENCIES (94%); US DOLLAR (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); BRITISH POUND (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); BUDGETS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (55%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (50%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 



402 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: In Combating Crime, Veterans Find a Home

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

 BODY:
In October 1967, when a United States Army patrol was pinned down by enemy fire at Loc Ninh, Pfc. Otis Caldwell volunteered to repel the attack, allowing the wounded to be evacuated and winning a Bronze Star in the process. Now he relies on some of the same instincts honed in distant jungles to try to reclaim the streets and subways that many New Yorkers think have become a war zone.
Each weeknight Mr. Caldwell, 43 years old, leads a platoon of ex-servicemen through the dimly lighted parks and rattling trains in and around Long Island City, Queens. While their forays may trigger memories of recon missions, the locales are vivid reminders of their onetime homes of last resort, because these men are also veterans of homelessness.
They are the Veterans Civilian Observation Patrol, a neighborhood group operating under the auspices of the 108th Precinct, and they are fighting to make streets safe amid a surge of conspicuous violent crimes in New York City that has left innocent people senselessly killed and the city outraged. 
The patrol members' efforts have earned them plaudits from the police and citizens, and one honor more prized than any medal - a place to call home. This weekend Mr. Caldwell and 22 other patrol members, or VCOPS, as they call themselves, will leave their cots at a shelter for homeless veterans and move into apartments in the Prospect Heights section of Brooklyn.
For these men, many of whom have waged protracted battles with drugs, the work has been a therapy that has let them tap newfound sources of strength and pride. ''Once you get back your self-esteem, you're on the road to recovery,'' said Mr. Caldwell, himself a recovering alcoholic.
The patrols leave each weeknight at 10 o'clock from the 108th Precinct station house in Long Island City and head east into the neighborhoods. One recent night pedestrians did quick double-takes as two dozen men wearing their trademark green T-shirts began their patrol through Sunnyside, Queens. In pairs they strode down both sides of the street, stretching from corner to corner. ''We walk with lots of space so people won't think we're a gang,'' said Bruce Weems, a Navy veteran whose broad, bulging biceps carried tatoos of a cobra and his initials.
Two point men led the way and cast darting glances into shadowy doorways, ready to alert others to any potential problem. Every few minutes they pivoted with arms raised to signal all clear, then waited until the entire squad responded in kind. Should any patrol member stand still with his arms at his side, it signals he has spotted something or someone suspicious.
 
Reassuring Sight
The sight of these men steadily advancing up the streets would appear to be enough to deter anyone with criminal intentions. As the patrol members slowly fanned out toward the perimeter of a local park recently, five youths emerged from the darkness and quickly crossed the street while glancing warily over their shoulders. Inside the park, the few remaining people appeared relieved to see the patrol.
''Sometimes a lot of things go down around here and it's nice to have these people watch out,'' said a 23-year-old woman who identified herself only as Kelly. ''They're here more than the cops are, and if something goes down they're here before the cops.''
The men routinely ride the No. 7 line to Sunnyside and walk through neighborhood streets back to Long Island City, although sometimes they will take the train back to the Hunters Point station and walk through the grimy, maze-like exits that lead to a desolate stretch of warehouses, factories and weed-covered lots.
Mr. Caldwell, who has been a patrol member since February and commander since May, left the Army in 1969 with two Bronze Stars, the Purple Heart and chronic pain from a bullet that ripped through his side and exited through his left leg. The citation for the Bronze Star he won at Loc Ninh described how, armed with only M-16's, he and others braved rocket and machine-gun fire to keep the enemy back.
 
Years of Alcohol
Eight years ago he abandoned his job as a maintenance man at a college to pass his days in an alcoholic haze that landed him first in a detoxification center and later at a homeless shelter. Sober for nine months now, he said that he held no bitterness toward others for his predicament and that all he is owed is a chance to make a fresh start. His patrol work, he said, is a way to do that.
''Compared to Vietnam, the subways are a picnic,'' he said. ''The difference is at least in Vietnam we had backup.''
Mr. Caldwell and the other VCOPS said they are a disciplined group that has rarely needed to use their fists. Their job is simply to observe suspicious activity and report it to the police. This summer they stopped two muggings and four times followed suspects to their hiding places, where the police made the arrests.
''These are guys who are willing to come out and put a little out for people who probably haven't put out themselves,'' said Sgt. John McCluskey, a narcotics officer at the 108th Precinct.
In 1988, residents of Long Island City were not willing to tolerate the Borden Avenue Veterans Residence, a city-financed shelter run by the Salvation Army. They complained that homeless men were drinking and urinating in the nearby vest-pocket parks and side streets. Officer Fran Kinkowski, the precinct's community affairs officer, decided to solve two problems by incorporating some of these veterans into the precinct's community patrol program. Since the original 13 recruits cleared the area of troublemakers and eased community opposition, 90 men have been patrol members.
More recently, the group spun off the Veterans Service Corps, a not-for-profit organization that seeks to provide housing, training and drug rehabilitation for the patrol members. Russell Hicks, formerly a social worker at the Borden Avenue shelter, started the service corps in response to what he thought was a paucity of services for homeless veterans.
Mr. Hicks persuaded a landlord in Brooklyn to allow the Veterans Service Corps to rent a refurbished building of 16 cozy studio and duplex apartments, complete with varnished wood floors, smooth white walls and spacious tile bathrooms. Rents will range from $595 for a studio to $695 for a two-person duplex. The men who have jobs will pay the rent from their wages; those who are unemployed, from public assistance. Mr. Hicks expects the rent to be partly offset by funds from a contract he is negotiating with the local office of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
 
Giddy as Short-Timers
In the days before the move into their new apartments, the patrol members had the nervous, giddy enthusiasm of short-timers, the military slang for men about to be discharged. On visits to the neighborhood - a section of Prospect Heights where robbery and drug-related crimes are above the city average, the police say - Mr. Caldwell and his men have already been welcomed by some residents.
While the area is fraught with many of the temptations and obstacles that caused their downfall, the veterans said they weren't going to dwell on the possibility of repeating mistakes.
''The VCOPS made me ready to step back into society and showed me that by following the rules I can make it,'' said Warren Kelley, 35, who has been a patrol member since June.
Before leaving his old command, Mr. Caldwell passed the mantle of leadership to Billy Reeves, a boyish-looking veteran who will continue to live at the shelter and recruit new VCOPS while the others begin a new patrol in Brooklyn. ''I'm sorry I can't carry all of you guys now,'' Mr. Caldwell said as he paced the room. ''But it'll happen to you the same as it happened to me.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sgt. Bruce Weems of the Veterans Civilian Observation Patrol checking a subway platform in Queens. Members of the Veterans Civilian Observation Patrol being briefed by officers at the 108th Precinct in Queens on what route they will take. The patrol is a neighborhood watch group consisting of ex-servicemen, many of whom have been homeless. (pg26); A member on patrol in a subway train traveling through Sunnyside. (Pg26)(Photographs by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (83%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: VETERANS CIVILIAN OBSERVATION PATROL

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; LONG ISLAND CITY (NYC)

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; VETERANS; HOMELESS PERSONS VETERANS (90%); ARMIES (90%); HOMELESSNESS (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (69%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (69%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (69%); VIOLENT CRIME (67%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (67%); 

PERSON: GONZALEZ, DAVID MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 



403 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: SOUTER SEEMS SURE TO WIN APPROVAL, KEY SENATORS SAY

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 14

 BODY:
As Judge David H. Souter ended his second day of questioning by the Senate Judiciary Committee, some members and their top aides expressed agreement today that he was virtually assured of winning a positive vote from the committee barring some unforeseen development.
This was underscored publicly in discussions today, when several committee members spoke to him as if his winning confirmation from the full Senate and joining the Court were a foregone conclusion.
 
An Open-Minded Approach
Senator Paul Simon, Democrat of Illinois, went so far as to suggest how Judge Souter might use his vacations from the Court to enrich his experience, like visiting an Indian reservation. The committee chairman, Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Delaware Democrat who had been expected to be a tough and skeptical questioner, called him a ''soon-to-be Supreme Court Justice.''
For his part, Judge Souter sought to assure the committee that he would take an open-minded approach to sensitive issues like abortion and affirmative action, even as he continued his policy of avoiding comments on how he might rule on specific cases. 
Mr. Souter, who has spent most of his adult life as a state court judge and as Attorney General and Deputy Attorney General of New Hampshire, seemed to take care to address, in his two days of testimony, each of the issues that critics said make him ill-suited to serve on the Court. He was only recently named a Federal appeals court judge, Returns to Roe v. Wade Yesterday, Judge Souter politely but firmly cut short an effort by Senator Biden to explore his views of the rights of privacy on the ground that it would lead to a discussion of his views of Roe v. Wade, the 1973 Supreme Court ruling that established a legal right to abortion. He said such a discussion would be inappropriate. [Excerpts from the hearing are on page 10.] Today, he returned to the issue in a more forthcoming but still ambiguous way, saying that he had no ''private agenda'' on how to vote on the issue of Roe v. Wade. ''I will listen to both sides of that case,'' he told Senator Herb Kohl, Democrat of Wisconsin. ''I have not made up my mind.''
He spoke expansively of the Supreme Court's role in furthering affirmative action programs to help minorities overcome past discrimination. He also offered deep praise for Justice William J. Brennan Jr., the longtime leader of the liberal wing on the Court, who retired this summer and whose seat Judge Souter would assume.
''Justice Brennan is going to be remembered as one of the most fearlessly principled guardians of the American Constitution that it has ever had and ever will have,'' he said in response to a question. Some members seemed moved by the remarks.
Several Senate aides said that Judge Souter's carefully balanced performance over the last two days virtually assured that he would avoid the rejection that befell Judge Robert H. Bork in 1987.
 
Testimony to End Monday
Judge Souter is expected to complete his testimony on Monday, his 51st birthday. After that, the committee will hear from a variety of witnesses, including some abortion rights groups that oppose him because they say he failed to assert that the right to an abortion recognized by the court in 1973 is fundamental and not open to debate. The hearings are expected to end next week, after which Senator Biden will schedule a committee vote.
In a private meeting with abortion rights advocates this morning, Senator Simon said Judge Souter had provided little in his first day of testimony on which to oppose him. Participants at the meeting said that Senator Simon, facing a re-election battle, also said that Judge Souter seemed to have come across well to the public, in marked contrast to Judge Bork's performance three years ago.
After today's session, Kate Michelman, the executive director of the National Abortion Rights Action League, said her group had no choice but to oppose Judge Souter's nomination. ''For the first time in history,'' she said, ''the Supreme Court is on the brink of taking away a fundamental right - the right to choose,'' and Judge Souter has not given assurance he recognizes that right.
At the hearing, as he questioned Judge Souter, Senator Simon remarked that he liked to spend time in places like Indian reservations to enrich his personal experience and he suggested that Judge Souter adopt a similar practice after he is on the Court.
 
'I Don't Believe That'
Judge Souter was asked by Senator Simon about having been quoted in a New Hampshire newspaper in 1976 as having equated affirmative action with ''affirmative discrimination'' before a college audience.
Judge Souter said that he hoped the quote was inaccurate ''because I don't believe that.''
He said that it should go without saying that ''there will be a need - and I am afraid for a longer time than we would like to say - a need for the affirmative action which seeks out qualified people who have been discouraged by generations of societal discrimination from taking their place in the mainstream and in all of America.''
He said that when discrimination was proved in the courts, the proper response was not to simply say ''stop doing it,'' adding, ''the appropriate response is to say ''undo it'.''
In response to a question from Senator Biden, Judge Souter said he was not talking simply about providing redress for an individual who experienced discrimination, but more broadly as in ''an identifiable class.'' His answers, nonetheless, leave questions about how far the government may go in fashioning remedies and he said the issue will be ''played out in constitutional litigation for some time ahead of us.''
The issue of abortion dominated the hearings again today. Senator Biden tried again with little success to have Judge Souter reveal his personal philosophy about the issues of privacy that underly the abortion ruling.
But in answering a question from Senator Kohl, Judge Souter said, ''I have not got any agenda on what should be done with Roe v. Wade if that case were brought before me.''
 
Criticism From Kennedy
While Judge Souter was treated gently by most committee members, Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, portrayed the nominee as hard-hearted and overly legalistic. He said that one of Judge Souter's decisions while a State Supreme Court Justice was ''hostile and heartless.'' It involved a case in which the court upheld the denial of unemployment compensation benefits to two brothers, aged 76 and 78, both of whom were infirm and said they only wanted to work four hours each day, splitting a single job as they had done for years.
Judge Souter was also questioned closely today by Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont and others about his efforts to defend a proclamation Gov. Meldrim Thomson in 1978 that the flag be flown at half staff to commemorate Good Friday. In his brief as Attorney General, Mr. Souter said the state order did not violate the the Constitution's prohibition against the state furthering religion because Jesus was being honored as a historical, rather than religious, figure. Judge Souter agreed it was an unconstitutional proclamation.
Senator Leahy asked if it was proper for him to have taken a position so obviously unconstitutional. In response, Judge Souter said that he was representing the Governor and that he had an obligation to defend that position. ''I was hired on as a lawyer,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US); SENATE COMMITTEE ON JUDICIARY

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); JUDGES (89%); ABORTION (87%); LAWYERS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LIBERALISM (75%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (74%); TESTIMONY (73%); APPEALS COURTS (71%); DISCRIMINATION (68%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, NEIL A; SOUTER, DAVID H (JUDGE); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) DAVID SOUTER (93%); HERB KOHL (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); 



404 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2169 words

HEADLINE: CONFRONTATION IN THE GULF: Ripples From the Gulf/A Special Report;
Crisis in the Gulf Hits Home: 'Everything is Different'

BYLINE: By LISA BELKIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TWENTYNINE PALMS, Calif.

 BODY:
Business is all but nonexistent at the three tattoo parlors in this desert town, which is home to the nation's largest Marine base. The dry-cleaner nearest the base has laid off 15 workers and cut its hours in half.
A note on the window of Ernie's weight lifting room announces that it will be closed on weekends and, ''In honor of our military, will remain closed until they return.''
In varying degrees, the military buildup in the Persian Gulf 8,500 miles away is affecting day-to-day life throughout the United States.
 
A Backdrop or Intrusion
In some places it is merely a backdrop - the yellow ribbons and American flags that line the main shopping street in Houston, for instance, or the videotaped messages from members of the armed services that are broadcast on television. 
Elsewhere, the mobilization is more of an intrusion, interrupting established routines in often unexpected ways. In Beaumont, Tex., Frances Foux has given up her lunch hour to bring cases of sodas to soldiers at the local port who are loading ships destined for the Persian Gulf. They remind her of her brother who was killed in Vietnam.
In still other places the mobilization has brought an unexpected boom in business for companies that make products useful for fighting a desert war. The Gatorade plant in Newport, Tenn., for example, is adding extra shifts to meet the growing orders from the military. So far, nearly 100,000 cases have been shipped to the Gulf.
 
Some Feel the Strain
And then there are the people and places for whom life has been turned upside down. People like Tracy Ross in places like Twentynine Palms.
At John's Hamburgers, which was nearly empty despite the noon hour, 5-month-old Derek Ross squealed with delight as Mrs. Ross, 23, dangled a set of Marine dog tags for her son's amusement. Derek's father, Danny, left for the Persian Gulf in mid-August, and Mrs. Ross said she was feeling the strain of life without her husband.
''Everything is different now,'' she said. ''Everything is harder.''
This Southern California town, 70 miles east of San Bernardino in the Mojave Desert, exists almost solely because of the Marine base. About 12,000 people live on the base and 13,000 others live around it. Although the Marine Corps refuses to say how many troops from which divisions have left this base and others around the the country, Karen Van Hout, a spokeswoman for the Chamber of Commerce, said it is fairly easy to figure out who is no longer in Twentynine Palms. The Seventh Marine Expeditionary Brigade, which has 4,000 men, was the first to leave, she said. It was followed by the First Force Service Support Group and the Third Light Armored Infantry Battallion.
''We don't know exactly how many have left,'' said Linda Jones, whose husband, Maurice, shipped out early in September. He left just two weeks after their hastily arranged wedding, which had originally been scheduled for next Valentine's Day. ''The better question is, 'Who's still here?' There are no men older than 18 and younger than 40.''
Mrs. Jones, who works as a visiting nurse, said the women have formed support groups. They ''help a little,'' she said, ''but they don't bring him home.''
 
The Better to Keep Busy
Some of the group meetings are structured and official, with information on emotional counseling and advice on balancing checkbooks. More often the gatherings are for pot-luck suppers or picnics with the children, the better to keep busy.
Suddenly, life in Twentynine Palms centers on the mail. Mrs. Jones said a trying day became a happy one recently when the Marine Corps relaxed rules that restricted the size of packages that could be sent to the troops in the Gulf. Now she is looking for the perfect tape recorder to send to her husband so she can replace her written letters with her voice and be able to hear him in return.
Mrs. Ross said she had written to her husband daily since he left, but is not certain how many letters have reached him. She has only received a handful from him so far, she said, and one was addressed to Derek.
''It said all the things a daddy wants to tell his son in case he doesn't come back,'' she said, jangling the dog tags faster and giving the baby a watery smile. ''I read it to him.''
 
An Unsettling Emptiness
There is the same unsettling emptiness at other military towns across the country, too. Nearly one-third of the 40,000 people in Hinesville, Ga., near Fort Stewart, has been sent to the Persian Gulf. In Killeen, Tex., near Fort Hood, pistol sales boomed, then dropped as soldiers bought weapons for their families before they departed.
At the courthouse in Bell County, where Fort Hood is situated, 325 marriage licenses were sold in the first two weeks of August; normally, the rate is 20 to 30 a week. Now it is back to normal.
In San Diego, local pizza restaurants are frantically advertising for drivers because pizza delivery was a popular side job for many marines from Camp Pendleton. Now most of them are gone.
In nearby Oceanside, Calif., Oscar Culp said he feels that the flow of the days is out of sync. Mr. Culp, who was a marine for 25 years, serving in World War II, Korea and Vietnam, now owns the CMC Furniture store in Oceanside.
Pay days at Camp Pendleton are on the 15th and 30th of the month, he said, and he could tell it was pay day without looking at his calendar. He would watch the buses filled to standing room with soldiers who came to town to have a a haircut, go shopping or retrieve items left in pawn shops between paychecks. In recent weeks, he said, the buses from the base are virtually empty.
 
At Guardsmen's Homes
 
Some Uncertainty But No Regrets
In smaller pockets around the country, far from military bases, equally dramatic disruptions of life are taking place.
In Detroit, Roger Wojtylko has lost the ability to plan his business. A staff sergeant in the Michigan National Guard, Mr. Wojtylko was called to active duty for two weeks. He was then released, but knows he might be called again at any time.
Mr. Wojtylko builds and remodels houses, and he has had to return deposits to 15 customers since the call-up began because he has no way of knowing whether he can complete a job. Since his National Guard pay is as sporadic as his call-up schedule, he and his two daughters, 6 and 15 years old, are living on his wife's salary as a bus driver.
Farther north, in Vienna Corners, Mich., Victor Briley is facing the same uncertainty. Mr. Briley, a first lieutenant in the Michigan National Guard, was called to active duty in mid-August. As a result he has postponed plans to double the size of his auto repair shop. While he is gone, his wife tackles the ledger books after she completes her regular job as a waitress, and one of his three employees runs the day-to-day business.
Neither Mr. Wojtylko nor Mr. Briley say they have any regrets about their decision to join the Guard, despite the disruption it is now causing them. They did not enlist for the money or on a whim, they said, but to serve their country and to challenge themselves.
''I'm a very patriotic person,'' Mr. Wojtylko said. ''I was in Vietnam. I don't want to leave home unless I have to, but if I have to, I have a commitment to supporting my Government.''
Mr. Briley agreed. ''I don't mind being called up,'' he said. ''It's a challenge. This is an opportunity for my unit to prove what it can accomplish.''
 
At the Workplace
 
Business Is Sweet And Bittersweet
For every place that has become unsettled since the partial mobilization, however, there is another that has been made more stable. The activity in the Persian Gulf is giddy news in some parts of the country, like the oil states of Texas and Oklahoma. With oil selling for more than $30 a barrel, there is optimism in those states on a level not seen in several years.
Engineered Support Systems in St. Louis has been laying off employees in the past year because of cuts in Government contracts for the water purification units that the company manufactures. In recent weeks the company has rehired 25 employees and might need to recall as many as 200 more.
At the Artesia bottled water company in San Antonio, bottling machines are working 20 percent longer each week now that Artesia has received a contract to supply water to parched troops in Saudi Arabia.
Beau Price is quenching thirst another way in thanks for his more modest increase in business. His T-shirt company has sold 2,000 shirts with a picture of an Iraqi soldier riding a camel and being attacked by American troops. The slogan: ''I'd fly 10,000 miles to smoke a camel.''
Many of the shirts were sold to soldiers working at the port, and in appreciation he is using some of the profits to buy cases of soft drinks for the troops in Saudi Arabia.
When business improves, so do hundreds of lives. Randy Hudson, for instance, is a 30-year-old welder in San Antonio who has a wife, two children and a mortgage. He had worked at Fairchild Aircraft for five years before he was laid off in January when the company filed for bankruptcy.
 
'Big Reunion' at Fairchild
The chapter 11 proceedings were almost complete when the mobilization began and Fairchild received a $3.86 million contract from the Air Force to manufacture special vests that are hooked up to air-conditioning units.
Now Mr. Hudson is one of 60 employees that the company has called back to work. It plans to hire 30 more.
Returning to Fairchild after nine months of sporadic jobs welding race cars and worrying that he would lose his house was ''like a big reunion,'' he said, adding, ''We're happy to be working up a sweat so the guys over there don't have to.''
Often, however, this jubilation has a bittersweet side. At Survival Technologies, also in St. Louis, Alice Jennings and Catherine Kinnard are among the 180 workers who produce 95 percent of the nerve gas antidote in the West.
Since the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, the company has rushed the delivery of an 85,000-piece order and has received a second order for $6 million. The company would not give specifics on the size of the order, but 40 people have been added to the staff so far and 25 more are needed.
But Mrs. Jennings and Mrs. Kinnard are not happy that business is going so well. Both have sons in the military, and as they fill the antidote canisters and ship them out both mothers realize that their sons might need the pen-sized applicators someday.
''Every day when we leave we feel like we've accomplished something,'' Mrs. Kinnard said. ''I think I'd feel the same if I didn't have a son.''
Mrs. Jennings said: ''I hope he never has to use what we make. I hope they leave it on a shelf and it gathers dust.''
 
'The Lucky Ones'
 
Other Things On Their Minds
At the businesses that are struggling, at the ones that are reborn and in the households that are praying for relatives and friends in the armed forces, it may seem impossible that there are people who have not been affected at all by the Gulf crisis.
But for some people - Mrs. Ross, waiting for her husband to return to the Marine base at Twentynine Palms, calls them ''the lucky ones'' - there are jobs to worry about, bills to pay, and concerns like crime that seem more personal and more urgent.
Two New York City police officers near Times Square looked slightly baffled recently when they were asked if the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait had altered their daily lives.
''We work in Times Square,'' said Officer Jeff NcNamee. ''That's what's on our minds.''
His partner, Officer Joe Guinn, said: ''It hasn't affected us. We got our job to do at home. The soldiers got their job to do over there.''
Fifty blocks uptown, at Broadway and 93d Street, sales at the Cunningham Newstand have not increased because of Saddam Hussein. But they did rise noticably last week when Time magazine ran a cover story about New York's social and economic problems, said Marc Salih, the newsstand manager.
 
Social Issues Take Precedence
''People here are concerned with social issues, not the Middle East,'' he said. ''My worry is to keep the business going. You can't worry about things on the outside.''
Sherri Baker, a 25-year-old Boston housewife, echoed this sentiment. ''I don't read about that stuff,'' she said as she flipped through the pages of The Boston Herald and waited for her husband to return from an errand.
When asked what she reads instead, Mrs. Baker took the pink hairbrush she was holding and pointed to an article about local prison releases. ''I read stories about convicted killers being released,'' she said, ''because I want to know where they are.''
Across the street, 15-year-old Carlos Caballo, a student at Boston High School, was standing outside the school board building. ''I didn't know anything was going on,'' he said when asked about the Persian Gulf. ''I don't read the news.''
What does occupy his thoughts? ''Jobs, girls, clothes,'' he replied. ''Stuff like that.''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 19, 1990, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Saturday about the Persian Gulf confrontation's impact on America misstated the reasons for layoffs at Engineered Support Systems of St. Louis. It laid off workers earlier in the year because of delays receiving Government money and the prospect of reduced military spending.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Alice Jennings in an antiseptic room at Survival Technologies in St. Louis, where nerve gas antidote for the military is produced. ''I hope he never has to use what we make,'' said Mrs. Jennings, who has a son in the military. ''I hope they leave it on a shelf and it gathers dust.'' (Bill Stover for The New York Times); ''Everything is different now,'' said Tracy Ross, whose husband left for the Persian Gulf last month. ''Everything is harder.'' She was with her 5-month-old son, Derek, at a restaurant in Twentynine Palms, Calif. (Bart Bartholomew for The New York Times); Beau Price of Beaumont, Tex., donated cases of soda for soldiers in Saudi Arabia. He bought it with some of the profit he made from selling souvenir shirts, many to soldiers working at the port. (F. Carter Smi

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); VIET NAM (55%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); INDIAN OCEAN (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MOJAVE DESERT (79%); CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES (52%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: SERVICE SUPPORT GROUP LLC (50%); MARINE CORPS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; KUWAIT; SAUDI ARABIA; TWENTYNINE PALMS (CALIF)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; SURVEYS AND SERIES; MARINE CORPS ARMED FORCES (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); DESERTS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); TATTOO PARLORS (73%); MEN (70%); SOFT DRINKS (67%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (66%); WEIGHTLIFTING (57%); 

PERSON: BELKIN, LISA TRACY ROSS (65%); DEREK ROSS (59%); LINDA JONES (56%); 



405 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: CONFRONTATION IN THE GULF;
AMERICAN WARSHIP FIRES A WARNING AT IRAQI TANKER

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 14

 BODY:
American and Australian warships fired warning shots before boarding an Iraqi tanker in the Gulf of Oman today in a coordinated action to enforce the trade embargo against Iraq, Administration officials said.
The Iraqi ship refused to stop and allow the Americans and Australians to board until the shots were fired. After the boarding party found that the tanker, the Al Fao, held no cargo, the ship was allowed to sail on to the southeastern Iraqi port of Basra.
While other ships have been boarded, the incident today was the first forcible boarding of a vessel in the Persian Gulf crisis. It was also the first time shots had been fired by Americans in the region since the United Nations Security Council adopted a tough resolution last month that Washington has interpreted as allowing the use of force to block shipping to and from Iraq. The resolution was long sought by the United States. 
 
Further Pressure on Embassies
As the boarding of the vessel was reported, Iraq put further pressure today on the 15 or more nations that have refused to close their embassies in Kuwait since Iraq invaded the country on Aug. 2. France announced that Iraqi soldiers stormed the French Ambassador's residence, seizing the military attache and three other French nationals. The attache was released later, but the other three were being held at an undisclosed location. [Page 4.] Pentagon officials also disclosed today that the United States had agreed to sell Saudi Arabia $20 billion in advanced weaponry, trucks, F-15 fighters, and surface-to-air missiles over the next several years. The purchase, which exceeds previous estimates of its value, will be the single largest foreign sale of arms in American history. [Page 5.] President Bush, discussing the boarding of the Iraqi tanker, said the naval action was taken ''in accordance with the United Nations resolutions, in accordance with the sanctions.'' He said the shots were fired because ''it required a bit of a warning before the captain pulled over and permitted the boarding party to have a look.''
Asked if the events today in the Gulf region put the United States any closer to war, Mr. Bush replied: ''I wouldn't put it closer to a war situation. I still hope that this matter can be peacefully resolved. And the way for that to happen is for Iraq to comply with the sanctions.''
 
'I'm Not Rattling Sabers'
But Mr. Bush added a warning.
''When an escalation is required of me, Saddam Hussein will know it,'' he said. ''I'm not rattling sabers. When I rattle a saber, the man will know it.''
The naval action today was unusual in that it demonstrated coordination between vessels of separate nations. The sailors in the boarding party came from two frigates, the American ship Brewton and the Australian ship Darwin.
Each of the navies of more than a dozen countries that have contributed ships to the armada normally have functioned independently. A Pentagon spokesman said there had been only a few joint boardings before this one. The Pentagon did not say how the joint action was organized, and whether the United States was in command.
Besides entering the French Ambassador's residence, Iraqi forces also broke into the Belgian diplomatic compound and the residence of the Canadian Ambassador, where the consuls of the United States, Canada, Ireland, Australia and Britain were seized and then quickly released. The American diplomat was accredited to Baghdad, and all of the others were accredited to Kuwait City.
 
'Hussein Against the World'
After the break-in, Prime Minister Brian Mulroney of Canada said: ''This is not a conflict between Arabs and the West, nor is it a conflict between Iraq and the United States. It is Saddam Hussein against the civilized world.''
About 10 American diplomats remained in the United States Embassy, where electricity and water have been cut off since Iraq annexed Kuwait nearly a month ago.
President Bush said he had not yet determined how long he would keep the embassy open. The diplomats remain to underline the point that the United States still recognizes Kuwait as a sovereign country, and to keep in touch with hundreds of Americans who remain trapped there.
At a brief news conference at the White House, President Bush said, ''These developments not only underscore the brutal behavior of Iraq, but also the international support that exists and is marshaled against Iraq's occupation of Kuwait.''
 
'Grateful to Japanese'
Reflecting the Administration's pleasure that Japan and West Germany have pledged billions of dollars in new aid to help the international buildup in the gulf, President Bush praised the two nations, which have been heavily criticized by members of Congress in recent days for what has been perceived as their modest support for the embargo and defense of Saudi Arabia.
Administration officials had expressed concern that the perception that the United States was ''going it alone'' in the gulf would diminish popular and Congressional support for the gulf operation in the weeks and months to come.
''We are grateful to the Japanese,'' said Mr. Bush, who said he had spoken by telephone with Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu on Thursday night. ''Specifically, Japan will be providing significant economic assistance to key countries in the region that are most severely affected by the sanctions and higher energy prices.'' $4 Billion Pledged A substantial portion of Japanese aid, which currently amounts to pledges totaling $4 billion, will go to Jordan, Egypt and Turkey, countries that will lose billions of dollars worth of trade, service fees and worker remittances as a result of the crisis. Mr. Bush said another portion of the Japanese aid package will go to the forces ''in the collective defense effort.''
Britain, Italy and Canada also pledged to bolster their efforts in the gulf. London said it would send an additional armored brigade of more than 120 tanks and 6,000 combat troops. Canada committed 12 fighter jets and a total of 450 airmen to the effort. And Italy told the visiting Secretary of State, James A. Baker 3d, that it would send eight Tornado jets and an additional frigate to join the three Rome has already deployed to the gulf.
Despite Mr. Bush's enthusiasm for increasing signs of foreign support, Senator Sam Nunn, Democrat of Georgia, said today that the Germans and the Japanese would have to do more to help countries that have suffered economic setbacks because of the crisis in the Persian Gulf. Mr. Nunn, perhaps the most influential member of Congress on military matters, called on the Japanese to ''get off their wallet.''
The naval incident today also marked the first time that American forces had fired warning shots at an Iraqi ship and then boarded the ship. Last month, American ships fired warning shots twice at Iraqi vessels, but the ships did not stop and were not forced to do so. There have been about 35 other boardings of Iraqi ships, but none of those ships have been shot at.
The Iraqi ship boarded today had messaged the allied ships that it was on its way to Basra. A Pentagon spokesman said the allied commander grew suspicious about the ship's cargo because it would not obey orders to stop.

GRAPHIC: Map of the Mideast showing location of the Gulf of Oman. (pg4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (99%); AUSTRALIA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); GULF STATES (92%); KUWAIT (92%); FRANCE (90%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); OMAN (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (94%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; AUSTRALIA; IRAQ; KUWAIT; OMAN, GULF OF

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; MIDDLE EAST-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ; SHIPS AND SHIPPING; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EMBARGOES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) MILITARY VESSELS (91%); NAVAL VESSELS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); ARMS TRADE (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); ARMED FORCES (71%); HISTORY (63%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) ; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 



406 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: FOREIGN AFFAIRS Good News Takes Care

BYLINE: Flora Lewis

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
It's all done but the parades. D-day, ''Deutschland-day'' in Eurojargon, is Oct. 3. United Germany will elect its first postwar government Dec. 2. There will be no more occupation rights but certain obligations.
This has been settled without a peace treaty, not for the same reason that none was possible for 45 years; just the opposite. Before, the four powers that occupied Germany after World War II could not agree on its future. Now they have agreed among themselves not to bother assembling all the states that declared war on Germany, although the other European states will have a chance to endorse the settlement in the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe in November. 
When the conference's accords were signed in Helsinki in 1975, they were intended as a substitute for the unachievable German peace treaty. Seemingly it was a ratification of partition, but they also provided for human rights and military rules that gradually eased the division of Europe. For a number of years after, Helsinki was denounced by American conservatives as a giveaway to Moscow. It worked the other way around.
The new treaties (German-Soviet and German-Polish pacts will be added to the package) also have several anomalies that could have blocked final agreement. Though all of Germany will be part of NATO, covered by its guarantees from the date of unification, Soviet troops will remain in the eastern part until the end of 1994. Bonn will pay the cost of maintaining and repatriating them.
Other forces in Germany will not be allowed on eastern territory, or paid. Germany's Foreign Minister, Hans-Dietrich Genscher, the key architect of the settlement, was asked why the unequal treatment. ''They are our friends,'' he answered in surprise. ''We want them to stay.'' In the new climate after the cold war, sticking points can be brushed aside. When governments decide accord is more important than digging in, they reach it and that's that.
Late last November, President Francois Mitterrand of France was still saying German reunification ''is not on the agenda.'' But the ice thawed so fast that the flood of events carried away the hesitant. Like the end of all eras, it begins another, uncertain and problematic.
The dilapidation and economic decay of East Germany, supposedly the most successful of Communist states, and the coming cost of rehabilitating it have been a surprise. That means the rest of Eastern Europe, without benefit of a rich brother, is in for an even harder time than Flora Lewis's column will now appear on Wednesdays and Saturdays. current pessimists foresee. On their own, they could barely take stock of what is needed. They will have neither the expertise nor the solid social-political framework that the former Federal Republic will provide the former Democratic Republic.
Even many in Bonn share European worries that the vacuum will be filled by German enterprise and influence, establishing an unchallengeable power beyond constraint, though it be democratic and non-aggressive. Germany will emerge so flourishing that it has no reason to push, but its leaders are aware that if too much fear is provoked it could lead to new anti-German coalitions.
The antidote has to be greater effort by others - in Europe, the U.S. and Japan - to join in bringing in the East, so that inevitable dependence during the long transition years is spread. This is not just a matter of competing with Germany; it is in the interest of all concerned to keep a balance and an open Europe.
There are worrisome signs that the time lag between the European Community's economic and political consolidation and the new Germany's organization will undermine emergence of a larger union. It is pointless to argue that the Deutsche mark would dominate a single E.C. currency; it dominates anyway. The issue is whether its authorities operate alone or must listen to partners. The U.S. should urge Britain particularly to take the plunge, not stand aside.
This is no time for Americans to carp at German resistance to using its military. Bonn has been slow to respond to solidarity needs in the Persian Gulf crisis, but manpower should not be its contribution. It is ironic that the treaty ending World War II for Germany comes when it is so strong, but that is not cause to forget the reason for its self-limitations.
Though they come when a cruel new aggressor threatens tragedy in an area of strategic importance to the world, Europe's optimistic perspectives must be safeguarded and supported. It took a long, dangerous time to reach this watershed. Resolve and statesmanship brought success, and are still needed to assure peace and democracy in Europe.
Good news can come almost as suddenly as bad news. Making it hold and bear fruit requires almost as much care as facing down the foe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (94%); FINLAND (92%); FRANCE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

CITY: HELSINKI, FINLAND (87%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (68%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EAST GERMANY; WEST GERMANY

SUBJECT: GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF WORLD WAR II (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); COLD WAR (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); ARMED FORCES (67%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, FLORA



407 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 5, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 335 words

HEADLINE: CONFRONTATION IN THE GULF;
Details of Japanese Aid

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 14

 BODY:
Government officials, offering new details about Japan's $4 billion Middle East initiative, said today that Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu would soon seek legislation to enable thousands of Japanese to serve in noncombat roles in the region.
But because of the time involved and difficulties in obtaining approval of the legislation, officials said it could take months for any Japanese personnel to arrive in the gulf.
Indeed, the Japan Socialist Party, the leading opposition group in Parliament, said tonight that it would oppose the idea of forming a ''peace cooperation team'' under Japanese or United Nations auspices. The Socialists lead an opposition coalition that controls the upper house of Parliament. 
Mr. Kaifu's Cabinet today formally adopted a $3 billion package of aid to the international effort in the Middle East, made in addition to the $1 billion package announced two weeks ago.
Of the total, half is intended to assist the military mobilization led by the United States, and the other half will go for economic assistance for Jordan, Turkey and Egypt.
Officials acknowledge that it could take months for the money to be spent, and that in the case of the economic assistance for Middle Eastern countries, it could take years because the bulk would go to build factories, roads and other projects.
Disclosure of the plan for Japanese personnel to go to the gulf was seen as another in a series of concessions this week intended to mute criticism in the United States that Japan was not doing enough to help the international effort after the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait on Aug. 2. In particular, Japan has been assailed in Congress for pledging only money, without being willing to put its people at risk to insure a free flow of oil.
Japanese officials said that some of the teams to be sent to the region could be medical personnel or other noncombat specialists from the Japanese military forces who would take leaves of absence and be temporarily transferred to other agencies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); KUWAIT (92%); EGYPT (79%); JORDAN (79%); TURKEY (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; JAPAN; KUWAIT; IRAQ

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; FOREIGN AID; LAW AND LEGISLATION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (79%); POLITICS (78%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (51%); 

PERSON: KAIFU, TOSHIKI (PRIME MIN); WEISMAN, STEVEN R KAIFU TOSHIKI (74%); 



408 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 5, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: CONFRONTATION IN THE GULF;
Assad Assures Baker of Support in Gulf

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DAMASCUS, Syria, Sept. 14

 BODY:
President Hafez al-Assad assured Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d today that Syria was prepared to keep sending forces to protect Saudi Arabia from Iraq. But he urged Washington to continue to seek a political rather than a military solution in the Persian Gulf.
Officials said that Mr. Baker asked President Assad, who is traveling to Teheran on Saturday, to use his influence to persuade the Iranians to abide by the United Nations sanctions against Iraq and to stifle their calls for a ''holy war'' against the American presence in the Gulf.
The Secretary of State and the Syrian President met for almost four and a half hours, two more than scheduled, in Mr. Assad's downtown office. Mr. Baker was accompanied only by Edward P. Djerejian, the United States Ambassador, and the State Department translator. President Assad was joined by his Foreign Minister, Farouk al-Sharaa. 
 
Baker Fills In Bush
Their meeting was the first between a senior American official and the Syrian President since the December 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103, which United States intelligence agencies widely believe was carried out by a Syrian-sponsored Palestinian organization. Mr. Baker telephoned President Bush in Washington shortly after the meeting with Mr. Assad to brief him on the results.
Mr. Baker also made what was probably the toughest statement yet by a Bush Administration official on terrorism, which apparently occupied a significant portion of the Baker-Assad meeting. He asked Syria to expel terrorists; Mr. Sharaa said this would be done if there was sufficient evidence.
At a press briefing, Mr. Sharaa stressed that President Assad believed that ''it is very important for everyone to pursue a political solution to the gulf crisis. Not a military one. For the time being, we believe that the adherence to the Security Council resolution is very important to achieve a political solution.''
The fact that the Syrian leadership forcefully urged the United States to seek a diplomatic solution at this time probably reflects a concern that the Assad regime's opposition to the Iraqi invasion is not entirely popular at home.
 
Fear of Recolonization
Western diplomats here say that the Syrian public is largely ambivalent about the gulf situation - uncomfortable with Iraq's invasion, but having little sympathy for the Kuwaitis, who they consider arrogant and unresponsive to previous Syrian aid requests.
Moreover, the presence of so many Western troops in the gulf region has raised suspicions among many Syrians that the West is looking for an opportunity to re-colonize the Middle East.
The main purpose of Mr. Baker's visit, American officials insisted, was symbolic. By meeting with President Assad, Mr. Baker sought to draw attention, particularly in the Arab world, to the fact that one of the most hard-line Arab nationalist regimes is joining the American-led multinational coalition against Iraq.
Syria's participation legitimizes that coalition in Arab eyes in a way that no other country could, American officials say. The Administration has been worried from the start that President Saddam Hussein would break out of the boycott by convincing the Arab public that he is really fighting the Americans and just a few Arab ''lackeys.''
Mr. Baker used his news conference after the meeting with Mr. Sharaa to insure the symbolism of his visit was not lost. After Mr. Sharaa expressed his desire for a political solution, the Secretary interjected:
''We talked as well about the importance of this being an Arab solution. And one thing I think which is demonstrated, if I may say so, by the fact of my presence here today is that this is indeed a largely Arab solution that we are trying to implement.''
 
'Arabs at the Forefront'
Egypt is contributing forces, Mr. Baker noted, all of the Persian Gulf nations are contributing their forces, Morocco is contributing forces and Syria is contributing forces.
''There are Moslem nations that are non-Arab who are contributing forces,'' he added. ''So I think it is important for people, particularly in this part of the world, to realize that Arabs are at the forefront of the solution to this problem.''
The Syrians have already dispatched 3,000 men to Saudi Arabia and 1,000 to the United Arab Emirates, and today Mr. Sharaa declared that ''Saudi Arabia can ask for Syrian troops and we said that we will respond to any Saudi request.''
''There was no ceiling on the number of troops, which was very much the desire of the Saudis,'' he continued, ''and we will respond positively to any request.''
American officials say that for now the Syrians are prepared to send an armored division of up to 15,000 men and 300 tanks and armored vehicles. But so far the Syrian pledge has not been carried out, in part because of a lack of transportation ships and planes, and there was no prediction on when the Syrian troops might move. There were rumors in Damascus that the Soviets would provide the transport, but they could not be confirmed.
The Saudis and Kuwaitis have promised Damascus a multibillion-dollar aid package in return for the Syrian troop deployment, and the Syrians are also hoping for backing from the European Economic Community and Japan.
 
Baker Cites 'Terrorism'
After some muted comments earlier in the week about Syria's involvement with terrorism, Mr. Baker, with Mr. Sharaa standing by his side, told Syrian and Western reporters:
''We share a common purpose with respect to problems in the gulf. But we make no secret about the fact that there are still problems revolving around this question of terrorism. Our policy cannot and never will be amoral. We can have close relations only with countries that share our fundamental values.''
Mr. Baker renewed Washington's request that Mr. Assad expel from Syria the Damascus-based Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine-General Command, headed by Ahmed Jabril.
The group is believed to have carried out the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 on a contract from Iran and with the knowledge of Syria.
He said that Syrian-American relations could not be normalized until such action takes place. Mr. Sharaa responded: ''We made it very clear that if there was hard evidence to link any person or group staying in Syria with any terrorist acts then those responsible will be placed on trial.''
The Central Intelligence Agency and West German intelligence have amassed more than circumstantial evidence linking the P.F.L.P.-G.C. with the Pan Am bombing. As Mr. Baker tersely put it, ''there is a disagreement between us on the sufficiency of the evidence.''
One of the surprises of the news conference was the ease with which the Syrians seemed to sign on, in public, to the Bush Administration's insistence that there be no linkage of a settlement of the gulf conflict and a settlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict.
Otherwise, Washington argues, President Hussein would be able to claim that his invasion produced at least a diplomatic gain for the Arabs.
''Let me make it clear to you,'' Mr. Sharaa told reporters, ''that I don't believe there is a linkage between the two questions. We are not linking the gulf crisis with the Arab-Israeli crisis at all.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d, who was assured yesterday by President Hafez al-Assad of Syria that his country would keep sending forces to protect Saudi Arabia. Mr. Baker spoke at a news conference at Damascus Airport with Farouk al-Sharaa, the Foreign Minister of Syria, left. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (69%); 

COUNTRY: SYRIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); GULF STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); KUWAIT (92%); IRAN (90%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (93%); 

CITY: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (93%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (69%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;UNITED NATIONS (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; SYRIA; DAMASCUS (SYRIA); SAUDI ARABIA; IRAQ; KUWAIT; PERSIAN GULF ; IRAN

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES ; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MIDDLE EAST-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); SYRIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); POLITICS (89%); TERRORISM (87%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); PEACE PROCESS (74%); ARMED FORCES (72%); BOMBINGS (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%); EVIDENCE (64%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; ASSAD, HAFEZ AL- (PRES); BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC) GEORGE W BUSH (59%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%); 



409 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 48, Column 4; Style Desk

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER'S WORLD;
Safety Standards Being Tightened For Garage Doors

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE

 BODY:
As deaths and injuries continue in accidents involving automatic garage doors, the Federal Government, states and manufacturers are moving to tighten safety standards. Forty-five children and 3 adults are known to have died in door accidents since 1982, and 27 children and 6 adults were hurt.
Most of the children who died, all of them 14 years old or younger, suffocated because garage doors failed to stop their descent and reverse when they touched the children. Automatic doors are operated by portable transmitters or buttons mounted on an inside wall of the garage. The doors can be opened and closed from inside or outside the garage. 
''This is a problem people don't know about,'' said Shawn M. Bartsh, a lawyer from St. Paul who has represented families of children who died after being trapped under garage doors. ''You don't consider your garage door as something that could kill your child.''
Here are some of the fatalites caused by automatic garage doors that were described in a July report by the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission:
* In 1982, a 4-year-old boy was crushed in Dayton, Ohio, by a door installed without an automatic reverse mechanism.
* In 1985, a boy, 2, in North Platte, Neb., suffocated when he became trapped under a door.
* And in 1989, a boy, 8, in Grand Rapids, Mich., was asphyxiated when he was caught between the door and the garage floor.
Minnesota, where garage-door openers are widely used, passed the first state law this year setting mandatory standards for door-opening systems. The California Legislature has approved a similar measure that is now awaiting the Governor's signature. And a Federal bill to provide mandatory standards has been introduced by Representative Gerry Sikorski, Democrat of Minnesota.
''We must protect children all over this country from the potential dangers of unsafe opener systems,'' Mr. Sikorski said. ''Without a fail-safe device, parents can be fooled into believing their garage-door opener is operating safely, when the reverse mechanism is actually defective.''
The Door Operator and Remote Controls Manufacturers Association says the automatic openers are ''one of the safest products in American homes.'' The group notes that about 40 million American homes are fitted with them and that they have been marketed for more than 40 years.
Safety experts say garage doors are the largest, heaviest piece of moving equipment in the home. About 1.5 million openers are sold each year, at prices ranging from $100 to $175, excluding installation.
 
Door-Opener Makers to Meet
Underwriters Laboratories has called a meeting with door-opener producers at its Northbrook, Ill., headquarters on Sept. 26 and 27 to discuss upgrading its voluntary standards to improve the safety reverse features. And the National Safety Council and the producers' group have declared October National Garage Door Safety Month.
The Consumer Product Safety Commission has never proposed mandatory safety requirements for garage-door openers. But it does issue news releases urging homeowners with children between the ages of 2 and 14 to be especially careful when automatic openers are connected to their doors.
Carl W. Blechschmidt, a program manager at the commmission, said the agency would not issue a regulation ''unless we think it is needed and can make the findings necessary to support it.''
Thus, until the Minnesota law, opener standards have been strictly voluntary and have largely been a result of the programs of Underwriters Laboratories. The first U.L. safety standard for door openers was established in 1973. Improvements were added in 1975 and again in 1982.
Manufacturers say that more than 95 percent of the openers produced today meet the 1982 standard, known as U.L. 325. But the Minnesota Safety Council says that as many as half of the systems in use may not comply.
 
Other Mechanisms
''It won't hurt to add another level of protection,'' said Don Grob, a U.L. engineer, who was referring to the discussions with manufacturers scheduled for later this month. ''We're looking to do anything we can that is technically possible and economically producible.''
Three kinds of additional reversing mechanisms are under consideration, he said: an electric eye at floor level, an infrared or ultrasonic motion detector and a switch that trips when the door hits something.
The Minnesota law requires all automatic garage-door openers sold or repaired in the state to conform to the U.L. standard by next Jan. 1. Two years later, openers sold in the state must be built in such a way that any failure of the reversing mechanism prevents the entire system from operating.
Manufacturers say they, too, are concerned about safety. ''Every death is a problem and a concern,'' said John E. Clark, the president of the manufacturers' group. ''We are all continuing to work toward quality, reliability and safety.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Representative Gerry Sikorski of Minnesota, wants Federal standards on garage-door openers (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times); to test an automatic gargare-door opener, place an inch-high object, like a block of wood, flat under the door. If the opener is working properly, it will stop and reverse within two seconds after striking the object; Chart: list of safety tips from the Minnesota Safety Council for automatic garage-door openers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (71%); DAYTON, OH, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: GRAND RAPIDS DIECRAFTS (54%); CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION (55%); CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION (55%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION CHILDREN (90%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); REMOTE CONTROL DEVICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRODUCT SAFETY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); APPROVALS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (67%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD



410 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Early Gold Climb Trimmed; Corn and Wheat Fall Again

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The gold market remains sensitive to Mideast developments but to a lesser extent than in the early days of the conflict, analysts said yesterday after gold posted modest gains amid unsettling news from the region.
Gold futures settled $2.20 to $2.30 higher on New York's Commodity Exchange, with the contract for delivery in September at $385.10 a troy ounce. Silver was 2.3 cents to 3 cents lower, with September at $4.75 an ounce. 
Gold rallied strongly at midday on news that American sailors fired a warning shot at an Iraqi tanker and then boarded the vessel briefly. But the gains were quickly scaled back despite higher crude oil prices and lower stock prices, two factors that have tended to support gold during the six-week-old conflict.
Higher oil prices suggest the United States inflation level could rise, prompting investors to buy gold as an inflation hedge.
Bernard Savaiko, senior metals analyst with Paine Webber Inc. in New York, said gold was near the top of its recent trading range, which ran from about $370 to $390 an ounce, and some traders were reluctant to buy until the market showed it had enough strength to go above $390.
He added that gold also might have been held back by the weakness in silver prices, because of abundant supplies, and by selling linked to the expiration of October gold options.
Corn and wheat futures, meanwhile, extended their losses on the Chicago Board of Trade while most soybean futures advanced, mostly in a continuing reaction to Wednesday's Government crop report. The Agriculture Department report contained higher than expected estimates of 1990 American corn and wheat production and predicted that the nation's soybean stockpile would continue to dwindle.
Joel Karlin, grains analyst with Research Department Inc. in Chicago, said wheat futures were also put under pressure by Agriculture Secretary Clayton K. Yeutter's pledge to oppose an increase in crop set-aside acreage as a means of stemming a slide in wheat prices.
Mr. Yeutter told a farmers' group in Chicago that taking more crop acreage out of production would ultimately make the United States less competitive in the world market.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK COMMODITY EXCHANGE

SUBJECT: GOLD; PRICES; FUTURES TRADING FUTURES (93%); GOLD MARKETS (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); SILVER MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); CORN MARKETS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); WHEAT FARMING (86%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (86%); METALS MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (76%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (75%); MARINE TANKERS (75%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (71%); CROP & LIVESTOCK ALLOCATIONS (69%); AGRICULTURE (69%); 

PERSON: CLAYTON K YEUTTER (70%); 



411 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Ends Mostly Higher After Middle East Flare-Up

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar finished modestly higher against most major foreign currencies in United States trading yesterday after news of a flare-up in the Middle East conflict abruptly reversed an earlier slide.
Initially, the dollar moved lower as trading opened in New York, continuing a trend based on a bearish United States economic outlook. Government reports released early in the session confirmed that deteriorating economic conditions are being accompanied by rising inflation. 
The Labor Department reported that the Producer Price Index jumped 1.3 percent in August, mostly as a result of steep oil price increases. Separately, the Commerce Department said retail sales dropped six-tenths of a percent.
The figures did not surprise financial markets but they added to pessimistic economic data.
It is widely expected that the Federal Reserve Board will modify its monetary policy to revive growth. If the central bank pushes down interest rates, demand for dollars and dollar-based investments will decline.
But currency traders put aside their economic concerns when news broke that United States and Australian Navy ships had fired warning shots, halted and then boarded an Iraqi tanker in the Gulf of Oman.
That news, plus earlier information about Iraqi troops breaking into the French Embassy residence in Kuwait City, spurred dollar purchases.
Robert Gruber, senior corporate trader at Chemical Bank, said United States trading was hectic and volatile before settling down, as it usually does on Fridays. He said once it became apparent that an actual shooting war was not breaking out in the Middle East, the dollar buying subsided.
In Tokyo, the dollar fell to a closing 136.55 Japanese yen, from 137.65 yen at Thursday's close. It was the lowest closing level since Aug. 3, 1989, when it was 136.40 yen. Later, in London, the dollar fell to 136.65 yen. But in New York the dollar ended dealings at 136.45 yen, up from 136.25 yen late Thursday.
The British pound rose to $1.8980, from $1.8770 late Thursday. The pound climbed in New York also, ending the session at $1.8930, compared with $1.8825 late Thursday.
Other late rates for the dollar in New York, compared with late quotes on Thursday, included: 1.5695 German marks, up from 1.5680; 1.2990 Swiss francs, down from 1.3025; 5.2565 French francs, up from 5.2520; 1,171.75 Italian lire, up from 1,170.00, and 1.16505 Canadian dollars, up from 1.16175.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: MIDDLE EAST (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); KUWAIT (79%); FRANCE (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

COMPANY: CHEMICAL BANK (55%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BRITISH POUND (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); INFLATION (76%); PRODUCER PRICES (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); MONETARY POLICY (74%); GERMAN MARK (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); NAVIES (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); RETAIL SALES (70%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ARMED FORCES (67%); NAVAL VESSELS (52%); 



412 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: Oil Nears Highest Price Since Invasion by Iraq

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
Oil prices rose further yesterday, and now stand at their second-highest level since the Iraqi invasion. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, light sweet crude for October delivery ended the week at $31.76 a barrel, up 69 cents for the day and $1.72 for the week.
Since Aug. 1, the day before the invasion of Kuwait, the price is up by 43.7 percent. It reached its post-invasion peak of $31.93 on Aug. 23. 
The increase came despite a comment from President Bush at an impromptu news conference that oil supplies were adequate and prices were too high.
 
Gas Price Down
Product prices fell, with gasoline for October delivery off 3 cents, to 90.36 cents a gallon, and heating oil down 0.69 cent, to 82.79 cents a gallon.
The Energy Department estimated yesterday that higher oil prices and a sluggish economy could push domestic demand lower by 500,000 to 700,000 barrels a day in the fourth quarter. Gasoline consumption could fall by 140,000 barrels a day in the fourth quarter and the first quarter of next year, compared with periods a year ago, said the department. Those drops would represent a decline of about 2 percent.
International oil experts said supplies were rising from Saudi Arabia, Venezuela and elsewhere. But the Oil & Gas Journal, a trade publication, reported that further production declines were likely in this country.
Traders pointed yesterday to scattered unfavorable news. The United States Navy fired a warning shot across the bow of an Iraqi ship that American and Australian sailors then boarded, and Iraqi soldiers in Kuwait City broke into several embassies. Robert E. Martini, a trader at Cargill Investor Services, also cited an announcement by British Petroleum that a pipeline under the North Sea that normally carries 420,000 barrels a day from the Ninian field would be limited to 350,000 barrels a day for about a week, until mechanical problems could be corrected.
 
Orders to Sell
Mr. Martini said price rises were being limited by clients who had placed standing orders with their brokers to sell at prices in the current range. Many people, he said, have contracts that entitle them to buy more oil than they need, at prices below current ones. ''They are looking to take profits,'' he said.
The President, speaking at the news conference, said speculators were causing higher prices. ''The market should not be going for higher prices,'' he said. ''In other words, it's speculation; it's futures speculation.''
As for increasing supplies, Robert P. Boslego, a consultant in Winchester, Mass., said that short-term tanker charters from the Middle East and globally were up about 30 percent over early August. These charters represent only a fraction of the total tanker traffic, but accurately forecast the direction of the shipping trend, he said.
At Cambridge Energy Research Associates, Daniel Yergin, the president, said Venezuela had already increased its production by 200,000 to 250,000 barrels a day. ''It's not something that happens overnight,'' he said. ''It takes several months and a lot of effort.'' In Venezuela's case, this often means firing up equipment that injects steam into one end of an oilfield, pushing the oil toward wells at the opposite end.
 
Venezuela Sells Stored Oil
Vahan Zanoyan, an expert at the Petroleum Finance Company, a Washington consulting firm, said that Venezuela, in addition to sharply increasing production, had sold large amounts of oil from storage.
Additional supplies are dribbling in from elsewhere. The Petroleum Minister of Gabon, Jean Ping, said yesterday that his country had raised production to 80,000 barrels above its former OPEC quota, The Associated Press reported, and would raise it an additional 25,000 barrels.

GRAPHIC: Graph: the price for a barrel of crude oil for October delivery on the New York Mercnatile Exchange, July 2-Sept. 10, 1990 (Source: Knight-Ridder Tradecenter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (90%); BP (LSE) (90%); IHS (NYSE) (60%); ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (90%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (60%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); KUWAIT (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NORTH SEA (79%); 

COMPANY: BP PLC (90%); IHS INC (60%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); CARGILL INVESTOR SERVICES INC (53%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%); US NAVY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAQ; MIDDLE EAST

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); GASOLINE MARKETS (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); MARINE TANKERS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); GASOLINE (79%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (79%); FUTURES (79%); HEATING OIL (79%); HEATING OIL PRICES (79%); TRENDS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); CONSUMPTION (71%); ARMED FORCES (69%); ENERGY RESEARCH (68%); MARINE SHIPPING (68%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); NAVIES (64%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



413 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Drift Lower Again; Dow Falls 18.56

BYLINE: By ROBERT J. COLE

 BODY:
Stock prices drifted lower again yesterday in continued slow trading as unsettling news from the Middle East drove up the price of oil another notch.
Although a new flood of economic data showed that the economy was moving deeper into recession, hardly anyone seemed to pay much attention to anything but the price of crude.
With many traders nervous about what the weekend will bring in the Persian Gulf, the Dow Jones average of 30 blue-chip stocks tumbled 18.56 points for the day, to 2,564.11, making the week's loss 55.44. 
While still sluggish, trading activity rose to 133.4 million shares, from 123.4 million on Thursday. Some 1,008 stocks declined and 171 hit 52-week lows while 472 advanced and 8 hit 52-week highs. Birinyi Associates said heavy program selling clipped nearly 31 points off the Dow for the day and 148 for the week.
 
Mideast News and Rumors
''There's so much conflicting news and rumors about what's happening in the Middle East, it's confusing to figure out what's going on,'' said Peter G. Grennan, head of stock index futures trading at Shearson Lehman Brothers.
He related that crude prices increased in Europe after unconfirmed reports that one of the Soviet Union's biggest pipelines had shut down for unscheduled maintenance. ''No one knows if it's a real rumor,'' he said.
''That stuff drives you nuts. The next day you sift through the news and find out where you stand. But during the day, it's difficult.''
Looking at the market from a purely technical stance, Joseph A. Feshbach, director of technical market analysis for Shearson Lehman Brothers, remarked, ''Oil's up and bonds are down, so we have a weak market.''
Noting that the Dow slid to a ''climactic low'' of 2,483 on Aug. 23, he said: ''You have to retest the lows. History teaches us that the first rally, of the last two weeks, always fails.''
 
Testing the Low
Typically, he went on, the market comes down to test the low. ''This usually leads to a more sustainable rally.''
This means that the market ''should come down some more,'' he said, ''maybe to around 2,500 or a tad under,'' which would mean a drop of an additional 64 points or so.
Mr. Feshbach argued that at that point the market ''should engage in a short-term bottoming process and then turn up - and give a better rally in the fourth quarter.''
Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, said the Fed might ease monetary policy if Congress produced a ''credible, enforceable'' budget package and long-term rates came down, but Mr. Feshbach maintained that his views for the moment were not moving the market.
''What he thinks about doing,'' he said, ''is not important at this point. All that matters is oil prices are up, which suggests that long-term interest rates will move higher. When oil prices stop going up, then long-term interest rates will stop going up -and that'll help the stock market.''
Digital Equipment, the computer giant, slid 2 7/8, to 56 3/8, after tumbling 2 3/8 on Thursday. It topped the Big Board's active stocks, trading 2.2 million shares and dropping to a 52-week low of 54 3/8. Furman Selz downgraded it Thursday and others followed.

GRAPHIC: Chart: The Favorite Stocks

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: MIDDLE EAST (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (90%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); BONDS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (82%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); FUTURES (79%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); MONETARY POLICY (60%); 

PERSON: COLE, ROBERT J ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 



414 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: Industrial Production Declines 0.2%

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 14

 BODY:
Industrial production fell two-tenths of 1 percent in August, its worst performance in four months, the Government said today in a report that analysts characterized as another indication of continued lethargy in the manufacturing economy.
''The industrial side is clearly signaling a slumping economy,'' said David Jones, an economist with Aubrey G. Lanston & Company, a New York government securities dealer.
It was the Government's first report on factory activity since the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait on Aug. 2. But the manufacturing economy was sluggish long before that, growing a meager 1.5 percent during the last 12 months, the Federal Reserve Board said. August's decline was the worst since an equivalent decline of two-tenths of 1 percent in April. 
 
Capacity Usage Down
In a companion report, the central bank said the operating rate of the nation's factories, mines and utilities -which usually moves in tandem with industrial production - fell four-tenths of a percentage point, to 83.1 percent. The operating rate measures not only output but also changes in productivity levels.
''It's consistent with the other data,'' including the manufacturing employment figures and the National Association of Purchasing Management index, said Evalina Tainer, senior domestic economist with the First National Bank of Chicago. ''It continues to show the manufacturing sector is quite sluggish.''
The Labor Department reported last week that 45,000 factory jobs were lost in August. It was the 16th time in 17 months that manufacturing jobs declined.
The monthly survey by the purchasing executives last week showed the manufacturing sector had slowed in August for the second straight month. Their index was down to 47 percent. A reading below 50 percent is considered an indication that the economy is weakening.
In the production report today, only utilities posted a gain, up 1.2 percent. But Gordon Richards, an economist with the National Association of Manufacturers, said the advance came solely from electric power and ''may have been little more than a seasonal factor'' reflecting demand for air-conditioning.
None of the other major components showed a gain.
 
Durables and Nondurables
Manufacturing was off one-tenth of 1 percent, including a drop of two-tenths of 1 percent in the output of durable goods, items expected to last more than three years. Nondurable output was unchanged, and mining production fell 2.3 percent.
The Fed said its industrial production index in August stood at 109.8 percent of its 1987 base, down from 110 percent in July.
In its capacity-utilization report, the Fed said the operating rate at factories producing durable goods fell four-tenths of a percentage point, to 81.4 percent, while the rate at plants making nondurable goods slipped two-tenths of a percentage point, to 83.8 percent.
The operating rate at mines fell from 89.7 percent in July to 87.8 in August, while it gained a percentage point, to 86.9 percent, at utilities.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: total industrial output as a percentage of capacity, March 1989-August 1990 (Source: Federal Reserve Board); index of total production, March 1989-August 1990 (Source: Commerce Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: AUBREY G LANSTON & CO INC (72%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%); FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO HEIGHTS (54%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (55%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTION MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (96%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (89%); MINING OUTPUT (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (79%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); 



415 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Producer Prices Up 1.3% in August

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 14

 BODY:
A surge in oil costs sent wholesale inflation soaring in August, the Government said today, providing the first hard look at how the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait damaged the already weak United States economy.
''If you are leaning toward a recessionary view of the economy, these numbers don't discourage you from that,'' said Nicholas Perna, chief economist at the Shawmut Corporation.
The Producer Price Index for Finished Goods, which measures the cost of goods at all stages of production before they reach consumers, jumped 1.3 percent last month, about as expected, reversing the July decline of one-tenth of 1 percent.
 
Biggest Since January
It was the sharpest climb since a 1.9 percent rise in January, after extremely cold weather caused energy and food costs to soar. 
The Middle East oil shock, the worst in a decade, also caused consumers to close their checkbooks. Retail sales slumped six-tenths of 1 percent last month, after a rise of four-tenths of 1 percent in July, the Commerce Department said.
Analysts had predicted a much smaller drop of about two-tenths of 1 percent. The August number aroused concern because consumer spending accounts for two-thirds of economic activity.
''People are filling up the gas tank, and they have no money left over for much else,'' said Davis Wyss, an economist at Data Resources Inc., a research firm.
Excluding gasoline, retail sales last month showed an even larger drop of 1.1 percent.
A 4.3 percent decline in automobile sales, the largest since January, was crucial in pulling down retail sales. In July, auto sales rose 1 percent.
 
Factory Output Falls
In another sign of a weakening economy, industrial production in August dipped two-tenths of 1 percent, after being unchanged in July, the Federal Reserve Board said. In the last 12 months, factories have increased production at an uninspiring 1.5 percent rate.
''The Fed has to lower interest rates'' to get the economy moving again, said Kathryn Kobe, an economist with Joel Popkin & Company.
But few Wall Street economists expect the central bank to loosen its grip on short-term credit before Congress and the Administration, now locked in budget talks, agree on how to cut the Federal deficit.
''If the only club the Fed has to hold over Congress is interest rates, why throw away the club before you've got something out of Congress?'' Mr. Perna asked.
The central bank is in a predicament: lower interest rates could add to inflation, but many people say the sluggish economy needs cheaper credit to avoid a recession.
''I don't think it can hold off much longer,'' said Ron Schreibman, vice president of the National Assocation of Wholesaler-Distributers.
The core Producer Price Index, which excludes the volatile food and energy categories, matched expectations of a moderate climb of three-tenths of 1 percent, the rate it has maintained for much of the year.
 
Up 4.6% So Far This Year
For the first eight months of this year, producer prices have climbed 4.6 percent, slightly above the 4.5 percent rate for the period last year.
But the latest increases in oil prices will push wholesale inflation well above 5 percent for the year, analysts said, as the effects of higher energy prices work their way through costs at all stages of production.
''This is the first installment of bad news,'' Mr. Perna said.
Home heating oil prices at the wholesale level jumped a record 38.8 percent in August, and wholesale gasoline was up 16.9 percent, the Labor Department said.
Food prices also climbed, up eight-tenths of 1 percent. In one hopeful sign, unrefined food and feed prices fell nine-tenths of 1 percent and foods that require some processing fell one-tenth of 1 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph: index of finished goods prices, March 1989-August 1990 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); KUWAIT (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCER PRICE INDEX; PRICES PRODUCER PRICES (92%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WHOLESALE PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); RECESSION (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); INTEREST RATES (85%); GASOLINE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); WEATHER (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (61%); 

PERSON: NICHOLAS PERNA (70%); 



416 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 153 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Digital's Stock Declines Sharply

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The stock of the Digital Equipment Corporation, the nation's No. 2 computer company, fell sharply yesterday as Wall Street grew increasingly skittish about the minicomputer maker's outlook.
Several analysts have slashed earnings estimates and Digital's shares have tumbled by about $10 a share since last Friday to their lowest level since 1985. Digital shares sank another $2.875 yesterday, to $56.375, and they were the most active issue on the New York Stock Exchange, with more than 2.2 million shares traded.
Some analysts linked the selloff to the fears about demand as the United States economy slows, but others cited deeper product questions about the Maynard, Mass., company. Analysts are worried that the mid-sized VAX 6000, an important minicomputer line for the company, may be squeezed by competitive products from rival computer makers and from Digital's own newly introduced high-end machine.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (91%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORP

SUBJECT: STOCKS (CORPORATE); FINANCES COMPUTER MAKERS (88%); STOCK EXCHANGES (88%); SECURITIES TRADING (87%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); 



417 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 101 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Toyota Unit Plans Parts Plant in U.S.

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS, Sept. 14

 BODY:
A Toyota-owned company, Bodine Aluminum, announced it would build a $50 million parts plant in Troy, Mo. The new plant, the company's first of its type in the United States, will build intake manifolds and cylinder heads, Bodine's president, Robert Lloyd, said. The parts are now imported from Japan.
Bodine is negotiating to buy 50 acres of land for the parts plant. It is scheduled to begin operations in early 1993 and will employ about 100 people. Bodine was purchased last December by the Toyota Motor Corporation's New York-based subsidiary, Toyota Motor Corporate Services of North America Inc.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (85%); TM (NYSE) (85%); 7203 (TSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (85%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORPORATE SERVICES OF NORTH AMERICA INC (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: BODINE ALUMINUM INC; TOYOTA LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TROY (MO)

SUBJECT: PLANT CONSTRUCTION (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (88%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (86%); 



418 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Your Money;
Locating Business For Tax Benefits

BYLINE: By Jan M. Rosen

 BODY:
State and local taxes can play an important role in whether a business has an anemic profit margin or a hefty one. So people who own small businesses should choose their locations carefully. Although some say that things like a strong work force are more important, others say it sometimes pays to relocate.
''With revenue sharing just about out of business, the states are in a crunch,'' said Arthur Gelber, a partner with Laventhol & Horwath in New York who specializes in state taxes. ''They are aggressively auditing - not only to instill a fear of noncompliance but also to protect their tax bases.'' 
Also, many states are raising taxes, passing new taxes and limiting deductions and loss provisions. As a result, Mr. Gelber said, ''state taxes can be more complex than Federal taxes, and companies need to be aware of the intricacies.''
These complexities make finding the location that will offer a particular business its most favorable tax climate far more complex than merely looking at a table of state tax rates and selecting a state with a low one.
''You might have a high-rate state but wind up with a low effective rate with proper planning,'' Mr. Gelber said. For example, he once had a client move his business into New York. Despite relatively high corporate income-tax brackets, in many ways New York's tax structure is friendlier to business than that of many other states.
In this case, the client was in the investment business. New York, thanks to its Wall Street history, ranks along with Delaware and Nevada as a most favorable location for minimizing tax on intangible investment income, like interest and dividends.
New York is also relatively hospitable for businesses that sell large volumes of goods out of state, Mr. Gelber said. Using what is known as an allocation formula, a business may be able to limit its tax liability so that a portion of its sales is taxable neither in New York nor in the state of destination.
The laws of New York City and New Jersey are a bit more restrictive than those of New York State but are still more favorable than those of many other jurisdictions. California, for example, has a unitary tax, under which it attempts to sweep in worldwide income from activities of any related companies in other states or countries.
Mr. Gelber cited a number of other aspects of tax law that business owners should discuss with their tax advisers in deciding where to operate:
* S Corporations. Under Federal tax law, a business with fewer than 35 shareholders that meets certain criteria may incorporate under Subchapter S. That enables it to escape taxation at higher corporate rates and instead to pass income directly to its owners for taxation at lower individual rates. But some states, like New Jersey, Connecticut and Louisiana, do not recognize S corporations. Nor does New York City, and as of this year New York State is subjecting S corporations to a 2.475 percent tax on net income in addition to the personal income tax paid by owners.
* Net Operating Losses. Many states, including Massachusetts, Connecticut and Pennsylvania, do not conform to Federal net operating loss provisions. They impose extreme limitations on what tax losses can be carried forward to profitable years to offset income subject to taxation then. For a business that may incur losses in its start-up years or may have up years and down years, this can be a severe limitation.
* Real Estate Taxes. These vary considerably, but in some areas can take a big bite out of profits for a company with a large plant.
* Incentives. Some jurisdictions have economic development zones and offer businesses reduced sales or real estate taxes to locate there, or offer employers income tax credits for hiring people in areas of high unemployment, like the South Bronx.
* Other Taxes. There are a variety of taxes than can be as onerous as income taxes - or more so for a company that has an unprofitable year. For example, Texas does not have an income tax, but it has a levy on a business's capital base. Los Angeles County has a gross receipts tax, and Georgia taxes inventories. Florida, which has no income tax, imposes an intangibles tax on investments.
''State taxation has really mushroomed over the last five years or so,'' Mr. Gelber said. ''I've been as busy in the last five to eight years as in the preceding 25.'' Given the complexities of tax law and how the different taxes affect different kinds of business operations, advice must be tailored for each business client.
 
Inflation's Bite
 Many employees will suffer a loss of real income next year for the first time since 1980, William M. Mercer Inc., a compensation consultant, reports. Based on a survey of 3,000 employers, Mercer is projecting that salary increases in 1991 will average 5.4 percent, which, it says, could be lower than the rate of inflation, given the pressures of rising oil prices.
In 1980, when the Consumer Price Index rose 13.5 percent, salary increases were 9.9 percent. Each year since, pay increases have been a few points ahead of inflation.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; SMALL BUSINESS TAXES & TAXATION (94%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); LABOR FORCE (72%); RELOCATIONS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); INCOME TAX (67%); SHAREHOLDERS (63%); 

PERSON: ROSEN, JAN M ARTHUR GELBER (91%); 



419 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Mileage Bill Gets a Lift In Senate

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 14

 BODY:
With a vote that suggested strong support for requiring that cars be made much more fuel-efficient, the Senate opened debate today on legislation that would force auto makers to raise sharply the gas mileage of cars they sell.
The legislation would lead in stages to new cars that attain an average of about 40 miles a gallon by 2001. Each manufacturer, foreign or domestic, would increase the average fuel economy of its fleet by about 40 percent. Under current law, auto makers are generally required to sell cars averaging 27.5 miles a gallon, although some variations are permitted. 
The car companies strongly oppose the bill, which is sponsored by Senator Richard A. Bryan, a Nevada Democrat. Transportation Secretary Samuel K. Skinner said today that President Bush would probably veto the measure if it was passed.
 
Passenger Safety Issue
The industry and the Administration have called the bill technically unfeasible and have said it is dangerous because it would lead to more small cars, which do not protect passengers in accidents as well as large models.
Supporters say that the goal of the legislation could be met, in part, by current technology and that the industry would resist adopting improvements unless forced to do so.
If enacted, the legislation would substantially alter the design of cars sold in the United States, whether by emphasizing fuel efficiency over power and performance, by reducing vehicle size, or by a combination of those approaches.
The legislation, which was put off by the Senate earlier this year, appears to have gained considerable support since Iraq invaded Kuwait.
 
Action Bars Filibuster
Final action on the bill could come as early as next week. The vote today was procedural, putting time limits on the preliminary debate over whether to consider the bill on the Senate floor.
In the vote to begin debate on the bill, the measure's advocates overwhelmed opponents who were planning a filibuster, a parliamentary maneuver in which a minority of lawmakers try to defeat legislation by engaging in lengthy debate. In the first test of support for the bill, the Senate invoked cloture, which limits debate, by a vote of 68 to 28 - well above the three-fifths vote needed.
Although there will be more debate and probably another cloture vote before a final Senate vote, the bill's supporters were elated by the margin of their success. Mr. Skinner said the Administration was alarmed by signs that the bill might be hastily passed.
''The goal set in the Bryan legislation is completely unrealistic, irresponsible, and more important, unattainable from a technology viewpoint,'' Mr. Skinner said at a news conference quickly called after the Senate voted.
 
Accident Figures Cited
At the news conference, the Transportation Department released a study that it said proved that previous reductions in car size, made to accommodate current regulations, had cost thousands of lives because the small cars produced to meet the standards tended to result in more accident fatalities.
Mr. Skinner said that based on this experience, the Bryan bill ''should really be named the Highway Fatality Bill.''
At first, Mr. Skinner said the study showed that 1,340 additional people would be killed each year if the mileage targets were met. But Jerry Ralph Curry, the head of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, corrected Mr. Skinner and said the study did not address future fatalities but measured those of the past. Some 50,000 Americans die each year in highway accidents.
Mr. Curry said the agency estimated that the Bryan bill would cause car weights to be reduced by 450 to 850 pounds, which he said would result in 611 to 1,140 extra fatalities a year, plus 2,900 to 5,350 injuries.
But officials of the highway safety agency said it had no study to support those figures, and Mr. Curry said later, ''I'm really not prepared to give you all of the details on future predictions.'' He said evidence to support his estimates would be made public later.
Although they were repeatedly asked, neither Mr. Skinner nor Mr. Curry would estimate how much additional fuel economy might be achieved through new technology, without reducing the size of automobiles or otherwise diminishing safety.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; GASOLINE; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); FILIBUSTER (89%); POLITICS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); VETO (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR GEORGE W BUSH (53%); 



420 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: All Oil Exporters Gain, With Saudis at the Top

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
Higher oil prices are helping all of the world's oil exporters, but the biggest beneficiary is Saudi Arabia, which is using the additional income to subsidize countries taking economic and military measures against Iraq and to pay for a large military buildup of its own.
Saudi Arabia's oil income should nearly double this month, according to one analyst's conservative estimate. It should be able to collect an average of $24.50 a barrel in September, about $6 a barrel more than it would have received if the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait had not occurred, said the analyst, Fareed S. Mohamedi of the Petroleum Finance Company, a consulting firm in Washington.
That means an extra $880 million this month alone for the 4.9 million barrels a day the Saudis had been exporting before the invasion. That oil would have been worth only $2.7 billion. 
 
Additional $1.6 Billion
In addition, the country will take in a total of $1.6 billion for the additional 2.2 million barrels a day that it is now able to sell to help make up for the loss of output resulting from the embargo on Iraqi and Kuwaiti oil.
Altogether, Saudi oil exports for this month should increase by at least $2.5 billion, to $5.2 billion, as a direct result of the Iraqi occupation of Kuwait, Mr. Mohamedi figures. He added that his formula assumed that even without the invasion an agreement by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries on July 27 to curb oil output and raise prices would have pushed the country's oil revenues up this month to $2.7 billion, from $2.3 billion in July.
The additional revenues should cover Saudi expenses related to the tensions in the Persian Gulf, said Jean R. AbiNader, the president of the National U.S.-Arab Chamber of Commerce.
These include $400 million to $500 million a month that the Saudi Government has committed as subsidies for the American military forces there; a similar amount that it has pledged in support to countries like Jordan, Egypt and Turkey, which have lost export revenues as a result of the embargo on trade with Iraq; about $750 million a month in extra operational expenses for the Saudi military, and up to $20 billion in extra military imports this year and next.
 
Distortion of Investments
But the military buildup could distort Saudi investment patterns in ways that could hurt the country's long-term development, Mr. AbiNader said. The war economy means that investing money in building warehouses, for example, may seem more profitable than building a dress factory, he said.
Still, the Saudis will be the principal beneficiaries of higher oil prices, said Larry Goldstein, the president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation, a nonprofit group based in New York that is supported by oil industry contributions.
In contrast, the exiled Government of Kuwait will be forced to draw upon its estimated $100 billion in foreign investment to fulfill its pledge of $5 billion to be equally divided between the United States and countries affected by the embargo. The United Arab Emirates has also agreed to make financial contributions, although the amount has not been disclosed.
Because of the higher oil prices since the invasion, total OPEC revenues from August through January are likely to increase by $20 billion, to $90 billion. Of the $20 billion, the Saudi Government will collect $15 billion because it is able to increase production much more than any other country, Mr. Goldstein said. By comparison, Venezuela, the United Arab Emirates, Nigeria and Iran together should gain $10.5 billion to $12 billion in additional revenues, while Iraq and Kuwait will forfeit $13 billion in combined revenues if the embargo on their exports is maintained.
Some experts contend that the main benefit to producers will come from higher prices rather than from a rise in production. They argue that the invasion is having a much larger effect on oil prices than people like Mr. Mohamedi estimate.
''I think all the countries that can maintain exports will benefit handsomely,'' said Philip K. Verleger Jr., an economist at the Institute for International Economics in Washington.
Large oil exporters that do not belong to OPEC include Mexico, Norway, Britain and the Soviet Union.
The Iraqi invasion is also likely to bring long-term benefits to oil producers that are far from the Middle East and need foreign investment to develop large but untapped oil and natural gas reserves. Indonesia, Mexico and Venezuela fall into this category, Mr. Mohamedi said, explaining, ''They can say, 'It's insecure over there, come to us.' ''

GRAPHIC: Chart: estimated revenues from oil exports in August and September for major oil exporting countries (Source: Petroleum Finance Company)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (99%); IRAQ (97%); KUWAIT (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (79%); JORDAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TURKEY (79%); GULF STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; SAUDI ARABIA; IRAQ

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-KUWAIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EXPORT TRADE (92%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); TRENDS (79%); ARMS TRADE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); EXPORT PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (74%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (74%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); GASOLINE MARKETS (60%); WOMEN'S APPAREL MFG (50%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH FAREED S MOHAMEDI (79%); 



421 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Fell 0.6% Last Month

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 14

 BODY:
The nation's shoppers, a main source of the economy's drive, grew increasingly cautious in August, pulling retail sales down six-tenths of 1 percent amid worries about job security and the soaring oil prices resulting from the confrontation with Iraq in the Persian Gulf.
The sales figures, combined with other fresh Government data on prices and output, solidified the views of many analysts that the economy is sliding into a recession and that the downturn might be accompanied by a marked upturn in inflation. The signs of weakness will undoubtedly add to the pressure on the Federal Reserve to ease credit.
The Producer Price Index for Finished Goods, which measures goods one step away from being sold to consumers, spurted 1.3 percent last month as energy costs jumped 9.5 percent after having fallen in each of the preceding six months, the Labor Department reported today. 
 
Production Declines
And the Federal Reserve reported that industrial output fell two-tenths of 1 percent in August, the first decline since April, while the nation's factories, mines and utilities operated at 83.1 percent of capacity, down four-tenths of a point for the month.
Oil prices, which have risen 44 percent since Aug. 1, closed today in New York at $31.76 a barrel, the second-highest level since Iraq invaded Kuwait. [Page 35.] ''When economic historians look back,'' said Gordon Richards, an economist for the National Association of Manufacturers, ''they will probably concur that the recession of 1990-1991 began in August. Certainly, everything we have seen today indicates that a cyclical downturn is emerging rapidly from the crisis in the Middle East.''
 
Awaiting Budget Action
The figures also gave new impetus to the view that the Federal Reserve will move swiftly to relax monetary policy - the debate is already focused on how much - as soon as a deficit-reduction agreement is struck by negotiators from the Administration and Congress.
''We're going to get some significant interest rate cuts,'' said James Annable, chief economist for the First National Bank of Chicago. The Fed would be able to ''look through'' the 1.3 percent jump in producer prices , he said, to see that it largely reflected oil prices and that an easing would not pose a great inflation risk.
Nonetheless, the price of finished goods, excluding energy, rose by five-tenths of 1 percent, after a decline in July of one-tenth of 1 percent, and petroleum at the intermediate and crude stages of production jumped 1.3 percent and 9.3 percent, respectively, the latter the biggest monthly surge in 17 years.
The effects of even a temporary bulge in oil prices can spread quickly through the economy to both dampen psychology and, like a tax increase, reduce the amount of money available for other spending.
 
Cars and Fuel Are Dominant
The retail sales report was dominated by automobiles and gasoline and was about as expected after allowing for an upward revision for July, which now shows an advance of four-tenths of 1 percent.
Sales at auto dealers slumped 4.3 percent, contributing to a 2.6 percent overall decline in sales of durable goods - those lasting at least three years. Only the furniture and home furnishings category posted a gain, rising seven-tenths of 1 percent for the second straight month.
The figures are adjusted for seasonal, holiday and trading-day variations - though not for price changes - and some analysts found a bit of comfort in the fact that before the adjustment car sales actually rose by $500 million.
 
Influence of Gasoline Prices
But a close look at the effect of gasoline prices, the major element in a 6.4 percent rise in sales at service stations, was sobering. Factor out the 20 percent rise in retail gasoline prices resulting from the cutoff of oil supplies from Kuwait and Iraq, and overall retail sales show a decline of 1.1 percent, according to calculations by Robert T. McGee, an economist at Tokai Bank in New York.
Service station sales were the sole reason for an overall six-tenths of 1 percent rise in sales of nondurable goods. Elsewhere in that broad category, there were declines of two-tenths of 1 percent for general merchandise stores and food stores, and declines ranging from five-tenths to nine-tenths for drugstores, restaurants and apparel stores.
''Because of the energy-led run-up in consumer prices, real consumer spending declined sharply in August, offsetting most of the increase seen since May,'' Mr. McGee said.
 
A Different Calculation
If both cars and gasoline are excluded, retail sales last month edged down one-tenth of 1 percent, analysts calculated.
At $149.2 billion, sales last month were 1.7 percent higher than for August 1989, an increase well under the 4.8 percent advance in the Consumer Price Index for the most recently reported 12-month period. This means that the amount of merchandise moving across retail counters actually contracted during the period.
For the June-through-August period, the dollar amount of retail sales ran 2.9 percent ahead of the level for the same months of 1989.
The Commerce Department's revision in the July sales data, to a gain of four-tenths of 1 percent, compared with an initial estimate that the gain was one-tenth of 1 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph: total retail sales, March 1989-Aug. 1990 (Source: Commerce Dept.) (pg. 33)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%); JPM (NYSE) (52%); JPM (LSE) (52%); 8634 (TSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); GULF STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%); FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO HEIGHTS (52%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (52%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY RETAIL SALES (92%); SALES FIGURES (92%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RECESSION (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PRODUCER PRICES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RETAILERS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); MINING OUTPUT (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); MONETARY POLICY (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); TAX LAW (61%); INTEREST RATES (50%); HISTORY (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 



422 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: An Olympics of Drills and Lathes

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHICAGO

 BODY:
A platoon of young men, the cream of a new generation of machinists, have spent several days drilling, cutting and grinding metal in the nation's oddest machine shop - a carpeted hallway in the cavernous McCormick Center here. They were competing in the midst of the nation's largest manufacturing trade show for the right to represent the United States in industry's equivalent of the Olympics.
In two four-day shifts, the 15 contestants rarely strayed from their huge high-speed lathes and drills, some computer controlled, as they balanced long periods of studying blueprints and programming controls with intense spells of work on metal. They paid little attention to the 100,000 visitors to the International Manufacturing Technology Show who streamed by on their way to acres of exhibits, seminars, sales meetings and crowded food booths Nor did the crowds bother much with them: few people tarried to watch their work. Even the Vocational Industrial Clubs of America, which brought the contest here to attract attention to the nation's declining cadre of expert machinists, acknowledges that a nation weaned on ''Wide World of Sports'' will not spend hours watching people like David Gwaltney develop computer programs to control a lathe. 
His computerized machines worked at such high speeds and close tolerances that onlookers would have had no way of telling how he was faring in the competition. The lathe was used to fashion what looked like a fancy doorknob out of a brass block. Later, he used a drill to form an aluminum piece into which the knob could be screwed. After Mr. Gwaltney and fellow competitors finished their work, the judges disassembled the completed pieces and scrutinized how faithful they were to the blueprints. The final rankings will be announced this weekend.
Three of the Chicago finalists will represent the United States in the 31st International Youth Skill Olympics in the Netherlands. The contests held every other year pit young adults from industrial nations against each other to test their skills at trades and crafts as diverse as hairdressing, bricklaying and metal processing. Highest Priority But it is the manufacturing trades that are the highest priority this year for the Vocational Industrial Clubs.
''The heart of the manufacturing economy is the machine tool industry,'' said Thomas Holdsworth, a spokesman for the clubs, based in Leesburg, Va., which have nearly 300,000 secondary students as members in 13,000 local chapters. ''The average age of the machinist today is 50, and there's hardly anyone in the pipeline. We have the equipment, but we are running out of people.''
During the competition here, he said, ''We have had some people stop who are so anxious for quality machinists that they offer to hire all of the contestants.'' What is in it for the young adults competing here, especially since they are already so proficient that they have good jobs or bright prospects? For some it is simply a chance to satisfy a taste for competition.
''I'd just like to see how good they are overseas,'' said Mr. Gwaltney, a slim, long-haired 18-year-old from Rittman, Ohio. He already has a job with the Wooster Brush Company. So far, he has received expense money for trips to a preliminary competition in Tulsa, Okla., and to Chicago; a little publicity in the hometown paper, and a chance to satisfy competitive instincts that he used to vent by racing motorcycles.
History suggests that if Mr. Gwaltney is chosen for the American team, he will find out next summer that the Europeans and the Asians are very good. The United States has repeatedly been beaten in the manufacturing portions of the competition, sometimes very badly.
''The Asians were prepared for anything,'' said John Mihovetz, a contestant in Tokyo in 1985 who finished ninth out of 18 in the tool-and-die category. ''We were prepared for what we thought we would have to do.''
For the contestants here, the conditions are vastly different from the machine shops back home. ''It is pretty strange,'' said Brett Overbay, an 18-year-old competitor in the drilling category from Fontana, Calif. ''I never worked on carpet before.'' The air-conditioning is also a luxury for Mr. Overbay, who has been working six hours a day after school and on weekends in Mr. Mihovetz's shop since 1988, machining aircraft landing gear and high-performance racing car parts. ''I'm used to working in shorts and T-shirts in temperatures up to 110 degrees,'' he said.
Mr. Overbay is competing against four other drilling contestants. There are four contestants working on computer-driven lathes and drills. And six others are competing in the basic lathe category. In Mr. Overbay's category, each contestant was given a model of a complicated part, guidance on using equipment that manufacturers have lent for the contest, detailed blueprints, and four days to duplicate the model part as closely as possible. Tasks Largely Automated Curiously, though, given all the effort, winners of the Skills Olympics are not really the kind of machinists industry wants. The contestants often concentrate on hand-filing and other crafts in an age when such tasks have largely been automated.
Nevertheless, ''having the competition here is page one of a long novel,'' said Albert W. Moore, president of the National Machine Tool Builders Association, one of the groups sponsoring the giant technology exposition. ''We have to demonstrate that there is going to be sizzle in the shop to attract kids weaned on 'Star Wars.' ''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Working in unusually public conditions at the McCormick Center in Chicago, Brett Overbay competed in the American finals of the Youth Skill Olympics at the International Manufacturing Technology Show. (Jerry Marmozewicz/Oscar & Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (70%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MANUFACTURING SERVICESINC (56%); VOCATIONAL INDUSTRIAL CLUBS OF AMERICA (56%); 

SUBJECT: MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT; SHOWS (EXHIBITS); CHILDREN AND YOUTH FACTORY WORKERS (90%); MACHINE TOOLS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (88%); MACHINE SHOPS (78%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (77%); COMPUTER INTEGRATED MFG (77%); TRADE SHOWS (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); SALES & SELLING (71%); SPORTS (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION (67%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (62%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J SIR GEORGE YOUNG (74%); MARIE-GEORGE BUFFET (55%); 



423 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1443 words

HEADLINE: CONFRONTATION IN THE GULF;
PARIS ADDING 84,000 TO FORCE IN GULF; BONN'S AID TO RISE

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Sept. 15

 BODY:
Responding to Baghdad's moves against French and other foreign diplomats in Kuwait on Friday, President Francois Mitterrand today ordered 4,000 soldiers and dozens of planes, helicopters and tanks to Saudi Arabia.
He also called on the United Nations to expand the embargo against Iraq to include air traffic and ordered the expulsion of some Iraqi diplomats, security agents and military personnel training here.
Calling Iraq a ''bellicose state that poorly estimates the risks of its actions,'' Mr. Mitterrand announced the measures after a special Cabinet session to deal with what he called ''Iraq's way of probing allied solidarity.'' #3 Frenchmen Still Missing He was referring to the storming of the French Ambassador's residence in Kuwait by Iraqi troops on Friday, one of four Iraqi raids on Western diplomatic posts in Kuwait over two days. Three Frenchmen were taken hostage; a French military attache was also seized but later released. 
The French President's moves today came as Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d met with Chancellor Helmut Kohl in West Germany in the latest effort by Washington to gain financial and military support for the American-led forces in the Persian Gulf. After the meeting, Mr. Kohl announced that Bonn had promised nearly $2 billion in military and economic aid. West Germany, along with Japan, had been criticized for not doing enough in the campaign against Iraq. [Page 16.] On Friday, Canada, Belgium, Italy and Britain promised to bolster their forces in the gulf.
 
Pressing for Withdrawal
The military effort, along with United Nations economic sanctions, is aimed at pressing President Saddam Hussein of Iraq to withdraw his forces from Kuwait, which was invaded on Aug. 2. [Iraqi occupation forces opened a Kuwaiti border crossing and allowed many refugees to cross over into Khafji, Saudi Arabia, Saudi officials said. The reports were sketchy and could not immediately be confirmed. [And hours after Baghdad assailed France for increasing tension in the gulf, President Hussein ordered the release of elderly and sick French nationals, Reuters said. The Baghdad radio said the decision to free the French was in response to an appeal by a visiting former Algerian President, Ahmed Ben Bella.] Council Meeting Scheduled The United Nations Security Council scheduled informal consultations tonight on France's request for a resolution that would condemn the invasion of embassy compounds in Kuwait as a violation of international accords on diplomatic immunity.
The five permanent Council members - the United States, the Soviet Union, Britain, France and China -met in advance to negotiate a proposed resolution for the full Council to approve.
After the 15-member Council votes on the measure, diplomats said, France, Britain and the United States plan to seek a more ambitious resolution tightening the land and sea embargo against Iraq and Kuwait to include air traffic.
Such an expansion of the embargo would mean empowering countries with military aircraft in the gulf region to intercept and if necessary destroy transport planes suspected of ferrying supplies to Iraq in violation of the Security Council's trade ban.
France also favors extending trade sanctions to other countries caught systematically breaking the embargo.
Among those designated for expulsion from France were several Iraqi military attaches, and what Mr. Mitterrand described as other Iraqis ''engaged in information gathering'' activities for Iraq, as well as 26 Iraqi military personnel training in France.
Mr. Mitterrand said Iraqi diplomats remaining in France would be confined in their movements to the city limits of Paris.
 
Civilian Hostages
Several hundred French nationals are among the thousands of Westerners held by Baghdad as hostages or trapped in Iraq and Kuwait as the crisis has continued.
Asserting that Kuwait was now part of Iraq, the Iraqi Government on Aug. 24 ordered the 60 embassies in Kuwait to shut down and move their envoys and staffs to Baghdad. Power and water was cut to missions that remained open and many were surrounded by Iraqi troops.
But more than a dozen missions have remained open to show that their governments still recognize Kuwait as a sovereign nation and to keep in touch with the foreigners trapped in the country. Among these misions is the United States Embassy, where a skeletal staff led by Ambassador W. Nathaniel Howell is sheltering numerous American citizens.
 
Relationship No Longer Special
The French response to Iraq's actions highlights the continuing deterioration of what was once a special relationship between Paris and the Iraqi Government.
In the 1970's, France helped Iraq acquire nuclear technology, assistance that apparently ended when Israel bombed and destroyed an Iraqi nuclear installation in 1981.
During much of the 1980's, France supplied Iraq with modern weapons that gave Baghdad an advantage in its war with Iran.
Mr. Mitterrand underlined the extent of the deterioration in the past months by repeatedly characterizing President Hussein as a man bent on war. He said today that France is keeping other retaliatory measures ''in reserve'' because ''we don't think we have reached the end of the escalation.''
 
Outbreak of Hostilities Feared
The President said that any analysis of the gulf crisis clearly indicates the existence ''of a great danger'' of an armed conflict between Iraq and the American, other Western and Arab forces stationed in the region.
Mr. Mitterrand's decisions today will bring the French military contingent stationed in Saudi Arabia and the region to 13,000 soldiers, 14 ships and about 100 anti-tank helicopters, diplomats here said.
According to a report on French television, France is beefing up its air presence in Saudi Arabia with 30 Mirage 2000 jets.
Also bound for Saudi Arabia are an 1,100-man helicopter regiment with 48 copters, an armored regiment with 48 tanks, and an infantry regiment with anti-tank and anti-aircraft missiles.
France already has nine naval vessels in the gulf region as well as several hundred military personnel in Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates - a total of about 3,800 servicemen.
In Washington, the Bush Administration said it was pleased with France's decision to send substantial additional forces to the gulf.
''This decision is further evidence of the determined and united international will to resist Iraq's blatant aggression and violation of international law,'' the White House said in a statement.
 
Iraq May Expel French
The Iraqi Ambassador in France, Abdelrazak al-Hashemi, said Iraq would respond to the French actions at the diplomatic level, presumably by expelling French Embassy officials in Baghdad.
Mr. Mitterrand, in urging expanding the embargo to the air, said the Security Council should further define the ''means of action'' available to tighten the economic siege on Iraq .
In his comments today, Mr. Mitterrand also defended France's previous relations with Iraq and its arms sales as actions in the best interest of France at the time. Iraq owes France about $5 billion, mostly for weapons.
Mr. Mitterrand said helping Iraq was a policy that had been urged by the Saudis and the Kuwaitis themselves, because they felt threatened by Iran's Islamic revolutionary Government.
 
Iraqi Disclaimer Ridiculed
A spokesman for the French Foreign Ministry said today that Iraq's denial that its troops entered the residential compound of the French Embassy in Kuwait on Friday was ''not in the least bit serious.''
The spokesman, Daniel Bernard, said the French Ambassador's residence was sacked and burglarized by Iraqi soldiers.
He said the French authorities still did not know the whereabouts of three citizens who were taken from the Ambassador's residence.
 
KUWAITI BORDER POST OPENS
DHAHRAN, Saudi Arabia, Sept. 15 (Special to The New York Times) -Iraqi forces occupying Kuwait opened a border crossing at a Saudi Arabian town today and allowed some Kuwaitis to pass through, residents and Government officials said.
A Saudi official said that ''many, many refugees are now crossing the border.'' Reports were extremely sketchy and the flow of refugees could not be confirmed.
A Saudi police officer, a hotel clerk and a customs official reached by telephone tonight in the town of Khafji said the Kuwaitis had begun to cross the border this afternoon.
They were unable to offer precise numbers of those crossing, although the hotel clerk said he believed it was ''more than 100.'' No one reached by telephone had any reports of Westerners crossing the Saudi border.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 17, 1990, Monday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article in some copies yesterday about French steps in the Persian Gulf crisis misstated the procedure that would be permissible if the United Nations expanded the embargo against Iraq to air traffic.
That step would let countries fire warning shots at suspect transport aircraft, but would not give them the right to shoot the planes down, legal experts say. Later developments are reported today on page A11.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); 

COUNTRY: KUWAIT (98%); IRAQ (96%); FRANCE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); GERMANY (92%); GULF STATES (92%); ALGERIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); JAPAN (79%); BELGIUM (54%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; FRANCE; IRAQ; KUWAIT ; SAUDI ARABIA

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN SERVICE; EMBARGOES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) ; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; FRANCE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-IRAQ DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (93%); ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); IMMUNITY (73%); DIPLOMATIC IMMUNITY (73%); HOSTAGE TAKING (73%); HELICOPTERS (72%); REFUGEES (72%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); DEFENSE SPENDING (71%); APPROVALS (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M; MITTERRAND, FRANCOIS (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%); 



424 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1495 words

HEADLINE: CONFRONTATION IN THE GULF;
FEARING BACKLASH, BIG OIL COMPANIES WILL TRIM PROFITS

BYLINE: By THOMAS C. HAYES

 BODY:
Fearful of public and Congressional outcry over the large profits that many oil companies are likely to report for the fiscal quarter that ends in two weeks, industry executives are trying to find ways to hold down those profits.
Their strategy takes two tacks. One is to hold down the increases in the retail price of gasoline. That may be news to motorists who have seen gas prices rise an average of 23 cents a gallon since the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait last month, but oil industry executives say a 36-cent-a-gallon increase would have been needed to offset the sharp increase in crude oil prices, which have nearly doubled this summer.
The oil companies' second strategy for reducing profits is to increase the amount of money they set aside, or hold in reserve, for future environmental expenses, for refinery and chemical-plant maintenance programs and for potential legal claims. Such a step is commonplace in the industry and conforms with accounting standards. 
In trying to hold down profits, the oil industry is heeding the advice of the White House and senior Republicans in Congress.
 
Calls For Restraint
In a speech on Aug. 8, President Bush urged the oil companies to show restraint in raising gasoline prices. The next day, Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the minority leader, sent a telegram to the chief executives of 11 major oil companies, warning that if gasoline price increases were not checked, the outcry would be overwhelming.
''I can assure you that it will be very difficult to stop legislation controlling the prices of petroleum products or taxing profits resulting from these increases should not action be taken by the oil industry,'' he said in the telegram.
The industry is anxious to avoid a replay of the 1970's, when angry consumers and legislators pilloried Big Oil as oil prices and company profits soared. A windfall profit tax took several billion dollars away from oil companies before crude oil prices plunged below $10 after 1985. Bryan Jacoboski, an analyst at Paine Webber, said oil executives suppose now that ''the best way to avoid any windfall profit tax is not to report any windfall profits.''
One warning of potential backlash came Thursday, when Senator Kent Conrad, a North Dakota Democrat, told Energy Secretary James D. Watkins, ''There will be universal outrage'' if reports of soaring oil profits appear.
Mr. Watkins replied that antitrust officials in the Justice Department were the Administration's first line of defense against profiteering. He also said oil companies that engaged in the practice would be ''hammered'' by the Administration.
 
Higher Profits Seem Certain
Senator Conrad said in an interview Friday: ''If there is a significant surge in profits, we all know there will be a public reaction. I'm not engaged in oil-industry bashing. I am trying to understand what the President means when he says we will not allow profiteering. Where is the plan?'' Nonetheless, profit increases of more than 40 percent from those reported in the comparable fiscal quarter last year seem certain for at least four major oil companies, and many others are expected to show profits of close to 20 percent, Wall Street securities analysts say. In general, oil companies that will profit the most are those that produce a great deal of crude oil and thus will benefit from the near-doubling of crude oil prices.
''It's a great time to be a producer of oil, but it's a bad time to be a retail seller of gasoline,'' Mr. Jacoboski said.
Holding down prices at the gas pump could also help the larger oil companies in the future because smaller competitors might be squeezed out of gasoline retailing.
 
Smaller Company Hurt
One independent company, the East Coast Oil Corporation, which is based in Richmond and has 42 gas stations in Virginia, has had its daily sales volume reduced by 20 percent in the last month because its price are now a few pennies a gallon higher than nearby stations operated by major oil companies like Texaco and Mobil.
East Coast's president, John M. Steele, said he would have to sell the gas at a loss of a few pennies a gallon to match the major companies' prices. As it is, at an average price of $1.20 a gallon, he said he was making two-tenths of a cent a gallon in profit, before taxes and expenses. In early July, when he sold the same gasoline for 95 cents a gallon, three cents below the competing large oil companies, his operating profit was eight cents a gallon.
''The credibility of our segment is really in jeopardy right now,'' he said. ''A customer comes in, sees prices are 25 cents higher and thinks we're making a killing.''
The oil companies' strategy of building up reserves to pay for future expenses is not uncommon.
''It's kind of a well-established tradition in the oil industry that any time your company realizes extraordinary earnings that you try to develop some extraordinary pocket to deeply hide those earnings,'' said Bernard J. Picchi, an analyst at Salomon Brothers. ''Environmental charges have been the favorite in the last two years. I expect we will see more of them, and a lot more settlements of long-standing legal disputes.''
 
Planning for Budgets
Many oil companies are about to begin reviews to set 1991 budgets for their operations. William L. Randol, an analyst at the First Boston Corporation, said some companies might announce higher spending commitments to search for new oil reserves. ''If they have any sense, they will do it with a great deal of public fanfare,'' Mr. Randol said. Exploration budgets typically are announced in the final weeks or early months of the year.
Staying attuned to Congress has taken on a fresh urgency for oil executives, who see in the Persian Gulf crisis an opportunity to reclaim some of the political ground lost after the disastrous Exxon Valdez oil spill in Alaska 18 months ago.
The blockade against Iraq and Kuwait crude has dramatically underscored the decline of the nation's oil production, which has fallen to about seven million barrels a day. The United States, which consumes about 16 million barrels a day, has become more dependent on low-cost crude imports. Daily crude imports were nearly eight million barrels a day before the Iraqi invasion on Aug. 2.
The oil industry wants Congress to back new tax credits that would reduce drilling expenses in the United States. It also wants to explore and produce oil in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska and the coastal waters near Southern California, the Carolinas and Florida, where oil production is not now permitted.
 
Steps to Cut Profits
In examples of how oil companies are trying to curtail profits, ARCO and Oryx Energy announced steps last week that will bite into their third-quarter earnings. ARCO settled a long-running pricing dispute over Alaskan crude oil last week, agreeing to pay $287 million to Alaska's government.
Oryx, the nation's largest independent oil producer, said it had taken out new loans of nearly $1 billion, sharply raising its interest expense, to acquire 17 percent of its stock, held by the Pew family charitable trusts, for $968 million. In addition, Conoco, which is owned by E. I. DuPont de Nemours & Company, said earlier this month that it increased its drilling budget by 10 percent. All these expenses have the effect of reducing a company's profits.
Some economists have suggested that President Bush might be practicing smart politics by jawboning against gasoline price increases but that his policy discourages conservation, by keeping prices artifically low. Gasoline consumers also could be paying higher prices in a few years if many independent gasoline marketers are driven from the business.
The oil industry is far from monolithic, as the plight of the independent gasoline marketers suggests. Many major oil companies, including Exxon, Mobil, Amoco and Texaco, are called ''integrated'' because they operate in virtually all phases of the industry: exploration, production, refining, transportation, service-station retailing and petrochemical manufacturing.
The jump in oil prices this quarter will benefit exploration and production units because each barrel will bring in sharply higher revenues, while the costs to find and pump the oil have not changed. Most refineries also should show higher profits because gasoline demand was strong during the quarter, plant operations were close to capacity and wholesale gasoline prices rose sharply.
 
Some Divisions Suffer
On the other hand, petrochemical and gasoline marketing operations were squeezed. Petrochemical units were hurt because demand for products slowed while costs for crude oil, the major raw material for making plastics and other products, soared. And gasoline marketing divisions were unable to recover higher costs for wholesale gasoline deliveries because of the major oil companies' response to the President's call to keep retail prices in check.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES; PUBLIC OPINION; GASOLINE; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (97%); OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); PRICE INCREASES (92%); GASOLINE PRICES (92%); EXECUTIVES (91%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (76%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (76%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (60%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: HAYES, THOMAS C; DOLE, ROBERT J (SEN) KENT CONRAD (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 



425 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 3325 words

HEADLINE: AIDS in Africa: A Killer Rages On

SERIES: A Contenent's Agony/First of four articles

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM with JOHN TIERNEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NAIROBI, Kenya

 BODY:
The AIDS epidemic continues to course through Africa, outracing the prevention campaigns that have now been started by every government.
In many cities the spread of the deadly AIDS virus among young adults, the parents and breadwinners, has reached astonishing levels. In several - including Lusaka, Zambia, and Kampala, Uganda - more than 20 percent of adults are infected. In many other cities where 5 percent of adults now carry the virus, as in Nairobi, or 10 percent, as in Abidjan, the Ivory Coast, the numbers are still rising steadily.
Once thought to be largely confined to urban areas of central and eastern Africa, AIDS spread rapidly in the late 1980's to huge new parts of the continent and, most ominously, from city to countryside, where most people live. 
 
Men and Women, Rich and Poor
In contrast with the pattern in the United States, AIDS in Africa is spreading mainly through heterosexual intercourse, propelled by long-neglected epidemics of venereal disease that facilitate viral transmission. It is striking men and women alike, the rich and the poor, portending social effects on a scale unmatched anywhere else.
In the United States, gay men and residents of a few inner-city pockets face comparable devastation, but overall, fewer than 1 percent of adults are believed to be infected with the AIDS virus.
In Africa, the growing misery was evident during weeks of reporting in seven countries around the continent.
At the main hospital in Lusaka, women enter with suitcases on their heads bearing supplies for a sick relative, then emerge moments later, having heard the final news, issuing ritual wails that are audible a block away.
Perhaps no scene in Africa today is sadder than the elderly in the unnatural activity of burying their grown sons and daughters.
''I'm already weak, and we are too poor,'' said a despairing 68-year-old woman near Masaka, Uganda, who has lost three of her four children to AIDS. She faces her final days with one surviving son and 28 grandchildren, some of whom have AIDS too.
Strange new issues are in the air. Where the disease spread earliest and large numbers have already died, as in Uganda, frightened young men and women are starting to realize that even marriage may be risky.
''The Government says have one partner,'' said Dr. Sam Kalibala, a 30-year-old doctor who volunteers much of his time to treatment of AIDS patients. ''But even if you get married, you have a one in four chance your partner will be infected. So marriage is not really a solution.''
Because so many people were infected so recently and the virus often takes years to kill, the worst lies ahead. With more than five million adults carrying the virus, and hundreds of thousands of infants, disease rates will soar.
Dismayed leaders are beginning to ask what the loss of large numbers of people in their prime years will do to society - economically, politically, spiritually.
''We need to start thinking about how to deal with social grief, communal grief,'' said Rev. Chad Gandiya, chairman of a fledging AIDS counseling group in Zimbabwe, a country just beginning to acknowledge its AIDS nightmare.
''How do you counsel whole communities?'' he asked.
Vast social change is in store. Across a continent not accustomed to open discussion of such things, men's and women's roles are being questioned, ancient customs like polygamy and bridal prices are under new debate and sexual mores are becoming a matter of public pronouncement.
This summer in Zimbabwe, in one sign of the questioning times, Mrs. Tsungiraya Hungwe, a Deputy Minister for Political Affairs, appealed to Parliament: ''Let us be brave and change our life style. Let us stick to our single partners and stop over-indulging.''
''If we cannot do it, let us use condoms,'' she told her fellow legislators. Anticipating a commonly voiced male complaint, she announced, ''We must be prepared to take a shower wearing a raincoat.''
 
The Numbers
Infection Soaring And Spreading
While data on the spread of AIDS remain far from complete, hundreds of valid studies of one group or another have now been completed, often confirming the worst fears.
''There's virtually only bad news,'' said Dr. Peter Piot of the Institute of Tropical Medicine in Antwerp, Belgium, who was one of the first doctors to describe AIDS in Africa. ''With every conference I'm becoming more pessimistic. There are new groups infected, new countries, increases in the infection rates.''
In 1987, the World Health Organization's working estimate was that 2.5 million adults in Africa were infected with the AIDS virus. But now, as experts evaluate the dismal numbers pouring in, they are doubling or tripling their figures for many countries, a reflection both of past underestimates and the continuing rapid spread of the virus.
A ''very conservative'' estimate of infected African adults as of 1989 is five million, said Dr. James Chin, chief of AIDS surveillance at W.H.O. In no other continent is the burden nearly so great; Africa accounts for more than half of an estimated worldwide total of eight million virus carriers.
In the mid-1980's, as the world first became aware of the new epidemic in Africa, experts in their more optimistic moments could hope that AIDS might be contained within certain social and geographic boundaries. It appeared largely confined to cities, and to several adjacent countries of central and eastern Africa. In these regions, for reasons nobody knows from a source that remains unidentified, AIDS began to explode sometime in the late 1970's, about the same time the virus began to race through the homosexual population in the United States. Now, the boundaries have been breached. Cities are still the hardest hit. Indeed, the virus has continued surging in many urban areas. The infection rate among pregnant women in Blantyre, Malawi's largest city, jumped from only 2 percent in 1984 to 22 percent in early 1990; in Lusaka, from 11 percent in 1987 to 22 percent. In Kigali, Rwanda, there is hope that the infection rate is stabilizing at about 30 percent. Rates among pregnant women are often the best available indicator of adult infections and also, because 30 to 40 percent of infected women's babies are born with the virus, of the pediatric toll.
 
The Victims
Rich and Poor, Urban and Rural
Far from being a special burden of elites, as some once predicted, AIDS is reaching everyone. If anything, say doctors in the Ivory Coast, the disease appears to be taking the harshest toll among the working class and the poor.
Prostitutes and their reliable customers, like soldiers, migrant workers and long-distance truck drivers, tend to have the highest infection rates of all. In Zambia, so many soldiers are dying that nurses in a military hospital, with the grim humor many Africans adopt to keep going, refer to their workplace as ''the departure lounge.''
Inevitably, the disease has begun to infiltrate rural areas, which are often closely linked to cities by back-and-forth migration and family ties. From half to over four-fifths of the people in African countries live in rural villages.
A rural hospital in southern Zambia finds 8 percent of pregnant women to be infected, and in a rural area of Rwanda, 5 percent carry the virus. In southwestern Uganda, 12 percent of villagers and 35 percent of people in market towns are infected. Nearly every family has already lost members to ''slim disease,'' as AIDS is known there; one couple has watched seven sons die. The neighboring districts of Tanzania are similarly blighted.
To the south of the older AIDS belt, Zimbabwe discouraged research and publication of data until a few months ago. But limited data and clinical experience suggest the AIDS virus is spreading rapidly and may already infect at least 10 percent of urban adults.
Farther south, AIDS has gained a solid foothold among the black population of South Africa, showing up among patients in clinics for sexually transmitted diseases. (AIDS among whites there has largely involved homosexual men.) Health experts are now wondering anxiously whether that country, caught up in wrenching political change, will be able to fight decisively against this invisible new foe.
One of the worst surprises has been the experience of the Ivory Coast, in the heart of West Africa. There, ''the spread of AIDS has been very recent and very quick,'' said Dr. Kevin M. De Cock of the Centers for Disease Control, who directs a research project in Abidjan.
In West Africa the situation is complicated by the presence of two distinct AIDS viruses: HIV-1, the virus known throughout most of Africa and elsewhere, and HIV-2, discovered in West Africa in 1986.
It now seems likely that HIV-2 has been circulating in the region since at least the 1960's. It has reached the highest concentration, oddly, in the small former Portuguese colony of Guinea-Bissau, where nearly 10 percent of adults carry the virus. While some evidence suggests that HIV-2 spreads less easily and is less quickly destructive of immune defenses than HIV-1, there is no doubt that it can cause disease and death.
But now HIV-1 has also begun to climb in West Africa, eclipsing HIV-2 in many countries. In Abidjan, Ivory Coast's cosmopolitan capital, which is host to millions of immigrants from neighboring countries, 7 percent of adults now carry HIV-1, and another 3 percent HIV-2 or both. Dr. De Cock's team has found, by studying records at city morgues, that AIDS-related illness is already the leading cause of adult deaths in Abidjan.
And in this country, which has good roads and many large commercial farms worked by migrants who are visited by busloads of prostitutes after payday, rural areas are vulnerable too. Recent surveys in the countryside found infection by one or the other AIDS virus in 5 percent of adults.
As surprising as the sudden spread in the Ivory Coast has been the lack of a runaway epidemic in Nigeria, Africa's most populous country, whose 120 million people account for more than a fifth of all sub-Saharan Africans. AIDS is lurking in the population, with infection rates of a few percent recorded in some recent surveys at clinics for sexually transmitted diseases, for example. But the overall rate is still below 1 percent.
Another encouraging development has been the apparent leveling off of the epidemic in Kinshasa, Zaire, which was one of the earliest places to report AIDS. Surveys over the last five years suggest that the adult infection rate in this city of three million has stabilized at 7 or 8 percent. Why is a mystery; the leveling off began well before any significant prevention campaigns.
Looking at the more severely affected countries, experts are wondering where the ''saturation point'' will be. Where will the infection rate level off as most of those engaging in riskier behavior fall prey: 30 percent? 40 percent?
 
The Response
World Help Rises But Not Enough
 The world has not watched Africa's travail without responding. Annual spending by the W.H.O.'s global aids program rose from $20 million in 1987 to a projected $90 million this year, with close to half that devoted to Africa. Total external funds for AIDS in Africa, including other agencies and private groups, will probably total $60 million to $70 million this year, said Dr. Michael H. Merson, director of the W.H.O. program.
The buildup of aid has been swift, but it remains ''greatly inadequate,'' Dr. Merson said.
By now, every country in sub-Saharan Africa has begun a control program - a marked improvement over the mid-1980's, when many countries denied they even had a problem, and as Dr. Piot put it, ''valuable years were lost.'' Candor about the disease has varied, from the relative openness of Uganda and the Ivory Coast to the secrecy of Zaire and Zimbabwe.
Today, unlike a few years ago, a majority of medical transfusions in Africa are screened for the AIDS virus. In perhaps the biggest success so far, mass education campaigns have worked, in the sense that most people in Africa now know about AIDS and how it spreads. But awareness does not always mean changes in behavior, and condoms are still not widely available in many countries.
''You can improve their knowledge,'' said Dr. Warren Naamara, director of Uganda's AIDS control program. ''But how many people are behaving differently at night - that is the big question.''
Belatedly, aid donors and governments are turning attention to the unavoidable consequences of the spread of AIDS: the soaring numbers of patients and orphans.
Already, at least half a million Africans have become ill with diseases brought on by the AIDS virus, and most of them have already died. Much of the toll has gone unreported. Sick men, women and babies die quietly in their huts, desperate attempts to exorcise angry spirits having failed. Some die in city hospitals, where AIDS patients now take up a third or more of the medical beds and where only the lucky get even simple antibiotics and salves.
Many Africans still do not realize how pervasive AIDS is because families of victims, worried about the stigma, conceal the cause of death.
''People will accuse a victim of running around with too many partners, or they will say that it was caused by witchcraft from someone in the spouse's family,'' said Pascal Kwapa, an AIDS counselor in Lusaka.
In one Zambian dialect, AIDS is called ''the disease of shame.'' One result of the stigma is rampant rumors as Africa's newspapers carry more and more announcements of deaths of political and military leaders, entertainers, businessmen and others ''due to a short illness.''
Where the disease has been percolating longer, the toll cannot be hidden. ''In Kampala, everybody knows somebody who's died of AIDS,'' said Noirine Kaleeba, director of TASO, The AIDS Support Organization, one of Africa's first patient assistance and counseling groups. Mrs. Kaleeba helped found the organization in 1987 after her husband died of AIDS. She also has two sisters ill with AIDS now, and she says her family is not unusual. Still, the epidemic has scarcely begun. ''The clinical avalanche will be in the 1990's,'' said Dr. Chin of W.H.O. Those with AIDS-related diseases - the wasting away and ferocious diarrhea, the tuberculosis and pneumonias and cancers and eye and skin diseases patients in Africa repeatedly suffer until they die - will double or triple in the next five years alone, and climb still higher in the late 1990's.
And those projections do not include the children. A half million African babies may already have been born with the AIDS virus, and most have already died from it, Dr. Chin said. By the end of 1992, at least half a million more babies will be born with the virus.
Recent successes in reducing infant mortality, achieved through vaccination programs and educating mothers how to prevent deaths from diarrhea, are being undermined by the new epidemic of AIDS. Uganda, where measles was a leading cause of death at the beginning of the 1980's, has essentially conquered that killer. The old measles ward at the public hospital in the city of Masaka has been reopened as an AIDS clinic and counseling center.
In Zimbabwe, efforts over the last decade have pushed infant mortality to one of the lowest levels in Africa. But now, AIDS has emerged as the leading cause of death among children in urban hospitals and pediatricians predict a rise in the mortality rate.
 
The Effects
Jammed Hospitals; A Wave of Orphans
 As medical institutions are strained by AIDS, care for other diseases, too, is beginning to suffer. In Abidjan's Treichville Hospital, by no means one of Africa's worst-equipped hospitals, the infectious-disease ward has been jammed year round since 1988, when the number of AIDS cases soared, said Dr. Jacques Moreau, a French doctor who has just completed some 15 years of work in Abidjan.
Half to two-thirds the patients in the ward are infected with the AIDS virus. Six or eight beds are crammed into each room, the wasting patients surrounded by caring relatives who wear colorful prints and sad faces, sleep on straw mats and try to pull together the money to buy drugs prescribed for their loved ones.
''Actually we are overwhelmed at the moment,'' Dr. Moreau said recently. ''I can't admit some patients I want to. I have to send home patients with other serious diseases such as hepatitis or typhoid fever.''
Whether or not they ever receive hospital care, most AIDS patients go home to die, usually to villages where they have family. ''I've heard about people in San Francisco making big efforts to form support teams for AIDS victims,'' said Tahebisa Chaava, a social worker at Chikankata Hospital in southern Zambia who visits sick villagers. ''Here we've already got a support team: the extended family.''
The relatives of dying patients must often take on more lasting responsibilities too. While many children will be born with the AIDS virus, still more offspring of infected mothers will be born free of it. These babies and their older brothers and sisters will soon see their mothers die, and usually their fathers and some siblings too. They will join the ranks of AIDS orphans.
In a group of 10 countries of central and eastern Africa, three to six million children, from 6 percent to 11 percent of all those under 15, will lose one and usually both parents to AIDS in the 1990's, according to a new study by Elizabeth A. Preble, AIDS adviser to Unicef.
Relatives have traditionally cared for orphaned children and, fortunately, are taking in most of the current wave of orphans. But many of the surviving adults are poor, and the orphans are often the first to suffer when food or money are scarce. A surge in street urchins appears inevitable.
The death of so many parents is also giving rise to unusual new households with dim prospects - teen-agers heading families of siblings, elderly grandparents caring for a dozen grandchildren.
Bad as the numbers are, the impact of AIDS is no more readily visible in Lusaka, Kinshasa or Kampala than in New York or San Francisco. People are not dying of AIDS in the streets, and bustling life goes on. The disease will only slow, not reverse, Africa's high rate of population growth.
 
The Outlook
Economic War of Attrition
 AIDS is a catastrophe, but a slow one, more like a long war of attrition. The social and economic costs will be felt in many different ways, some more tangible than others. What does it mean if a mine loses 20 percent of its skilled workers, an army 20 percent of its troops? How far is society set back when many scarce teachers, doctors and engineers die prematurely?
Malawi has suffered a major economic blow even before it bears the full brunt of illness. The Government has refused to allow AIDS virus testing that South Africa requires of workers headed for its mines, foreclosing a valued employment opportunity. In 1986, 31,500 Malawian workers sent home $21 million; today, only a few thousand Malawian workers remain in South Africa, according to Alan Whiteside, a research fellow at the University of Natal.
In Zimbabwe, said Dr. Timothy Stamps, the Health Minister, the death rate is rising among those aged 20 to 35. ''It's very worrying,'' he said. ''They've been educated, and they have something they can give back to the country. But just when they reach that point, they depart this life.''
Intricate family and communal ties will help Africa persevere. But these ties can also magnify the repercussions of disease.
''Here, nobody is born as an individual,'' said Dr. Sam I. Okware, deputy director of medical services in Uganda. ''If an important person dies, it's not one individual dying; it's a community.''
Dr. Okware himself, for example, pays the school fees for almost all the children of his home village. ''If I go,'' he said, ''the whole village is gone.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Africa, AIDS is devastating young adults like this dying 28-year-old woman, right, near Masaka, Uganda. She was comforted by Maureen Nakimera, a social worker with an AIDS support group (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) (pg. 1); Beatrice Habeenzy of Hamuntamba, Zambia, has left her husband, who she thinks gave her AIDS. She has lost one child, and the baby she is nursing may be infected. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) (pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SERIES

COUNTRY: AFRICA (98%); UGANDA (96%); KENYA (94%); ZAMBIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); COTE D'IVOIRE (92%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); CENTRAL AFRICA (79%); 

CITY: KAMPALA, UGANDA (92%); NAIROBI, KENYA (90%); 

COMPANY: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (59%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;AFRICA

SUBJECT: ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS); SURVEYS AND SERIES; VIRUSES; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL; FORECASTS AIDS & HIV (99%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); VIRUSES (90%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (78%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (78%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); GAYS & LESBIANS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (66%); GRANDCHILDREN (63%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (59%); 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK; TIERNEY, JOHN; CHIN, JAMES (DR)



426 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 88 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Soviet Premier Vows Fight
 
 Prime Minister Nikolai I. Ryzhkov vowed to fight to keep Soviet economic controls for a year. Page 9.
 
 Rural Census Complaints
 
 In the small towns of rural Mississippi the numbers are smaller but the complaints are the same about the census: It missed people. Page 20.
 
 The Budget Deadlock
 
 Negotiators made progress but appeared stuck on the issue of growth vs. fairness. News Analysis. Page 32.
 
News Summary, Page 2
 Obituaries, Page 46
 Weather, Page 47

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PRIME MINISTERS (86%); NEWS BRIEFS (85%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); 

PERSON: NIKOLAI I RYZHKOV (70%); 



427 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 72 words

HEADLINE: California Faces Test On the Environment

 BODY:
The economic and political realities of protecting the environment are being tested in California. 
A plan promising bold environmental steps will be on the November ballot, but many backers fear that it is in trouble.
The issue has sharpened public awareness of the conflict between energy and the environment and may be the first public measurement of the political consequences of the Persian Gulf crisis.
Article, page 30.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); INDIAN OCEAN (65%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (85%); 



428 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 41, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: In Brooklyn, Dinkins Asks for Help in Crime Fight

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS

 BODY:
Mayor David N. Dinkins, who has asked New Yorkers to get involved in the fight against crime, carried his request to the streets of East New York yesterday, a section of Brooklyn with one of the highest crime rates in the city.
And East New Yorkers who were later interviewed were, for the most part, enthusiastic about the Mayor's message. But many also said they were afraid to join community patrols in the most dangerous areas, and none said they would be willing to give up their guns, as Mr. Dinkins has also asked.
The Mayor made his pitch during the 18th annual East New York Street Fair in a speech to community leaders at the United Community Centers on New Lots Avenue. 
''You should get to know the officers in your community so well that they could tell your children to go in at night if they're out late,'' he said, ''or that if you see them on the street you could say, How are you, how is your wife and how is your husband.''
In recent months East New York has been hit particularly hard by violent crime involving young people. Among those killed have been Veronica Corales, 9-years-old, who was hit by a stray bullet as she slept in her parents' car, and a man and his 1-year-old daughter who were struck by bullets fired into their car from a rooftop. In another instance, a 3-year-old boy was thrown to his death from the roof of a seven-story building.
 
'I Care About You'
Dramatizing the growing fears of many city residents, especially those in East New York, the Mayor chose a neighborhood precinct, the 75th, as the setting last month to announce that he would hire 1,058 more police officers.
Yesterday, in his speech in East New York, he did not specifically address crime in that part of Brooklyn. He did say, however: ''I care about you here in East New York. Don't think that we have forgotten you and the things you worry about.''
The Mayor has been pressured in recent weeks to respond to a much-publicized surge of violent crime in New York. In addition to saying he would hire more officers, he has called on New Yorkers to come out from behind their locked doors and become involved in community policing, an appeal he made in an address at St. Patrick's Cathedral.
While many East New Yorkers said in interviews that they would participate in community patrol groups, some said their neighborhoods were too dangerous and too overrun with drugs for them to become involved.
''I shut up in my house and close my windows and lock the doors at night and don't come out until the next day because it's just too dangerous,'' said Helen Thomas, a 66-year-old retired nurse. ''I've lived in East New York all my life, and I gave up on this place a long time ago. There's nothing they can do, there's nothing nobody can do.''
But Denise McKinney, 35, a bookkeeper, said that though Mayor Dinkins was taking ''significant steps in the right direction,'' government needed to provide more activities for youths to keep them out of trouble.
 
Fear of Crossing the Street
Mrs. McKinney, who lives in the Cypress Hills housing complex, said her neighborhood was so dangerous that she had to walk her 12-year-old son across the street to Intermediate School 218 each day.
Mrs. McKinney said she had gone to I.S. 218 to see if it had after-school programs for her son to get involved in. But the school's administrators told her there were no such activities, she said. ''I often work late so I need something to keep him busy and out of trouble,'' she said.
Another local resident, John Mills, criticized Mr. Dinkins. ''All I've been hearing is a bunch of rhetoric from the Mayor,'' he said. ''If the Mayor wants to make a difference in this community, then he needs to get us some money for economic development, jobs, and health care. Otherwise it's just a lot of hot air.''
Another resident, Jesus Marcal, said he would be willing to patrol his neighborhood but not without a gun. ''You'd have to be a fool to leave home at night without it,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; EAST NEW YORK (NYC); BROOKLYN (NYC)

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; PUBLIC OPINION; VOLUNTEERS VIOLENT CRIME (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); CRIME RATES (78%); CHILDREN (76%); SHOOTINGS (75%); INTERVIEWS (72%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 



429 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 30, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: In Budget Talks, Philosophy Is the Sticking Point

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 15

 BODY:
In eight days of bargaining sessions - some fiery, many tedious, most lasting until late at night - the White House officials and Congressional leaders working on a plan to reduce the Federal budget deficit have resolved the issues that could be settled by splitting the difference.
But, with the negotiators taking today off and planning to resume meeting Sunday evening at Andrews Air Force base in nearby Maryland, the two sides remain deadlocked on a matter of political philosophy. The Republicans say that the most important element of any budget plan is that it appear to generate economic growth. The Democrats say that the most important point is that the agreement appear to be fair. 
Where neither element is directly at issue, the negotiators have met one another roughly half way. They have agreed, for instance, to cut military spending by less than the Democrats favored but significantly more than President Bush and his Republican allies wanted. They have agreed to reduce domestic spending much more than the Democrats wanted but not as much as the Republicans proposed.
 
Accord on Some Increases
Republicans accepted Democratic proposals for higher taxes on gasoline and luxury items like jewelry and expensive automobiles. Democrats adopted the Republican view that new tax breaks are needed to generate more domestic oil production.
But the Republicans insist that the final plan must include a cut in the capital gains tax and must not raise anyone's income taxes.
The Democrats said that a reduced capital gains tax would be a windfall for the rich and thus unfair to ordinary taxpayers. Sixty percent of the direct benefit from such a change would go to the two-tenths of 1 percent of taxpayers with annual incomes above $200,000; 80 percent would go to the 1 percent of taxpayers with incomes of more than $100,000.
This week, Democrats said either of two alternatives would be acceptable: a reduction in the capital gains tax accompanied by increased income taxes on the wealthy, or a tax plan that did neither. The Republicans, said one Democratic participant, ''didn't bite on the cheese.''
Both sides tend to exaggerate their positions.
President Bush said at a news conference on Friday that a lower capital gains tax, the tax paid on profits from investments, was ''fundamentally important to the continued growth in the economy.''
 
Small Economic Gain Is Seen
Many economists say a reduced capital gains rate would be good policy. Few believe it is crucial to economic growth.
The chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, Michael J. Boskin, has estimated that such a tax break on investment profits would raise the the value of goods and services proeduced, or the gross national product, by six-tenths of 1 percent a year.
That is an almost statistically insignificant fraction. For example, until July, Government figures showed that the G.N.P. had risen by 2.6 percent in the second quarter of 1989, 3 percent in the third quarter and 1.1 percent in the fourth quarter. Then, the Commerce Department issued revised figures based on new data: 1.6 percent in the second quarter, 1.7 percent in the third quarter and three-tenths of 1 percent in the fourth quarter.
The difference in each case was greater than what Mr. Boskin, a fervent advocate of a lower capital gains tax, says would be the increased economic growth from the tax break.
Similarly, the Democrats have offered to trade a capital gains cut for a 20 percent surtax on taxpayers with incomes above $500,000 a year. Fewer than 100,000 taxpayers in the country have incomes that high. The surtax would raise less than $25 billion over five years, less than 5 percent of the $500 billion five-year deficit reduction the negotiators are shooting for.
No one could sensibly argue that poor and middle-class taxpayers would be better off because a relative handful of very rich people were paying more taxes.
 
Views That Deadlock the Talks
So why are the negotiators standing so fast by their positions?
The Republicans believe that their philosophy of lower taxes has been largely responsible for their winning the last three Presidential elections. The Democrats believe that their solid control of Congress results from a perception that their philosphy is fairer.
The tax issue is not the only one left to be settled.
The negotiators have not agreed on how to make what both sides agree are necessary cuts in Medicare, the medical insurance program for the elderly. They have not decided which other domestic programs should be subject to cuts. And they are far from concurring on the kinds of procedures that should be written into the agreement to make sure it is enforced.
But if the tax questions could be resolved, most participants agree, the other aspects would fall into place.
Asked when the negotiations might be wrapped up, one weary participant said at the week's end: ''How long can we sit here and stare at each other on this tax issue?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); INCOME TAX (87%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ARMED FORCES (71%); LUXURY GOODS (71%); FUEL TAX (71%); AIR FORCES (71%); GASOLINE (66%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



430 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 30, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1500 words

HEADLINE: Once Considered a Sure Thing, California's Environmental Package Falters

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 15

 BODY:
When first proposed, a sweeping California ballot measure that promised a ''bold and comprehensive'' plan to protect the environment seemed a sure winner that could deliver a powerful national message about the public's determination to fight pollution.
But seven weeks before the election, the initiative appears to be in trouble. And environmentalists fear it may prove that voters' willingness to convert noble, abstract notions about the environment into concrete actions may be limited by the potential cost.
''A recession is coming,'' one backer said. ''People get scared when they hear it's going to cost billions of dollars. Until recently I would have said it would pass handily. Now, it just might lose.'' 
The Nov. 6 vote may offer the first public test of the domestic political consequences of the turmoil in the Middle East, which has sharpened public awareness of the trade-offs between energy production and environmental protection, a balancing act that is nowhere more pointed than in automobile-dependent California.
While the initiative still leads in the polls, it has been battered in recent days by reports - vigorously disputed by its backers - that it would cost billions of dollars to local governments and the state and that it would depress agriculture and other industries. The legislative analyst for the City of Los Angeles, for example, estimated that the city's Department of Water and Power would have to spend more than $6 billion just to reduce carbon dioxide emissions.
 
Opponents Focus on Tom Hayden
An advertising campaign financed by chemical and allied agricultural interests has portrayed the initiative as an effort that tries to do too much and promotes the political ambitions of Assemblyman Tom Hayden, the chairman of the steering committee leading the effort to pass it. While Mr. Hayden, of Santa Monica, has long since moved into the Democratic liberal mainstream, the commercials attempt to exploit the public's lingering perception of him from his youthful days as an opponent of the Vietnam War. Those opposing the initiative call it the Hayden Initiative.
The environmental leadership, which calls the measure Big Green, is worried. ''We're on the line,'' said Robert K. Hattoy, regional representative of the Sierra Club here. ''If Big Green loses, it will look like the movement cannot translate the rhetoric of Earth Day into the reality of Election Day.''
Mr. Hayden says this will not happen. ''A tremendous amount of money is flowing from the chemical companies to create a fictional campaign, but we will win in the end,'' he said. But doubts are growing. The campaign is using the same Hollywood hoopla environmentalists used successfully four years ago to pass an initiative to label foods and products containing toxins. On Thursday night, celebrities, including Bette Midler, Robin Williams, Cher, Olivia Newton-John and Meryl Streep, sang, danced and preached for clean air and water, nearly filling the 6,166-seat outdoor Greek Theater in Hollywood and raising about $600,000.
 
'Other Side Is Much Smarter'
''They're blindly going through campaigns of the past,'' said one disaffected backer, who spoke on the condition that he not be identified. ''The other side is much smarter. There is a feeling Big Green goes too far and voters do not want to pay a lot of money. There is no groundswell of support.'' A California Poll, an independent, nonpartisan statewide survey taken by the Field Institute Aug. 17-27, found voters favoring the measure by 58-26, but the margin was 49 percent to 35 percent among those who were familiar with it. The poll, with a margin of error of plus or minus five percentage points, also found that 16 percent were undecided. A recent Los Angeles Times poll found support had slipped to 44 percent in favor and 42 percent against; the poll's margin of error was three percentage points.
Political experts say this is ominous because the opposition has not begun its main television advertising assault. The measure is popular in the Los Angeles and San Francisco areas, but not in the politically pivotal San Joaquin Valley, the huge agricultural region, because of fears that curbs on pesticides could injure the economy.
 
Could Influence Governor's Race
For that reason, the measure could play a key role in the governor's race between Dianne Feinstein, the Democrat, and Senator Pete Wilson, the Republican. Ms. Feinstein has endorsed it, hurting her in agricultural areas; Mr. Wilson has not. Jim Costa of Fresno, chairman of the Democratic caucus in the state Assembly, said: ''I told her that if it's a close race and she loses, the reason will be that she did poorly in the San Joaquin Valley because she supported Big Green.''
On the ballot as Proposition 128 and formally known as the Environmental Protection Act of 1990, the measure runs 39 pages and nearly 16,000 words. It would substantially rewrite California environmental law, imposing standards far more stringent than Federal law, including these:
* All pesticides and herbicides known to cause cancer and reproductive harm would be phased out and the sale of imported produce containing residues of those substances would be banned unless they presented ''no significant risk'' to health.
* Emission of ''any gases which may contribute, directly or indirectly, to global warming,'' including carbon dioxide, would be reduced by 40 percent by the year 2010.
* Manufacture of chlorofluorocarbons would be phased out to protect the ozone layer.
* A $300 million bond fund would be created to buy ancient redwood forests, limit clear cutting of timber and require developers to plant trees.
* All oil and gas drilling in state-controlled coastal waters would be prohibited and a $500 million oil-spill response fund created.
* $40 million a year would be provided for ''applied research'' on alternatives to pesticides in agriculture and other topics.
It would also create an elected state Environmental Advocate, with authority to enforce environmental laws, independent of the governor and attorney general. Reportedly, Mr. Hayden wants this job, but he has not acknowledged that. Proponents say the new post is necessary because the Legislature, Governor and Federal Government have been unwilling to take adequate measures to protect the environment. The measure was originally mounted to bolster the gubernatorial campaign of Attorney General John K. Van de Kamp, who opposed Ms. Feinstein in the Democratic primary. It cobbles together several disparate approaches to environmental protection that backers said the Legislature and Governor were unwilling to pass.
 
'A Multipurpose Creature'
Critics call the initiative a poorly drawn law. John P. Dwyer, a professor of law at the University of California at Berkeley, likened it to ''a frenzied scientist's recombinant DNA experiment'' that had spliced unrelated changes into a ''multipurpose creature.''
Debate focuses mainly on the cost and Mr. Hayden's role.
Frederick Cannon, senior economist at the Bank of America in San Francisco, told a symposium at Berkeley's Graduate School of Public Policy about 10 days ago that while the measure would not cause a recession, its impact would be ''substantial'' with ''major dislocations'' for certain industries, particularly farming. He added that the costliest provisions would be the ''greenhouse'' gas reductions.
The nonpartisan Legislative Analyst's Office in Sacramento estimates direct costs to state and local governments at up to $2.6 billion over the next 20 years. An analysis commissioned by opponents of the initiative said it would increase energy prices by $10 billion to $15 billion a year, raise electric rates by at least 20 percent by the year 2000, and cause the loss of 500,000 to 2 million jobs in manufacturing and construction. The opponents have refused to release the details of how these conclusions were reached.
Backers angrily dismissed such figures as scare tactics and are preparing their own economic analysis. ''These are simple-minded economic assessments based on the notion that we are capped out on energy savings,'' said Ralph C. Cavanagh of the Natural Resources Defense Council. ''There are large opportunities to save more by saving rather than producing energy.'' He argued that renewable energy sources including geothermal, solar and wind power would get a substantial boost from the initiative.
The measure faces further political difficulties because the ballot will contain three other measures related to the environment. One of them, called Careful and mounted by the California Farm Bureau Federation and the Western Growers Association, would set less restrictive rules on pesticides. The two others offer competing plans on logging by environmentalists and timber companies.
''There's a lot of confusion. All four sound good. People don't know how to vote to be good environmentalists,'' said Mr. Hattoy of the Sierra Club.

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''A tremendous amount of money is flowing from the chemical companies to create a fictional campaign, but we will win in the end,'' said Assemblyman Tom Hayden. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SANTA MONICA PLACE (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; REFERENDUMS; FINANCES; PUBLIC OPINION ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); BALLOTS (78%); EARTH DAY (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); EMISSIONS (73%); CHEMICALS (72%); CHEMICALS MFG (72%); GREENHOUSE GASES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (67%); AGRICULTURE (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); VIETNAM WAR (50%); 

PERSON: REINHOLD, ROBERT MERYL STREEP (50%); 



431 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 27, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Straddle a Line in Policy Statement

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 15

 BODY:
The Democratic National Committee tried to accomplish a difficult task here today: express full support for the American troops in the Persian Gulf while criticizing the Republican Administration that put them there.
''We'll stand up to Saddam Hussein, but we won't stand by as the new Republican recession wreaks havoc with the economy,'' Ronald H. Brown, the party chairman, told the committee.
Today's meeting reflected a party scrambling to adjust to a political world made new by the events in the Middle East. Democratic leaders were still pressing the economic themes they hope will dominate this fall's campaigns, but they also carefully embraced the Bush Administration's gulf policy, which has overwhelming support in the public opinion polls. 
''The Democratic Party stands united behind our President as he acts to roll back Iraq's blatant aggression,'' Mr. Brown said. ''Saddam Hussein will get no mixed signals from America or from this party. But the perils and costs we face in the Persian Gulf cannot lead to paralysis at home.''
Committee members approved a resolution sounding similar themes, beginning with its title: ''Stop Aggression in the Persian Gulf and Start Fighting a Recession at Home.'' In that resolution, and in Mr. Brown's address, the Democrats sought to place the blame for the economic downturn on ''a decade of Republican disinvestment and debt'' and to lambaste the Bush Administration's domestic policies.
The members asserted that any spending reductions and tax increases necessary to ease the Federal deficit ''must not fall first on working Americans.'' And Mr. Brown assailed the President for calling again for a reduction in the tax rate on capital gains.
''It is long past time, my fellow Democrats, to abandon Republican economics,'' he said. ''We've got to stop them before they do it again.''
Democrats also took the Republicans to task on energy policy, passing a resolution that ''the 10-year failure of three successive Republican administrations to develop a national energy policy can no longer be tolerated.''
At the same time, the party rejected the notion of easing the United States' dependence on foreign oil primarily through expanded exploration in offshore areas. Instead, the committee embraced a much vaguer, and more politically palatable, solution: ''expanded U.S. energy conservation efforts and fuels development compatible with the global warming threat and our national public health.''
In their two-day meeting here, the Democrats also adopted the formal call for their 1992 nominating convention, including the rules that will govern the selection of about 4,200 delegates to the convention. Party leaders said this was remarkably early for Democrats to be approving their call to the convention, and cited it as a sign of new harmony.
''We needed to get this housekeeping business out of the way and get on with what our real mission is - that is, sweeping the elections this fall and winning the White House in 1992,'' Mr. Brown said.
Still, while the Democrats now have their rules and their convention city, New York, their Presidential candidates have yet to emerge. And today's meeting suggested they are still scrambling to cope with a popular President.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); GULF STATES (91%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); 

COMPANY: H BROWN LTD (72%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (91%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST

SUBJECT: ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); ENERGY REGULATION (85%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); TAX LAW (69%); NATIONAL DEBT (64%); GLOBAL WARMING (64%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (64%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (61%); POLLS & SURVEYS (55%); DIVESTITURES (50%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (72%); 



432 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: Bill Would Again End Benefits to Census Workers

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 15

 BODY:
About $40 million in unemployment benefits that were stripped from temporary census workers in May and restored in August are threatened again by legislation approved this week by a Senate subcommittee.
A bill appropriating money for the Commerce Department, the parent agency of the Census Bureau, includes a provision saying no unemployment benefits should be paid to temporary census workers on the basis of work done after April 20.
The vast majority of the 250,000 temporary workers who went door to door to 35 million homes or processed the mailed-in forms from 65 million households would not have accumulated enough working time before April 20 to qualify for unemployment solely on the basis of their census work. 
The measure, which now goes before the full Senate Appropriations Committee, is the latest word in a tart legislative exchange between Senator Ernest F. Hollings, a South Carolina Democrat who opposes unemployment benefits for temporary census workers, and a variety of lawmakers, including Representative Thomas Downey, a New York Democrat who in August thwarted the attempt to strip those workers of benefits.
 
Conflict With Existing Law
An aide to Senator Hollings said the Senator opposed granting unemployment benefits to workers who took these jobs knowing how temporary they would be.
Congressional sources said Mr. Hollings was incensed by the reversal of a bill passed in May that prohibited the payments. They said he was further enraged by the manner in which it was reversed, by insertion of a provision into the Trade and Commerce Act, which was signed by President Bush last month. That act is still in force, and benefits will continue for census workers unless the new legislation becomes law in its current form.
Susan Howard, Associate Undersecretary of Commerce, said the department's lawyers are studying the legislation and believe that ''there are statutory conflicts,'' with existing laws. But, she said, the lawyers could not say immediately how those conflicts might be resolved if the measure became law.
 
'Playing Yo-Yo'
In the House, a staff member who spoke only on condition of anonymity said Democrats on the Ways and Means committee were concerned that the Federal Government would set a troubling precedent if it exempted itself from paying benefits to some of its own workers. ''It could open the door for abuses because it's hard to say who's temporary and who's not,'' the aide said.
Mr. Downey said of Mr. Hollings's action: ''Fritz is a friend of mine and I'm going to have to go see him. I don't think he understands that we're not going to let this happen. We're treating these people unfairly by playing yo-yo with their lives.
''If the rationale is that we can use this money to get a better count, let's find more money for the count. All of us feel that this is a bad and inaccurate count. But we don't improve it by not paying these workers benefits.''
Mr. Hollings left the capital Friday and could not be reached for comment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); US CENSUS BUREAU (58%); 

SUBJECT: POPULATION; CENSUS CENSUS (93%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); COMMERCIAL LAW (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); 

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 



433 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 20, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Massachusetts Journal;
State Borrows Trouble With New Library Law

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOSTON, Sept. 15

 BODY:
The frantic call to the Plymouth Public Library came from a woman who had several overdue books and was frightened that she might be arrested.
''She was all nervous,'' said Kathleen L. Clegg, Plymouth's assistant librarian. But despite Ms. Clegg's assurances that she would not be arrested, the woman jumped into her car in Sandwich, on Cape Cod, and raced to Plymouth, a half hour drive away, to return the missing volumes.
Anxiety over overdue books has swept across Massachusetts in the past week since a law went into effect toughening the penalties for people who keep library books too long, steal books or deface library materials. 
The law has led to a flood of overdue books being returned, many through drop boxes at night and bearing notes of apology. But it has also brought protests by irate patrons who complain that Gov. Michael S. Dukakis - who, after all, could not keep Willie Horton, the convicted murderer, in jail - is using police state tactics on harmless library goers.
Radio talk shows, political cartoonists and newspaper columnists have poked fun at the new law, though some of them have distorted it, exacerbating the public fear about errant borrowers being dragged to jail.
The law does provide for fines of up to $25,000 and five years in jail for the theft of library materials valued at more than $250 or for the alteration or destruction of library catalogues, which might conceal a theft. But for overdue books, the penalty is only a maximum fine of $500, with no reference to a prison term.
But Mike Barnicle, The Boston Globe's most popular columnist, wrote of the law differently: ''The incredible shrinking governor - tough as nails on stuff like this - signed it a few weeks ago and if you are late getting 'Swiss Family Robinson' back to the library you could now be arrested and thrown in jail. It's about time.''
James C. Flaherty, the director of the Framingham Public Library, thinks the reaction to the law reflects the public's mood of anger at government in Massachusetts. It is a choler provoked by the state's sharp economic downturn after a decade of affluence, by the Governor's poor performance as the Democratic candidate for President in 1988 and by a state budget crisis, which has led to higher taxes and reduced services.
''The climate in Massachusetts is not good now for public sector employees,'' Mr. Flaherty said. ''People object to anything government does, even in this case where the libraries are really only trying to protect public property.''
Indeed, librarians here say they pressed for the law because communities were collectively losing an estimated $1.1 million a year in library materials, including books, video tapes and paintings, with some small towns like Shrewsbury, with a population of 23,000, losing $12,000 a year in missing books.
Gregor Trinkaus-Randall, the collection management consultant for the Massachusetts Board of Library Commissioners, a state agency, noted the old law covering overdue books dated from 1883 and provided for a fine of only $25. ''You can't buy a book for that today, when you include the costs for cataloguing and shelving.''
The new law does include a provision that the police can arrest an offender without a warrant. But that was already in the 19th-century law, Mr. Trinkaus-Randall said, and few librarians would ever use such an extreme step. ''We just want to get the books back,'' he said.
At the Reading Public Library, Susan M. Flannery, the director, said her staff has been besieged by patrons asking whether they would be sent to jail. ''We bend over backward to give people good service and the only image we have as librarians is as this rampaging group of people who will do anything to get a book back,'' Ms. Flannery said.
In one case, she lamented, a man in his late 60's who had heard about the new law on a radio talk show came in to the library, slammed his library card down on the counter and demanded that his name be taken off the membership rolls. Just to make sure, he watched while a librarian erased his name from the computer.
''He said he did it to protest the new legislation,'' Ms. Flannery recounted. ''It is very sad. The talk show host didn't lose anything. But the library lost a customer and a man lost access to millions of dollars worth of materials.''

GRAPHIC: Cartoon

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (97%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON GLOBE (54%); PLYMOUTH PUBLIC LIBRARY (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MASSACHUSETTS

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES AND LIBRARIANS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINES (PENALTIES) LIBRARIES (91%); LIBRARIANS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); WRITERS (89%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); CRIMINAL FINES (88%); GOVERNORS (88%); VANDALISM (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); MURDER (73%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (67%); VISUAL ARTISTS (67%); BUDGETS (65%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: BUTTERFIELD, FOX SUSAN M FLANNERY (67%); KATHLEEN L CLEGG (56%); JAMES C FLAHERTY (55%); 



434 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 20, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1456 words

HEADLINE: In Mississippi, They're Counted Out

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MAYERSVILLE, Miss., Sept. 12

 BODY:
The words are repeated, almost verbatim, from one front stoop to the next, as the residents of the Unita Blackwell housing project come out to answer a question from their Mayor, Unita Blackwell: ''No, ma'am, the census didn't come here.'' ''No, nobody talked to me.''
To the Census Bureau, these 3-year-old rows of small apartments did not exist. By extension, neither do their elderly or disabled residents: Alice Rash, Fronie McIntosh, Adline and Robert Jones, Essie Keys, Joe Shell, Jack Frankle, Anna May Dolly and 17 others.
That leaves the preliminary census count for Mayersville, a hiccup of humanity in the Mississippi Delta, at least 25 people short. There may not be 350 people here as there were 10 years ago. But there sure seemed to be more than 272, the figure issued last month in the preliminary census count. 
Out here, where the only things numbered in the millions are cotton plants, soybeans and cicadas, the Census Bureau this year has run into the same problems it faces in the inner-city neighborhoods of New York City or Detroit: poverty, illiteracy, suspicion.
 
'They Think You're Nosy'
''People are scared to tell you things,'' said Mayor Blackwell, a 57-year-old former civil rights advocate who in 1973 became Mississippi's first black Mayor. ''They think you're nosy. They think you're going to cut their checks off.''
Regional planners say about 20 percent of the county's total income is in the form of Government payments like welfare and food stamps. Many of the town's newer amenities like the apartments for the elderly were provided with Federal money obtained through Mayor Blackwell's efforts.
Ruby Crawford's experience in collecting census data did not entirely bear out Ms. Blackwell's prediction. ''I had one lady straight out refused me,'' said Ms. Crawford, who drives a school bus in neighboring Sharkey County and who worked as a census enumerator in Mayersville, the Issaquena County seat. But, she said, ''I didn't have a lot of problems with people not wanting to be counted.''
What she did have problems with, Ms. Crawford said, were the census maps, which had some houses miles out of place, and local streets, which were often unmarked.
Jewel Spencer, the enumerator for northern Issaquena County, said she ''only had about three refuse me.'' But she said many dwellings in the county are trailers, summer homes or weekend homes. Mrs. Crawford said she left a census form on the window of one empty trailer and when she returned a few days later, the trailer was gone.
 
Met Their Requirements
Both women said they completed the work they were given. ''I did the best I could,'' Mrs. Spencer said. ''People can make mistakes. I don't think I made any.''
Mrs. Crawford said, ''I filled out my lists.''
Kimball Brace of Election Data Services, a Washington consultant on Congressional redistricting, said Issaquena County, which dropped from 2,513 people in 1980 to 1,774 in this year's preliminary figures, was one of only a handful of counties in the country that apparently lost about 30 percent of its population in the decade.
Clearly, Issaquena County lost population. What is not clear is how many of those that remained were missed by the census because they did not understand the census form or did not want to. ''You want to talk about how many people in this town can read a form?'' Mayor Blackwell asked. ''If you classify me as illiterate, then give me a form and tell me to fill it out. That's ludicrous.''
How was the housing project overlooked?
Mrs. Crawford said she saw it, realized it was not on her address list, and told her crew leader, Linda Edwards. Mrs. Edwards said she told her superivisors about it and was told that it was not her worry, that it would be counted separately as group housing. It was not.
Anne Tolbert, who headed a census office in Greenville, said she considered census business confidential and would not discuss how the project was missed.
 
Chance to Gain Population
Mayor Blackwell has a chance to get those 25 residents back in the count before the numbers become final. Mayersville, like 3,128 sites around the country, has accepted the Census Bureau's invitation to challenge its housing figures. So far, no state has a higher percentage of challenges than Mississippi: one in three of the state's 378 local governments contends the Census Bureau counted incorrectly.
Still, despite months of warning, many of the country's 13,200 local governments were ill-equipped to mount effective challenges. Even if they were prepared, the Census Bureau is not committed to revisiting more than 2 percent of the housing in each jurisdiction, or 2.1 million homes nationwide. But if someone's house was counted and they were not, the chances that they will be included in the final count are now slim.
Local officials in Mississippii, however, are still trying, passing out the Census Bureau's ''Were You Counted?'' forms all over the state. They are being passed out in Pearl, just east of Jackson, where the Mayor says 1,000 housing units were missed. They are being passed out in Greenville, where a count of 4,000 more people will put the the city over the 50,000 mark, making it eligible for a range of Federal health and hospital grants.
 
More Jobs Added Than People
The forms are in the Statehouse, too, while Gov. Ray Mabus shuttles between the Census Bureau's headquarters in Suitland, Md., and the local courthouses trying to prove that a state cannot gain 130,000 jobs that economists say have been added in the last decade and only 13,000 people. The preliminary 1990 census count for Mississippi was 2,535,000, more than 4 percent below what the bureau had been estimating for the state. Nationwide, the count was 1.45 percent below estimates.
''Any time you've got a state with a large number of people that live at or below the poverty line, any time you've got a large number of rural people, there's a pretty big body of evidence that says you're systematically undercounted,'' Mr. Mabus said. ''Then there are the anecdotal things. I didn't get a form. The Secretary of State didn't get a form.''
There are also two unpleasant realities. One is that the rural areas of Mississippi, especially the Delta, with its double-digit unemployment rates, have been hemorrhaging people for decades. The other is that the state is perilously close to losing a Congressional district. Indeed, if Kentucky can find about 3,000 more people than Mississippi, Kentucky will keep its seventh seat and Mississippi will lose its fifth.
The Delta is represented by Mike Espy, Mississippi's first black member of Congress since Reconstruction. He took an interest in the census form the outset, requesting that his Delta district get its own census office. An office was opened in Greenville, but Mr. Espy, a Democrat, was displeased when Mrs. Tolbert, a former Republican county chairwoman, was named to head it.
''The Mississippi number is outrageous,'' Mr. Espy said. ''There is a question of accuracy and fairness.''
I'm not saying it was intentional or purposeful,'' he added.
 
'Everybody in a Dither'
Mel Jordan, who heads the main district office of the Census Bureau in Jackson, said, ''The perception of the count is what's got everybody in a dither.'' Mr. Jordan, like other census officials, said the local review process will mean that housing units will be revisited by enumerators.
Barbara Everitt Bryant, the census director, told Congress this week that ''millions'' would be added to the preliminary count.
Issaquena County needs a few of those millions. William Haney, executive director of the South Delta Planning and Development District Inc., said many of the improvements in the county, including the Unita Blackwell housing project, have been financed through community development block grants.
''It's competitive,'' he said. ''One of the determinants of how you rate is cost per beneficiary. The fewer the beneficiaries, the higher per-beneficiary cost.''
His associate, Julie Lindner, is drafting a $300,000 grant application for a welfare department building in Mayersville that would have a cold-storage unit. That way, when the Agriculture Department distributed surplus cheese, milk and eggs, the food would not spoil before residents received it. ''If it doesn't get funded this year and I have to do the same next year with those new population figures, I don't see how it can compete,'' she said.
In the Mayersville challenge, Mr. Haney is even asking the Census Bureau to count 16 units of low-income housing that were not even complete last spring when the count was taken. ''When you're at the bottom,'' he said, ''you need everything you can get.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Unita Blackwell, left, the Mayor of Mayersville, Miss., with residents of a housing project whose elderly or disabled residents were not included in the preliminary census count issued last month. Behind her, from left, were Alice Rash, Fronie McIntosh Adline and Robert Jones and Eddie Ford, a visitor; ''I didn't have a lot of problems with people not wanting to be counted,'' said Ruby Crawford, a school bus driver who worked as a census taker in Issaquena County. She did have problems with the census maps, which had some houses miles out of place, she said (Photographs by Worley Hubert for The New York Times); map: Mississippi, indicating Mayersville (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (83%); US CENSUS BUREAU (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MISSISSIPPI; MAYERSVILLE (MISS); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: POPULATION; CENSUS CENSUS (95%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); COUNTIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (70%); AGING (70%); CITY LIFE (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); SOYBEAN FARMING (52%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (51%); 

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY; BLACKWELL, UNITA (MAYOR) MICHAEL MCMAHON (95%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (95%); 



435 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 17, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: U.S. TO POSTPONE DEBATE ON ZIONISM

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 15

 BODY:
The Bush Administration is postponing plans to seek repeal of a United Nations resolution equating Zionism with racism at this year's General Assembly so as not to imperil Arab support for trade sanctions against Iraq and for America's military buildup in the Persian Gulf, United Nations and American officials say.
The decision by the United States to avoid a confrontation with the Arabs on this issue is widely seen as illustrating the way the gulf crisis and the Security Council's tough response to Iraq's aggression against Kuwait are likely to dominate much of the discussion at this year's Assembly session.
 
Commitment From Quayle
Last December Vice President Dan Quayle, with strong support from American Jewish organizations, committed the Administration to the repeal of a much criticized 1975 resolution describing Zionism as a form of racism, arguing that repeal would increase the United Nations' ''moral authority'' and allow it to play a constructive role in the Middle East. 
But on Friday, Under Secretary General Ronald I. Spiers, the United Nations official in charge of the Assembly, said he did not expect the United States to attempt to press for repeal at this year's session.
State Department officials confirmed that while the Administration still favors repeal, it does not want to irritate Arab states at such a sensitive moment by pressing the Assembly to act this year.
Israeli diplomats also said they did not expect a push for repeal at the Assembly session, which opens Tuesday. ''We want repeal but we want an overwhelming majority in favor and this may not be the right moment to get it,'' said Israel's representative, Johanan Bein. New Stature for U.N. Although the international campaign to oust Iraq from Kuwait is directed by the United Nations' 15-member Security Council, many believe it will have a far-reaching effect on the General Assembly, promoting debate over many aspects of the organization's future and stimulating pressure for change.
Many believe that the gulf crisis has showed that the United Nations is finally capable of working as it was intended to, which will also encourage countries to look critically at the organization and its functions.
''There are a lot of issues burning under the surface which become important as countries take the United Nations more seriously,'' says Edward C. Luck, President of the United Nations Association of the United States.
 
Japan Seeking a Seat
Chief among these, many diplomats say, is the composition and authority of the Security Council now that it is starting to carry out its task of safeguarding international peace effectively.
In particular, the privileged position enjoyed by Britain and France as World War II victors with permanent seats and veto power is hard to justify when Germany and Japan are richer and pay more of the United Nations' costs.
Japan has informally suggested the creation of six permanent Council seats without a veto for itself, a united Germany, India, Egypt, Nigeria and Brazil. But this means amending the Charter which many fear would open a Pandora's box of demands, including abolition of the permanent members altogether.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (93%); JAPAN (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); GULF STATES (92%); KUWAIT (92%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (77%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (90%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; IRAQ

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; EMBARGOES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); VETO (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL; QUAYLE, DAN (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) JAMES DANFORTH 'DAN' QUAYLE (70%); 



436 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 16, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: CONFRONTATION IN THE GULF;
Germany Pledges $1.87 Billion to Aid Gulf Effort

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LUDWIGSHAFEN, West Germany, Sept. 15

 BODY:
Chancellor Helmut Kohl of West Germany told Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d today that his country would fulfill its responsibilities in the multinational effort to confront Iraq by providing military equipment and economic assistance worth $1.87 billion.
But the German Chancellor said that because of restrictions in the German Constitution, which prohibit West Germany from sending troops outside of the NATO theater, Bonn would not be sending any men to join the American and other European forces stationed in and around Saudi Arabia. The Chancellor promised that as soon as the two Germanys are unified and elect an all-German Parliament in December he will introduce an amendment to the Constitution so that Germany could dispatch troops to the Persian Gulf and similar crises.
Chancellor Kohl made his commitment in a 90-minute meeting with Mr. Baker in his Ludwigshafen country home, in south central Germany. The West German offer comes in the wake of mounting Congressional criticism of Bonn's reluctance to commit resources to the multinational effort to roll back the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait. 
 
Baker Expresses Appreciation
Similar Congressional criticism of Japan was quieted somewhat this week when Tokyo promised a package worth $4 billion. It was unclear whether the West German announcement would mollify the critics.
Mr. Baker said he was ''very appreciative of these contributions, both economic and military.''
''We see them as very positive and very forthcoming,'' Mr. Baker said. ''They go beyond what we privately discussed in earlier communications and substantially so. The President will be pleased, and I know the American people will be pleased as well.''
Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher, who met with Mr. Baker in Petersberg, near Bonn, earlier in the day, said he was sure that in light of the West German contribution ''the critical voices will be silent.''
 
Kohl Regrets Restrictions
Although the German offer was valued at $2 billion by Mr. Baker, that figure includes West Germany's share of a European Community aid package. The assistance is actually made up of military equipment, transport and logistical aid and financial help totaling $835 million.
Speaking to reporters after meeting with Mr. Baker in Ludwigshafen, Mr. Kohl said: ''We would like to make it very clear that we would like to give full support within the limits available to us to our American friends and partners, who are active in the gulf and who are also defending our interest in the region.''
Regarding Germany's refusal to commit troops, Mr. Kohl explained: ''We very much regret that our Constitution does not allow us at the present to assume our full responsibility in the area, something that I regret very much. I hope that right after the elections we will be able to initiate a change in our Constitution and fully assume our share of responsibility.''
 
Little Enthusiasm from Germans
Until today, Bonn's contribution has been limited to warmly endorsing the multinational effort in public statements, sending five mine sweepers and two supply ships to the Mediterranean so that the American ships stationed there could be transferred to the gulf and granting Washington permission to use its bases in West Germany as way stations for transferring troops.
Opinion polls in Germany show little enthusiasm for any extensive involvement in the gulf crisis, which comes at a time when West and East Germany are preoccupied with their pending unification on Oct. 3. West German officials argue that they are going to have to pay billions of dollars in order to integrate East Germany into their economy. Also, West Germany gets virtually all of its oil from the North Sea and Norway, and 0.3 percent from Iraq.
The limited West German contribution up to now stood in stark contrast to that of other major Western industrialized countries. On Friday, Britain committed 8,000 combat troops to the gulf force. France has sent naval forces and promised 4,000 troops today, while Italian officials informed Mr. Baker in Rome Friday that they were dispatching a squadron of eight Tornado fighter aircraft and a frigate.
Mr. Baker said this evening that he had asked the Soviet Union to provide air and sea transport for the 10,000 troops and 300 tanks that the Syrians promised Saudi Arabia last week. Mr. Baker said the Soviets are considering the request.
Before arriving in Germany from Rome, American officials traveling with Mr. Baker made little effort to disguise their extreme disappointment with the behavior of the West Germans. They felt that Bonn, America's richest European ally, has been remarkably unforthcoming in the gulf crisis.
What made Bonn's unresponsiveness, up to now, even more galling, said Administration officials, was the fact that President Bush and Secretary Baker felt they had bent over backward in the last year to convince their European allies and Moscow that a united Germany would not be a threat.
Mr. Baker's stop in Germany ended a 12-day tour of Europe and the Persian Gulf, which raised more than $16 billion in financial support for the multinational coalition in the gulf as well as extensive commitments of military support.
In light of those commitments, the United States and its allies can sustain the quarantine of Iraq, Mr. Baker said, ''a lot longer than a lot of people thought when this thing first started.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); JAPAN (79%); GULF STATES (79%); KUWAIT (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (72%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; WEST GERMANY; IRAQ

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (71%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC); KOHL, HELMUT (CHANCELLOR) THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 



437 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 15, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: What Makes The 2 Sexes So Vulnerable To Epidemic

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

 BODY:
A host of medical, cultural and economic factors make Africa especially vulnerable to the heterosexual spread of AIDS, which is believed to account for more than 80 percent of adult cases there.
The second major mode of spread in Africa, contaminated transfusions, is declining as hospitals adopt blood screening, and reused medical needles account for only a small share of cases. Homosexual intercourse and intravenous drug use, which account for most AIDS cases in the United States and Europe, are believed to be rare.
Studies in the United States show that transmission of the AIDS virus during vaginal intercourse is usually quite difficult, especially from female to male. But research in Africa has revealed conditions that multiply the danger. 
One is the rampant extent of sexually transmitted diseases. In particular, transmission appears to be boosted by those that cause genital sores such as syphilis and, above all, chancroid, which causes festering ulcers. These provide ready portals for the AIDS virus and brim with concentrations of cells it inhabits.
 
Higher Chance of Transmission
Studies in Kenya suggest an extraordinary impact. When a woman with the AIDS virus also has a genital ulcer, the chance of AIDS transmission to a man in a single act of intercourse may be as high as 5 percent to 10 percent, according to Dr. Allan R. Ronald, head of internal medicine at the University of Manitoba and an organizer of the studies. When partners do not have a sexually transmitted disease, the chance is only a fraction of 1 percent.
Other venereal diseases that do not cause ulcers but often cause inflammation, like gonorrhea and chlamydia, also appear to increase the risk of AIDS transmission, though not so powerfully as the ulcerative diseases.
A second major factor, evidence suggests, is the lack of male circumcision in much of Africa. Uncircumcised males are more likely to have infections or small breaks in the skin of the penis, and the foreskin traps virus-containing fluids in a hospitable environment. Across Africa the tribes that do not practice circumcision tend to have the highest AIDS rates. Dr. Ronald believes that lack of circumcision by itself doubles AIDS transmission risks. Combined with the presence of genital ulcers, he calculates, the risk from a single encounter may be 15 percent or higher.
Researchers are just now turning attention to little-known sexual practices that might also raise transmission odds.
In parts of Central Africa including Zambia, Zaire, Zimbabwe and Malawi some women engage in a practice known as ''dry sex.'' In variations of the practice, designed to increase friction during intercourse, women use herbs, chemical powders, stones or cloth in the vagina to reduce lubrication and cause swelling. Those kinds of agents are also sometimes used as medications.
In Zambia, Dr. Subhash K. Hira of the University of Lusaka found evidence suggesting that women who practiced dry sex had a greater chance of becoming infected with the AIDS virus, presumably because of an increased chance of abrasions.
 
Common Promiscuity a Factor
Studies in Malawi find that more than one in 10 women have used ''vaginal-tightening agents.'' But the studies find no evidence of a significant association between the practices and infection with the AIDS virus.
Promiscuity helps drive the epidemic. While data do not exist for comparing sexual behavior on different continents, surveys do show that extramarital sex is commonplace in Africa.
Prostitution, always an engine of sexually transmitted diseases, has played a major role in African AIDS. Typically, a small group of infected prostitutes passes the virus to large numbers of men, who take it to their wives and girlfriends.
Prostitution is encouraged by migratory labor patterns rooted in the colonial past and current poverty. Millions of couples are separated for months at a time as men work in mines or plantations or move to cities for any paying job. For many women, especially those with little education who have left the dreary cocoon of the village, selling sex may seem essential for economic survival.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard Dimba, who has AIDS, being examined by Dr.Clement Chela at a hospital in Chikankata, Zambia. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AFRICA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); ZAMBIA (93%); KENYA (79%); EUROPE (79%); MALAWI (79%); CENTRAL AFRICA (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;AFRICA

SUBJECT: ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS); VIRUSES; VENEREAL DISEASES AIDS & HIV (97%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (95%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (91%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); VIRUSES (90%); BACTERIA (77%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (75%); 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK



438 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 4, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: Poor Nations Get Unspecified Pledge of More Aid

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Sept. 15

 BODY:
Rich industrial nations agreed to increase their aid to the world's poorest nations at a United Nations conference that ended here today, but their agreement fell short of the third world's goal of having the industrialized world double its aid.
Officials at the Second United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries had feared that the two-week session on helping the poor would end in disarray because of disagreements over what specific aid target the rich nations should adopt to help the world's 42 poorest nations. When the two-week conference began, representatives of the poorest nations called on the industrial world to raise its aid to 20 one-hundredths of 1 percent of their gross national product, more than double current aid levels. 
Principally because of opposition from the United States, the industrialized nations failed to agree to raise their aid to a single fixed target. Instead, the nations agreed to set their own goals, with the final declaration creating a menu of options, including one in which countries could pledge to contribute the amount the poorest nations were seeking.
''The outcome of this menu is a good meal,'' said Jan Pronk, development minister from the Netherlands. ''It has got meat.''
The conference aimed to study how to lift the 42 poorest nations, 28 of them African, out of their misery and how to reverse the economic decline those nations suffered in the 1980's. In those nations, which include Afghanistan, Chad, Haiti, Laos and Tanzania, per-capita income averages $227 a year, and one of seven children dies before the age of 2. Newly established Namibia was added to the group at the meeting.
In a departure from the first conference, held in 1981, the final declaration called for promoting private-sector initiative to help the poor nations.
Last year, the industrialized world -the United States, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, Australia and Western Europe - gave the poorest nations about $12 billion in aid. But third world officials say that by the year 2000, that aid needs to be raised to $36 billion, in current dollars, for these nations to raise economic growth to 5 percent a year, enough to make a tangible difference in living standards.
''Without outside support, these poor nations will have a hard time,'' said the French Foreign Minister, Roland Dumas. ''They will never escape from their vicious circle of misery.''
At the 1981 conference, the industrialized nations set a target of contributing 15 one hundredths of 1 percent of their economic output to the poorest nations, but the industrialized world has fallen far short of that level. The United States donates four one-hundredths of 1 percent of its output to the poorest nations, while Japan gives seven one-hundredths of 1 percent.
Under the options the conference agreed to this week, the loftiest is for nations to continue donating more than 20 one-hundredths of 1 percent. Scandinavian nations and the Netherlands are already in this category.
Another option - the one that African delegates said was the least lofty - was chosen by the United States and Japan, the two largest donor nations in absolute terms. That option calls for countries to promise to increase aid, without setting a specific target. American officials say they fear that if they pledge to raise aid to the poorest nations, then they might be forced to reduce aid to other deserving recipients.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); AUSTRALIA (79%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); HAITI (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); NAMIBIA (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); NETHERLANDS (75%); AFGHANISTAN (75%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (75%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

SUBJECT: THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; FOREIGN AID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN



439 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL/3-19

 
France will send 4,000 soldiers and dozens of airplanes, tanks and helicopters to Saudi Arabia, President Mitterrand said, responding to Baghdad's moves against French and other foreign diplomats in Kuwait on Friday. Page 1

 
The U.S.'s offensive capability against Iraq is being built up, according to American officials, who say that the American forces have already achieved a ''credible'' defense of Saudi Arabia. 1

 
Germany pledges $1.87 billion 16

 
Leftist Palestinian leaders rally Arab support for Iraq 16

 
Gorbachev presses Israel to join conference on Mideast 6

 
U.S. retreats from seeking repeal of resolution on Zionism 17

 
Views on the crisis: lawmakers versed in Vietnam 18

 
Democrats straddle a line on policy statement 27

 
Oil companies fear a backlash over the large profits they are likely to report for this fiscal quarter, and they are trying to find ways to hold down those profits. 1

 
Archeological research in Iraq, where the remnants of the earliest human civilizations lie, may be severely hampered by the crisis in the region, archeologists say. 1

 
AIDS is spreading through Africa to an astonishing degree. Spread mainly through heterosexual intercourse, it is striking men and women alike, the rich and the poor, and city as well as country dwellers. 1

 
What makes the two sexes so vulnerable to epidemic 15

 
A crackdown on township violence in South Africa was announced by the police, after Nelson Mandela said that the Government believed sinister outsiders were manipulating the fighting between black factions. 3

 
Church urges Kenya to free report on slaying 3

 
Soviet central economic controls should be kept in place for another year, according to Prime Minister Nikolai I. Ryzhkov, who vowed a spirited fight to resist plans to move to a free-market economy. 9

 
The President of El Salvador, Alfredo Cristiani, has moved toward the center of the Salvadoran political spectrum, provoking a backlash from his own rightist party that threatens his administration. 10

 
Nicaragua using a new currency 11

 
Briton who reported Army smear wins back pay 12

 
Poor nations get unspecified pledge of more aid 4

 
Deadlock threatens future of nuclear treaty 5

 
NATIONAL/20-33

 
A California environmental measure to be voted on in November appears to be faltering after much initial support, a sign that voters may be reluctant to pay the costs of a clean environment. 30

 
PAC's base their contributions less on ideological or geographic factors than on whether the recipient sits on a Congressional committee that can help them, a new study has found. 26

 
News analysis: Budget talks show philosophical conflicts 32

 
U.S. company eluding assault rifle import ban 31

 
Dixon clings to outsider image in insiders' city 26

 
Reporter's Notebook: Was Souter anecdote off the cuff? 32

 
Foreign visitors are finding delays to be very common at U.S. airports because of a shortage of Government immigration inspectors. 20

 
F.A.A. orders secrecy on new bomb detectors 23

 
The Mississippi Delta's census count was often incomplete as the Census Bureau ran into the same problems it faced in the inner-city neighborhoods of New York City or Detroit: poverty, illiteracy, and suspicion. 20

 
Bill would again end benefits to census workers 21

 
 Massachusetts Journal: A new library law 20

 
Arts foundation awards $35,000 to six authors 33

 
REGIONAL/34-45

 
New Yorkers are asking themselves and their neighbors many questions about the state of their lives in the city, focusing on their fears and frustrations stirred by several chilling crimes. 1

 
Dinkins asks East New York's help in fighting crime 41

 
Man arrested during towing confrontation is released 34

 
Ex-sergeant's release ordered in stun-gun case 35

 
Officer's last words recalled at murder trial 43

 
Post and unions in tentative pact 45

 
Harlem's numerous historic sites, often ignored by historic-preservationists in the past, are now receiving much support, and battles are brewing over the fate of several historically significant places. 42

 
Parents are protesting the presence of an 11-year-old boy infected with the AIDS virus at the Brooklyn junior high school that their children attend. The boy recently revealed that he is infected with the virus. 34

 
Salvation Army is told to pay minimum wage 42

 
Westchester helps single mothers get off public assistance 38

 
Senate leader vows not to exceed Governor's spending limit 39

 
Teacher strikes in two New Jersey districts end 44

 
Obituaries
46

Leonid Tarassuk, an expert on arms and armor
 
Arts/Reviews 66

Music: Ensemble celebrates 10 years
 
Campus Life 53-55

 
Fashion 60-61

 
Life Style 56

 
Pastimes 66-69

 
Weddings 62-65

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); KUWAIT (92%); FRANCE (91%); ISRAEL (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KENYA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); AFRICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); VIET NAM (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); SALVATION ARMY (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); ARMED FORCES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); HELICOPTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMIES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); LIBERALISM (75%); BUDGETS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (74%); AIRPORTS (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); ARCHAEOLOGY (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (70%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (69%); IMPORT CONTROLS (64%); 

PERSON: TZIPORA LIVNI (57%); 



440 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 54, Column 6; Style Desk

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Campus Life: Yale;
7 Athletic Teams Are Eliminated To Trim Budget

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN

 BODY:
This summer, Jeffrey Wyshner spent three hours a day practicing for a tennis team that no longer exists.
A junior from North Canaan, Conn., Mr. Wyshner joined Yale's junior varsity team last year. During the summer, he practiced daily and played in eight local tournaments, hoping to improve enough to make the varsity squad. 
But when he returned to Yale in late August, Mr. Wyshner learned, to his astonishment, that the athletic department, because of a $150,000 budgetary cut, said it had been forced to eliminate seven junior varsity programs, including tennis.
''I think everyone should have the opportunity to come here and compete intercollegiately,'' said Mr. Wyshner, an economics major. ''The days of the walk-on athlete are disappearing.''
In addition to men's and women's tennis, the athletic department cut junior varsity programs for men's and women's lacrosse and men's basketball, baseball and wrestling. The department saved about $10,000 by eliminating these teams, which have a combined roster of about 70 students, said the associate director for varsity sports, Barbara Chesler. But team coaches are trying to keep the programs going through alumni donations.
 
'We Have to Make Choices'
Yale continues to sponsor 10 junior varsity teams and 35 varsity programs. But more junior varsity teams might be eliminated next year if the athletic department's budget continues to shrink, Ms. Chesler said.
''We have to make choices, reallocations and trade-offs,'' said Associate Provost Lloyd Suttle. ''Needs around a place like Yale inevitably grow faster than resources. Rebuilding Yale is the top priority of this administration, and you can't pour money into buildings without taking it out elsewhere.'' The university's president, Benno C. Schmidt Jr., has embarked on a capital-improvement plan to renovate campus buildings that Mr. Suttle said could take decades and cost up to a billion dollars.
The baseball, wrestling and men's lacrosse programs are among those that coaches hope to resurrect through alumni donations. Traditionally, these teams have not traveled, so the primary expense involves hiring referees for home games.
''We think having a 'B' squad is vital for our program and for the student athlete,'' said the lacrosse coach, Michael Waldvogel, who estimates that sponsoring a junior varsity program will cost $1,000.
 
'Goes Without Saying'
Five of the seven All-American players on Yale's nationally ranked lacrosse team, which reached the National Collegiate Athletic Association semifinals last year, spent at least one year in junior varsity play, Mr. Waldvogel said.
''There's no telling who will develop into an All-American,'' said Mark Horney, a senior history major from Baltimore who spent two years on the junior varsity lacrosse team before advancing to the varsity.
''You have to have J.V.; that goes without saying,'' agreed David Nicoll, a senior on the varsity wrestling team. Each week, junior varsity athletes can challenge their varsity counterparts, and ''without that competition, varsity wrestlers might get complacent,'' said Mr. Nicoll, an engineering major from Rochester.
Although coaches tend to see junior varsity teams as stepping stones to their varsity teams, many junior varsity athletes simply enjoy the chance to compete on the collegiate level.
''When I heard that they cut the J.V. program, I thought of all the people who play J.V. and just have a lot of fun,'' said Peter Ladig, a sophomore history major from Glen Mills, Pa., who hopes to make the varsity baseball team this year. ''Cutting the team ruins the chance for students to come out, put on the uniform and say they played J.V. baseball at Yale,'' he added.
Or, as Mr. Wyshner said, ''Playing Harvard is still playing Harvard, whether you're on J.V. or varsity.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (58%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (58%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY

SUBJECT: ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; COLLEGE ATHLETICS SPORTS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); TENNIS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); LACROSSE (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (86%); ATHLETES (78%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BASEBALL (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (77%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); BASKETBALL (73%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); BUILDING RENOVATION (68%); ALUMNI (66%); HISTORY (66%); 

PERSON: JEFFREY WYSHNER (87%); 



441 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 48, Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: ANTIQUES;
Mining the Greeks' Gold Standard

BYLINE: By RITA REIF

 BODY:
Wreaths of tissue-thin leaves, vase-shaped earrings encrusted with specks of glowing metal, and a hairnet of chains embellished with a bust of Athena are among the dazzling pieces of Greek gold jewelry on view at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum in Manhattan, through Jan. 13.
The 200 ancient, medieval, Byzantine and neoclassical artifacts exhibited in ''Gold of Greece: Jewelry and Ornaments from the Benaki Museum'' document virtually every metalworking technique used in crafting objects of adornment over 4,000 years of history. The Benaki Museum in Athens, which organized the show with the Dallas Museum of Art, is a little-known repository of one of the world's great collections of historical jewelry. The exhibit is the first presentation in this country of selections from the Benaki's collection. 
''On each of these earrings, you can barely see the woman playing the lyre,'' said David R. McFadden, the Cooper-Hewitt's curator of decorative arts, admiring a pair of Hellenistic earrings from the fourth century B.C. The delicacy and scale of these highly complex figural designs are rendered with such refinement, Mr. McFadden noted, that the women are almost invisible to the human eye.
Mr. McFadden said goldsmiths in ancient Greece achieved extraordinary results with far fewer tools than were available to 19th-century craftsmen, many of whom used machines when making their adaptations of the Greek jewelry.
''Ancient Greece is such a jumping-off point for all jewelry design,'' Mr. McFadden said. Beginning with the Mycenaeans in the second millennium, the vocabulary of decoration developed by the Greeks - images of gods and goddesses, mythological creatures, snakes, beasts and stylized flowers - has been revived in the Middle Ages, the Renaissance and the 18th and 19th centuries.
Animal motifs borrowed from antiquity also are common in today's jewelry. But the bracelets and earrings worn in the fifth century B.C., with their fierce-faced heads of rams, lions, lynxes, bulls, antelopes or griffins, were set off by more elaborate engraving, filigree, raised relief and beading.
This use of naturalistic detail may have stemmed from the ancient Greeks' belief in the talismanic power of jewelry bearing animal and plant forms to protect the wearer from an assortment of evils. Jewelry worn to show status, another Greek custom, remains intact today - although somewhat changed. In ancient times, jewelry revealed intellectual as well as financial power, and men in the fourth century B.C. wore as much jewelry as women. In fact, the men donned some of the most extravagant examples - including wreaths of gold ivy or oak leaves, worn when they marched in victory processions.
Beginning in the third century B.C., the subject matter of Greek jewelry became increasingly romantic and exuberant. On view at the show are necklaces and earrings depicting Aphrodite or pairs of doves, which convey the idea of love; Dionysian motifs suggest sensuous pleasures.
Serpents, a jewelry motif that has endured through the centuries, were used in the stunning pair of bracelets exhibited, which are from the third century A.D. The serpents probably depict the Greek myth of Zeus and his mother Rhea. Gold was combined with semi-precious stones like garnets or with bits of colored glass, a trend that intensified under the Romans and in the early Byzantine period as gold grew scarce.
The Greek mastery of gold disappeared when the taste for adornment declined. Medallions became weightier and less refined; pendants depicted crosses, madonnas or abstract motifs. Under Emperor Justinian in the fifth century, the taste for luxury returned briefly with an improved economy. But the sumptuous necklaces and belts, blazing with precious stones, were far from the fantasies created in ancient Greece.
The exhibition contains later examples of Greek jewelry, including enameled pectorals made in the 15th and 16th centuries in the form of four-masted ships, to celebrate the age of sailing the seas to discover new continents. The Ottomans' delight in boldly colored stones and the Venetian use of filigree influenced the design of Greek jewelry into the early 19th century, when its ancient forms were revived.
The Benaki Museum was founded in 1930 in Athens by Anthony Benaki, a member of a family prominent in politics and cultural affairs in the Greek colony in Alexandria, Egypt. As a young man, Benaki collected Greek art and artifacts of all periods. His collection eventually spanned the Bronze Age to the 20th century, and he decided to donate it to the Greek people, after he settled in Athens in 1926. He remained involved in the museum's operations until his death in 1954. Housed in the Doric-columned Benaki mansion on Queen Sofias Avenue, the museum was enlarged several times to accommodate the founder's holdings and other gifts.
The show's handsomely illustrated paperback catalogue ($24.95) offers a cursory history of the jewelry shown. (The Benaki is preparing a more scholarly study of the museum's gold collection that will document the history and pedigree of major pieces.) The exhibition, which is supported by the Federal Council on the Arts and the Humanities, will travel next year to the San Diego Museum of Art and the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Hellenistic gold ivy wreath, at the Cooper-Hewitt (Cooper-Hewitt Museum)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GREECE (93%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); ATHENS, GREECE (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREECE

SUBJECT: JEWELS AND JEWELRY; REVIEWS; SHOWS (EXHIBITS) MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); JEWELRY (90%); FINE JEWELRY (90%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (90%); CLASSICS (89%); MAMMALS (85%); FABRICATED METAL PRODUCT MFG (78%); VISUAL ARTS (76%); MILLENNIUM (67%); WILD CATS (67%); MYTHOLOGY (63%); 

PERSON: REIF, RITA ANTHONY BENAKI (77%); DAVID R MCFADDEN (77%); 



442 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: FORUM;
Who's Afraid of Industrial Policy?

BYLINE: By CHALMERS JOHNSON; Chalmers Johnson, a professor at the University of California's Graduate School of International Relations and Pacific Studies at San Diego, is author of ''MITI and the Japanese Miracle.''

 BODY:
It is not news that the United States and Japan are on a collision course. In fact, a book entitled ''Nichi-bei Shototsu e no Michi,'' which is roughly translated as ''The Japanese-American Collision Course,'' is a best seller in Tokyo. What is news is that intellectual vested interests stand in the way of clearly recognizing the differences between the two countries and prevent either side from taking appropriate measures to change course.
On the one hand, professional neo-classical economists and an array of lobbyists, apologists, and public-relations specialists claim that the Japanese economy is just like any other capitalist economy. Although they usually do not read a word of Japanese and have made no empirical study of the Japanese economy, they claim that the Japanese just get up earlier, work harder, and save and invest more than their competitors. This school is often known as the ''chrysanthemum club.'' 
On the other hand, scholars of the Japanese state bureaucracy - myself included - some American trade negotiators and many American manufacturers who have competed successfully everywhere else except Japan argue that the Japanese economy is different from that described in American economic models. It is what what we term a ''capitalist developmental state.'' This school has been dubbed the ''revisionists'' because its members are attempting to revise orthodox American policy by calling for specific trade measures tailor-made for Japan.
This latter group is beginning to achieve a small measure of success, as seen, for example, in the Bush Administration's Structural Impediments Initiative to open the Japanese market. However, any success by this group is proving extremely painful to the devotees of Adam Smith.
Everyone agrees that many factors have contributed to the collision course between the United States and Japan and that to single out any one of them as central is a source of error. Both sides stipulate that the United States must soon resume financing its own government, provide incentives for its people to save instead of consume, reorient its engineering from military to commercial products and get serious about educating its labor force. But there is one cause of the trade deficit that the classical economists cannot acknowledge, because it tends to undercut everything they have stood for and might even require that some of them give back their Nobel prizes in economics. That is Japan's industrial policy. Industrial policy is to English-speaking economists something akin to sin. It means governmental affirmative action on behalf of domestic industry to foster the orderly retreat of declining industries and to build the high-value-added industries of the future. It works on the supply side and takes as its criterion the number of truly valuable jobs held by a nation's workers. It favors computer chips over potato chips.
The Japanese are past masters at industrial policy. The most important command post within their economic general staff, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry, is called the Industrial Policy Bureau.
The prime tools of industrial policy are export incentives, trade barriers to protect the home market, low-cost credit, pro-business environmental and educational policies and unorthodox accounting practices. For private companies going into government-approved industries, there are other incentives, like foreign commercial intelligence services, nationalistic patent policies and a host of other forms of economic covert action. Public subsidies are not very important.
Western economists do not like industrial policy because it interferes with their mathematical models. And in Japan, economic policy is made not by economists but by highly nationalistic state bureaucrats trained at the University of Tokyo Law School.
American politicians do not like industrial policy because it draws attention to one of the most important asymmetries between Japan and the United States: the effectiveness of the Japanese Government in economic affairs as compared with the blundering of Washington. Needless to say, Japanese leaders are not about to draw attention to industrial policy; it is more effective if their competitors do not know what is going on. The Japanese government thus engages in extensive disinformation on this subject aimed especially at people who do not read Japanese.
Today's challenge goes well beyond the old shibboleths of level playing fields, competitiveness and protectionism. In fact, industrial policy is the antidote to protectionism of important but weak industries like machine tools and robotics.
The idea of a level playing field means that people should play by the same rules. But since the Japanese play by different rules, and since we seem to have had little success in agreeing on what a new set of common rules might look like, we must learn to match rather than imitate them.
The idea currently popular in some American business schools is that American companies lack ''competitiveness.'' Actually, American companies are merely the products of - and are responding to - the short-term incentives and signals sent out by the American political and financial systems. Until these are changed there is no such thing as a company-level solution to the problem of competitiveness.
Japan differs almost completely from the United States in its history of industrialization, the role of the state in it, and the place of economic affairs in national security. Japan is not, however, unique. It is similar to that other great late developer, Germany. Both began intentionally to catch up with the original beneficiaries of the industrial revolution at about the same time, 1868 for Japan and 1870 for Germany. Both have experimented for more than a century with corporate forms of social goal-setting, while retaining the efficiencies of the market. The challenge for American national and corporate economic policy is to recognize this country's differences from Japan and to begin to formulate strategies for managing them. It is also the indispensable first step toward avoiding another national collision.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chalmers Johnson (Alan Decker for The New York Times); drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (96%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN MANUFACTURERS.COM INC (58%); AMERICAN MANUFACTURERS EXPORT GROUP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ECONOMY INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); LABOR FORCE (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); AWARDS & PRIZES (71%); NOBEL PRIZES (70%); ENGINEERING (68%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (67%); COMPUTER CHIPS (60%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (55%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, CHALMERS (PROF) ADAM SMITH (50%); 



443 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: In Japan, the Private Sector Plays a Role in Foreign Aid

 BODY:
To the Editor:
While America's gunboat diplomacy builds swiftly in the Middle East, Victor H. Palmieri appropriately points out the growing influence of Japan's foreign-aid programs (''U.S. Takes Back Seat in Third World,'' Aug. 26). Indeed, in 1987, Japan was the largest donor of official bilateral assistance to 29 countries, among them China, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Syria, Nigeria, Kenya and Zambia. In its rapid rise to become the world's largest donor, Japan has received broad-based public support and assistance and encouragement from the powerful private sector, including Keidanren, the Japan Federation of Economic Organizations. This is in contrast to the aid fatigue and disillusionment that grip many wealthy nations of the West. 
The public-private cooperation in development aid and direct investment was clearly evident at the beginning of the year when Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu, visiting Poland and Hungary, announced a $1 billion aid program for the two countries. The announcement was seconded by the Suzuki and Daihatsu Motor Company with plans for new automobile plants in the region. In Southeast Asia, Thailand has been a principal recipient of Japanese official assistance for 20 years. In 1988, this came to $360 million, which was dwarfed the following year by direct private investments from Japan of $3.5 billion. Such infusions have made Thailand the world's fastest-growing economy in 1988 and 1989. ''Japan Inc.'' is also moving strongly into Vietnam, while Washington maintains its moribund policy.
Chile - another booming economy - received $123 million in Japanese investments in 1988, considerably more than the total for the prior 10 years. The newly elected President of Peru, Alberto Fujimori, is also seeking aid and investments from his ancestral homeland. These developments are inexorably turning the yen into an international coin of the realm; meanwhile, the United States remains hamstrung by its massive budgetary deficits.
LESLIE S. HIRAOKA
Union, N.J., Aug. 30
 
The writer is a professor of management science at Kean College of New Jersey.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: 7262 (TSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDONESIA (92%); INDIA (92%); KENYA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); CHINA (92%); NIGERIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); SYRIA (92%); THAILAND (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); PERU (79%); ASIA (79%); POLAND (55%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DAIHATSU MOTOR CO LTD (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); BUDGETS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (61%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: HIRAOKA, LESLIE S (PROF) VICTOR H PALMIERI (74%); 



444 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 84 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:

MONDY: Business inventories for July.
Chevorlet previews 1991 models.
 
TUESDAY: Merchandise trade balance for July. 
August consumer prices.
Ford previews 1991 models.
Next Inc. is to introduce an improved work station and new software.
 
WEDNESDAY: Housing starts for August.
Chrysler show 1991 models.
The Federal reserve Board releases its beige book of comments onthe economy.
 
THURSDAY: The treasury acutions 52-week bills.
 
FRIDAY: Treasury deficit for August.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NEXT INC (67%); FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (67%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (88%); INVENTORIES (88%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (88%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (86%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (86%); REAL ESTATE (85%); HOUSING STARTS (54%); 



445 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: WORLD MARKETS;
A Bond Strategy for Foreigners

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
With the economy slowing down, or possibly in a recession, and with a steadily weakening dollar, there is little to attract foreign investors to the American stock and bond markets From January through May, foreigners were net sellers of $6.7 billion in American stocks and $5.9 billion in Government securities, according to the most recent data from the Securities Industry Association. Analysts say the trend is likely to continue - especially if the dollar falls further, which would cut deeper into profits or widen losses for foreign investors who must convert assets back into their home currencies.
In the midst of this gloom, Michael R. Rosenberg, manager of international fixed income research at Merrill Lynch & Company, has found a bright spot: a bond investment that should be attractive to foreigners - and some Americans - and that makes a profit out of hedging against the falling dollar. He thinks the strategy could help slow the flight of foreigners from the American bond market, which some analysts say creates pressure for higher interest rates. 
The Japanese investor, for example, would do this: Take yen and buy dollars and then buy a 10-year American bond, which has a yield of around 8.85 percent. Then, to hedge against the risk of the dollar falling further, the investor sells the dollars forward; that is, he sells the dollars now but agrees to deliver them at a set later date - a week, month or maybe longer.
This strategy gives the investor a much higher yield than he could get in Japan. There, a 10-year bond (the longest maturity) is yielding just 7.70 percent based on the semiannual compound rate used in the United States. This means the interest rate on the American bond is 114 basis points higher. (A basis point is one one-hundredth of a percentage point.) In addition, whenthe investor sells hisdollars forward for yen,he will earn a premium of about 30 basis points, because short-term interest rates in Japan are now higher than those in the United States.
This leaves the investor with a bond yielding 9.14 percent, counting the premium for selling dollars forward, or an investment that yields 144 basis points more than hecould get in Tokyo. The nice extra is that the hedge against a further decline in the dollar, which would reduce the value of the investment, actually adds to the profit.
Americans can use this strategy, too, even though some foreign bonds have higher yields. For example, the British 10-year gilt yields 11.81 percent, more than the American counterpart. But three-month rates in Britain are 688 basis points higher, giving a net gain of 391 basis points when the investor sells the dollars forward for pounds. Doing the same with the Canadian dollar would give a net higher yield of 225 basis points.
Here's the real beauty in the strategy. What makes it attractive is the change in interest-rate differentials between the United States and the rest of the world, which is what weakened the dollar and made investment here less attractive in the first place.
The strategy could, of course, turn into a nightmare. Worries about inflation could depress bond prices in the United States, which would push yields higher. Mr. Rosenberg has calculated that if interest rates on the 10-year bond rise by 30 basis points, the drop in bond prices would, for example, wipe out the Japanese investor's gain from the 144 basis-point spread. Then the yield would be the same as if he had left his money in Japan. But if interest rates on Japanese bonds also rose about the same amount at the same time, the gain would be intact.
For Americans, hedging by buying pounds, yen or Canadian dollars is fine as long as the American dollar continues to decline or is stable. If it rises, then the investors will lose some of their gain when they turn the foreign currency back into dollars.
Mr. Rosenberg is not worried about these problems for now. He thinks that the differential in short-term interest rates will continue to widen. He expects the Federal Reserve to ease interest rates because of the threat of recession. And he believes the Bank of Japan will continue to push up interest rates to counter inflationary pressures.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (91%); MER (NYSE) (91%); 8675 (TSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (92%); CANADA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (57%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; FINANCES; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES BONDS (93%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); RECESSION (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (72%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN MICHAEL R ROSENBERG (68%); 



446 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1695 words

HEADLINE: Car-Buying, 1990, Is a Matter of Multiple Choices and Pitfalls

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN

DATELINE: SILVER SPRING, Md.

 BODY:
It doesn't take long to get a salesman's attention in an auto showroom these days - just seconds in the case of a solitary, pre-lunchtime shopper at Covington Buick, one of 20 franchises owned by six dealers in Auto Sales Park of Montgomery County, which in good times is a hotbed of automotive retailing.
''The economy finally caught up with us,'' said Barry Covington, the owner, lamenting the year-long dearth of customers.
The 1990 model year, ending Sept. 26, has been the softest since the recession of the early 1980's. Dealers have sold a total of 14.2 million vehicles - an estimated 9.5 million cars and 4.7 million trucks.
Things have been particularly tough for the Big Three domestic auto makers: in the face of weak demand they were forced to trim production and increase discounting. Moreover, the Japanese aggressively expanded their United States-based output, increasing the pressure for rebates. 
But the difficulty facing new-car buyers isn't just a question of the economy. There are a daunting number of choices - technological, ideological and financial.
Sedans, coupes and station wagons have been joined by minivans, utility vehicles and extended-cab pickups. Auto makers offer and rescind cash rebates at a dizzying pace; rebates may be replaced by low-interest financing plans or low-cost leasing. The safety-conscious must decide whether airbags are superior to automatic seatbelts. Should one choose a standard or multivalve engine, and who understands the issue?
And what of ideology in an age when the line between imported and domestic models has been blurred by foreign companies assembling cars in the United States?
''People have become scared to death of buying a car because there are so many gimmicks out there,'' said Mr. Covington.
The recent experiences of three typical suburban Maryland shoppers show some of the intricacies encountered in today's market.
 
 G.M. Keeps One
 Clifford Crawford, a 37-year-old pediatrician living in Silver Spring, is precisely the type of customer the General Motors Corporation looks for. Young, well-educated and affluent, he sees cars not just as a means of transportation, but as a means of expressing himself.
According to G.M.'s own marketing strategy, Dr. Crawford should have switched directly from the 1986 Pontiac Fiero GT he was leasing for $345 a month to a more expensive model, perhaps a Corvette or a Cadillac Seville. But two years ago he began to grow weary of the incessant mechanical problems with the Fiero. (The model finally was discontinued, partly because of such complaints.) ''It was a great little car,'' he said, ''but the bolts holding the alternator sheared three times, the cooling system failed three or four times, the engine didn't idle properly despite serial visits to dealerships.''
Having grown up in Flint, Mich., G.M.'s birthplace, Dr. Crawford resisted the idea of switching to an import. But in January, he leased a 1990 Nissan 300 ZX - it was $500 a month and $250 more for premium fuel, but it ''turned heads, especially where I work at the Quantico Marine Base in Virginia.'' In April, Dr. Crawford gave up his lease on the Fiero.
Keeping two cars for all those months had been a financial burden. Further complicating things, Dr. Crawford, having been convicted twice for speeding, was having trouble finding insurance coverage. One company quoted a price of $2,100 a year. Moreover, Dr. Crawford was not altogether confident of the safety of the 300 ZX. In May, he started shopping for a new car.
Dr. Crawford visited about 10 dealerships, test driving a variety of foreign and domestic sport models, including the Lexus M30, Acura Integra, Pontiac Grand Prix, Toyota Celica and Toyota Supra. ''I wanted something with style and power, but I also wanted an airbag and antilock brakes for safety,'' he said. ''Electronic goodies were important, too.''
Finally, he bought a $19,000, four-door Buick Regal at Covington Buick. It had antilock brakes but no airbag. He had decided the Japanese sporty models were either too expensive or couldn't offer the same equipment, such as a six-cylinder engine, that Buick offered for the same money.
Dr. Crawford ended up with a G.M. car, but just barely. He says that if the Buick doesn't work out, he won't hesitate to buy an import.
 
Ford's Financing
 When Don and Rose Money of Silver Spring came to Crystal Ford in the Auto Sales Park, they were looking for a vehicle that had the cargo capacity for the newspapers that Mr. Money, 38, distributes for The Washington Times. He was considering a Ford Econoline van.
''I had owned a Ford pickup and loved it,'' he said. ''I've never had much luck with Chevys.'' Ford and Chevrolet agree that one of the last bastions of brand loyalty in the automotive business is the truck market: Those who have owned Fords rarely migrate to Chevy, and vice versa.
The Moneys wanted to trade their tiny 1988 Hyundai Excel for the Econoline, but had a big problem. They still owed $6,900 to the Chrysler Credit Corporation, which had financed the Hyundai. The Hyundai had cost about $5,900 new two years earlier and now was worth only about $2,000. The Chrysler loan was larger than the purchase price because it covered not only the Hyundai, but the unpaid balance on a previous auto loan.
Thus, the Moneys had negative equity of almost $5,000. They had only $5,000 in cash, enough to cover the old loan but not a down payment on a new vehicle. One Ford dealer wouldn't consider selling to them. But Mr. Money met a Crystal salesman who was friendly ''without being pushy.''
''He was young, and you could talk to him,'' said Mr. Money. ''He wasn't one of these guys who had been in the business 15 or 20 years and talked down at you.'' At first, Ford Motor Credit turned down their application for a loan. Crystal Ford tried again.
''Sometimes you can point out something about an applicant that makes him or her a better credit risk than what appears on paper,'' said Howard Castleman, Crystal Ford's owner. ''As a creditor you're buying the person as much as you are buying the loan.'' The Moneys both have stable jobs and a good credit history.
Creative financing provided the solution. The Moneys paid off the loan on the Hyundai but agreed to the full retail price of almost $20,000 for an Econoline van that normally would have been discounted for less than $16,000. Ford Motor Credit loaned them more than $15,000 and the Moneys agreed to 60 payments of about $360 a month.
Though they have the new Econoline, the Moneys' negative equity problem may have grown worse. As soon as the van was driven away it turned into a used vehicle and its wholesale value dropped to about $12,000. That means the Moneys now are about $8,000 ''upside down.''
Ford's loan to the Moneys and hundreds of thousands of loans like it represent a potential time bomb even as recession looms. With almost $300 billion in automotive debt outstanding, a substantial proportion represents negative equity.
 
Playing the Prices
 A need for basic transportation wasn't the only motivation for Jonathan Sams, 23, to shop for a new car, but it was his No. 1 consideration.
Mr. Sams's 1982 Pontiac Trans Am had a case of ''the 50,000-mile blues,'' he said, and needed constant repairs. ''I wanted something that would hold up well since I have to move around quite a bit, and it had to be able to transport my bicycle,'' said Mr. Sams, a sailor stationed near Washington with the Navy.
The point was not so much price or rebate, but monthly payment - including insurance - which he wanted to keep at about $280. A sporty 1990 240 SX going for $13,200 had caught his eye at Gordon Nisson in the Auto Sales Park. The snazzy Nisson, on which insurance would have been $3,000 a year, flunked the test.
Then, while visiting home in Cincinnati, Mr. Sams found a 1990 Oldsmobile Cutlass Supreme sedan deeply discounted from the retail price of $18,900 to $14,600. Insurance on this more sedate model: $1,900 a year.
Further sweetening the deal, Mr. Sams's father took his used Trans Am and in return promised to pay his son's car insurance for two years. Without any insurance costs, and after a $2,700 down payment, Mr. Sams met his $280 a month budget.
''I never thought this nice a car could be in my price range,'' he said, noting that it was equipped with a six-cylinder engine. Moreover, the back seat folded down, allowing him to carry his bicycle.
 
THE EQUITY SQUEEZE
The good news for dealers and lenders is that Americans, however confused or beset with financial problems, are still willing to borrow to buy cars and trucks.
But debt-burdened consumers are finding they have less wherewithal to make a deal than at any time since the last recession. Spurred by rebates and generous financing, shoppers went on a new-vehicle buying spree starting in late 1986, sometimes borrowing imprudently to do so. Today, as many contemplate trading in their three- and four-year-old vehicles, they are discovering that they owe huge amounts.
It's called the ''upside down'' phenomenon: The amount owed on the outstanding balance of the loan is more than the car is worth. Without any equity, it is difficult to buy a new vehicle before the old loan is paid off. Being out of equity, or ''upside down,'' normally is the case when a car is brand new. But the trend to loans of five years and more in order to make cars more affordable by reducing monthly payments - combined with the drop in value of used cars in recent years - means that a customer today often stays ''upside down'' for years.
To make matters worse, ''Now the finance companies are tightening credit, which knocks poorer buyers out of the box,'' said Lou Kairys, chairman of the Lustine organization, which owns several dealerships in the Washington area.
H. L. Davis, group vice president of marketing for the General Motors Acceptance Corporation, G.M.'s financing arm said, ''All of our efforts are aimed at shortening the term of loans in order to help customers get equity in their cars earlier.'' As a practical matter, shorter terms also mean higher monthly payments.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Clifford Crawford with his ultimate choice: a Buick Regal to replace a leased Fiero. (Mike Theiler for The New York Times); graphs: U.S. volume auto sales, 1985-1990 (1990, estimate) (Source: Ward's Automotive); average term for new car loans, 1985-1989 (Source: Federal Reserve Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MTLQ (PAR) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; CHRYSLER CORP

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES; PRICES MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); SALES REBATES (90%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); MARKETING STRATEGY (77%); SEDANS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); COMPANY STRATEGY (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (63%); SPORTS CARS (60%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P CLIFFORD CRAWFORD (92%); CRYSTAL FORD (59%); 



447 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2827 words

HEADLINE: France's Industrial Shogun

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
Alain Gomez is an unlikely candidate to be the savior of America's consumer electronics industry.
Chairman of France's giant, state-owned Thomson Group, Mr. Gomez quotes Goethe and Nietzsche with ease, is the grandson of a Spanish anarchist and once helped establish a far-left faction within France's Socialist Party. He is also not quite a household name in the United States.
Yet after an unusual political and business evolution, this maverick 51-year-old manager finds himself at the helm of a company that is No. 1 in color television and video cassette recorder sales in the United States. Thomson acquired the consumer electronics businesses of the General Electric Company and its RCA subsidiary in 1987, and now Mr. Gomez talks like a warrior about safeguarding the industry in America and Europe from further Japanese encroachment. 
''The Japanese are waging a type of industrial war,'' said Mr. Gomez, whose company is France's leader in both consumer and military electronics. ''There comes a time when you have to draw the line, when you have to say we just won't accept the loss of 1 more percent of the market.''
A driven, hyperintense man, he contends that the Japanese have not played by the rules and that, as a result, Westerners should not have to, either. Protectionism should be used, he says, to offset the huge competitive advantages the Japanese have acquired by bending the rules.
''The Japanese strategy of conquest is made easier by the gullibility, naivete and weakness of the West,'' said Mr. Gomez.
Mr. Gomez's pronouncements command a lot of attention nowadays because he is one of the brightest stars in a new generation of European business leaders who have revived their tired companies and the Continent's economy. Other stars include Percy Barnevik, chief executive of Asea Brown Boveri, the Zurich-based electrical engineering giant; Jean-Louis Beffa, chairman of Saint-Gobain, the French glassmaker, and Mark Wossner, president of Bertelsmann, the German publishing conglomerate.
 
Single-Minded and Fierce
Mr. Gomez has distinguished himself by his single-minded implementation of his industrial vision and by his fierceness in combating Japanese competition. Thomson is one of just a handful of major Western electronics companies -the others are Philips N.V. of the Netherlands and the much smaller Zenith Electronics Corporation in the United States - that have not abandoned the struggle against total Japanese domination in consumer electronics.
But Mr. Gomez's fight has another aim: to save Thomson. He has built Thomson into the world's fourth-largest consumer electronics company - after Matsushita, Philips and Sony - by snatching up the operations of other Western manufacturers that quit the business.
It is not at all clear, however, that Thomson will still be standing at the end of its battle with the Japanese.
''The problem is that Thomson is fighting a moving target and the target is moving very fast,'' said Yves Doz, a professor at the Insead business school outside Paris. ''Thomson has made tremendous strides, but it still has some very difficult years ahead.''
For all of his complaints about unfair competition, Mr. Gomez nonetheless admits that Thomson long lagged behind the Japanese in innovation, quality and design. Thomson's televisions used to have a reputation for flimsiness and required four times as many working hours to produce as Japanese sets did.
But Mr. Gomez has been winning high marks for closing many of these gaps. Thomson now produces televisions with fewer hours of labor than the Japanese, some analysts say. And showing its increased technological proficiency, Thomson has reduced its reliance on Japanese manufacturers for VCR's.
Indeed, Thomson has made huge strides since 1982, when Mr. Gomez took charge of what was an inward-looking, nearly bankrupt company.
Under Mr. Gomez, Thomson has grown into Europe's second-largest consumer electronics maker (behind Philips) and its largest military electronics company, second in the world behind the General Motors Hughes Electronics Corporation. The year he took over, Thomson lost $142 million on sales of $7.5 billion; last year it earned $86 million on sales of $13.3 billion. (Last year's profits were down 59 percent from 1988, largely because of a drop in television and VCR prices and restructuring costs in military electronics.) Going Global As the European Community moves to create a barrier-free market in 1992, Mr. Gomez has helped lead the way in showing how to transform a company that relied on domestic sales into a global giant that ignores national boundaries. Thomson gets 72 percent of its sales from outside France, and 12,000 of its 100,000 employees are in the United States. Mr. Gomez often boasts how non-French Thomson has become: The headquarters of its television business is in Indianapolis; it has factories in Singapore; its television research center is in West Germany.
At the same time that Mr. Gomez tangles with the Japanese, he also has to keep alert at managing Thomson's $5.6 billion military division.
With Europe's arms industry consolidating, Mr. Gomez has worked hard to strengthen Thomson's already formidable position. In 1985, Thomson-CSF, the company's arms subsidiary, and the GTE Corporation, its American partner in the project, won the largest-ever Pentagon contract based on non-American technology, a $4.3 billion order to supply the Army with battlefield communications. Thomson-CSF also has a $6.5 billion contract to provide sophisticated equipment to Saudi Arabia. It was also a major supplier to Iraq.
On a continent where governments are less loathe than Washington to meddle in industrial matters, Mr. Gomez likes to make his views known to help sway policymakers.
He argues that the West's consumer electronics business must be saved. Without it, he says, the United States and Europe will lose thousands of engineering and factory jobs as well as their semiconductor industry, which relies heavily on orders from consumer electronics manufacturers. If the semiconductor business goes under, he adds, then the Japanese will steamroll over other industries that rely on semiconductors, including cars and computers.
''The Japanese have chosen consumer electronics as their field of battle, and if that domino falls, a lot of other industries will fall, too,'' said Mr. Gomez, a former paratrooper who often used to drive to work on his motorcycle.
Partly as a result of Mr. Gomez's prodding, France's Government is working hand in hand with business to check the Japanese. It has imposed quotas on Japanese-made cars and televisions and pushed the European Community to slap dumping penalties on Japanese products. France has also pledged $550 million to help Thomson develop high-definition television - in contrast to Washington, which declined to put up money.
''The French are the flagship of European protectionism,'' said Takao Negishi, European director of the Electronics Industry Association of Japan. ''They're not playing the game according to the rules.''
But the Japanese broke the rules first, Mr. Gomez counters. Although he admires Japan for its well-trained work force and the high savings rate that makes low-cost capital available to business, Mr. Gomez has called Japanese companies ''cheaters,'' part of an ''inexorable industrial machine that will not stop until it captures 100 percent of a market.''
 
$200 Million Edge
Japanese televisions sell for 10 to 20 percent more in Japan than outside Japan, he said, arguing that this unfairly subsidizes exports. ''That gives them $100 million extra a year in their pocket for research and investment,'' he said. He added that it was nearly impossible for Western companies to sell electronics goods in Japan because the Japanese dominate the distribution system.
But now, Mr. Gomez says, high-definition television could give Western manufacturers a rare chance to catch up to the Japanese.
Thomson is staking a lot of its future on HDTV, which provides far sharper images than current televisions. Mr. Gomez believes that HDTV, which he hopes will be introduced in the mid-1990's, could create a worldwide market worth hundreds of billions of dollars.
Through behind-the-scenes lobbying, Thomson and Philips succeeded in preventing Japanese specifications for HDTV from being adopted in the United States and Europe. The two companies are spending $3.8 billion on joint development ofan HDTV system that they hope will be embraced by European and American officials.
''This is a crucial product,'' said Mr. Gomez. ''If things go the way we think, there is no reason why we can't truly catch up to the Japanese.''
But some analysts say HDTV might not be the great boon and equalizer that Mr. Gomez envisions. The high cost of the new televisions might prevent a boom in sales. What is more, even if Thomson bursts out of the HDTV starting blocks alongside the Japanese, its success is not assured. For example, Thomson does not have as much expertise in developing large flat screens, an important part of HDTV.
Dennis Exton, a London-based analyst with Merrill Lynch & Company, sees another problem. ''Even if you catch up in image and design, you have to be at least equal to the Japanese in manufacturing,'' he said. ''The Japanese are still two generations ahead in manufacturing.'' In many ways, it is an accomplishment that Mr. Gomez can even talk about catching up to the Japanese. When France's Socialist Government nationalized Thomson in 1982 and placed him in charge, the company was in 23 disparate lines of business and teetering near bankruptcy.
Mr. Gomez quickly changed all that, citing Goethe's dictum that injustice is preferable to disorder. He streamlined Thomson, sold off its majestic 19th-century headquarters and broke up its many feudal baronies. He slashed headquarters staff and laid off thousands of office and factory workers. Many Socialist cohorts demonized him as a ruthless capitalist.
''In my political days, we were fighting to modernize the country and its economy,'' Mr. Gomez said. ''I decided to help do that in the field, in business. I have no regrets.''
 
Rising Troubleshooter
 Mr. Gomez graduated from France's elite Ecole Nationale d'Administration and then went to Harvard Business School. After working in the French Finance Ministry, he joined Saint-Gobain, the state-owned glass, packaging and construction products company. There, he was a troubleshooter who rose to head the company's glass operations.
When Mr. Gomez arrived at Thomson, he quickly began unloading money-losing businesses, including telecommunications, copper wire and medical equipment. He instead focused on two areas: consumer electronics and military electronics.
In consumer electronics, for example, Mr. Gomez bought Telefunken of West Germany; Thorn EMI's Ferguson division, Britain's No. 1 television maker, and finally the G.E.-RCA consumer electronics business. All told, he spun off businesses with $4.4 billion in sales and acquired ones with $5 billion in sales.
He also maintained Thomson's semiconductor operations, because he saw them as essential building blocks for the two core areas. Thomson has entered a 50-50 joint venture with SGS, the state-owned Italian chip maker, to form Europe's No. 2 semiconductor group after Philips.
Mr. Gomez has often been second-guessed for focusing on areas where Japanese competition is so fierce, but he said those were the cards he was dealt. ''None of the businesses that we had, except for the three we kept, had a chance of attaining global size or even European size,'' he said.
 
American Investments
 Much of Mr. Gomez's focus has been on modernizing production. Thomson is pouring more than $200 million into its American factories, including its picture tube plant in Marion, Ind., and a factory in Circleville, Ohio, that makes glass for the tubes. It is also expanding its factory in Bloomington, Ind., the world's largest television assembly plant.
Thomson is also greatly expanding its production in low-wage areas, including Singapore, Malaysia and Mexico. ''We have to have the same costs, if not lower costs, than the best Japanese manufacturer,'' he said.
France's Socialist officials and labor unions are not delighted that Mr. Gomez has transferred factory jobs from Europe to Asia. Neither are American unions happy about a new Thomson plant in Juarez, Mexico. But Mr. Gomez argues that only by having a low-cost manufacturing base can Thomson's consumer electronics business survive, making it possible for the company to keep its advanced factories and highly skilled research jobs in Europe and the United States.
And it is those factories and jobs that will make the difference for the future, he says. Thomson has already moved ahead of the Japanese in developing a wide television picture tube. The tube, which distorts movie broadcasts less than the more squared-off traditional models, will be introduced in Europe next month. Some Japanese competitors are even trying to buy Thomson tubes.
''For once the followers are leaders,'' Mr. Gomez said, taking a puff on his cigar.
 
BEYOND COLD WAR
Alain Gomez, chairman of the Thomson Group, has aggressively reshaped Thomson's $5.6 billion military electronics business to prepare for the post-cold-war era. Three years ago, he angered labor unions and French officials by cutting the military group's work force even though it was making record profits.
''He anticipated the downward trend in defense spending before most others in the industry,'' said Christophe Cherblanc, an analyst with Cholet Dupont in Paris.
At the same time, Mr. Gomez has expanded the arms operation in other ways, to give it the size and research muscle needed to stay in the business. Thomson is a leader in radar, mines, missile systems, electronic countermeasures and battlefield communications.
As Europe's arms industry has gone through a massive restructuring, Mr. Gomez has been busy maneuvering. Thomson has purchased most of Philips's arms business in Europe, acquired half of the sonar business of Ferranti of Britain and formed a joint venture in avionics with Aerospatiale, the French aerospace company.
In addition, Thomson and British Aerospace have agreed to form a joint venture to make missiles, Eurodynamics, which they say will have $2.8 billion in sales next year. Acquisitions have also made Thomson the European leader in civil air traffic control systems.
''When a market shrinks, and you are a leader, you have to work to increase your position,'' said Mr. Gomez, who foresees a 20 percent decline in military spending worldwide.
''Defense electronics should be the least affected,'' he said. ''New military doctrine will put a premium on mobility, reconnaissance, detection and communications. The fewer soldiers, the more you need strong individual technology.''
 
AMERICAN BRANDS FROM A FRENCH COMPANY
Not many Americans realize that when they buy color televisions that say General Electric or RCA, those sets are made by a French company: Thomson. Because those brands are so well-known, Thomson, which acquired the G.E.-RCA consumer electronic businesses in 1987, has no intention of putting its own name on the televisions and VCR's it sells in the United States.
Bernard Isautier, chief executive-designate of Thomson's consumer electronics division, said the United States is crucial to the division's future since America represents half of its sales. Thomson is market leader in color televisions, with 22 percent of the American market; it also leads in VCR's, camcorders and radios.
Thomson uses the G.E. label to cover the low end of the market and the RCA label for the middle and middle-to-high-end range. Later this month, Thomson plans to introduce a sleek product line, tentatively called Pro-scan, to capture more of the high-profit high end of the market. And it hopes to spruce up RCA's image with a $30 million advertising campaign, beginning today, that reintroduces RCA's most famous symbol, Nipper the dog.
''They are going after the Sony end of the market,'' said David Lachenbruch, director of Television Digest, an industry newsletter based in New York. ''But Sony will continue to be able to charge 10 to 15 percent more than RCA. RCA does not have the prestige of a Sony.''
Thomson hopes to change all that through investment, innovation and dedication. ''Consumer electronics wasn't considered strategic by G.E.,'' said Mr. Isautier. ''But for us it's very strategic.''
He said that whenever he watches television in the United States he tells himself, ''What a lousy picture.'' Thomson hopes to improve matters with high-definition television. It is working with Philips, the Dutch electronics firm, as well as with NBC and the David Sarnoff Research Center in Princeton, N.J., to develop an American HDTV system.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Alain Gomez, head of the Thomson Group, France's electronics giant, in his Paris office (Luc Perenom) (pg. 1); Final television assembly in Bloomington, Ind., plant (Thomson Consumer Electronics Inc.); graphs: revenues and earnings for Thomson, 1982-1989 (Source: Company reports); chart: U.S. color tevelsion sales to dealers in 1990. (Source: Television Digest) (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TCH (PAR) (84%); GNE (PAR) (83%); GEC (LSE) (83%); GE (SWX) (83%); GE (NYSE) (83%); SGO (PAR) (58%); SGO (AMS) (58%); COD (LSE) (58%); ABJA (FRA) (53%); ABJ (FRA) (53%); ABBN (SWX) (53%); ABB (STO) (53%); ABB (NYSE) (53%); ABB (NSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (84%); NAICS334419 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC7819 SERVICES ALLIED TO MOTION PICTURE PRODUCTION (84%); SIC3671 ELECTRON TUBES (84%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS423330 ROOFING, SIDING & INSULATION MATERIAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); NAICS423310 LUMBER, PLYWOOD, MILLWORK & WOOD PANEL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); NAICS327120 CLAY BUILDING MATERIAL & REFRACTORIES MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (53%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (53%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS333613 MECHANICAL POWER TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (53%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); NETHERLANDS (77%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (73%); 

COMPANY: TECHNICOLOR SA (84%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (83%); ZENITH ELECTRONICS CORP (62%); CIE DE SAINT-GOBAIN SA (58%); ABB LTD (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: THOMSON GROUP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES; EUROPE

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; SALES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; RECORDINGS (VIDEO) ELECTRONICS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (73%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (73%); PROTECTIONISM (70%); GLASS MFG (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); GRANDCHILDREN (57%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN JEAN-LOUIS BEFFA (58%); 



448 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1404 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIARY/SEPTEMBER 9-14

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON

 BODY:

THE ECONOMY
 
Preventing Another Banking Crisis
 
On one side of the tables sat lawmakers terrified that they would be blamed for another Federal bailout. On the other sat the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, Alan Greenspan, afraid that Congress would hurt the banks more than help them. Mr. Greenspan urged House Banking Committee members on Thursday to limit their plans for higher deposit insurance premiums. The General Accounting Office had warned two days before that bank failures might deplete the Federal insurance fund. Better to cushion losses by having banks bolster their capital than by making them contribute more to the fund, Mr. Greenspan said. Some analysts agree, saying that as much as risky lending and a weak economy have buffeted the banks, they remain far more healthy than the savings and loans. Arthur P. Soter, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, said politicians risk compounding the banks' problems: ''You keep raising these insurance payments,'' he said, ''and ultimately you're going to undermine their safety and soundness.'' 
 
More Pressure on Oil Prices
 
Word that the Bush Administration might dip into strategic oil reserves failed to keep prices from rising last week. Energy Secretary James D. Watkins said on Thursday that shortages might require the release of some supplies. But on Friday came news that Iraqi troops stormed the French Embassy in Kuwait. Traders who saw an increasing threat of war bid oil up to $31.76 a barrel on Friday, for a gain of $1.72 on the week.
 
Inflation Protection
 
This time, some economists say, higher oil prices might not ignite rapid inflation. Last week's report that producer prices rose 1.3 percent in August was troubling, but no surprise. Higher energy prices were to blame; without food and energy, wholesale inflation rose just three-tenths of 1 percent. Declines in retail sales and industrial production had some economists wondering whether producers will be able to pass on their higher energy costs. In the 1970's, a roaring economy turned an oil crisis into high, persistent inflation. ''This time, you have a very, very weak level of economic activity,'' said Steven R. Ricchiuto, chief economist at Barclays de Zoete Wedd Securities. Others fear that several categories of services - health care, education - might keep consumer prices rising even if wholesale prices settle down. As Lawrence Krohn, an economist at Shearson Lehman Hutton, said, ''The overall inflation picture is not nearly so bright as the core P.P.I. picture alone.''
 
Philadelphia Finances
 
A statue of Benjamin Franklin still looks out on Philadelphia from a perch on City Hall, but his city has cast aside his thrifty ways. After running deficits since 1988, the city failed last week to arrange $375 million in temporary financing to stave off default. As city and state politicians feud, Philadelphia faces drastic cuts in most services, and insolvency by the end of the year.
 
In Brief
 
The New York Stock Exchange approved limited after-hours trading for the first time in its history, initiating a program intended to establish 24-hour activity by the year 2000.
 
The Senate plans to vote next week on a bill to require that auto makers achieve an average efficiency of 40 miles per gallon by the year 2001. The Administration says the bill would force the auto makers to sell smaller, less safe cars. But many lawmakers say the fuel savings are essential.
 
COMPANIES
 
Re-regulating Cable Television
 
The House of Representatives voted unanimously last week to restore some regulation and competition to cable television. During the Reagan era, viewers complained that cable companies rapidly raised their charges, exploiting their local monopolies and exclusive rights to popular programs. The legislation gives the Federal Communications Commission power to roll back rates, and bans programming contracts that prevent competition. Advisers to President Bush have threatened a veto.
 
S.& L. Deal Doesn't Pass Muster
 
Federal regulators blocked the $3 billion sale of the Columbia Savings and Loan Association's ''junk bond'' portfolio to a Canadian investment partnership that planned to have Columbia lend 90 percent of the price. The Office of Thrift Supervision said Columbia could get a better, preferably all-cash, deal.
 
In Brief
 
ARCO agreed to pay $287 million last week to settle a 13-year lawsuit over royalties on North Slope oil owned by the state of Alaska. Other oil companies face a trial next year.
 
New York City Council President Andrew Stein has proclaimed Sept. 26 Accountant Appreciation Day. ''New York City is composed of caring, giving people,'' he said, with accountants among them.
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
Yeltsin Seizes the Lead
 
He was at the vanguard of reform; now he is at the rear. President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's endorsement on Tuesday of a plan for free markets in 500 days came so grudgingly and late that he can claim little credit or capacity to lead. He was pulled both ways. His own economic adviser, Stanislav S. Shatalin, led the group that drew up the plan. But Mr. Gorbachev's Prime Minister proposed a more cautious course, limiting private ownership and maintaining state control of prices. The same day that Mr. Gorbachev sided with Mr. Shatalin, Boris N. Yeltsin, the President of the Russian Republic, regained the initiative by rushing the program through his Parliament. The vote: 251 to 1. ''Yeltsin just forced the issue,'' said Joe Tragert, an economist at the Planecon consulting firm. And Mr. Gorbachev has little choice but to go along.
 
Cigarette Shortage
 
With cigarette shortages provoking riots and demonstrations, the Soviets are sending in RJR Nabisco and Philip Morris. The companies agreed on Thursday to ship 34 billion cigarettes, which represents more than a month's supply. The need is so urgent that both producers might transport some loads by air freight. Marlboro cigarettes, from Philip Morris, are virtually legal tender in the Soviet Union; just ask any cabby whether he wants American cigarettes or rubles.
 
The Soviet Share of the Pie
 
It took truckers from Finland, wine from Hungary and a contractor from London to bring American pizza to Moscow. Pizza Hut, a unit of Pepsico Inc., opened its first two restaurants in the Soviet Union on Tuesday with an investment of $10 million. The chain's executives say they actually receive 60 percent of their food and service supplies from Soviet sources. They also say they will be able to use this approach across the Soviet Union. The McDonald's Corporation spent more than $50 million to arrange the production of its own beef patties, milk and buns.
 
Building Trade Ties With Mexico
 
As economic alliances coalesce in Europe and Asia, President Bush is rushing to cement a regional trade agreement of his own. And what better time than an energy crisis to snuggle up to Mexico, which sells about 30 percent of its oil to the United States? Administration officials said last week that the President will ask Congress to let him negotiate a broad free-trade agreement with Mexico, like the one between the United States and Canada. President Carlos Salinas de Gortari of Mexico has already cut some tariffs from 100 percent to 10 percent - effectively reversing his country's historic opposition to free trade. The Mexicans have pledged to produce more oil, and American companies expect to sell them more oil equipment.
 
Japanese Film Deficit
 
They might not buy American cars, but American movies are always welcome. The Japanese remain the largest overseas market for United States films. Fashions and fads in Japan tend to absorb everyone or no one, so movies already certified as hits in the United States do best there. Tom Cruise, and Indiana Jones, are national heroes, and the popularity of ''Gone With the Wind'' lingers, with many Japanese products adopting antebellum themes. American film producers say the Japanese market is still young. But they are confident that better promotion and more theaters and screens will attract far more viewers. Kyoko Hirano, director of the Japan Society film series in New York, says Japanese films in the United States have a much more limited audience: ''The Japanese import 100 Hollywood films and the Americans import just one.''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 23, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
A report on the Business Diary page last Sunday about Philadelphia's finances misidentified the statue on top of City Hall. It is of William Penn, the city's founder, not of Benjamin Franklin.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Philadelphia City Hall (Associated Press); Stanislav Shatalin; Pizza Hut in Moscow (Pepsico Inc.); Clark Gable and Vivian; Alan Greenspan (The New York Times); graphs: closing daily price for a barrel of crude oil for October delivery, August 1-Sept. 14, 1990 (Source: New York Mercantile Exchange); percent change in producer price index, Aug. 1989-Aug. 1990 (Source: Labor Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (56%); ALMUDON (KUW) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%); BARCLAYS DE ZOETE WEDD SERVICES LTD (52%); BARCLAYS DE ZOETE WEDD INV MAN (52%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (57%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (57%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY BANKING & FINANCE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BANK FAILURES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); WHOLESALERS (87%); WHOLESALE PRICES (87%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (72%); PRODUCER PRICES (72%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (66%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (50%); RETAIL SALES (50%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); 



449 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 198 words

HEADLINE: Currency;
A Little Rally That Went Poof

 BODY:
The dollar put on a little rally last week against the German mark, inching up above 1.59 marks. But Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, ended the rally quickly on Thursday. He told the House Banking Committee that the Fed would ease interest rates if the White House and Congress came up with a credible agreement to cut the budget deficit. Although Mr. Greenspan had said such things before, it was enough to send the dollar reeling against all major currencies. With a boost from Mideast jitters on Friday, the dollar managed to finish a little up for the week against the mark. As for the yen, it continued its rally against the dollar and other major currencies. On Friday, the yen was at its highest level since August 1989. 

$	 	 	 	Last	Previous	Year	 	Week	Week	Ago	 	 	 	 	 	Japanese Yen	136.95	140.50	144.20	per Dollar	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	W.German Mark	1.5710	1.5685	1.9600	per Dollar	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Canadian Dollar	1.1647	1.1633	1.1832	per U.S. Dollar	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	British Pound	1.8930	1.8933	1.5710	U.S. Dollar per British Pound	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Gold	$385.75	$390.00	$362.50	Republic National Bank 	 	 	 	
 
Currency: Friday NY Close

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (54%); HSB (PAR) (54%); HBC (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (88%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (54%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (54%); WHITE HOUSE&CONGRESS (55%); HOUSE BANKING COMMITTEE (55%); FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; WEST GERMANY

SUBJECT: CURRENCY US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); CURRENCIES (91%); GERMAN MARK (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BRITISH POUND (75%); BUDGETS (71%); INTEREST RATES (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); BUDGET DEFICITS (56%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (88%); 



450 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Mutual Funds;
Here Comes the S.E.C. on Fees

BYLINE: By Carole Gould

 BODY:
In late August, Richard C. Breeden, head of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and members of his staff shared a birthday cake with members of the Investment Company Institute, the mutual fund industry trade group. The occasion: the golden anniversary of the Investment Company Act of 1940, the law that regulates mutual funds.
But the good cheer at the gathering belied the tensions that the anniversary has inspired. In March, the S.E.C. set up a blue-ribbon task force to take a fresh look at the 50-year-old law and recommend changes. 
Many industry executives say that the law still works well, by and large, and that simple tinkering can take care of any deficiencies. But some are worried by the task force's broadly defined mandate. Indeed, some view the study group as the swan song of Kathryn B. McGrath, the recently departed head of the agency's division of investment management. Ms. McGrath, who built a reputation as a tough regulator who worked hard to protect fund investors, handpicked Matthew A. Chambers, a rising star in the agency, to head the task force.
For their part, investors and consumer advocates say dramatic changes in the law are just what is needed, particularly when it comes to fund fees, sales charges and protecting investors from the shenanigans of some fund sponsors and managers.
Their worry is that too little may get done. Unlike savings and loan institutions, the funds have managed to steer clear of major disasters, leaving the industry with enough clout to defend the status quo, consumer groups fear.
With the desires and expectations of the two sides so far apart, it is far from clear how the work of the S.E.C. task force will come out. The group is accepting comments until Oct. 10 from both investors and the industry on what direction it should take; it hopes to issue its report to the commission by early next year. (Comments may be submitted in triplicate to Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary, S.E.C., 450 Fifth Street N.W., Washington D.C. 20549. Refer to file S7-11-90.) What is clear is that the task force will have to deal in some way with the sensitive issues of fees, sales charges and how funds should police themselves. Matthew P. Fink, counsel for the I.C.I., declined to give the industry group's views pending completion of the comment period. But in the past, the industry has been fiercely opposed to change.
What follows is an explanation of the issues and some suggestions for change.
First, 12b-1 fees. Named for the section of the Investment Company Act that authorizes them, these fees are assessed by funds annually to finance marketing costs.
Although most consumer advocates want the S.E.C. to abolish 12b-1 fees, John Markese, research director for the American Association of Individual Investors in Chicago, has a more modest proposal: keep 12b-1 fees, but eliminate all other sales charges and fees; cap the 12b-1 fee at five-tenths of 1 percent of an investor's holdings; drop the distinction between ''load'' funds, which impose upfront sales charges, and no-loads, and make sponsors pay marketing expenses with their own money.
Right now, investors must sort through a crazy quilt of upfront and back-end sales charges and 12b-1 fees to find out what they pay. Mr. Markese's proposal would include the 12b-1 fee in a fund's expense ratio - the ratio of expenses to average net assets - making comparisons between funds simple.
Most important, the fee would be figured into fund performance. So funds with high fees would have to perform that much better or risk having investors migrate elsewhere.
The second issue: If upfront sales charges are kept in place, how can they be handled better? Under the current rules, these charges are not subject to negotiation; the only way to lower them is to increase the size of the investment. That makes mutual funds the last bastion of fixed commissions in the securities industry, a distinction that must end, consumer advocates say.
Finally, what is the best way to protect investors? Right now, boards of directors oversee fund operations. But they are advised by fund officers, who are usually paid by fund sponsors. Can the officers give impartial advice to the directors? Some say no.
''When you wear two hats that are in conflict, the paymaster wins,'' said R. Bruce Oliver, former chairman of the John Hancock group of funds and a former member of the I.C.I.'s board of governors.
To prevent a repeat of the S.& L. debacle, Mr. Oliver wants three full-time independent fund officers to monitor a fund's daily operations and report directly to its board of directors. The independent officers would be paid by the fund; the money would come from reducing the fee paid to the sponsor for its investment management services.
 
THE DISMAL RECORD SINCE AUG. 2
How have mutual funds held up since Iraq invaded Kuwait on Aug. 2? Not too well, according to indexes that serve as proxies for three types of funds: gold, growth and international.
International funds turned in a dismal performance largely because of the decline in the yen, prompted by Japan's heavy dependence on imported oil. Stock funds didn't fare much better. Even gold, the traditional haven for investors in times of international crisis, showed a decrease.
Indeed, ''there was nowhere to hide,'' said A. Michael Lipper, president of Lipper Analytical Services Inc. in Summit, N.J. And because the American economy had begun slipping even before the invasion, investors will have to tread carefully through the market for some time to come.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The S.E.C.'s Matthew A. Chambers with his blue-ribbon task force. (George Tames for The New York Times); chart: performance ofmutual fund indexes Aug. 2 -Sept. 13, 1990 (Source: Lipper Analytical Services)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: INVESTMENT CO PLC (93%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (95%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (95%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (84%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (87%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BONDS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); SAVINGS & LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; CHAMBERS, MATTHEW A JOHN MAJOR (50%); 



451 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 4; Page 9, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: Headliners;
Reagan Hailed for Taking the Evil Out Of The Empire?

BYLINE: By Carlyle C. Douglas

 BODY:
Historians may continue to debate exactly why Communism fell, but Eastern European leaders last week rained gratitude on Ronald Reagan for giving it a push.
In East Berlin, where preparations are under way for ceremonies next month marking the reunification of Germany, the former President met Sabine Bergmann-Pohl, the President of the East German Parliament, who said, ''Mr. President, we have much to thank you for.'' Later, near the site where in 1987 he had challenged Mikhail S. Gorbachev to ''tear down this wall,'' the 79-year-old Mr. Reagan himself took a few symbolic hammer swings at a remnant of the Berlin divider and said he found it ''damned hard.'' 
Continuing an 11-day trip that will take him to Moscow and Rome this week, the former President next stopped in Poland, where the Government newspaper Rzeczpospolita hailed him as ''the real father of perestroika,'' and called his European tour ''a symbolic harvest'' of his Presidency. (Mr. Reagan's aides hastened to make it clear that that was the only sort of harvest the former President and his wife Nancy would be receiving on this trip. Mr. Reagan, who was roundly criticized for accepting $2 million in honorariums during a trip to Japan earlier this year, would be getting no speaking fees this time around, they said.) In Warsaw, the Speaker of the Polish Parliament, Mikolaj Kozakiewicz, welcomed the former President with words reminiscent of some of Mr. Reagan's old speeches. ''You are the President who returned to America its sense of greatness,'' said Mr. Kozakiewicz. ''You raised the spirit of the American nation after a series of failures it endured.''
Later, Mr. Reagan paid a courtesy call on President Wojciech Jaruzelski, the Communist party leader whose efforts to crush the Solidarity union a decade ago prompted Mr. Reagan to impose economic sanctions on Poland. These days Solidarity, from whence sprang the Polish democracy movement, is split into factions that will oppose each other, perhaps bitterly, in coming elections. Lech Walesa, the Solidarity leader, has been at outs with some of his former comrades from the Gdansk shipyard strike days, and is mulling over a run for the presidency.
Doubtless mindful of this, Mr. Reagan, who is to meet over the weekend with Mr. Walesa, offered his hosts some tips on keeping family conflicts under control.
''To protect the liberty you have won at such a cost, you will need a full measure of the tolerance and openness that are Poland's tradtion,'' he said. ''For you, historic transition means that you must fight as opponents, not as enemies.''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 23, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
A photograph on the Headliners page last Sunday carried an incorrect caption. The photograph showed former President Ronald Reagan and Lech Walesa, the Solidarity leader, meeting in Gdansk, Poland.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Former President Ronald Reagan at the Berlin Wall last week. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (94%); POLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE, EAST; EUROPE

SUBJECT: TRAVEL, PERSONAL LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HISTORY (79%); POLITICS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); 

PERSON: REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; DOUGLAS, CARLYLE C RONALD REAGAN (94%); 



452 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
Behind the Census Numbers, Swirling Tides Of Movement

BYLINE: By ROBERTO SURO

 BODY:
As demographers study the preliminary results of the 1990 census, they are discovering that not everything is as it seems. There were great internal population shifts, but they did not always reflect Americans' preferences for one part of the country over another. And places where growth had seemed to be stagnant were actually alive with counterbalancing migrations.
For example, early estimates showed New York State holding its own with a slight population increase of 69,000 people, even though a million or more people apparently left the state in the 1980's. Similarly, California attracted some 5.6 million new inhabitants, but perhaps only 3.5 million, and maybe far fewer, moved to the state from elsewhere in the United States. 
Immigration is the complicating factor, and it may have subtle effects in areas such as the division of Federal funds and the reapportionment of congressional power.
Immigration kept New York from experiencing a net loss and contributed heavily to California's gains. And, when the final census numbers have been fully digested, immigration patterns may show remarkable similarities between these two seemingly opposite states.
At the same time, immigration kept a flow of new blood moving into the industrial heartland, replacing thousands of established residents who had pulled up stakes.
To some extent immigrants have always settled, at least initially, in cities where large immigrant communities already exist, such as New York, Chicago, and more recently Los Angeles. But there are different schools of thought about other factors contributing to the mass movement of immigrants into the old industrial states, an area of the country that others were leaving behind.
 
Economic Restructuring?
''One possibility is that this reflects a restructuring of the economy,'' said Frank D. Bean, a sociologist at the University of Texas at Austin. ''A decline in manufacturing jobs in industrial states could explain an out-migration, particularly by middle-income people. What remain are high-end jobs in professional services, finance and the like, and a growing number of low-end service jobs -janitors, waiters, housekeepers, for example - that are presumably being filled by immigrants.''
Anywhere from 7 million to 9 million immigrants entered the country during the 1980's, depending on how the number of new illegal aliens is calculated. All told, the newcomers accounted for 33 percent to 40 percent of the nation's overall population growth of 23 million people.
Scholars are now beginning to examine the overlapping effects of the two very distinct migrations of the 1980's: The internal movement of residents, mostly from north to south and from east to west; and the largest influx of people from other countries since the early 1900's.
More is at stake than the satisfying of academic curiosity. Federal funds are allocated on the basis of population. So too is political power at a time when congressional districts are about to be redrawn to take population shifts into account.
Immigrants are one of the population groups most vulnerable to undercounts, and the census does not distinguish illegal aliens from other residents. And in cases where population shifts have seen English-speaking residents replaced by people with another first language, education costs can be affected.
Jeffrey S. Passel, a demographer at the Urban Institute, a Washington-based research group, said that prelmiminary statistical analysis had yielded ''only a rough sense'' of how the distribution of immigrants interacted with domestic migration during the 1980's.
It will be late next year at the earliest before detailed census data on things like income and country of origin are available. Right now, estimates for the total number of illegals range from 1 million to 3 million people, and their geographic distribution can only be guessed at. Experts agree that the largest concentration of illegals is in California, where anywhere from 500,000 to 1 million reside.
Overall, about 1.8 million legal immigrants moved to the Pacific coast and Southwestern states, which also drew by far the largest share of domestic migration. But a nearly equal number of immigrants settled in the Northeastern and Midwestern states that have been generally losing population since the late 1960's.
''It appears these states are hanging in there with stable or slightly increasing populations, but in fact people are still moving out and they are being replaced by immigrants,'' Mr. Passel said.
New Jersey, for example, showed a modest gain of 252,000 people, bringing it to a total of 7,617,000 - 3.4 percent more than in 1980. But during the decade 300,000 new legal immigrants moved into the state, according to Mr. Passel's calculations, along with an unknown number of illegal aliens.
 
The Replacement Theory
Roger Waldinger, a sociologist at City College of New York, says that what is happening may be less the sort of ''restructuring'' cited by Mr. Bean of the University of Texas, than what Mr. Waldinger calls a ''replacement phenomenon.''
''In New York the disappearing middle has been greatly exaggerated,'' he said, ''because there are still a great number of low-skill, mid-wage jobs in places like the garment industry and construction. It is the older people, many of them immigrants who used to hold these jobs, and their chldren and they have been replaced by new immigrants.''
Both Mr. Bean and Mr. Waldinger agree that the large flow of immigrants to both New York and California suggests that similar changes may be taking place at opposite ends of the nation.
They each said that although California still attracts a huge number of people from other parts of the country, the Los Angeles area is showing the first signs of longtime residents moving out in noticeable numbers. Whether it is due to economic restructuring, immigrants replacing those seeking less congested and less expensive climes, or some other process is not certain.
''We know we had ongoing internal migration during the 1980's and that in that decade there was some of the greatest immigration in our history,'' Mr. Bean said. ''We really don't know whether the two are related or not. We don't understand the underlying dynamics, and we can only hope the census will eventually help us understand.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: New citizens being sworn in at Ellis Island last week. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times); Table listing where the immigrants are. (Source: The Urban Institute)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (75%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); URBAN INSTITUTE (59%); URBAN INSTITUTE (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTHERN STATES (US); SOUTHERN STATES (US); EASTERN STATES (US); WESTERN STATES (US)

SUBJECT: POPULATION; CENSUS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION CENSUS (96%); IMMIGRATION (94%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (91%); POPULATION DECLINE (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); REDISTRICTING (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (69%); 

PERSON: SURO, ROBERTO JEFFREY S PASSEL (70%); 



453 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1462 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
In Politics, Will 1990 Be a New Beginning?

BYLINE: By MICHAEL ORESKES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The gulf crisis has become a lens through which Americans are focusing their ideas about a host of issues, foreign and domestic, military and economic, political and cultural. As the campaigns blah, blah, It has created oportunites for Republicans to revive themes and issues that had flagged, so to speak, but it also is bringing to vivid life the economic nationalism that some Democrats see as the last best hope for their party.
A nagging worry about foreign economic competition has been focused into an anger that the United States is being taken advantage of in the gulf by its trading partners and allies, particularly Japan. The abstract idea of an empire overextended is now a picture of 100,000 sons and daughters standing on the desert with a handful of allied Arab soldiers.
This has moved a new phrase, burden sharing, to the top of the debate about foreign alliances and military spending. America has even accepted -indeed, solicited - payment for its armies for the first time since the 18th century. 
But the crystalizing of these anxieties coincides with a resurgence of a macho patriotism - and just when the Republicans seemed to have run out the string on their symbolic use of the flag. The refrain of a song now popular on radio in Alabama ends thusly: ''we'll blow Baghdad off the map.''
In the very short run, the gulf intervention has clearly rescued President Bush and his party from public discontent over the economy and other domestic ills. But there may be long-run political benefits, too. The loss of the Soviet Union as an adversary took a weapon from the Republican political arsenal. In 1988, President Bush ran commercials saying he was the best man to look Mikhail S. Gorbachev in the eye and not blink. That is gone as a campaign theme. The public had only modest interest in last weekend's quickie summit meeting, according to polling by the Times-Mirror Company. But Americans remain riveted by the gulf crisis, the polls said. In 1992, will Mr. Bush's commercials say he is the best man to look Saddam Hussein in the eye?
''The political stakes are already enormous,'' Kevin Phillips, the political analyst, writes in the latest edition of his newsletter, The American Political Report. Indeed, the political effects of the intervention are so far-reaching, Mr. Phillips adds, that it could even produce a debate over whether politics was Mr. Bush's motivation.
''It's unclear whether there will ever be a debate over motivation,'' he continued. ''However, by way of citing a precedent that there could be, we'd remind that Franklin D. Roosevelt's economic, diplomatic and political motivations were under considerable suspicion in 1941-42, and if World War II had gone badly for the U.S., conservative Republicans would have captured Congress and investigated F.D.R. up one side and down the other.''
President Bush recognized the crucial moment when he went before Congress last week to speak about the Gulf crisis and its relationship to other issues, most notably the budget.
Americans overwhelmingly support Mr. Bush, but they remain uneasy about an intervention in which American blood is traded for Kuwaiti oil. So Mr. Bush went to great lengths to explain that the mission he had once said was to protect the American way of life was in fact to protect ideals and principles of international order.
 
Made to Order
Oil seemed an afterthought in the Tuesday night speech, mentioned in just one paragraph. But Mr. Bush went on for pages on the theme that America and its allies were at the birth of a new world order where tyranny and aggression were held in check by international cooperation.
Out on the campaign trail the gulf crisis has frozen out other issues. Oil companies have replaced savings and loans as the organizations a politician least wants to be linked to. But the intervention itself is not really a subject for debate, since close to 80 percent of the country supports it.
Just as Communism collapsed without sending more than a ripple through the campaign dialogue of 1988 and 1989, ''the new world order'' seems to be taking shape, too, without much dialogue between candidates and voters.
But there are glimmers of a debate about how Americans would define success in the Persian Gulf. If Iraq is driven from Kuwait but the United States has to pay most of the bill, will Americans view this as success or failure? If Mr. Bush's new world order is achieved but the peace dividend is spent, will there be tickertape parades?
Those who fail to know history are doomed to repeat it, so they say. But those who do know history seem doomed to an endless search to fit current circumstance to historical precedent.
Increasingly, this seems to apply to political analysts' efforts to understand the political impact of the Persian Gulf intervention, which has helped turn this midterm campaign season into a volatile and complicated one.
Will 1990 be like 1958? That was when President Eisenhower soared in the polls after sending troops to Lebanon, only to watch as a recession pushed the economy to the forefront by Election Day and Republicans took a drubbing. Or will 1990 be more like 1962? That was when Democrats seemed headed for trouble in midterm elections, until the Cuban missile crisis sent President Kennedy's standing soaring and boosted Democrats just before Election Day.
The effort to divine the balance between foreign and domestic concerns is surely relevant in this year of voter discontents. But the past may be poor prologue. It may turn out that this year is one that people look back on later and say, oh yes, that began taking shape in 1990.
 
FALL LINEUPS rrThe end of primary season is in sight. Last week, 10 states and the District of Columbia chose the finalists for their November elections, leaving only three more to vote. Here are some of Tuesday's results.
 
District of Columbia
The Democratic voters of the capital, already assured that their Mayor would not return, chose the only candidate for his job who spoke ill of him. The winner, Sharon Pratt Dixon, rose from last place among the five Democrats with a campaign that promised to rid the District of the organization that Marion Barry built. Even Mayor Barry volunteered, in a television interview, ''certainly, my case has been an example of what some people are very tired of.''
In November, Ms. Dixon, a lawyer, will run against Maurice T. Turner Jr., former police chief and recent convert to the Republican Party. He ran unopposed. About 90 percent of District voters are Democrats.
 
Maryland
The popular Gov. William Donald Schaefer, a Democrat, was easily renominated, and the hawkish Representative Roy P. Dyson, who had suffered the embarrassing disclosure that he was a conscientious objector during the Vietnam war, managed to hold on to the Democratic nomination. Otherwise, Maryland voters were not especially forgiving. They turned out the Montgomery County Executive as well as four state legislators who had opposed abortion rights.
Representative Dyson is expecting a tough campaign; the Republican candidate, Wayne T. Gilchrest, nearly defeated him two years ago. Governor Schaefer will face William S. Shepard, a retired foreign service officer who won the Republican nomination in a close race.
 
Connecticut
United States Representative Bruce A. Morrison, a former legal-aid lawyer from New Haven, was the Democrats' lopsided choice for governor, and the Republican candidate for that job, Representative John G. Rowland, was unopposed. But each has a tougher opponent in former United States Senator Lowell P. Weicker Jr., who is running as an independent in the three-way gubernatorial race.
 
Arizona
Evan Mecham, the former car dealer who was Governor for 15 months before his impeachment and conviction in 1988, failed to make a comeback (though he got one in four votes) on the Republican ticket. The winner was J. Fife Symington, a developer. The Democratic nomination went to Terry Goddard, who resigned as Mayor of Phoenix to run.
 
Minnesota
Gov. Rudy Perpich's reputation for eccentricity and his opposition to abortion were the big issues, but he survived with 56 percent of the vote. The Governor, a Democrat, was trailing in polls earlier this year and suffered heavy campaign attacks from Mike Hatch, a former state Commerce Commissioner and a supporter of abortion rights. (Mr. Perpich took to reading aloud on television from out-of-state magazines that described Minnesota as a nice place to live.) Republicans chose Jon Grunseth, a conservative businessman and an abortion opponent.
In the Minnesota Senate race, the Republican incumbent, Rudy Boschwitz, will face Paul Wellstone, a political science professor.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sharon Pratt Dixon (center) after winning the Democratic mayoral primary in Washington. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times); J. Fife Symington with his wife, Ann, after winning the Republican gubernatorial primary in Arizona last week. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (74%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; WASHINGTON (DC)

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; PRIMARIES; VOTER BEHAVIOR POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ARMIES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%); NEWS BRIEFS (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); 

PERSON: ORESKES, MICHAEL; DIXON, SHARON PRATT GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%); 



454 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
Japan, Not Knowing How to Act, Isn't Sure It Wants To

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
The Middle East crisis has plunged Japan into something resembling a full-scale identity crisis.
Like the characters in ''The Great Gatsby,'' the nation is pushing against a current, borne back ceaselessly into its past, the legacy of its brutal Asian conquests during World War II.
Forty-five years after its crushing defeat, Tokyo remains anxious that any move to assert its interests on the world stage will alarm its neighbors in Asia. Such alarm, in turn, could chill the atmosphere that has been hospitable to Japanese economic penetration in countries it had once sought to conquer militarily. 
Japan has grown comfortable - and wealthy -under the protection of its security alliance with the United States, its American-imposed postwar ''peace constitution'' renouncing the use of force and its military spending at only 1 percent of its gross national product. But Japan's vital interests are at stake in the Middle East today more than ever. For the first time, Japanese citizens have been taken hostage. The American call for Tokyo to think and act in a fashion commensurate with its status as an economic superpower found resonance in some parts of Japan. Yukan Fuji, a popular Tokyo newspaper, accused Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu of being ''diplomatically tone deaf'' for failing to heed the call.
''We are passing through a rather agonizing stage of transforming ourselves into an international power,'' acknowledged Taizo Watanabe, the Japanese Foreign Ministry spokesman, appealing for patience as Japan sought to resolve its quandaries. But the United States has watched with mounting frustration, deploring Japan's slowness in the face of its reliance on the Middle East for nearly 70 percent of its oil. Congressional resentment of Japan's lack of effort spilled over into a House resolution calling for a reduction of American troops in Japan if Tokyo did not do more to pay for them.
Even with Mr. Kaifu's announcement on Friday of another $3 billion for the drive to isolate Iraq, bringing its total contribution to about $4 billion, the criticism of Japan is unlikely to go away. The bulk of the $2 billion earmarked for economic assistance could come with strings attached, such as lengthy reviews by the International Monetary Fund. The other $2 billion is facing different sorts of problems: So far, Japan has been able to send only 800 four-wheel-drive vehicles because shippers have balked at taking goods into a combat zone.
 
Reasons for Slowness
The factors hampering quick Japanese action are varied. First, many Japanese, either because of self-interest or genuine differences in opinion, disagree that Japan should side with one set of Arabs against another. Business executives, for instance, have long been known for the kind of conservatism that has let them go along with an Arab-demanded boycott of Israel. After American hostages were seized by Iran in 1979, Japan declined to go along with sanctions, saying it would be better to remain on friendly terms.
Such caution has been echoed by senior members of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party and by bureaucrats who do not want Tokyo to spend money in the area. ''Japanese are concerned that once we get into this arena in a far end of the world, we may never get out,'' said Terumasa Nakanishi, professor of politics at Shizuoka University.
The deeper anxieties for Japan have to do with its Constitution and profound ambivalence over visibly asserting its interests - plus a related anxiety about beefing up its military forces.
But the Constitution is not very explicit. Its ban on the use of force would appear at first glance to rule out even the men and weapons that Japan already has in its carefully named Self-Defense Forces. Many analysts feel that because Japan has interpreted the Constitution so loosely, it can get away with another loose interpretation that would allow medical teams and other military personnel in the Middle East.
Then, too, many Japanese appear to be pacifist in nature, especially because of the past. The point was illustrated by a leading industrialist, who said that the first thing he thought of when Iraq invaded Kuwait was not what Japan could do to oppose Baghdad, but how similar Iraq's stated motives were to what Japan said in the 1930's when it annexed Manchuria. Then and now, he noted, the conqueror cloaked its aggression in calls for expelling Westerners, promoting Arab (or Asian) unity, and rallying the have-nots against the haves. The analogy, he said, convinced him that Japan had to avoid a direct military role in the Middle East.
Even so, a consensus seems to be emerging that Tokyo should do more to aid the military efforts of others. Emboldened by this attitude, Mr. Kaifu is expected to submit legislation enabling thousands of Japanese, some of them transferred temporarily out of the military, to go to the gulf in noncombat roles.
A final problem is a Japanese system in which even a Prime Minister is not powerful enough to force a decision if the party and the bureaucracy is divided. Rivals of Mr. Kaifu have made it clear they do not want him to get credit for sweeping changes in Japan's international posture. This bias toward inaction is what Karel van Wolferen, a prominent critic of Japan, calls the ''truncated pyramid'' of Japanese leadership - the lack of someone at the apex to provide action forced by accountability.
It would be hard to imagine Japan being able to live indefinitely in its world of political dependence. But the biggest obstacle Japan has to overcome may lie within. As Seiki Nishihiro, a longtime defense agency official, said, military forces of Japan will be dispatched once the Japanese develop ''self-confidence in their history'' and politicians develop ''self-confidence in civilian control'' of the military. So Japan's biggest challenge in expanding its international role is not whether to trust other countries, but whether to trust itself.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); ISRAEL (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; JAPAN

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (78%); BOYCOTTS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WORLD WAR II (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ARMED FORCES (68%); DEFENSE SPENDING (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (51%); CONSERVATISM (50%); 

PERSON: WEISMAN, STEVEN R TOSHIKI KAIFU (57%); 



455 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1, Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1515 words

HEADLINE: IDEAS & TRENDS;
If Lots of People Feel pain, Is That a Recession?

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
Whatever the statistics say, millions of Americans have concluded in recent weeks that the United States is in a recession. They are probably overstating the case. But if the word recession is heard more and more, it certainly reflects the hardship, both actual and anticipated, that is spreading across the country.
Consider these numbers:
* Employment is shrinking in most of the nation. Until May, this had been the case only in New England and a few Midwestern states. But by August, the Labor Department found that over the previous year employment had fallen in six of the nation's nine regions, covering 33 states. ''The story isn't so much layoffs as companies not replacing people who leave,'' said Thomas Plewes, a Labor Department economist.
* Consumer confidence, as measured by various national polls, plunged steeply in August, after the Mideast shock. In past recessions, such sudden drops often appeared in the early months. What happens is that people become fearful about their jobs and the future and they stop making purchases. ''My sense is that the Mideast shock has not worn off and confidence remains very low in September,'' says Richard T. Curtin, director of the University of Michigan's consumer survey. 
 
* Retail sales, as if on cue, dropped sharply in August, the Commerce Department reported Friday. The total spent on gasoline should have risen enough, because of higher fuel prices, to offset lower spending elsewhere. But cutbacks in other categories were so sharp that total sales fell six-tenths of 1 percent -resuming a decline that had been in progress all year, except for June and July.
* In August, for the first time in a year, household income failed to rise in tandem with inflation. Smaller raises, fewer new jobs, less overtime, higher inflation from rising gasoline prices all combined to reverse the pattern. Personal disposable income, which is what people have left to spend after paying their taxes, fell by roughly six-tenths of 1 percent, after adjustment for inflation, said Stephen S. Roach, a senior economist at Morgan Stanley & Company. ''When you have a really ugly turn on the income front, like this one, that is a classic signal that the economy is in trouble,'' he said.
There was, of course, bad news before August. Construction spending dried up last spring, and the real estate market softened in much of the country. Defense cutbacks brought thousands of layoffs. And budget cutting meant the Government would play a shrinking role in the spending that keeps an economy going. Still, the view that a recession has arrived meets with considerable resistance at the Federal Reserve, an arbiter of economic trends, and among economists in general. ''The economy is like a taut cord: you have to keep pushing it down to make it stay down,'' said Paul Samuelson, the Nobel laureate in economics. ''It simply does not have a tendency to stagnate on its own. That is a notion we inherited from the 1930's that does not apply to the postwar period.''
For a recession to occur, the economy has to contract for six straight months, a phenomenon that by definition is hard to document until well after it's happened. A prestigious research institute, the National Bureau of Economic Research, rules on when recessions begin and end, delegating this task to a committee of seven prominent economists. But the committee hasn't met since July 8, 1983, when it declared that the 1981-82 recession had ended the previous November.
The committee members do not like to meet until they have agreed among themselves, in telephone conversations, that enough evidence exists to pinpoint a turn in the economy. ''It is certainly possible that we might have another meeting soon if conditions continue to develop as they are,'' said Geoffrey Moore, a member from Columbia University. ''We generally wait until the evidence is pretty decisive before we spend the money on plane fares and hotel rooms.''
But while Mr. Moore, who runs Columbia's Center for International Business Cycle Research, isn't ready to insist on a gathering, he is gradually coming to the view that a recession has started. ''It is not at all certain,'' he said, ''but if a recession is under way, the likely starting month was probably June.''
The Federal Reserve, more than any other Government body, has the power to reverse the deterioration, by lowering interest rates. Lower rates, in turn, encourage people and companies to borrow and spend, thus stimulating the economy. But the Fed has lately resisted making any rate changes. As a result, interest on most mortgages and consumer loans remains above 10 percent.
The prevailing view among the Fed's 18 policymakers, as expressed by several of them in interviews, is that inflation - currently averaging more than 5 percent this year, as measured by the Consumer Price Index - is a greater long-term threat than recession. Specifically, they worry that stimulating the economy by trying to push down interest rates would only increase the odds of severe inflation in 1991.
The Middle East crisis has exacerbated the Federal Reserve's concern over inflation and so, undoubtedly, did the report Friday that the Producer Price Index for finished goods had risen by an alarming 1.3 percent in August, mostly because of higher oil prices. ''Monetary policy has to be patient and not darting here to there based on the latest statistics,'' said Wayne Angell, a Federal Reserve governor. ''There are signs,'' he added, ''that there will be some upward movement in the economy early next year.''
In a similar vein, Robert Black, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, said: ''Most of us at the Federal Reserve would take a little economic sacrifice in the short run if we thought the long-term trade-off, in reduced inflation, far exceeded the short-term discomfort.''
What the Federal Reserve is counting on, of course, is that the discomfort will not turn into official recession. A recession requires quite a bit of deterioration. The nation's wealth, as measured by the Gross National Product, would have to contract for six straight months. For the first time in years, there would be an end to the ever greater production of manufactured goods and the rising outlays for the thousands of services that Americans perform.
Through most of the 1980's, the G.N.P. grew by 3 percent a year or more, and many economists thought that the strong performance had continued well into 1989 - until the Commerce Department revised its figures in July. The new numbers showed that the economy, instead of growing strongly, had expanded since March of 1989 by just enough to stave off recession.
Most recently, in the second quarter of this year, the G.N.P. rose by only $12 billion, after adjustment for inflation, representing a minuscule annual growth rate of 1.2 percent for an economy that generates $4.16 trillion a year in wealth.
Nevertheless, the case for no recession has some arguments going for it. Auto and truck sales, for example, are holding steady at an annual rate of more than 14 million units, although many of the buyers are car rental companies. ''Sales to individuals have weakened, but not to recession levels,'' said Wynn Van Bussman, an economist at the Chrysler Corporation. More important, inventories have not shot up.
Indeed, inventories in all industries have not shot up. That is what ushers in a classic recession: Goods pile up, orders are canceled, factories slash production and lay off workers, and unemployment surges.
Such havoc has not yet appeared, perhaps because exports have taken up the slack as domestic retail sales have declined. Or perhaps Americans have not felt compelled to economize, although events in the Persian Gulf and the tight job market might now be changing their minds.
Or perhaps the current economic slowdown will develop differently from those of the past because of the huge debts that consumers have accumulated. The argument here is an ironic one. If a recession developed, many indebted companies and individuals might be forced into bankruptcy, making the recession unusually severe.
But some economists argue that Americans are well along in the process of working their way out of their debt problems. Just as the boom years of the 1980's reflected the big spending that rising debt made possible, the economic sluggishness of the last 18 months reflects a steady decline in new borrowing, particularly by the private sector.
Total debt rose at 12 percent or more a year in the mid-1980's, according to Federal Reserve data. But since 1987, there has been a sharp decline, and in the first quarter of 1990, debt for all sectors of the economy except the Federal Government rose at an annual rate of only 6.3 percent, the lowest since 1982, a recession year.
''Rather than a severe recession, we are going to have a long workout from the excesses of debt,'' says Albert T. Sommers, a senior economist at the Conference Board. ''And we won't have an upturn until people feel able to borrow easily again.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing; Graph: growth in private debt, including all borrowing except for that of the Federal government, 1980-1990 (*1990, projected annual rate) (pg. 1); chart: survey designed to foreshaow patterns in consumer spending, 1980-1990 (Source: University of Michigan Survey Research Center); chart: comparisons of differences in numbers of people employed in May and August, from figures for the previous year, by region (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. 5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (63%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (63%); MORGAN STANLEY (63%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (82%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (82%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PUBLIC OPINION; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); TRENDS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); INFLATION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (86%); NEWS BRIEFS (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); OVERTIME (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (69%); NOBEL PRIZES (69%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (68%); RETAIL SALES (65%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (65%); BUDGET CUTS (64%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS GEOFFREY MOORE (57%); 



456 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1489 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD: Powers That Be;
It's a New World, Much Like That Of 50 Years Ago

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
Nine months into 1990, the world as Americans have known it for most of the last half-century has changed utterly. But in one major respect - the reliance of the free world on American power - it hasn't changed at all.
In the new world, there is no East or West, not in the cold war sense. The Soviet Union, spinning toward economic revolution or collapse - it's hard to tell which - seems incapable of opposing Western aims, so it goes along with them. Last week Moscow symbolically signed away its Eastern European empire in an agreement with the United States, Britain and France, the allied powers of World War II, to restore sovereignty to a united Germany after Oct. 3.
Perhaps this was a desperate, long-shot Soviet gamble that out of the economic ruins of Central Europe, a united Germany would help build a new pillar of prosperity onto which Moscow, too, could cling. 
That may yet be. What is clear now is that at least in the near term, a united Germany can no more be a superpower, in the American sense, than Japan is. Both are powerful economic entities that disastrously tried to project their power around the world; both now see regional peace as the way to allow their prosperous and stable societies to continue healing the wounds of war.
Nor is Europe a superpower, as its fragmentary and hesitant responses to American pleas for help in the gulf crisis show. Europe is, in some senses, an economic unity, and will be even more so after the single market of 336 million people is created at the end of 1992. But its profoundly different, and still sovereign, nation-states could not get together to bring that economic power to bear in any meaningful sense in the Persian Gulf.
Germany, asked to help pay for the $100-billion American military buildup, pleaded that it was contributing to Western security in other ways: paying $8 billion to get Soviet troops out of central Europe by 1994, and paying $60 billion a year or more until then to bring its new eastern provinces economically into the late 20th century, let alone the 21st.
France, outraged after Iraq raided its ambassador's residence in Kuwait last week, announced that it was sending 4,000 combat troops, tanks and other equipment to the gulf, bringing the forces it has there to 13,000, including 14 ships and 100 anti-tank helicopters. The French ships, like the United States Navy and British and other allied forces, are in the gulf to help enforce the United Nations economic blockade of Iraq, but operate under separate national commands.
A day earlier Britain, the European ally most eager to help the United States unconditionally, decided to move 6,000 to 8,000 combat troops, 120 tanks, and air and ground support units from Germany to the gulf in the coming weeks to supplement the ships, planes and ground support troops Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher had already moved to Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and Oman. But the United States has been adding that many troops and tanks to its force in the region every week for seven weeks. It does not belittle the British contribution, which Mrs. Thatcher made in direct response to the United States' plea for more help, to say that it was simply not on the same scale as the 100,000-strong American force. And she made it the way European powers, and indeed, the United States, have always made their decisions, in shrewd calculation of their own national self-interest.
In this respect the world is no different now than 50 years ago, when America was drawn back into European affairs after 20 years of isolation. But as the 20th century dawned, Americans were eager to become the world's policeman and make it safe for democracy.
Now, in the predawn of the 21st, they look around for someone to help them carry the burden. Why, they ask, has the world not become less threatening to the American way of life even after the cold war?
Some would argue that the real threat, somehow underlying the crisis in the gulf, is the poverty and instability of so many countries in the developing world, like Iraq and others in the Mideast, Latin America and Africa, that have turned to despotism and dictatorship partly in reaction to the Western imperialist past.
''The poor countries are getting poorer, and the rich countries are getting richer,'' said President Francois Mitterrand of France at a recent conference on hatred in Oslo. This, too, has consequences, as former President Jimmy Carter pointed out when he noted that of the 116 armed conflicts in the world, all but one - Iraq's invasion of Kuwait - are civil wars, not wars between countries.
Over the years the cold war often blinded both the United States and the Soviet Union to the root causes of third-world conflicts, leading them to arm surrogate tyrants to the teeth, thus prolonging the violence and adding to the underlying misery rather than alleviating it.
This began to change in the 1980's, as Moscow became disheartened in Afghanistan. But in the Arab world, things first started to change after the Arab-Israeli war of 1973. Iraq's invasion of Kuwait has turned the Arab world upside down once more, perhaps giving Egypt a chance to emerge again as its leader after years of being shunned by other Arab countries for having made peace with Israel. Last week even Syria, one home of anti-Western terrorism, was making friendly noises toward the United States, with President Hafez al-Assad receiving Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d and agreeing, too, to send a force of 10,000 troops and tanks to face Iraqi forces on the Saudi peninsula.
But countries that are enemies today can turn into friends tomorrow. Iran, only two years after fighting the costliest war of the 1980's - against Iraq - edged closer to supporting Iraq against the Western embargo last week when its spiritual leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, declared that the struggle against foreign military forces in the gulf was a holy war for all Muslims.
For many ordinary Europeans, indeed probably for many Americans, Russians and Japanese, the temptation is to think that Iraq's annexation of Kuwait means no more than Hitler's annexation of the Sudetenland meant to Neville Chamberlain, the British Prime Minister in 1938.
''How horrible, fantastic, incredible it is that we should be digging trenches and trying on gas-masks here because of a quarrel in a faraway country between people of whom we know nothing,'' Chamberlain said then.
Now everyone knows better. But it is also tempting for politicians, particularly in Washington, to exaggerate both the burden of facing up to Saddam Hussein's aggression and the contribution that can realistically be made by the Western allies.
If this crisis had occurred a decade ago, the world would be teetering at the brink of World War III. It isn't today, and countries like Japan and Germany that, unlike the United States, have vastly improved their energy efficiency since the oil crisis of the 1970's are not so prone as Americans are to see a vital threat to their way of life when the price of crude rises above $30 a barrel. Even though they import virtually all their oil, they can afford to pay the price, and if necessary further improve their efficiency at using it.
But since the United States is the only superpower, it's hard to see either how the Japanese, the Europeans or anyone else can substitute for it, or how Americans can escape the burden of responsibility that comes with its power.
In Europe, a new era of German-Soviet detente in Mitteleuropa may be opening, but without the balance provided by a continuing United States commitment, the British and the French, not to mention the Poles, Czechs and Slovaks, could see it as a destabilizing threat.
In Asia, Soviet-Japanese or Chinese-Japanese detente on the scale of what has happened in Europe this year could easily lead to regional instability unless the United States provides a counterweight. This is especially true so long as China remains locked in its totalitarian straitjacket.
Taking the lead in devising a stable economic and political balance in the fragmented, economically devastated countries of Africa will be more challenging for the United States; a greater part of the burden perhaps should go to European countries with ties and interests there.
And as observers and government officials here see it, the United States will never have full credibility anywhere in the developing world until it builds a more enlightened economic and political relationship with all the states of Latin America.
''Roosevelt! Thou shouldst be living at this hour!'' wrote the British essayist Timothy Garton Ash in The Independent last week, recalling Franklin D. Roosevelt's dreams for a new postwar order that seemed, at first glance, to have come true. But after examining the complexities, he concluded: ''Roosevelt! Perhaps you're better off where you are.'' Would that it turns out that he's wrong.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (pg. 1); photo: American soldiers in the Saudi Arabian desert. (Jacques Langevin/Sygma)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); GERMANY (92%); IRAQ (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); KUWAIT (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE WORLD WAR II (89%); ARMED FORCES (85%); MILITARY WEAPONS (85%); COLD WAR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); NAVIES (76%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (67%); NEWS BRIEFS (66%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (62%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%); HELICOPTERS (50%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R



457 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: Vietnam Is Not the Enemy

 BODY:
You thought it was 1990, and the enemy was Iraq. No. For some policy makers in the Bush Administration it remains 1975, and the enemy remains Vietnam. There's no other plausible explanation for the Administration's self-defeating decision to extend the U.S. economic embargo against Vietnam for one more year under the Trading With the Enemy Act of 1917. 
The embargo prevents Americans from most trading with Vietnam or with Vietnamese nationals abroad. American companies cannot organize tours to Vietnam, and individual American travelers cannot use credit cards.
There are limited exceptions for humanitarian activities and gift packages to individual Vietnamese. But U.S. phone companies can't provide service to Vietnam, a cruel hardship for Vietnamese here who want to stay in touch with family members.
The Vietnam War is over. The cold war is over. Washington and Hanoi have begun cooperating productively in efforts to achieve a political settlement in Cambodia. Progress is also being made on humanitarian issues, from the orderly departure of Vietnamese refugees to the search for remains or traces of American soldiers missing in action. Meanwhile, Vietnam is pursuing a serious program of market-oriented economic reforms. Businessmen from anti-Communist bastions like Taiwan and Singapore are moving aggressively to profit from Hanoi's liberal foreign investment code. American business organizations are pressing for an early end to the U.S. embargo, which punishes them at least as much as it punishes Vietnam.
U.S. restrictions have helped keep Vietnam one of the world's poorest countries, feeding the mass exodus of refugees toward Hong Kong and the countries of Southeast Asia. The pressure is sure to grow in the coming months as Soviet aid is scheduled to be cut back drastically. Some argue that the pressure could spark a revolt against Communist rule. More likely, increased economic contacts with the West would increase pressure for democratic political reform.
The Bush Administration made just that argument last spring when it extended China's trade privileges in the face of Beijing's post-Tiananmen hard line. The same logic applies even more clearly to Vietnam, which is moving toward reform.
Congress has no say over the Administration's action, which came by executive order. But Representative Howard Berman of California, recognizing that person-to-person contacts can advance democratic values far more efficiently than embargoes, has introduced a bill that would ease U.S. travel restrictions for countries where Americans face no special dangers. Renewal of the embargo against Vietnam shows how badly such reform is needed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (94%); IRAQ (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); ASIA (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); VIETNAM (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (67%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (69%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (54%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (54%); AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (54%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VIETNAM

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EMBARGOES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; VIETNAM WAR; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-VIETNAM; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); REFUGEES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); COLD WAR (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (67%); TRENDS (63%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) HOWARD L BERMAN (58%); 



458 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 22, Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 301 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Cars Aren't More Fuel Efficient

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Washington's Mood Worries Detroit'' (Business Day, Sept. 3) discusses the concern of the automobile industry over possibly more stringent fuel-efficiency requirements, perhaps based on a percentage reduction in fuel consumption for each manufacturer's fleet.
You say, ''Japanese-made autos are already more fuel efficient than those of American companies.'' That is not true. Japanese manufacturers simply make fleets of smaller cars. Thus, their fleet mileage averages are higher. The very fine new Nissan Infiniti is a gas guzzler, while none of the Chrysler, Ford or General Motors models in the same Environmental Protection Agency-designated ''midsize'' category is. And there are 22 domestic models in that class. Even the ''two-ton behemoth,'' the 1991 Buick Roadmaster, which will be in the ''large car'' category, will not be a gas guzzler. It may be legitimately argued that that is fuel efficiency.
One can certainly be critical of our industry for not doing a better job of making small cars and so letting that segment of the market get away, but one cannot say the Japanese cars are more fuel efficient because of fleets of little cars.
You also confuse efficiency and economy with consumption. That is important because there comes a point at which efficiency cannot be increased, and for the manufacturer to cut consumption means cutting size, weight or performance. (Economy requires public involvement - that's something else.) That's why the Japanese are upset. A percentage reduction means that all cars, small and large, would have to have their fuel consumption reduced. This at a time when the Japanese are set to move further into the larger car mar-ket.
 
GERTRUDE I. MCWILLIAMS
Editor & Publisher, Concerning Cars
Pound Ridge, N.Y., Sept. 4, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (56%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; FUEL EFFICIENCY; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PUBLISHING (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (54%); 

PERSON: MCWILLIAMS, GERTRUDE I



459 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 211 words

HEADLINE: To Lower Gas Prices

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Consumers can get gasoline costs down by shifting gasoline market share to low-cost marketers, leaving the high-cost marketers with full storage tanks. The low-cost marketers will then demand and get lower crude oil costs and rebates on earlier high-cost crude, as in 1986-89. 
Consumers should use a two-step formula to reach a ''fair'' pump price. Take the posted pump price and cut it in half. Add 35 cents. The result is the ''correct'' pump price, paying all current taxes and dealer markup. Example: $1.36 is the posted price, half is 68 cents, plus 35 cents gives the price consumers should demand, $1.03.
With these calculations, consumers shift buying to those marketers whose pump prices are closest to the ''correct'' pump price. The high-cost marketers lose sales; the low-cost come to dominate markets - and win the clout to get low crude prices. Consumers get lower prices, the economy and inflation are not adversely affected by high oil prices, and the oil companies are stuck with high-cost crude that cannot be sold profitably.
Why should consumers pay again and again for oil industry inability to forecast its future or learn from experience?
 
NORMAN HIGBY
Editor, The Higby Report
Menlo Park, Calif., Aug. 30, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (66%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (66%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: IPRINT TECHNOLOGIES INC (MENLO PARK, CA) (54%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; PRICES; GAS (FUEL) OIL & GAS PRICES (96%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); GASOLINE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); MARKET SHARE (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); 

PERSON: HIGBY, NORMAN



460 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 23, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: VOICES OF THE NEW GENERATION;
Those 'Sexy' Issues on Capitol Hill . . .

BYLINE: By TOM FREEDMAN; Tom Freedman was legislative director to Representative Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York.

DATELINE: BERKELEY

 BODY:
This summer, I left Capitol Hill after four years, grateful for the opportunity to have worked there, but afraid that good, conscientious government may have become too boring to be popular. While Washington's establishment - its politicians, reporters and administrators - is whipped into motion by the mere whiff of an emotional issue or scandal, there is no reward in today's Capitol for fixing the broken mechanics of govern ment or solving the huge problems that haunt us.
No one should excuse Congress for getting into the savings and loan mess or letting abuse run wild at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. But we have always counted on reporters to be the watchdogs of government. 
Increasingly, however, politicians and journalists work in tandem. Democrats and Republicans try to spotlight issues that will make the opposition look bad on the network news; journalists pick up the most emotional issues and use their broadcasts to keep score of which side is doing the most political damage. It's no accident that scandals mushroomed on two of the least covered beats in the Capitol. The nuts and bolts of banking and housing legislation were not ''sexy'' issues.
A member of the Banking Committee recently recalled a committee vote on a crucial amendment sponsored by my boss in the early 1980's that could have prevented savings and loans from participating in risky real estate deals. The hearing room was packed with savings and loan lobbyists, but only a few journalists were present.
That amendment, little reported, lost by a few votes, which ultimately cost taxpayers tens of billions of dollars. In contrast, there was always extensive press coverage at hearings if a star from the entertainment world, or better yet, a dramatic hooded witness, was testifying.
In Washington, there is widespread acceptance of the idea that the public doesn't want complicated news. During the 1988 Presidential campaign, it was my job as press secretary to help call attention to the then $75 billion savings and loan crisis and the Republican Administration's role in creating it. Over and over again, reporters rejected the issue as undeserving of digging: ''Too technical. People aren't interested.'' The housing issue was similar. I thought that surely problem of homelessness was newsworthy. In the winter months; there were, of course, dramatic scenes of people freezing on sidewalks for television. But when it came time in Congress to finance new housing, appropriations that had declined by a factor of four during the Reagan years, the media were nowhere to be found.
There is much Congress could do to streamline its own procedures and increase accountability. The multitudes of overlapping committee encourage a superficial focus. But the largest part of the problem is voters who have become used to issues with the life span of an MTV video. Legislators have elected two of the most responsible leaders one could hope to run the House and Senate, but their skills are wasted on endless political maneuvering and issues like ''obscene'' art and burning the flag.
If voters rewarded their legislators and Presidents for simple good management in heading off problems, politicians would respond by tackling more weighty issues. Legislators are keenly sensitive to what the public wants from them.
So although most people deplore the finger-pointing about who is to blame for the thrift mess, the injection of politics into this long-term, complicated issue may be the one bright spot of the debacle. Already I sense that legislators will be more cautious the next time an industry urges major deregulation or loophole widening. And if financial regulations can make their way onto the political agenda, there is hope that other seemingly technical issues can too.
Everywhere I went in the Capitol, I felt a sense of history. It is hard to believe that this country, which has survived so many threats, will not overcome those we face now. But we face severe economic tests in the 1990's. We would do well to reject government by sound bite and demand to know the substance of what our leaders are doing in Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: FREEDMAN, TOM

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); POLITICS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); WRITERS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NEWS REPORTING (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); TESTIMONY (73%); BANK FAILURES (70%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (70%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (70%); WITNESSES (64%); CITIES (55%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); 



461 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 23, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1438 words

HEADLINE: The Budget, From Comedy to Tragedy

BYLINE: By PETER G. PETERSON; Peter G. Peterson, a former Commerce Secretary, is chairman of The Blackstone Group, a private investment bank.

 BODY:
Our annual budget comedy is beginning to resemble a Greek tragedy, with well-meaning politicians terrified of doing the right thing and with our children as the hapless victims. Before the last act - which we hope is not yet written - it is time to rethink just why budget deficits matter and why we must do better than the ''summit'' package nearing completion in Washington.
Everyone agrees that America has a crying need for public and private investment, in both physical and human capital. Indeed, our rhetorical investment ''imperatives'' form a uniquely bipartisan consensus that extends from education of the work force to infrastructure to research and development. Everyone agrees except on one brute question: Where do we get the resources for this consensus investment agenda?
To invest, there must be savings -ours or those of more thrifty people elsewhere; our largely consumption-based deficits constitute negative savings. Counting the cost of the S.& L. bailout and discounting the illusory Social Security ''surpluses,'' we now face deficits that will average $339 billion annually between now and 1995. From 1985 through 1989, with Federal borrowing wiping out over half of all private-sector savings, the net savings rate fell to 2.2 percent of gross national product, less than one-third the rate for the rest of the industrial world. 
There were few visible effects of the 1980's ''deficit decade,'' largely because savers from abroad ''bailed us out'' - even if that meant borrowing a trillion dollars from them. During the 1990's, however, the two biggest ''surplus savers'' among the industrial nations, Japan and Germany, will be less ready lenders. Japan's available savings will shrink as a rapidly aging population saves less, and as the Japanese invest more at home and spend more on consumer goods (both at U.S. urging). German savings are now flowing toward the reconstruction of Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union.
As we seek resources to cut deficits and fund investments, the supposed choice between ''less spending'' and ''more taxes'' is a false dichotomy when our third option is more borrowing. And borrow more we will, especially on ''non-means-tested'' entitlements - benefits passed out regardless of financial need. These have ballooned from $27 billion in 1965 to $472 billion in 1990. Add mandatory interest costs and we're up to $650 billion. Further - and putting our S.& L. ''crisis'' in perspective - our entitlement edifice has created unfunded liabilities that almost certainly exceed $10 trillion, or a hidden debt of $100,000 for every American worker.
Our national interest is served by programs that direct public resources toward investment and youth, not consumption and age. Perversely, while we squeeze the former, the latter are exempt from Gramm-Rudman cuts and protected with cost-of-living allowances (COLA's).
Thus, while Americans under age 18 have the highest poverty rate of any age bracket, they receive only $1 per capita in Federal benefits for every $11 going to each American over age 65 (who have the lowest povery rate, when all benefits are included as income). From subsidies to rich farmers to free medical care for old millionaires, we have massive ''welfare for the well-off.''
The structural elements of our entitlements have to be put on the table. We should move from age-based to need-based programs by progressive taxation of benefits, gradual reduction in COLA's for the non-poor, lower initial benefit levels for upper-income retirees, gradually rising retirement ages and increased cost-sharing for health benefits. For upper-income beneficiaries above some threshold, such as $50,000, an additional sliding-scale rate of up to 100 percent should be used to tax away the full value of benefits in excess of total contributions plus interest.
When the Japanese Government recognized that the cost of its public retirement system was quickly rising to unaffordable heights, it reduced average future benefit levels by roughly 20 percent. By contrast, our national plea seems to be captured by the American poet Peter Viereck: ''suspend me in this choiceless now.'' We say it is ''politically impossible'' to change entitlements. Tomorrow, we may have to relearn - quickly and painfully - the true meaning of impossibility.
Some of these budget savings should go to the elderly poor. Raising average Supplementary Security Income benefits to 100 percent of the poverty line would require only about $5 billion, compared with the $15 to $20 billion that would be saved if all unearned Social Security benefits were taxed.
Tax increases must play a role in eliminating the deficit, but not the major one. I favor a broad-based energy consumption tax such as a multi-year, phased-in gasoline tax of 25 to 50 cents a gallon. This could raise anywhere from $25 billion to about $40 to $50 billion yearly, shrink our oil-import deficit by perhaps $5 billion to $15 billion by 1995 and help pull down oil prices. Even an additional tax of 50 cents a gallon would bring our total gasoline taxes to only 81 cents - far less than the $2.01 a gallon that other industrial countries pay on average. Is cheap gasoline still another American ''entitlement?''
Yet tax increases are an insufficient and short-term measure. Without reform, and with greater longevity, earlier retirement, low birthrates and medical hyperinflation, the cost of Federal entitlements could climb by a colossal 11.5 percentage points of G.N.P. between now and the year 2025, consuming 20 to 40 percent of worker payrolls. Even if the public consensus were suddenly to shift to allow such an unsustainable level of new taxes, these revenues would at best simply cover entitlement cost rises, leaving nothing to meet the needs of the new investment agenda.
Our predicament is a long-term, structural problem, not a short-term, cyclical one; thus the solution must also be long-term. Rather than pretending to hit a target this year of a $50 billion reduction, we should set a new 1995 Gramm-Rudman target of achieving a balanced budget, without counting Social Security trust funds and with enforceable expenditure limits.
We should then design a gradual, multi-year structural deficit reduction package that really gets us there. For economies no less than for individuals, episodic bulimia is not nearly as effective as a steady diet. A one-year freeze in COLA's, no matter how large, is a far less satisfactory spending reduction than a structural measure (such as COLA's for the non-poor limited to two-thirds of the inflation rate).
A phased-in, structural, long-term program would send a potent signal to financial markets to bring down poisonously high, long-term interest rates. Alan Greenspan has predicted that such a program would bring these interest rates down sharply, perhaps by 2 percent. Such a program would also be better politics, avoiding the needless costs of letting a budgetary meat-ax fall, according to an arbitrary one-year formula, in a soft economy.
Measured against these criteria, the most recent budget package falls far short. It is a good beginning -perhaps the best that could be done by politicians terrified of constituent reaction. Now it is up to the rest of us, in the economist Herbert Stein's words, ''to make the world safe for the politicians to do the right thing.'
It is said that our current deficit debacle is a tragic political deadlock between those who want high spending and those who want low taxes. In fact, both sides are getting just what they want: high spending and low taxes. Judged by our actions, what we really want is to protect ourselves -at the expense of our children.
The mystery for those of us past age 50 is why our parents never did the same thing. From 1940 to 1955, as a group much less affluent than we are today, they pulled America out of a depression, led a global war against Fascism, led another war against Communism in Korea, gave prodigious sums of foreign aid to Europe, supported massive outlays to young veterans on housing and education and still managed a level of net national savings more than double ours. Many opposed government spending. But when spending rose, few advocated borrowing instead of taxing.
Our parents' generation took the future seriously, and today we thank them for it. Someday our children will look back on us. When they weigh our material affluence against the challenges we faced, they will surely take a dim view of how few sacrifices we deemed worth taking for their benefit. That will be a final-act chorus few of us should want to contemplate.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (90%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (68%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (92%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BAILOUTS (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); LABOR FORCE (74%); AGING TRENDS (72%); HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (70%); BANK FAILURES (67%); AGING (67%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, PETER G PETE PETERSON (50%); 



462 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3, Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1394 words

HEADLINE: PRACTICAL TRAVELER;
Seeing Far-Off Hong Kong for Rates Within Reach

BYLINE: By BETSY WADE

 BODY:
If you have ever considered a quick visit to Hong Kong, now is the time. There are one-week package trips available of round-trip flights from the West Coast and five nights in a hotel for the price of the air fare - $1,055, or even $899, depending on the tour operator, the airline and the hotel.
At the end of August, the airlines, moving for fare rises everywhere, asked for a 5.3 percent increase across the Pacific, effective yesterday. But package-tour organizers said they had already taken account of the potential increase.
How can tour prices be kept this low, with the good weather and the high season in the Orient upon us? Part of the reason is the acute drop in Western travel to China after the violent Government crackdown in Tiananmen Square in June 1989. 
Hong Kong, a popular gateway to China and a place to visit in its own right, was also hurt. Although the Hong Kong arrival figures for the first six months of 1990 are almost level with the first six months of 1989, before the crackdown, Michael Chang of the Hong Kong Tourist Association said that no-growth was a problem because for 10 years Hong Kong has been building hotels on the basis of a business boom. It now has 70 hotels with 27,000 rooms, lots of them empty, and by the end of the year, expects to have 30,000.
American business in Hong Kong is down. The six-month figures for United States travelers to Hong Kong dropped 13 percent from the 1989 period; United States travelers constituted 13.4 percent of the British colony's tourists in 1988, but in May, that was down to 9.9 percent. Cheaper rooms are one result. Over the summer, according to Howard Smith, president of Chinasmith, a New York travel company, several Hong Kong hotels that had agreed to certain rates for his travel packages wrote to say that they had lowered prices. In some cases, Mr. Smith said, these savings could be passed along to the buyers of packages, but some washed out against midsummer increases in Pacific fares.
The other element creating the illusion of a free hotel stay is the contracts that tour operators negotiate with the airlines. These companies agree to buy a certain number of seats over six months or a year at a price that is well below the cheapest nonrefundable restricted fare the public can get through the airline, although a traveler can sometimes get almost this fare through a wholesaler, or consolidator. The margin between what the tour operator pays and the price the airline quotes to the public may be as much as 40 percent. A tour operator can add expenses and a profit to the amount paid for the ticket, provide a week's hotel room, probably at cost, and still price the package near the retail figure for the air ticket alone. Read the Small Type Assessing packages requires reading small type and counting on your fingers. When you fly 14 hours across the Pacific, you may have to use your toes too. Asked how a tour could possibly be described as covering ''eight days and five nights,'' Mr. Smith said he always asks his clients, ''How many nights do you want to spend in Hong Kong?'' because counting days is a shell game. The eight-day, five-night tour leaves on Singapore Airlines from San Francisco in the middle of the night, flies all day, crossing the international dateline, and lands in the early morning of the third day. The eighth day, but not night, is consumed by flying, leaving nights three through seven actually spent in a bed in Hong Kong.
Most packages specify eight days-six nights or seven days-five nights, because flights from the West Coast leave in the daytime and land in the evening of the second day. People leaving from the East Coast should add the price of the connecting flight, in the range of $200.
Day of departure and return is also a part of the package price. The best values are available on Monday to Thursday, other days costing around $75 more. This accounts for the prevalence of seven- and eight-day packages among the bargains: longer or shorter stays may mean a return date in the premium-price zone.
Quality of hotel is another component. Hong Kong does not officially rate its hotels, but packagers usually do, working up a confusing ladder that includes no ''budget'' or ''economy'' but starts with ''standard.'' Above that come first class, superior first class, deluxe and luxury, with some variations in terms.
You may request a particular hotel and, once the hotel name is given to you on your package, that should be the one you get; but until then it may be another in the same price bracket. Basic package prices cover double occupancy - the cost for one or two people in a room. When they are available, triples are cheaper by the person. Meals come next. Where bargain packages provide meals, it is hotel breakfast only, but the breakfast is probably a big one, or a buffet. Experts smile, but agree that many tourists assemble a picnic lunch from the breakfast buffet. If you pay for it yourself, the buffet may cost $11 or $15, but its value in the package should be assessed at the cost of a breakfast on the street in Hong Kong - as low as $2 or $3 if you like McDonald's.
Packages include local room taxes and service fees; if a half-day guided tour and transfers from the airport are included, they are specified in the literature. The Packages Here are specifics on some good buys in Hong Kong packages. The wholesale tour operators are identified, but the packages must be booked through travel agents or from other retailers.
InterPacific Tours of New York has a bare-bones $899 package available until Dec. 13. It includes a Northwest Airlines ticket to Hong Kong from Los Angeles, Phoenix, Ariz.; Portland, Ore.; San Francisco, or Seattle leaving on Tuesday or Thursday with seven days and five nights in the Eaton or New Astor Hotels, in the packager's lowest price bracket, ''standard.'' The hotels are both on the Kowloon Peninsula, and the Eaton opened only in July. A sunset cruise is included with the regular half-day tour in this price range only. In the Excelsior, Prince or Marco Polo, ''first class'' hotels, the next price category up, the InterPacific package is $1,049; up one more step, in the Furama, Royal Garden or Hilton, the package is $1,149, and in the top category, in the Regent, Mandarin or Conrad, it is $1,359. Transfers but no breakfasts are included in these packages.
InterPacific also has eight-night packages that combine Hong Kong with Bangkok and Singapore.
Pacific Select of New York offers a $1,099 Hong Kong package until the end of November, when the price drops to $999 for December. It includes a United Airlines ticket to Hong Kong from any West Coast city served by United, leaving Monday to Thursday with five nights in the Marco Polo, Prince or Lee Gardens Hotels, usually in the first-class, or next-to-cheapest category.
This operator also offers the five nights split between Hong Kong and another Asian city or cities. The price for a five-night package for Hong Kong and Tokyo, including the Pacific air fare and the flight to the second Asian city, is $1,099 until the end of December. Helen Pishkur at this company says the Tokyo hotel rate is the same as the Hong Kong rate, an amazing bargain, because Pacific Select is a division of Nippon Travel, which has long relations with Tokyo hotels.
If a sixth night is added at any hotel in the packages, the price is $60 a person a night on the basis of double occupancy. To buy 10 nights, five each in Hong Kong and Tokyo, the cost would be the package price of $1,099, plus $300 for five extra nights in the other city, or $1,399. The Tokyo-Seoul five-day package is $1,049 through November; other combinations are $1,199 and $1,219. These packages do not include transfers, breakfasts or a sightseeing tour.
Der Tours of Los Angeles is offering packages of five days and seven nights for $979 in November, $1,169 in September and October, with a few November tickets for $899 that do not permit extra days to be added on. The packages include a Northwest Airlines ticket from Los Angeles or San Francisco, leaving on Wednesdays. The hotel is the Park, in the standard category. For $1,039 in November, $1,229 in September and October, the Ramada Inn, also in the standard category, is available. The packages include transfers and a sightseeing tour but no breakfasts.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); 

COMPANY: TRAVEL CO INC (64%); HONG KONG TOURIST ASSOCIATION (55%); HONG KONG TOURIST ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HONG KONG

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; PRICES TOUR OPERATORS (91%); TOUR PACKAGES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); TRAVEL AGENTS (89%); AIR FARES (89%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); TOURISM (72%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (72%); 

PERSON: WADE, BETSY



463 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 5; Page 4, Column 4; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: Q and A

BYLINE: By Carl Sommers

 BODY:

Car 'Purchase' in Europe
Q. I understand that car travel in Europe is most economical if one purchases a car on entry and sells back to the dealer on departure. Can you provide details? - William C. Saunders, Urbana, Ill.
A. Through such an arrangement, usually called leasing or purchase-repurchase, travelers may save money over car rental. Essentially, you buy a car for at least three weeks and sell it back. The chief advantage is that nonresidents buying a car in Europe do not pay value-added tax. On buying the cars back, the dealers sell them as used cars (which are taxed for residents at a lower rate than new cars) or to rental companies, which also pay lower taxes than for new cars. Another benefit is that you have a brand-new car to use, less likely to break down than a rental car. 
The leasing arrangement must be made for at least three weeks, though cars can be returned earlier; some drivers find they save money over rental by using a leased car for less than three weeks. Travelers can make buy-and-sell arrangements overseas, but the leasing agents in this country say the cost is less when done ahead of time, at least four or five weeks.
France, with its 25 percent value-added tax, is the chief place where such leasing can be done, but travelers can take the car outside of the country. There is a minimum of 23 days and a maximum of 180 days for leasing in France. Renault (650 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10016; 800-221-1052) leases its least expensive model, the Renault 5, for $695 for 23 days. (By comparison, Avis rents a Renault 5 for $789 plus $197 V.A.T., or $986, including unlimited mileage and insurance.) Renault's most expensive leased car is a seven-passenger minivan, which must be taken for a minimum of 33 days for $1,625. (A Renault Espace minivan from Hertz is $1,764 for 23 days plus $168 V.A.T., or $2,415.) For a fee of $50 to $230, depending on location, vehicles can also be picked up or dropped off in London, Brussels, Amsterdam, Geneva, Milan or Frankfurt.
Renault Spain (V.A.T. 12 percent) also offers purchase-repurchase arrangements through the New York office above. In Spain, cars must be returned at location where they were picked up. Prices start at $1,075 for 23 days for a Renault 5.
Peugeot is represented by France Auto Vacances (106 Calvert Street, Harrison, N.Y. 10528; 800-234-1426). The least expensive model, the Peugeot 205 two-door, is $582 for the 23-day minimum, and the most expensive, the Peugeot 405 with automatic transmission, is $1,695. Cars can be dropped off in Madrid for a fee of $135, in London for $300, in Milan for $335 or in Rome for $585.
Citroens may be leased though Europe by Car (1 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N.Y. 10020; 212-581-3040) and can be picked up and returned at most French cities. The least expensive car, a Citroen CV6, a four-door with manual transmission, is $459. Most expensive is the luxury model Citroen XM, which is $2,229 for 23 days. It also arranges leases of Volkwagens and Audis in Belgium, also with a 25 percent V.A.T. and a minimum of 22 days' leasing. From Brussels a Volkswagen Polo for 22 days is $649 and an Audi 80 is $999.
 
Listing Farm Vacations
Q. Is there a list of farm vacations in the United States? - Fran Schwarz, Bridgehampton, L.I.
A. ''Farm, Ranch & Country Vacations,'' (Farm & Ranch Vacations, Inc., 1989) by Pat Dickerman, lists about 200 farms (or inns in farm country) and ranches in the United States that take guests. About half are farms, the author says, and a mainly in the East. The book is available from Farm & Ranch Vacations at 36 East 57th Street, New York. N.Y. 10022; 800-252-7899 or 212-355-6334. The price is $12 mailed at the book rate or $13 by first-class mail. The company also makes reservations at the farms and ranches.
 
Kaieteur Falls in Guyana
Q. My wife and I would like to see Kaieteur Falls in Guyana. Can you give us some information on organizing a trip there? - Ronald Cummings, Queens
A. Kaieteur Falls, 741 feet high and 300 feet wide, is said to be among the world's most spectacular waterfalls. On the Potaro River, the falls are in the Kaieteur National Park.
The standard way to reach the falls is by chartered plane from Georgetown, Guyana's capital, a flight of about an hour. The planes must be chartered from one of a number of outfits in Guyana. Neither the country's Consulate, the national airline nor several travel agencies who specialize in Guyana knew how to make arrangements from outside there or what the cost is. Frandec Travel Service on Main Street in Georgetown is said to be a helpful travel agency. Mazarelly & Sons in the Guyana Pegasus Hotel arranges charter flights.
You might avoid April to October, the dry season, as the falls' flow is much reduced.
The falls can be reached overland, but the trip takes several days. Overland travelers into the park must get a permit, which takes at least two weeks to get. Guyana Overland Tours ( 6 Avenue of the Republic Guyana; telephone 698876) in Georgetown arranges such trips.
To get to Georgetown, Guyana Airways (800-327-8680 or 718-693-8000) operates nonstop flights from Kennedy Airport on Wednesday, Saturday and Sunday. The excursion fare for up to 21 days is $602. Other airlines that fly there are Surinam Airways and B.W.I.A. Agencies with experience in making arrangements to Guayana are Dave Winters Travel (897 Nostrand Avenue, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11225; 718-771-3434) and Travel Network (2842 Church Avenue, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11226; 718-469-7778).
A visa is required for entry to Guyana and can be obtained from the Guyana Consulate (866 United Nations Plaza, New York, N.Y. 10017; 212-527-3215). Applicants must bring a passport and three visa-size photographs. If applying in mail, one must get application forms and then send them in completed, along with the passport and photographs along with a return certified or registerred mail envelope. There is no visa fee for United States citizens.
 
Bermuda Weather
Q. What kind of weather can we expect in Bermuda in late October? - Doris J. Silverstein, Lawrenceville, N.J.
A. The average high temperature in late October is in the mid- to upper 70's and the low is the mid- to upper 60's. There are 12 days of rain on average in October and in November, versus 9 days in New York. The tourist office suggests wearing lightweight clothing but in fall colors, as Bermudians are no longer wearing summer whites by this time.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

TICKER: RNO (PAR) (85%); RNO (BIT) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (85%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (93%); SPAIN (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); BELGIUM (78%); GERMANY (73%); NETHERLANDS (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (73%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); MADRID, SPAIN (71%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (58%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

COMPANY: REGIE NATIONALE DES USINES RENAULT SA (85%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS VALUE ADDED TAX (90%); AUTOMOBILE LEASING (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); MINIVANS (86%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX RELIEF (70%); 

PERSON: SOMMERS, CARL A RENAULT ESPACE (90%); 



464 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 5; Page 19, Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 2805 words

HEADLINE: It's Countdown Time for Macao

BYLINE: Robert Elegant; Robert Elegant, whose last book was the nonfiction ''Pacific Destiny,'' is working on a new historical novel.

 BODY:
Knowing that both are doomed to extinction - at least in their present form - tiny Portuguese Macao is making a determined bid to take over Hong Kong's luster as a tourist mecca, particularly after the last two remaining foreign-ruled territories in China return to Beijing's rule, before the end of this century. There is a chance, albeit a remote chance, that Macao may succeed.
Hong Kong has attracted tourists first as a shopping paradise and second as the gateway to China. But prices are now high, and travel to China has shrunk to a tenth of its volume before the atrocity in Tiananmen Square in June 1989. Otherwise, Hong Kong is a concrete, steel and mirror jungle of towering buildings, hardly the languorous paradise travelers expect in the subtropics.
Macao is not eschewing the high-rises - which include hotels that rival Hong Kong's. But it is also developing the resorts Hong Kong has never succeeded in featuring. An international airport - after 54 years with no international flights, indeed no airport at all - is designed to gain traffic and feed the resorts rising on the territory's two offshore islands, Taipa and Coloane. The airport is to open in 1993. 
Besides, Macao will, Beijing willing, continue to offer the two traditional diversions that attract tourists from new rich Asian countries: gambling and girls. Although its immediate postwar abandon has diminished, Macao is still a city of sin.
In the minute Portuguese enclave on the southern edge of China, the past, however, is more important than the present or, perhaps, the future.
Minuscule Macao, which was taken by Portugal in 1557, was not merely the first European colony in China. It was Europe's and, later, America's first gateway to East Asia: Japan and Taiwan, as well as China itself.
Macao is also to be the last foreign colony in China. It will revert to Beijing's control in 1999, two years after Hong Kong does. Macao's glories are in the past. But what glories they were. In the 16th century, St. Francis Xavier, the Apostle to the East, made his epic voyages from Macao. In the 17th century, Portuguese battalions marched north from the colony to help the Ming Dynasty fight the invading Manchus - in vain. A few concrete remnants of the grandeur are still visible: the Monte Fort, whose guns drove off the Dutch invasion of 1522, and the grotto where Luis Cameoes, Portugal's national poet, is reputed to have worked on his epic poem, ''The Lusiad.'' The inevitable museums are a little threadbare and a little sad.
Amid the growth of modern high-rises, it is very hard to re-create in my mind the squalid, yet mysterious, tangle of lanes and alleys through which I followed George at a discreet distance on my early visits to Macao. George, a raffish Macanese, knew every opium dive and gambling joint in the colony. Opium was illegal, yet officially tolerated. Gambling was not only legal, but officially encouraged as well.
Forty years ago, when I first saw Macao, it had already been obsolete for a century. The emergence of energetic, pushy British Hong Kong had reduced it to a lethargic and charming backwater. Hardly seven square miles in all, it has always looked like a second-rank Mediterranean fishing port, rather than an imperial outpost.
Having during World War II won its reputation as ''the Lisbon of the Orient,'' a hive of intrigue and sin, Macao clung zealously to its evil ways. Its chief source of revenue was gold smuggling, its second gambling or, sometimes, the other way round.
Gamblers have long come to Macao, and their numbers are still increasing. More than six million visitors will enter Macao this year -an overwhelming number for a territory with less than half a million residents. Of these, 4.5 million will come from Hong Kong. Of the remaining 1.5 million, about a third will come from Japan, Korea and Taiwan, demonstrating the growing trend toward intra-Asian tourism.
In the 1950's, Macao also profited from general smuggling: refugees from China into Hong Kong and embargoed goods from Hong Kong into China. More prosaically, its chief manufactures were matches and firecrackers.
The second Macao International Fireworks Contest will be held from Sept. 27 to Oct. 5, lighting up the sky over the Praia Grande, the waterfront esplanade, with cascades of light that silhouette the heroic equestrian statue of Joao Ferreira do Amaral, the most tumultuous and colorful of the Portuguese governors who ruled the territory. Winners of the first contest were Japanese, Portuguese and Chinese factories; presaging the territory's eclipse, Macao fireworks have been driven out of the market by Chinese cheap labor.
Yet a century and a half of decline has now been arrested - temporarily perhaps. Macao is frenziedly building and expanding. Yellow construction cranes bob busily over new high-rises and over the beaches of its still bucolic outer islands as it prepares to be a fitting bride - or sacrifice - to China in 1999.
Among other baubles to please its new master, Macao is building an international airport. It will possess two complete sets of immigration and customs checks: one for passengers coming to Macao, the other for those going directly to China. It is a well-thought-out design to entice Asian travelers to come to Macao on direct flights, bypassing crowded Hong Kong.
Aside from those renewed ambitions and the end of gold trafficking (which became pointless after Richard Nixon let the price of gold float freely in 1971), the essentials of Macao are unchanged. The chief sources of income - and amusement - are still gambling and girls.
''The big spenders come down from Taiwan or Japan and take the presidential suites, which can cost as much as $2,000 a night,'' a concierge in a glossy hotel explained. ''But they're never in those suites. They're always in the casinos, which're open 24 hours a day.''
The symbol on its publications reaffirms Macao's continuity with the past. Not, however, the continuity of sin, but the continuity of piety. For its services in propagating the faith in the Far East, Macao was centuries ago honored with the title, ''The Holy City of the Name of God.''
Its symbol today is the Church of St. Paul, which was built in the early 17th century by the Society of Jesus. Striking out from Macao, the Jesuits were the first Europeans to penetrate Ming Dynasty China. Today only the five-story-high facade of their church remains. The facade of St. Paul's, the building stripped away by fire, has watched over Macao in much its present form since the year 1635. It impresses today with its power, as well as its sanctity, as it did then. Beneath the cross on the peak, four tiers of niches are filled with statues cast in bronze by the first cannon foundry in Asia.
The monumental flight of stairs leading down from St. Paul's is now used chiefly by tourists. At its foot lies a small plaza fringed with curio shops.
Lean Japanese marching behind triangular pennants and well-nourished Americans in baseball caps are, however, not noticeably drawn by the rather new antiques. Yet shops in the old quarters, as well, remarkably, as some of the hotels, still offer interesting, though not particularly valuable artifacts: porcelain made for export in past centuries, handicrafts of both Chinese and Indian origin, and, quite recently, Han and Ming Dynasty objets d'art newly looted from old tombs and allowed to leave the country by corrupt officials.
In the bright dawns of the 1950's, the first sight from the decks of the night ferry that took more than six hours to traverse the 40 miles from Hong Kong was of dark-green hillsides studded with villas painted pastel pinks, greens and blues. A Mediterranean port dominated by the bishop's palace looked down on the muddy Pearl River flowing intact for many miles through the white-capped South China Sea.
Today visitors peer through the spray-spattered windows of a jetfoil, which takes less than an hour from Hong Kong, or a hydrofoil, which takes an hour and a quarter. During their swift passages no one can stand on deck.
The prospect of Macao has altered radically. The central district is now palisaded with high-rise apartment and office buildings. A little lower than Hong Kong's spires, they are even more fancifully decorated. A Latin taste for lush adornment has drawn fanciful circles and scrolls over the lintels of the doors and windows of the new high-rises, which are obligatory for any state in East Asia seeking to demonstrate its go-ahead character.
The colors of the buildings - electric greens and blues splashed beside great blocks of pastel pinks and beiges - make the tiny territory look from a distance rather like a vast abstract painting. The effect is curiously enhanced by the abrupt appearance, as in a collage, among the high-rises of churches, forts and villas in the styles of centuries past.
A more modern neighborhood is, nonetheless, also a fly in amber. Officially the street - broad for cramped Macao - is called Conselheiro Ferrerira de Almeida. But the Macanese are proud of its other name: Restoration Row. Along that street stand old buildings snatched from the wreckers' hand and restored to their original dignity. Old in this case means the 1920's, that confident era when great private mansions were built with proud arches, carved pediments framing flat roofs, and high windows as well as interior courtyards. Those buildings now house the national archives, a library and the Education Department, but they are redolent of the spacious existence lived not so very long ago by the wealthy of Macao. Although the bronze statue of Joao Ferreira do Amaral, the governor who made Macao independent by driving out Chinese officials, still dominates the esplanade in front of the Lisboa Hotel, the returning Chinese rulers have, not remarkably, given notice that the monument will come down when they take over.
Behind that doomed hidalgo rears the lemon yellow hotel, crowned by a great globe studded with luminous spikes. The Lisboa, built in the 1960's, was the first of the modern hotels. It presents Macao's most extravagant cabaret, modeled on the strip shows of the Crazy Horse Saloon in Paris. The showgirls are all Australian, American and European Caucasians with not an Asian among them, which says something about the extracurricular taste of the overwhelmingly Asian and male audiences.
The center of the Lisboa is the two-story casino, one of the six authorized in Macao. In addition to the eight ways to lose money in casinos, including one-armed bandits, here called ''hungry tigers,'' there is jai alai, greyhound racing, horse racing and, once a year, the Macao Grand Prix, which attracts drivers and bettors from all over Asia.
The gamblers, who today contribute a third of Macao's gross domestic product of about $3 billion, will still be the chief source of revenue in 1999. If, of course, the puritanical Chinese authorities allow gambling, which they officially abhor as a debilitating national vice.
For tourists and gamblers a half-dozen hotels are rising to supplement the 3,000-odd rooms now available. The most optimistic project, ''a luxury five-star hotel,'' costing almost $60 million, is scheduled to open at Black Sands Bay on the island of Coloane in April 1992.
The Society for Tourism and Diversion, which controls not only gambling, but also all access to Macao, is building the resort hotel in association with a Japanese firm. Yet six large villas still stand unsold and vacant on the bluff overlooking neighboring Bamboo Bay. The asking price is Macao patacas 500,000 (about $63,000), almost a giveaway. Memories of the massacre in Beijing's Tiananmen Square a year and a half ago are still very strong.
Despite development of beach villas and hotels, all blessedly on a small scale, Coloane still has a bucolic air. The island is only 2.8 square miles in all, but, somehow, feels spacious as well as rural and serene. It also presents a curious religious melange. In the small Chapel of St. Francis Xavier, the bones of his right arm are on display. The nearby Tam Kung Temple exhibits a four-foot-long whalebone carved into a dragon boat like those that race once a year to commemorate the suicide of Chu Yuan, a revered prime minister who lived before Christ.
About 50 acres of Coloane are devoted to aviaries and botanical gardens. Like the old gentlemen strolling along the Esplanade to give their pet birds in their bamboo cages an airing, those gardens smack of an earlier and less frenetic day. In the walk-in aviaries one sees the great variety of birds who still survive the pressure of humanity in booming Asia, including the Palawan peacock and the crested white pheasant.
Coloane is like that, one of the few places where one can easily get away from the unabating tumult and raw ambition that accompany Asia's emergence as a major economic power. One past excellence is, however, preserved everywhere Chinese live, except, sadly, in mainland China itself: good food. By comparison with its bigger neighbor, Hong Kong, Macao is not particularly distinguished for its cuisine. But considered alone and unshadowed by Hong Kong, its restaurants are very good.
The Fat Siu Lau, Portuguese despite its Chinese name, serves excellent roast squab, as well as powerful peasant stews of beans and meats. At a half-dozen restaurants the seafood, all locally caught, is excellent, and the prices are superb: clawless lobster (langoustine) for $8 to $10; great bowls of shrimp for $6 to $8; and, say, $8 for an American sirloin steak. Robust Portuguese wines are also extremely reasonable.
The best all-around eating I found was at the Mandarin Oriental Hotel - Chinese and Continental restaurants are complemented by the ingenious cuisine of the Cafe Girasol (Sunflower). Half a dozen Asian cuisines, and half a dozen European, are combined by the chef, whose splendid Sunday brunch buffet is $13 a head.
One dinner at The Dynasty began with an extraordinary dish that displayed the almost infinite adaptability of Chinese cuisine: sharks fins in a sauce of cream and vodka with caviar. Another was a classic called ''fried milk'': egg white and cream with crab meat and crab coral that is soft as velvet on the tongue.
The subtle Cantonese cuisine, of course, dominates the local restaurants. But there are also restaurants specializing in Japanese, Korean, Italian, Shanghai and Vietnamese food. Also, inevitably, McDonald's.
The big arch of the Barrier Gage, which separates Macao from China, was once guarded by splendidly erect black soldiers from Angola. Today there are no guards on the Portuguese side. Travelers come and go subject only to normal immigration and customs checks.
The chief peril is now the constant procession of yellow Nissan dump trucks roaring across the border loaded with construction material for China, where labor-short Macao is building factories. The snarl of their exhausts may be a paean of hope that Macao will endure after 1999, altered but still, somehow, the same with the lotus-eaters in its resorts besieging its casinos by night.
 
WHERE TO STAY, EAT OR GAMBLE
 
Accommodations
Rates at these first-class hotels include taxes. Mandarin Oriental Hotel, Avenida da Amizade; telephone 567-888. A pleasant modern hotel, tastefully furnished, with a view of the bridge to Taipa; 438 rooms, with doubles from $147.
Pousada de Sao Tiago, Avenida da Republica, Fortaleza de Sao Tiago da Barra; 78111. A centuries-old renovated fortress full of atmosphere; 23 rooms, doubles from $192.
Hotel Lisboa, Avenida da Amizade; 577666. 750 rooms. A big, modern hotel; doubles from $95.
 
Casinos
Macao Casino, in the Lisboa Hotel, Avenida da Amizade. The largest casino in Macao, open 24 hours.
Floating Casino, Rua das Lorchas. On a boat on the inner harbor.
Jai Alai Casino, Palacia de Pelota, Basco Porta Exterior. On the outer harbor near the ferry terminal. Open 24 hours.
 
Restaurants
These are some of Macao's better restaurants. Prices include 10 percent government and 5 percent service taxes.
Fat Siu Lau, 64 Rua da Felicidade; 573585. Portuguese dishes from $7. Dynasty, the Mandarin Oriental Hotel, Avenida da Amizade; 567888. Mandarin Chinese dishes, with dim sum from $3.50, main courses from $13. The Grill, at the Mandarin Oriental Hotel. International cuisine, with soups from $4, main courses from $23. At the Cafe Girasol in the same hotel, the menu is an eclectic mix; all-you-can-eat Sunday brunch is $15. Grill Fortaleza, Pousada de Sao Tiago, Avenida da Republica, Fortaleza de Sao Tiago da Barra; 78111. Portuguese dishes from $15.
 
Information
Macao Government Tourist Office, 1 Travessa do Paiva, Post Office Box 3006; 36797970. Will be open after Oct. 1. JUDITH SHULEVITZ

GRAPHIC: Photo: Densely populated Macao, above; baccarat in a casino, below, far left; neon lights beckon , below left; facade of St. Paul's, below, right. The Floating Casino, anchored in the Inner Harbor, close to China, which officially views gambling as a vice. (Photographs by the Macao Tourist Information Bureau); Map of Macao.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); HONG KONG (97%); MACAO (95%); PORTUGAL (94%); ASIA (92%); TAIWAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN ASIA (78%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA'S FIRST CREDIT UNION (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MACAO; HONG KONG; CHINA

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; NYTRAVEL; COLONIES AND TERRITORIES AIRPORTS (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); TOURISM (77%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); AIRLINES (67%); POETRY (65%); WRITERS (60%); ISLANDS & REEFS (51%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%); 

PERSON: ELEGANT, ROBERT MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 



465 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Page 50, Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 4889 words

HEADLINE: When Life is Toxic

BYLINE: By Robert Reinhold; Robert Reinhold is chief of The Times's bureau in Los Angeles.

 BODY:
The advance instructions for the interview were explicit: Wear well-washed old clothing, no synthetics, nothing recently dry-cleaned, no cologne or after-shave lotion, and bring nothing likely to emit chemicals, like a fresh newspaper.
Obediently wearing a faded old cotton jacket and cotton pants, I approached Susan Molloy's apartment in Marin City, just north of San Francisco. She was waiting in the doorway, intense and wary. ''Wait there,'' she commanded, then rushed over, grabbed my left arm and rapidly ran her nose up and down the sleeve like a dog. ''That's O.K.,'' she said, and then sniffed at my hands. ''What did you put on your hands?'' she demanded. I had washed them two hours earlier with liquid Ivory soap - harmless enough, I thought - but Molloy picked up the scent like a bloodhound. She rushed me into the bathroom and had me thoroughly scrub my hands with baking soda.
That done, she ushered me into her small, spare apartment and unfolded her unhappy life as one of the multiple chemically sensitive. Sitting on her floor, she seemed normal. But nearly everything in modern life can almost instantly disable the 41-year-old Oregonian. A whiff of kerosene fumes, formaldehyde on a new garment, perfume, roach spray, even a dose of electromagnetic waves from overhead power lines or an elevator, can cause a massive allergiclike reaction. 
During the interview, Molloy suddenly jumped up and slammed down the window. ''There's gas coming in here - kerosene,'' she said with alarm, and then suddenly her speech started to slur and the muscles in her face shudder. ''It makes me feel like I don't have control over my body,'' she said. ''It frightens me.''
Her life is a constant struggle to avoid nearly everything. A makeshift aluminum curtain hangs between her living room and bedroom, so she can retreat to the rear when the wind brings something hostile. Foil covers her cupboards, to seal in formaldehydes used in particle board. When she goes out, she carries a wheelchair and oxygen tank in the rear seat of her 1980 Mazda. (After a three-year court battle, she was granted Supplemental Security Income, a Social Security program for needy, legally disabled people.) Her diet is organic and spare, devoid of anything grown with pesticides or growth chemicals.
Until recently, most physicians would have referred someone like Susan Malloy to a psychiatrist, and many still do. But a segment of the medical profession is giving more and more credence to evidence suggesting she and others are victims of a new, or newly recognized, illness caused by the growing environmental load of chemicals in the modern world. It has been variously dubbed multiple chemical sensitivities (M.C.S.), environmental illness, total allergy syndrome or, more dramatically and ominously, 20th-century illness.
For the growing ranks of such sufferers, the simplest chores and pleasures in life are agony; visiting friends, shopping, taking in a movie, riding the bus, wearing a new shirt, even reading a newspaper have become either impossible or painful. The symptoms are usually headaches, confusion, depression, dizziness, rashes, watery eyes, asthma, nasal congestion, fatigue and nausea - symptoms that psychiatrists say are the same as the physiologic manifestations of anxiety and fear.
The malady is one that baffles medical experts. They disagree over whether the disease is real, and they disagree over its definition, etiology and treatment. Most conventional allergists and immunologists, in fact, reject the M.C.S. diagnosis out of hand as unscientific and unproven, saying there is little evidence of immune-system dysfunction in these patients.
Angered by their treatment at the hands of the medical establishment, thousands of the chemically sensitive have flocked to a new breed of medical practitioners - clinical ecologists. These are M.D.'s who believe that single or multiple exposures to certain chemicals can cause supersensitivity to a broad range of thousands of common chemicals (even at infinitesimal levels not normally considered toxic to humans), as well as to many foods, molds and sometimes electromagnetic waves.
According to these physicians, M.C.S. results when the patient's ''total body load'' of chemical, biological, psychological and physical stresses reaches a certain critical threshold - at which point very low levels of added exposure trigger illness, much like a barrel overflowing when filled. The symptoms usually involve several body systems at the same time, and there is a spreading of sensitivity to many different substances.
In some cases, M.C.S. victims have taken to living in a single stripped-down room of their homes. A psychoanalyst in New York, for instance, has special mold-killing lights mounted in every room. She drinks only chlorophyl and lemon juice or Chinese red plum juice, and, until recently, she slept on a cotton mat. She contends she was sensitized by open cans of solvents and roach killers kept in the basement below her apartment.
Others, if they can, have evacuated to remote spots, like the Mount Shasta area of northern California or the deserts of the Southwest. Next month, Marta Sonnenblick, a nurse by training, will open a bed-and-breakfast inn in Mount Shasta for those who are, like her, mildly chemically sensitive. She has torn out the rugs and linoleum, painted with non-toxic paints and stain and checked the premises for electromagnetic radiation.
M.C.S. victims, viewing themselves as canaries warning of a bleak future in a chemically laden world, have organized support groups throughout the country. The Human Ecology Action League, based in Atlanta, claims 200 local chapters and affiliated support groups. Its publication, The Human Ecologist, carries advertising for the cottage industries that have emerged to service their needs: a porcelain-on-steel travel trailer for $23,500; air purifiers; rotation diet computer software; want ads (''Electrically/chemically sensitive woman [39] seeks purchase/rental, alone or shared, in mild, electrically quiet climate'').
They have also become politically active. Under pressure from Susan Molloy and other M.C.S. activists in the Bay Area, the Marin General Hospital furnished its new 100,000-square-foot wing with special, environmentally ''safe'' materials and then spent nearly $30,000 to ''bake out'' the building to rid it of chemicals.
In Congress, advocates for the chemically sensitive are pressing for passage of the Indoor Air Quality Act, which is meant to control what Mary Lamielle calls the ''witch's brew'' of gaseous pollutants that has built up in offices, schools and homes from carpets, drapes, pesticide treatments and the like. Lamielle, a former contract specialist for the Navy, is founder and president of the National Center for Environmental Health Strategies, which publishes a newsletter, The Delicate Balance, that tracks legal and political developments in environmental disease.
Lamielle believes she became sensitized 11 years ago because of chemicals from a malfunctioning sewage treatment plant near her home in Voorhees, N.J. She presses for national and local legislation to protect the chemically sensitive, such as bills that have been introduced in New York, California and other states to require that perfumes sent through the mails in advertisements and publications be sealed. ''There are days when my mail comes and I get migraines for days,'' she says.
Important support for M.C.S. sufferers came last December when a study commissioned by the New Jersey Department of Health was issued. It was conducted by Nicholas A. Ashford, a chemist and lawyer who is an associate professor of technology and policy at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and Claudia S. Miller, an allergist and immunologist at the University of Texas Health Science Center in San Antonio.
The study concluded that chemical sensitivity ''is widespread in nature and is not limited to what some observers would describe as malingering workers, hysterical housewives and workers experiencing psychogenic illness.'' It added that while no definitive conclusions were possible, ''chemical sensitivity does exist as a serious health and environmental problem and that public and private sector action is warranted at both the state and Federal levels.''
Among many mainstream physicians, the fact that 70 to 80 percent of the patients seeking treatment for M.C.S. are mostly white middle-class women with histories of psychological problems suggests that the illness may be more psychogenic than environmental in origin. But, according to Ashford, a closer scrutiny of the data shows that three other groups that may not seek treatment from clinical ecologists also suffer. They include industrial workers (mostly blue-collar men), office workers who occupy new ''tight'' closed buildings without windows that open and residents of communities near toxic-waste sites or contaminated water.
''When we see the same complaints attended by the same low levels of exposure and the doctors are baffled, are we talking about mass hysteria?'' he asks. ''The answer is no. Just because problems present themselves as psychological, it doesn't mean they are psychogenic.'' He adds that since the end of World War II, the annual production of chemicals has grown from 8 million tons to 108 million tons in 1985. ''The reason we have this problem,'' he says, ''is we have not adequately regulated exposure to chemicals to prevent sensitization.''
Others are not so persuaded. Dr. Mark R. Cullen is a specialist in occupational health and safety at the Yale University School of Medicine. In 1987, he edited an issue of a quarterly journal, Occupational Medicine: State of the Art Reviews, that was devoted to M.C.S. Cullen takes a middle position.
''There certainly is a very serious clinical problem,'' he says. ''In milder or more severe forms it is quite prevalent. But my hesitation is in clearly separating it from psychological disorders. Many patients I've seen most readily fit the definition of psychological disorders, though some do not. My own guess is that both psychological and biological factors play a role. What differs is the proportion.''
Chemical sensitivity may not be entirely new. Marcel Proust, the reclusive asthmatic French novelist, spent almost all of his last 15 years, until his death in 1922, confined to a cork-lined bedroom on Boulevard Haussmann in Paris. He once complained about a friend's perfume: ''My dear friend, the last time you were so good as to come and see me - for nobody comes any more to see the wretched invalid that I am - I was obliged to take the chair you sat in and keep it out in the courtyard for three days: it was impregnated with the scent.''
In Manhattan, Doris Brundza, a 43-year-old fashion designer, lives out a similarly constrained life in a small East Side apartment. She recently began marketing ''Canary Clothes,'' a line of women's fashions made from chemically ''safe'' fabrics.
The paint in her apartment is old and peeling, not because the management won't paint but because Brundza can't bear the paint fumes. Even New York City tap water makes her ill; she spends $80 a week for bottled spring water. Four filters have been attached to the shower head in her bathroom so she can bathe and wash her clothes.
Brundza traces her chemical sensitivities to an appendectomy she had about 10 years ago when she received large doses of antibiotics. At the time, she was working in a building in the garment district that had sealed windows, and most of her co-workers were smokers. She was often weak, dizzy and sleepy at work. What made the work environment worse for her, according to her self-diagnosis, was the formaldehyde that is ubiquitous in processed fabrics, to give them body. (She left that job when the company closed.) These days, Brudnza lives on a highly restrictive, nondairy diet, and she buys only organic foods. She uses a muscle test learned from a psychic healer in the Southwest to determine if a particular product, such as a laundry detergent, will cause a bad reaction. This involves saying the name of the product and measuring the strength of the muscles in her arm at the same time.
When I first met Richard Sharp in March, he was spending most of his waking hours outdoors on the patio of his home in Portola Valley, south of San Francisco. Indoors, he was confined to two stripped-down rooms: his bedroom and a bathroom. Outdoors, he was constantly alert to chemical fumes. ''I spend my days running from one side of the house to another, depending on whether my neighbors are using Bounce in the laundry or a leaf blower,'' he said.
Since then, Sharp has been forced to leave his home because the couple next door began landscaping their property. He and his wife, Connie, have had to move several times, each time because the environment made him sick.
The 60-year-old Brooklyn-born space physicist was ''healthy as a horse'' until 1982, he claims. A Lockheed employee in nearby Palo Alto, he was assigned that year to a special project for which he worked for about two months in a small closed room that contained large piles of the old kind of computer paper that smelled of chemicals. Soon after that, he says, the symptoms started: dizzy spells, lack of coordination, ''a dazed, drunk feeling.'' He seemed to react to a wide range of chemicals, not just the ones in the computer paper. ''It was like the invasion of the body snatchers,'' he says.
Repeated visits to doctors' offices produced little help; he was invariably told to see a psychiatrist. Sharp finally found his way to a doctor sympathetic to clinical ecology. Dr. Alan Levin of San Francisco traced Sharp's troubles to the chemical exposure at work. Sharp may also have a genetic predisposition to M.C.S.
Sharp's employer, Lockheed, was accommodating, allowing him to work in a different building and then at home. But soon he was unable even to stay indoors and could wear only a few well-worn clothes. By 1984, he couldn't handle paper to read or write, and that ended his career. Since then, the Sharps have been living on his pension.
Mostly by avoidance and adaptation, Sharp has managed to stabilize his life by staying close to home and eating a limited diet. His wife shops at natural-food markets and uses no soap or detergent in the laundry, only baking soda. When he goes to the barber, he asks that the door be kept open; at the dentist, ''I just get sick.
When Sharp wants to read, his wife puts the book or magazine in a special box with a glass top, and he turns the pages through special holes cut in the cloth sides. But mostly he depends on taped books for the blind from the Library of Congress.
Such a reading box is also Anita Hill's window on the world in her apartment in the Richmond district of San Francisco. The former social worker and nurse believes she was sensitized by formaldehyde and other cleaning agents 10 years ago when she worked at a kidney dialysis unit at a hospital. Now she serves as a spokeswoman and activist for the chemically sensitive, within the limits of her constricted life. Letters and bills are read through the box, which has a small exhaust fan to carry out what she calls ''fumes'' from the paper.
Newspapers are forbidden in her house because of the fresh ink. Her television sits sealed behind a glass screen in the fireplace and whatever gases the set emits are vented up the chimney. Hill lives near the ocean because she finds the air cleaner there. ''I believe that I will always have to take measures to protect myself from toxins,'' she says, ''but I hope I can reintegrate into the environment on some level.'' Everywhere she goes, she carries an adrenalin injection kit to use when her throat swells shut from automobile fumes or other chemical exposure.
A sign on the door of Dr. Jeffry L. Anderson's office in Corte Madera, Calif., in Marin County, suggests his practice is a bit unusual: ''Do not enter with hair spray, perfume or cologne, after-shave, clothing that has been recently dry-cleaned, newspapers or newly printed materials.''
Anderson once had a fairly routine family practice, specializing in obstetrics and gynecology, but has since switched to clinical ecology, or environmental medicine, which is the term he prefers. His M.C.S. patients, he says, have typically been ill for years, seen 8 or 10 other physicians who have told them nothing is wrong and referred them to a psychiatrist.
Although he readily concedes a paucity of good science to support a diagnosis of M.C.S., Anderson considers the condition real. His examination of new patients includes a lifelong history and genetic testing, as well as analyses of diet, chemical and pesticide residues in fat, blood, urine and hair.
In one case, a couple became sick after moving into a new house in Silicon Valley. Blood tests showed high levels of certain chlorinated and aromatic solvents. Soil samples from under the house showed similar chemicals. The house was downstream from a large electronic chip maker, and Anderson's theory was that solvents used in the manufacturing process had seeped into the soil.
Like most clinical ecologists, Anderson employs a variety of treatments, including detoxification by exercise and sweating, avoidance of offending substances and nutritional support. Nutrition, he says, is particularly important. To deactivate toxins, he argues, the body needs certain enzymes whose action is dependent on trace elements like molybedenum, selenium, manganese and chromium. Adding these to diets can help patients achieve better tolerance for chemicals, he believes, admitting this treatment needs more research.
According to the American Academy of Environmental Medicine, there are about 500 clinical ecologists in the United States. (The academy, which is independent of the American Medical Association, was formed in 1965 as the Society of Clinical Ecology; it adopted its present name in 1985.) Clinical ecology, however, has many critics among mainstream doctors, one of whom is Dr. Abba I. Terr, a San Francisco immunologist who is affiliated with the Stanford University Medical School. Terr is regularly paid by insurance carriers to examine patients claiming disability benefits because of M.C.S., and just as regularly he advises they be turned down.
In studying 50 patients referred to him, Terr found no physical evidence of immunological impairment. In fact, he says, 26 of them were symptomatically worse after treatment by clinical ecologists, suggesting to him ''a pattern of fear of the everyday environment engendered by an unfounded perception of an environmentally damaged immune system.''
Other skeptics take a more conciliatory approach. Dr. Carroll M. Brodsky, a psychiatrist at the University of California, San Francisco, School of Medicine, argues that physicians should not rebuff patients who believe they suffer from environmental illness.
''The physician should accept the patient's condition as chronic and should help the patient accept that,'' he writes. ''The physician should not suggest that the patient can will away the symptoms. The physician should discourage avoidances that limit the patient's social functioning, but should also recognize that some of the avoidances have the qualities of phobic responses and therefore should not press the patient to be counterphobic.''
In 1987, an opportunity to study the psychological factor presented itself when dozens of workers at an aerospace equipment manufacturing plant in the Seattle area began to report such symptoms as headache, fatique, dizziness and nausea. Onset of the symptoms seemed to coincide with the introduction of new composite plastic materials into the manufacturing process.
The episode was studied by a team of doctors from the department of psychiatry and behavioral sciences at the University of Washington and the department of occupational medicine at the Providence Medical Center in Seattle. More than 200 workers were directly exposed to the plastics, the main components of which were formaldehyde, methyl ethyl ketone and phenol, but at levels normally considered too low to cause adverse reactions. Of the 200, 37 claimed to have been made ill by the chemicals and they were examined by the researchers.
A panel of allergists, immunologists, toxicologists, psychiatrists and occupational medicine specialists found no physical or immunologic illness. Of the 37, 13 had physical symptoms, such as rashes, but there was no explanation for the general complaints of fatigue, weakness and dizziness. The 13 were compared with the 23 others (one failed to cooperate) on a series of psychological and behavioral diagnostic tests. The results were that those with the symptoms were much more likely to have past and current psychological symptoms such as anxiety, depression and panic disorder.
''These findings suggest that psychological vulnerability strongly influences chemical sensitivity following chemical exposure,'' the research team reported in the July 1990 issue of the American Journal of Psychiatry. But the panel concluded that although the study weighed against any immunological basis for the disease, it nonetheless gave credence to environmental illness as a distinct disease. The researchers, however, were not allowed to examine the vast majority of workers who did not fall ill as a control group to determine whether they had similar psychological backgrounds.
Some clinical ecologists argue that conventional doctors have been unable to find physiological evidence of M.C.S. because they have not looked hard enough. A clinical ecologist who supports this argument is Dr. Leo Galland, whose practice in Manhattan has attracted hundreds of New Yorkers with chronic allergy and chemical sensitivity problems. In biochemical tests, he compared 56 M.C.S. patients with 54 patients with chronic allergies and other complaints but not chemical sensitivity. He found that the M.C.S. patients had numerous abnormalities, including impaired excretion of essential amino acids.
Similar findings come from Dr. William J. Rea, a thoracic surgeon who founded the Environmental Health Center in Dallas after he himself became sensitized, he believes, to operating-room chemicals. A study of 262 women and 71 men who came to his clinic for help revealed they had numerous nutritional deficiencies, including vitamins B6, D and B2.
''We feel these nutritional abnormalities probably play an important role in environmental hypersensitivity,'' Rea concluded. ''They can be a causative factor for the illness, or can be a result of the overutilization of nutrients induced as the body reacts to environmental triggers of various kinds.''
Rea's clinic offers a broad range of therapies, including rotation diets to control exposures to foods, detoxification by exercise and sauna, biofeedback and ''immunotherapy vaccines.''
Most clinical ecologists use a technique called ''provocation-neutralization.'' This involves exposing the patient to various concentrations of suspected chemicals or other substances by injection. When symptoms occur, the dose is gradually lowered until the symptoms disappear. The theory is that this treatment turns on the immune system in such a way that it disables the allergic response.
Rea says 90 percent of his patients are helped by this approach. According to Galland, neutralization with extracts of formaldehyde helped permit a New York fashion designer to stay at work, where the chemical was used on fabrics. Because the neutralization dosages are so low, says Yale's Mark Cullen, there are no known long-term dangers.
Another method, detoxification, is based on findings by the Environmental Protection Agency of detectable levels of highly toxic chemicals in human tissue, including the brain and nervous system. Typically, detoxification involves 20 to 30 minutes of aerobic exercise followed by about two hours in a sauna to encourage excretion of toxic materials through the skin. This is supplemented by two to eight tablespoons of polyunsaturated oil to cut the absorption of toxins in the intestine and promote their excretion.
Galland has also found that his M.C.S. patients have unusually low levels of selenium, zinc, copper and magnesium, elements known as anti-oxidants in the body. They serve to tamp down the fires of combustion that accompany the burning of food and chemicals in the body, and he theorizes that such low levels help trigger symptoms. He also says M.C.S. is aggravated by numerous common parasitic infections like candida (yeast) and giardia, which causes severe diarrhea.
The medical community in general has yet to approve of the remedies offered by clinical ecologists. Cullen finds them ''all fascinating and unproven.'' He adds, ''I have not seen any credible blinded tests.''
The growing ranks of those claiming M.C.S. as a serious illness have stirred alarm in the chemical industry and among employers facing a rising tide of compensation lawsuits. The Chemical Manufacturers Association in Washington recently prepared a briefing paper on the issue for its 182 member companies in the United States and Canada, warning of the ''potentially enormous cost'' that could result from the legal and medical legitimization of environmental illness.
''We do not question the fact they are ill,'' says Karen W. Creedon, an epidemiologist who is manager of health programs for the chemical association. ''But we are also concerned they may be misdiagnosed by unproven methods. We want them to get proper medical treatment.''
Some states now recognize a diagnosis of environmental illness for workers' compensation claims, and the condition has begun to win some legal and legislative recognition. In 1988, the Social Security Administration added a passage on environmental illness to its manual on evaluating disability claims. Although it noted that there is no evidence people diagnosed with environmental illness had immune malfunction and that it was often difficult to identify abnormal laboratory findings linked to the ''alleged symptoms,'' the manual nonetheless indicated that determination can be made on a case-by-case basis considering all the symptoms, signs and laboratory findings.
Meanwhile, the chemically sensitive and their advocates have begun to mount political and legal pressures to have M.C.S. legally recognized, to make its victims eligible for such public services as financial assistance, rehabilitation, alternative housing and Medicaid, and also to compel employers to provide them with chemically ''safe'' work places.
In 1988, the Maryland legislature ordered the state's Department of the Environment to study the issue and make recommendations. The report, issued last year by Dr. Rebecca Bascom of the University of Maryland, suggested that the state support research on chemical sensitivity and set up demonstration clinics for diagnosis, among other steps. No action has yet been taken by the legislature.
As early as 1981, the California legislature passed a bill that would have required the state to advise patients about M.C.S. treatment and to set up a state advisory committee on chemical hypersensitivity. After protests by the medical association, the bill was vetoed by Governor George Deukmejian. Another California bill that would have set up a clearinghouse for information and advocacy failed in 1985. In Florida, the legislature in June passed a bill that allows M.C.S. sufferers to be registered and makes it mandatory for lawn-care servicers to alert those on this registry before they begin work in their neighborhoods.
In the meantime, a confusing legal picture persists. About 50 teachers and students at the Hayward school district near San Francisco have filed lawsuits charging they became chemically hypersensitive from exposure to fumes from polyurethane roofing material. In April 1988, a jury awarded $250,000 to one teacher and $13,000 to another. The district and the roofing contractor have since been engaged in settlement discussions with other plaintiffs. But last year, an Ohio couple who had charged that a new carpet in their home had made them chemically sensitive lost their $1.8 million suit against the carpet maker, Burlington Industries Inc.
According to Earon S. Davis, a lawyer and public-health specialist in Evanston, Ill., who is a consultant on environmental illness, the chemical industry has been fighting a tenacious but cagey battle against these suits. Companies have been spending considerable sums warding off such suits, he says, but many offer settlements when a verdict seems near to avoid establishing a legal precedent. In this, they have allies in established medicine. But even here, attitudes are changing - for economic if not medical reasons. Having witnessed the growing number of M.C.S. patients troop off to clinical ecologists, many mainstream allergists and other physicians are no longer rejecting the complaints out of hand.
''Their interests are best served by being providers,'' says Mark Cullen. ''They take the complaints seriously. They do not ship them to psychiatrists anymore. The hard line doctors took is clearly no longer the preferred line.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Anita Hill's glass-topped reading box has a small exhaust fan to remove what she calls ''fumes'' from the paper. When indoors, Richard Sharp confines himself to a sparsely furnished room, right, while his wife eats her dinner alone. When she leaves her Marin City apartment, Susan Molloy brings a wheelchair and oxygen tank along. (Photographs By Miguel Luis Fairbanks for The New York Times); Doris Brundza of New York spends $80 a week on bottled water. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: ALLERGIES; CHEMICALS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; ENVIRONMENT COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (86%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ALDEHYDES (77%); PESTICIDES (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (65%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (60%); DISABLED PERSONS (60%); 

PERSON: REINHOLD, ROBERT SUSAN MOLLOY (65%); 



466 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Page 41, Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 3945 words

HEADLINE: When the Two Germanys Unite, What Happens to the Bavarian Yodeler?

BYLINE: By Peter Schneider; Peter Schneider, a novelist who lives in West Berlin, is writing a book on the new Germany for Farrar Straus & Giroux. This article is translated from the German by Eileen Baum.

 BODY:
Dec. 17, 1989, Was the day i lost confidence in my television's remote-control device. It was just after the evening news broadcast on West Germany's ARD network, and Alois Moig, a 200-pounder attired in Alpine dress, appeared on the screen surrounded by a group of Bavarian yodelers and promising 90 minutes of folk music.
By pressing the remote-control button, I hoped to escape to East Germany's Channel 2, where I had often taken refuge from Alois Moig by watching Italian and French detective films from the 1960's. This time, I couldn't believe my eyes: instead of Claudia Cardinale or Gian Maria Volonte, instead of Simone Signoret or Jean Gabin, who should appear on the screen but another corpulent master of ceremonies, a carbon copy of Moig, from shoelaces to Loden coat. The only difference was that on the East German program, the members of a brass band lifted their instruments to their lips as they thundered onto the stage in formation.
The host introduced them as the Gasworks Band of Schwarze Pumpe. Was that the voice of Alois Moig? Or did he have a twin in the Erz Mountains whom the revolution had brought into the spotlight? A look at my TV guide straightened me out. I was watching one of the first East German-West German TV programs, transmitted live from the East German city of Cottbus - and presented by none other than Alois Moig. 
As the evening wore on, the program hammered away at the message, Music Knows No Borders. Thigh-slapping Bavarians whooped it up to melodies from this Saxon factory orchestra, Swiss yodelers found their echo in the Erz Mountains, dancers from deepest Bavaria stamped their feet on the wooden floor in time with folk groups from Thuringia, zither players from the Alps vied with fiddling tractor drivers from Mecklenburg. Whatever 40 years of opposing educational systems had done to make the two German peoples different, lederhosen, blond braids and dirndls caused them to forget in minutes.
The musical reunion of the two Germanys would have met with professional interest in Minneapolis and St. Paul, because there, right in the Twin Cities, Prof. Thomas J. Bouchard Jr. has for the past 10 years been conducting a long-running study on twins.
The eminent professor has taken it upon himself to solve one of mankind's ancient puzzles: is it nature or nurture that determines human behavior? Bouchard's investigations have shown that identical twins, even when separated at birth and reared in totally different environments, exhibit personality traits that are similar to the point of absurdity.
The most famous case is that of the Jim twins, separated at four weeks and raised in different Ohio cities. Thirty-nine years later, each brother had divorced his first wife, named Linda, and remarried, to a Betty. Their sons were named James Allan and James Alan. Each had a dog named Toy and each had worked first as a gas station attendant and later as a sheriff's deputy. Each brother drove a Chevrolet, and each had a garden with a tree encircled by a wooden bench that he had painted white.
The German equivalents - the Hansel or Gretchen twins - have yet to be documented. But the psychologists nevertheless have their work cut out for them. The area stretching from the Rhine to the Oder River presents a vast laboratory - an involuntary experiment for the subjects, a stroke of good luck for researchers. The question, frivolously put: What happens to a people reared for decades in such radically different boarding schools? Which character traits will prove resistant to change and for how long? Which will disappear overnight?
For years now the experts have entertained two diametrically opposed hypotheses. One hypothesis, which might be referred to as the icebox theory, maintains that Communism has acted as a deep freezer, preserving intact the historical peculiarities and passions of the East German people. Now that the refrigerator is set on defrost, they will take up exactly where they left off 45 years before. All the lovely socialist virtues and achievements that have been rammed down their throats will melt away like old snow. National character traits, which developed over centuries - the good as well as the bad - will, on the first day of spring, reawaken intact and thereafter will continue to determine behavior.
The champions of the nurture theory insist that social experience (even the starved Communist one) molds people at least as decisively as their inherited traditions. Forty years of differing curriculums must have left a mark on the pupils, differences that can be seen in child-rearing practices, relations between the sexes and other aspects of social behavior.
For lack of access to the subjects, these questions remained purely speculative until now. Since the opening of the Berlin Wall, however, some preliminary results are in. At first glance the evidence overwhelmingly favors the proponents of the icebox theory, with one citizen in particular presenting the pattern for the rest of his compatriots. On Aug. 12, 1961, an East German man had borrowed three books from the American Memorial Library in West Berlin. The Berlin Wall, which was begun on Aug. 13, afforded him ample time to read but caused him to miss the due date by 28 years. The first thing this faithful book borrower did when the wall opened up was make his way to the American Memorial Library. He returned the books, in excellent condition, on Nov. 10, 1989, 28 years late.
Yet it is inevitable that two such diverse historical experiences will affect the psyche and behavior of citizens in both Germanys. Equally certain is the fact that these differences will provide fertile ground for mutual misunderstanding. But which of these real or imagined differences will survive this East-West encounter and which will disappear? The answers should not be long in coming, now that a firm date has been set for unification - Oct. 3 - and agreement has been reached on all practical aspects of the merger.
Among the short-lived characteristics of the East German species, treasured above all by Western admirers, is the so-called Nischenkultur. The term refers to virtues that flourish in a culture of neighborliness, and though it carries a touch of nostalgia for times past, it is grounded in reality. It is a society of ''helping one's neighbors,'' ''human warmth,'' ''judging an individual on his merits, not his success.'' ''Friendship still counts,'' one hears, and ''life moves at a slower pace in East Germany.''
East German citizens recognize these characteristics, born of privation, only after arriving in the West, where they are absent. East Germans are bothered by the coldness of a society founded on competition, by glitzy facades behind which there is nothing, by the general climate of harshness and materialism.
But virtues that basically owed their existence to privation and failure disappear with unexpected speed when the conditions themselves disappear. One can sometimes even observe an about-face. More than a few East Germans, accepting without question the official picture of the West as heartless, seek their salvation in success at all costs. In vain, Westerners try to explain to them that even in the capitalist world one can find a Mensch.
There is one characteristic that has an excellent chance of surviving. Because East Germany suffered greater economic dislocation as a result of the Second World War, East Germans are laying claim to a Lastenausgleich - an equalization of burdens - that East German historians have estimated at scores of billions. These claims have given rise to a pattern of behavior among East Germans - Anspruchsverhalten, as it's called, or a sense of entitlement - that West Germans regard with increasing irritation. Their usual reaction is to turn a resolutely blind eye to history.
West Berlin taxi drivers complain of East German passengers who, when it's time to pay the fare, say, ''Um, I'm from the East.'' One bar owner reported that large groups of East Germans in those infamous stone-washed jeans hoped to pay their bill with: ''How about a free drink? We're from over there.''
In the first weeks after the wall came down, West Berlin's elderly looked on with envy as their counterparts from the East simply waved their blue East German passes when boarding buses or entering the subway, normally a $1.50 fare. Suddenly, East German passports were being traded on the black market like stocks and bonds: for $60 to $90, West German citizens voluntarily transformed themselves into East Germans.
Even the well-to-do felt compelled to sound off about problems that one would not exactly call life-or-death. Mercedes owners were angered that they had to pay the tow-away costs of their illegally parked cars, while East German Trabis - the little two-stroke Trabants - remained untouched. Sales managers grumbled about the ''museum pace'' of clients from the East who gazed devoutly at the goods but didn't buy. Trummerfrauen - the women who cleared away the rubble of Germany's bombed-out cities by hand - invoked the heroic days after '45: ''We also had to start from zero, and no one helped us!''
Here two incompatible versions of postwar history collide. The conflict is programmed and will continue well into the future. When West Germans say ''I've worked hard for all this,'' East German visitors counter with: ''You were just lucky.'' Neither side is willing to take lightly the issue of hard work and who deserves what. Here, sterotypes, perceptions and mutual finger-pointing become hopelessly entangled. A West German story tells of a baker from East Germany who, when he learns during his initial job interview that West German bakeries are never short of flour, takes off, unwilling to give up the daily breaks caused by a lack of materials. Such tales quickly become popular and take on the authority of statistics. According to one poll, two-thirds of West German employers have noticed ''a lack of certain qualities'' in the emigres, and complain of poor performance, lack of teamwork and low motivation.
The griefs and sorrows of West German employers are answered by an East German chorus. Employees complain about the ''inhuman work tempo,'' ''demeaning treatment,'' and ''unpleasant tone'' they have encountered in West Germany. Used-car dealers from the West are already notorious; they unload their lemons on East Germans at fantasy prices. One East German story tells of how a West German plasma company extracted blood from currency-hungry East Germans at bargain rates. The headline in West Berlin's Communist newspaper read: ''West German vampires suck East German blood.''
Socialist habits will face hard times. But in areas where the socialist experiment serves the self-interest of a majority of the experimental subjects, it will continue to have an effect. The right to work, guaranteed in the old East German Constitution, will be sacrificed to unification. But it cannot be deleted with a mere wave of a pen, at least not from people's heads.
Economists estimate that introducing a market economy will cost at least 2 million East Germans their jobs; other estimates run as high as 5 million unemployed. The majority of East German voters expressed a willingness to accept high unemployment as a cost of reform. But when it actually happens, many will remember the advantages they have renounced: cheap rents, guaranteed jobs, a leisurely work pace, the tyrannical but protective hand of the state, which removed citizens from the decision-making process but also relieved their anxiety about the future. However East German citizens finally evaluate their 40-year experience, compared with the Federal Republic, they lived in a society of equals. It doesn't take a crystal ball to predict that that experience could prove socially explosive. In an economic crisis, the East Germans will find themselves second-class citizens.
The East German response to Nazism will also resist change. Anti-fascism was official state doctrine in the German Democratic Republic, from the state's inception until its demise. Former National Socialists were removed from their posts in education, the civil service, the judicial system, administration, the schools, the postal and railroad systems, physicians' groups and above all in the trade and industry of the young German state.
But the accompanying ideological music made the whole achievement dubious. Ver-gangenheitsbewaltigung - coming to grips with the Nazi past - was described in the East German Constitution of 1949, Article 6, Paragraph 1, as already having been successfully completed: ''The German Democratic Republic . . . has, within its national borders, uprooted and destroyed militarism and Nazism.'' This instant success was possible only by bureaucratic fiat: whoever joined the party was clean. Card-carrying replaced remorse. In the course of time the anti-facist refrain grew into a full-blown historical lie: according to it, East Germany was not only the post- but also the pre-1945 home of the anti-fascist resistance. The Nazi monster had miraculously stopped at the Elbe.
The success of this propaganda effort is documented by a school class's compositions commemorating the end of the war in Europe. A majority of pupils expressed their conviction that East German troops fighting at the side of the Red Army had freed Germany from Hitler's fascism. Unlike other subjects offered by the socialist curriculum, this revision of history has taken root among the populace. The government's need to legitimize its dictatorial policies coincided nicely with the desire of the governed for relief from historical responsibility. The result of East Germany's educational policy has been Germans with a clear conscience.
No one would seriously maintain that citizens of the Federal Republic have over the last 40 years been overcome with guilt because of their National Socialist past. But the assertion that their society had recognized its guilt and ''uprooted and destroyed Fascism'' would not be credible because it could too easily be proven false: too many Nazi judges, Nazi doctors and Nazi professors enjoyed and still enjoy their pensions undisturbed in West Germany. Every attempt to smooth over Nazi crimes and find excuses for the Germans has triggered strong protests both internationally and in West Germany. So a peculiar result of all this has been that the Federal Republic, which never made such a radical political break with its past, has repressed its Nazi past less - was less able to repress it - than the anti-fascist German Democratic Republic.
Democracy imported from the Western Allies gave the Federal Republic the chance to undo the worst inheritance of German history: the culture of subservience to authority. In the German Democratic Republic, on the other hand, this inheritance was taken over and continued by the socialist dictatorship. As a result, East Germany has no experience with any form of democracy, which many of its intellectuals regard with utter contempt. Subservience to authority was first questioned during the 1989 revolution.It remains to be seen how deep the change really is. Less than a year of grass-roots democracy is up against 56 years of dictatorship.
But let's get to the most pressing issue: how did the postwar division affect the German character, that unpredictable creature?
Dr. Hans Joachim Maaz, head of psychotherapy at the Protestant Social Services Foundation in Halle, recently made headlines with his finding that ''the average East German citizen is authority-dependent, emotionally repressed, and above all incapable of experiencing pleasure.''
But another East German professor, from Leipzig, claims to have found that the ''rate of orgasms in East Germany is higher'' than in the West: 37 percent of the East German women questioned said they had reached their target every time or almost every time they had sex; among their West German sisters, on the other hand, only 26 in 100 obtained their objective. The East German news agency, A.D.N., reported this piece of news under patriotic headlines: ''Experts Fear Cooling of East German Sex.''
So much for the pleasure principle. Dr. Maaz's other two characteristics are equally suspect. The dictatorship caused the typical East German to construct more of a barrier between himself and the outside world than the West German, but anyone who had the opportunity to talk to East Germans during the days and months of upheaval had to be amazed at the forthrightness of their comments.
The species that will prove itself most capable of surviving is the East German woman; she is the one product of which East German culture can be proud. To the West German man, weakened by the battle of the sexes, she is a puzzle: employed, self-confident, a decision maker yet feminine. He doesn't understand the mix. And even more important, she still desires men, although not him, the West German softie, although she does admire him.
In carrying out the simple dogma of Friedrich Engels that emancipation begins in the sphere of production, socialism has been comparatively successful. More than 90 percent of East German women are employed; in neighboring West Germany it is roughly 50 percent. East Germany has spared no expense to insure equal opportunity for its women. A full range of social programs cushions the contradictory demands of work and motherhood: kindergarten guaranteed and virtually free; one year off with full pay after the birth of a child; complete freedom of choice concerning abortion. Although of one mind on the abortion issue, East and West German women exhibit differences that have been programmed into the two cultures. West German women criticize their East German sisters for relieving their spouses of household and child-rearing duties. But the West German woman must face the fact that although she has trained her husband to cook and change diapers, she is still economically dependent on him.
In one area, especially, East and West German women do not see eye to eye - their choice in men. The East German woman admits that when it comes to housework and child rearing, she is still living in the 19th century. But she finds the insecure male who now populates West Germany and the United States a perfect horror: she'll take an East German roughneck anytime.
In fact, under the wings of the strong yet domestically traditional East German wife, a prehistoric male species has survived: the East German macho. I see little chance of his survival, and for this reason I wish to put in a good word for him. Could we not set aside for him a small nature preserve guaranteed by Greenpeace, or a heavily guarded conservation area, if only in the interest of maintaining diversity of the species?
I am not saying that the East German male will no longer be represented in the Western zoo. But in the West such an unadulterated macho type can be observed today only in the underworld. The West German male 40 and under changes diapers in a thoroughly professional manner, to the astonishment of his East German counterpart. He's a passionate cook and even does the dishes on occasion. He discusses with his wife or girlfriend which one can go out on a given evening and which one has to stay home and baby-sit; he cooperates in contraception. The East German woman is the first to discover a flaw in this ideal figure. She compliments him, but she finds him schlapp - wimpy. The worst shock has been his introduction to the East German macho. How is it possible for a beautiful, desirable, emancipated woman to be happy with this dinosaur?
In fact our enlightened Western male finds himself more provoked by East Germany's machos than by West Germany's emancipated women. Freshly weaned smokers are especially sensitive to cigarette smoke. East German machos parade in front of the West German male all the vices the West German has tirelessly sought to free himself from and prizes them as effective weapons of erotic competition. What does this Neanderthal have to offer? He puts his feet on the table, demands to be waited on, doesn't even earn as much as his wife. He wouldn't dream of cooking, washing or changing diapers. Nevertheless, he is preferred, even loved. He must have something that the West German male doesn't know about and the East German woman won't reveal.
All these ethnological differences could turn out to be exciting. They promise curious collisions, amusing imbroglios, marvelous misunderstandings and productive fights. But the test subjects must recognize their learned responses and be prepared to face criticism, instead of cooking the differences together in one Unity pot. In the political arena, the economic victor must not be smug with victory.
Meanwhile, the wall has been coming down. Dozens of streets are being rejoined, subway lines reopened. Berlin, which now has two of everthing - city halls, television towers, zoos and citizenries - is creating a unified face for itself. The city's two Mayors have agreed to completely eliminate the wall. But why?
The wall is the last tangible reminder of Germany's war guilt, an open wound that could not be closed. Removing the wall completely may also eliminate the memory of guilt. It may perhaps paving the way for the successful introduction into a unified Germany of East German culture's deadliest product, the German with a clear conscience It's over. We are a normal people once again. Does anyone still mistrust us? The neighbors' fears we understand, but they are hopelessly out of date. These historical anxieties are a disguise for your fear of our hard work and efficiency and of your own sloppiness. There's no law against becoming an economic superpower - it's the marketplace that decides. And by the way, you victorious allies, listen up, no one is forced to play the role of No. 1 when he's no longer in the economic position to do so. Still, it's curious that Germany and Japan, the losers of the Second World War, come out the real winners 45 years later. You can find some of the reasons by consulting the works of Marx and Engels, and by the way, history isn't just. Are we interested in a new armed conquest of Europe? You don't even believe that story yourself. And it just so happens that armed conquest is no longer necessary! That is the nightmare version of German unity. But there is also an optimistic version. A normalization of the situation might even make the Germans more normal, meaning self-confident in the generous sense of the term, more tolerant, friendlier to foreigners, funnier. In short - one hardly dares write it - happier.
The uncanny efficiency of the divided Germans received nourishment from the same root that fed fascist subservience to authority: weariness with life, general unhappiness, and the resultant virtues and vices: discipline, punctuality, obstinacy and that ''I know better'' attitude. Discontented nations, even when they are rich, remain dangerous.
But now, for the first time in modern history, Germans have no ''knife-in-the-back'' canard, no Versailles, not even a wall - nothing to trigger their phobia about feeling surrounded. More important, thanks to the turmoil of reunifying two economic and cultural systems, Germans will have to renounce their excessive demands for personal security. They will be faced with conditions like those in Italy: chaos, disorder, criminality, all of it homemade. Perhaps as a result, their approach will be more laissez-faire and good humored.
It's not easy to believe in this optimistic version. However, there is no other choice but to hope.

GRAPHIC: Photos: West Germans say ''I've worked hard for all this.'' East Germans say ''You were just lucky.'' A prehistoric species, the East German macho, survives. But he faces almost certain extinction. The West German woman likes her man sensitive; her East German sister sees this as ''wimpy.'' (Dirk Krull); East Germans are bothered by a Western society of glitzy facades behind which there is nothing. (Reinhart Krumm)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ALPS (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); THURINGEN, GERMANY (79%); SACHSEN, GERMANY (73%); OHIO, USA (66%); 

CITY: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (52%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: TWIN CITIES PEPSI (52%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); REMOTE CONTROL DEVICES (90%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (89%); MUSIC (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (76%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (76%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (76%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE FILMS (55%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: CLAUDIA CARDINALE (56%); SIMONE HENRIETTA CHARLOTTE SIGNORET (56%); 



467 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Page 52, Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 3370 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Arsenals

BYLINE: By John H. Cushman Jr.; John H. Cushman Jr. is a correspondent in the Washington bureau of The New York Times.

 BODY:
For weeks, an endless military caravan has disgorged metal and explosives onto the sands of Saudi Arabia. No sooner did the American buildup begin than Pentagon commanders started to draw up the so-called order of battle - an ever-shifting account of the forces arrayed on each side. They calibrated the speed, reach, accuracy and deadliness of weapons, and worked on a strategy to take advantage of their strengths and Iraq's presumed weaknesses.
The mustering of such immense armies belies the notion that large-scale mechanized warfare vanished with the cold war. Since the Vietnam War, American technology has, in fact, produced an awesome arsenal: a laser-guided artillery round that costs $30,000 a shot, planes virtually invisible to radar and mobile computerized boxes that belch rockets. The most potent ones are untested in combat, but they share one thing: almost incomprehensible destructive power. Yet with all their impressive infrared optics, digital computers and laser range finders, they are not invulnerable to desert heat or human error.
For its part, Iraq is deep in tanks, artillery, armored personnel carriers, missiles and a muscular modern air force that backs up the country's million fighting men. 
Saddam Hussein spent oil earnings and borrowed heavily to buy weapons from countries as diverse as the Soviet Union, China, France, Brazil, South Africa and Austria. Some weapons even originated in the United States. Some were delivered by way of Saudi Arabia, and many, paradoxically, were financed by Kuwait.
Even though they blitzed defenseless Kuwait in a matter of hours, the Iraqi forces are actually tailored for a prolonged war. The 10-year war against Iran was a war of attrition: of artillery barrages and haphazard missile strikes against distant civilian targets. The United States force now assembled in the Middle East, in contrast, prefers rapid, fierce fighting. Protracted standoffs are not part of the new American military thinking.
American strategy is based on supremacy in the air. Early in the buildup in the Persian Gulf, the United States and its allies achieved numerical superiority: hundreds of fighters and bombers flew into the region, and five aircraft carriers - four American and one French - were deployed in surrounding waters. In all, the allies had more than 700 warplanes available early this month.
But the Iraqi Air Force is formidable. According to Periscope, a data base of the United States Naval Institute, Saddam Hussein's forces in the sky depend on 100 Mirage jets from France, 30 Hunter fighters of British origin and about 400 Soviet planes. Most of the Soviet craft are MIG's, many of them modern, highly capable fighting machines. Iraq also has perhaps 120 Chinese J-6 and J-7 jets, which are less impressive. The latest reported addition is a small number of Soviet Fencer long-range bombers.
The Mirage, when armed with French Exocets and other air-to-ground weapons, is well suited for attacks on ships and other large targets, like oil refineries. In 1987 an Iraqi Mirage launched two Exocet missiles at the Stark, an American frigate on patrol in the Persian Gulf to protect oil tankers. The Stark, unprepared for the attack, was gutted, and 37 crew members died. The Iraqis insisted the strike was an accident.
The overwhelming air power now facing Hussein's forces is built around Awacs - the E-3 Airborne Warning and Control System. Using modified Boeing 707's, the system's aircraft carry a saucerlike radar above the fuselage and communications devices that link the whole field of battle into a single picture. The Awacs can detect low-flying targets 230 miles away and can see higher-flying airplanes at even greater distances.
Five American and five Saudi Awacs are in the region now. So are several Hawkeyes, similar craft that take off from aircraft carriers.
According to Aviation Week and Space Technology, which quoted unnamed Israeli analysts, French electronics could be loaded onto a Soviet transport plane, the Il-76, to do the same job as an Awacs. But experts doubt the Iraqis have enough of the planes, or a proficient enough air force, to make good use of the technology.
The unarmed American and Saudi Awacs are defended by F-15 Eagles, which are equipped with missiles as well as jammers and other protective devices. Perhaps 200 American and Saudi F-15's are based in Saudi Arabia; they are bolstered by similar British and French aircraft. A few dozen Kuwaiti jets also escaped to Saudi Arabia when Iraq attacked.
Americans also fly the F-16, which, like the latest models of the F-15, can be equipped for nighttime raids on ground targets, and the AV-8B Harrier, a Marine Corps jump jet that can take off vertically and hover like a helicopter.
The FA-18 Hornet, flown by the Marines from airstrips in Bahrain and by the Navy from aircraft carriers, illustrates the flexibility the military has in arming planes. The Hornets have nine external weapon stations, which can carry air-to-air and ground-attack missiles as well as various bombs, including laser-guided ones.
The Navy's F-14 Tomcats also fly from the aircraft carriers. Pairs of these powerful planes, stationed on a carrier just outside the Strait of Hormuz, circle near Kuwaiti waters day and night. Refueling in midair, they are the first line of defense for allied warships.
In dogfights, the gutsy pilot swooping down on his adversary with machine guns blazing is a relic of wars past. Nowadays the strength of an American fighter jet is in its missiles, principally the Sparrow and the Sidewinder.
Like many air-to-air missiles, the Sidewinder is guided by infrared sensors that home in on heat signals from a jet's engines. Unlike most missiles, which have to be positioned behind an enemy jet to detect the heat signals, the latest Sidewinders can attack from all angles, including head-on. Gone too are the days when a pilot caught a glimpse, however fleeting, of his opponent. The Sidewinder's range is more than 10 miles. The Sparrow, guided by radar instead of infrared sensors, has a range of more than 30 miles and can also attack from any angle.
The Americans' most potent missile for combat in the air, however, may be the Phoenix, carried by Navy F-14's. Its range is up to 127 miles, and it flies at five times the speed of sound. The F-14, reportedly able to track 24 targets at once, can launch six of the missiles, which use their own radar to hit targets.
But the Phoenix has never been used in combat, and it was plagued by problems during tests. At one time hundreds of them were stockpiled while the Navy looked for a fuse to detonate the warhead at the right moment. That problem was reportedly fixed in 1988.
Iraq has several Soviet-made air-to-air missiles, some guided by their own radar but none with the Phoenix's range. Iraq also has the French-built R.530 air-to-air missile, which has a relatively short range.
Air Force F-111's, some based in Saudi Arabia, and the A-6, flying from land bases and naval aircraft carriers, are the most effective planes for deep strikes - against targets like runways, control towers, and fuel and arms depots. They can drop anything from immense cratering bombs to cluster bombs full of grenades or small mines.
Simultaneously, the F-4 Wild Weasel could destroy enemy air defense systems outright, launching Shrike and Harm missiles, which are drawn to their targets by the very signals ground radar emits as it searches for attacking planes. The American forces also have powerful electronic jammers on many airplanes that can confuse or blind enemy radar.
Lumbering B-52's have been stationed within striking distance of Iraq. So have about 20 Stealth fighters, the Air Force's boxy, swallow-tailed machine made of composite materials that elude radar. Like its larger cousin, the batlike Stealth bomber, which is not yet ready for combat, the little fighter is intended to catch enemy defenses off guard.
Saddam Hussein's forces are mightiest on the ground. He is estimated to have a million men under arms and 5,500 tanks in his armored divisions.
Tanks are intimidating, but in modern armies they are married to infantry (mostly riding in vehicles), artillery, helicopters and rockets - an alliance of frighteningly destructive firepower.
The Iraqis are believed to have about 500 T-72's, the most potent Soviet tank, and an indeterminate number of impressive British-built Chieftains. They may have only 30, as the Naval Institute Data Base has reported, or they may have captured hundreds of the tanks from Iran, according to Jane's Armor and Artillery. But many Iraqi tanks - while still deadly - are nearing obsolescence. For example, Iraq has 1,000 Soviet T-62 tanks, which, Jane's says, have a 50-50 chance of hitting targets from 1,500 meters, if the tanks stop moving before they shoot. Iraq is also equipped with thousands of even less effective tanks, from the Soviet Union and China.
The best American tank, the M1 Abrams, has unparalleled speed, armor, accuracy and range, but it hasn't proved itself in combat. Weighing more than 50 tons and propelled by a powerful gas-turbine engine, the tank is best suited for leading an assault and has substantial advantages over any Iraqi armor. It can shoot on the move and fire every few seconds. Aiming it is no more difficult than operating a video game, and it can be as deadly at night as in daytime. The newest M1 can shoot a 53-pound projectile two miles - a distinct improvement over previous models. Because of their weight, the tanks had to be sent by ship, so the first M1's didn't arrive in Saudi Arabia until the end of August.
The first American tank on the scene, flown in with the 82d Airborne Division, was the relatively light Sheridan. With its gun-fired Shillelagh missile, the Sheridan is an old tank that did not perform well in Vietnam.
The Marine Corps arrived later with M60 tanks, which, supported by guns, helicopters, planes, antitank weapons and some 40,000 troops, quickly formed the main blocking force south of the Saudi-Kuwait border.
The Saudis themselves have 300 French-built tanks as well as older American machines that are capable but not overwhelmingly proficient.
The tanks' prowess has inspired the tank killers.
The most notable American antitank weapon, from the infantry's perspective, is the TOW - short for tube-launched, optically tracked, wire-guided missile. The missile is launched from a tube carried by a soldier or set up on a vehicle. The weapon's main risk is that the soldier firing it can be threatened by the target tank. The danger is reduced when the TOW is launched from its maximum range of over two miles, out of the reach of most, but not all, tanks. Experts say the TOW's optics have trouble penetrating the shimmering glare of the desert, reducing its effective range.
Some newer tanks have thickened armor, and others have sheets of explosives on the outside to deflect warheads. In response, the latest TOW has not only a more powerful warhead but also a nose probe that detonates an initial burst to trigger these tanks' defenses before the main round explodes.
Iraq has similar antitank weapons. Some are Soviet-made, but others, like the HOT and the Milan, were made by Western European consortiums.
But the most powerful antitank weapons are fired from great distances, and here the Americans have a decided advantage. Most of the Cobra and Apache helicopter gunships are equipped with Hellfire missiles or TOW missiles similar to the ones used by ground troops. The Hellfire, a laser-guided antitank weapon, and the bigger Maverick antitank missile, guided by lasers or aimed by cameras in its nose, can also be launched by A-10 aircraft, which support ground troops by shooting up tanks. Despite the A-10's heavy armor, it is a daring pilot who flies into the defenses surrounding enemy columns. Hellfires and Mavericks can be launched from several miles away.
The laser-guided Copperhead is another formidable addition to the artillery. It is shot from a gun but boosted like a missile and steered with fins. Within 10 miles, it can be guided to land smack on top of a tank. A spotter, possibly an infantryman in his dugout but preferably one protected in an armored vehicle, aims a laser beam at a target from a relatively safe distance, and a sensor on the Copperhead's nose follows the reflection. The laser can also be aimed from a helicopter or plane. Laser weapons are particularly suited to the barren desert. But coordinating the Copperhead's fire is an art that requires considerable practice, and with rounds costing $30,000 each, this has been hard to obtain.
Of all the Iraqi weapons, chemical agents and long-range ground-to-ground missiles have caused the most concern. Both figured in the war with Iran. But both have drawbacks in the standoff against the forces now fielded against them in the Middle East.
Iraq's use of poison gas would risk massive retaliation, and the American forces are protected by gas masks and protective garments. As for the long-range missiles, mostly Soviet Scuds that can be altered to fly many hundreds of miles, they are effective against cities and sprawling oil installations,but they are not accurate enough to destroy particular military targets.
For exposed troops at the front lines, Iraq's ordinary big cannons, not its missiles or chemicals, are the most terrifying weapons. Howitzers and other field artillery can strike from many miles away, without warning and with shattering force. Iraq has far more of the big guns than the assembled forces in Saudi Arabia.
The United States has the big M198 artillery, whose range varies from 10 to 20 miles. It can not only shoot conventional high explosives, which can demolish entrenched positions, but also scatter mines and other munitions useful against lightly armored trucks and infantry.
Experts estimate that Iraq has 100 South African G-5 howitzers, considered the best such guns in the world. They are similar to the M198 and accurate at almost 20 miles or more. Iraq also has hundreds of big Austrian-made howitzers, which fire standard NATO ammunition. These guns, and thousands of smaller artillery, massacred waves of Iranian troops in the 1980's.
On both sides, some of the heaviest guns are mobile: known as self-propelled artillery because the howitzers don't have to be towed into position, the immensely tracked vehicles resemble tanks with elongated guns.
Saddam Hussein has Saudi Arabia to thank in part for his strong arsenal of mobile howitzers. In 1982, Iraq, which had just started its war on Iran, ordered some $600 million worth of the weapons from France, according to Jane's Armor and Artillery. The Saudis already had a number of the guns, and, fearful of Iranian fundamentalists, handed them over to Iraq while it waited for its order to be filled.
To counter the Iraqi howitzers, the United States Army has its own powerful mobile weapon: the Multiple Launch Rocket System, which is carried around on the chassis of a Bradley troop carrier. The gun holds two boxes, each holding six rockets. The 12 rounds can be fired singly, or in one rippling salvo that lands on a broad swath of territory.
The rocket system's warheads are not sophisticated enough to hit individual tanks with precision, but they can destroy enemy artillery batteries, decimate unprotected troops and wipe out concentrations of lightly armored vehicles. A one-minute salvo can strew nearly 8,000 bomblets, each with the power of a hand grenade, across a 60-acre area. The rocket's range is said to be 20 miles, somewhat farther than that of most artillery. It has never been tested in combat.
Iraq also has rocket launchers, perhaps 200 of them. Many are the Brazilian Astros, also found in the Saudi arsenal, which can fire a warhead more than 30 miles, even farther than the American rocket system.
Once fired, Iraq's big guns are vulnerable to high-tech response. The Firefinder radar, which performed well during the American presence in Lebanon in 1983, tracks the trajectory of incoming artillery rounds and instantly pinpoints the guns' location. Computers can then direct precise return fire, even before the enemy's first round hits the ground.
The Americans have various options to protect them from sky attack. Soldiers on the ground have the shoulder-fired Stinger and the mobile Chaparral and Hawk missiles. In the war in Afghanistan, the American supported rebels used the Stinger to deadly effect against Soviet jets and helicopters, driving aircraft high into the sky. Mounted on vehicles, the Chaparral can also fend off helicopters. The Hawk is for high-flying jets.
More sophisticated still is the Patriot antiaircraft missile. The missile, never used in combat, is fired from a truck and has a range of well over 60 miles. United States Army officers claim it can outmaneuver any airplane as it homes in for the kill at three times the speed of sound.
The Patriot is even believed able to shoot down ballistic missiles like the Iraqi Scud and al-Husayn, which so intimidated the Iranians.
Though they lack such advanced apparatus, the Iraqis are also equipped to resist attack from the air. According to the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, they have 60 Roland missile launchers, built by German and French companies. With a range of 10 miles, they are designed to fend off low-flying aircraft or helicopters like the Apache and Cobra gunships. The Rolands are mobile and travel with the troops, tanks and artillery. Hussein's forces can also deploy various Soviet antiaircraft weapons, including several types of missiles and two air-defense guns, which airmen respect for the barrage of bullets that spew from multiple barrels.
During the Iran-Iraq war in the 1980's, when it escorted oil tankers through the Persian Gulf, the United States Navy operated virtually independently of the Army and Air Force. Now it finds itself in a supporting role.
The main purpose of the current naval buildup is to add to air forces. With four well-defended aircraft carriers in the region, the Navy has added at least 150 armed jets, including the important F-14's.
Most of the naval armada is intended to support and protect the aircraft carriers or to enforce the United Nations economic sanctions against Iraq. The first American shots fired in the confrontation came from the U.S.S. Reid, which fired a warning volley across the bow of an Iraqi tanker last month in an attempt to enforce the embargo. Frigates and guided-missile destroyers, the ''small boys'' of the Navy fleet, are designed to protect friendly ships against surprise attacks. The speedy, maneuverable ships carry helicopters and are armed with guns and missiles, meant mainly to defend the fleet against air attack. About a dozen American frigates and destroyers are in the Red Sea, the Persian Gulf or nearby waters at any one time.
If Navy ships came under attack, they could employ the Aegis guided-missile cruiser, a kind of seaborne Awacs. The Aegis has a mammoth four-faced antenna, and long-range missiles and guns to shoot down enemy missiles and planes.
Three Aegis cruisers (along with less capable American cruisers) are in the Middle East with various aircraft carriers. Two Aegis ships, the Antietam and the Philippine Sea, also have offensive ability, carrying dozens of Tomahawk cruise missiles. The cruisers can sail north in the gulf, bringing the missiles in range of many targets on Iraqi soil. The conventionally armed Tomahawk packs a very powerful warhead. It has demonstrated in tests that it can land precisely on target after a flight of more than 400 miles, and its maximum range is even greater.
The Navy multiplied its firepower in the gulf on Aug. 24, when it moved the battleship Wisconsin through the Strait of Hormuz. Brought out of mothballs and modernized, the vessel still carries its thick armor plating from World War II and is considered invulnerable to conventional missiles and guns. Its 16-inch guns can lob shells able to pummel targets more than 20 miles away. And its cruise missiles could reach across the length and breadth of Iraq.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Launchers for the Patriot antiaircraft missile, left, in Saudi Arabia. The Patriot flies at three times the speed of sound. (Dennis Brack/Time Magazine); The Navy's F-14 Tomcat, right, loaded with six Phoenix air-to-air missiles. The Phoenix can attack targets more than 125 miles away. (George Hall/Chech Six); The Multiple Launch Rocket System, above, can fire its rockets one by one or in a single burst that strews bombs over a 60-acre area. (Hans Halberstadt/Arms Communications); The Roland antiaircraft missile, left, combats low-flying jets or helicopter gunships like the U.S. Apache and Cobra. (Euromissil); The Western European-made Milan, right, an antitank weapon, fires a wire-guided rocket from the ground or a vehicle. (Defence Magazine); French-made Mirage jets, right,

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); KUWAIT (93%); FRANCE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); GULF STATES (88%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); 

CITY: MILAN, ITALY (59%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%); US NAVY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; PERSIAN GULF; SAUDI ARABIA; IRAQ; KUWAIT

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); AIR FORCES (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (88%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); COLD WAR (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); LASERS (78%); ARMIES (78%); NAVIES (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (73%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (73%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR SADDAM HUSSEIN (55%); 



468 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Page 38, Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 5179 words

HEADLINE: Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Liberal? Conservative? Or Just Pat?

BYLINE: By James Traub; James Traub is the author of ''Too Good to Be True: The Outlandish Story of Wedtech.''

 BODY:
Few people relish being right quite so fiercely as Daniel Patrick Moynihan; and just now, New York's senior Senator is taking particular delight in being right at the right time. He has specialized, in years past, in unseasonable, unpalatable truths - about the breakdown of the black family, about the paralysis of the United Nations - and he has publicly reveled in his martyrdom. This time, however, history has caught up with him. In recent months, Moynihan has insisted that the collapse of the system built on the cold war permits - in fact demands - a return to old American political principles, above all a respect for international law. Late last month, Harvard University Press published Moynihan's 15th book, ''On the Law of Nations.'' And at virtually the same moment, the United States, acting through the United Nations, orchestrated a worldwide response to Iraq's aggression against Kuwait. For once, everybody was riding Moynihan's hobbyhorse. 
Just in case I missed the point, Moynihan read to me, over lunch, a speech in which President Bush had used the words ''international law'' three times. He picked up a copy of his new book to cite a speech in which Mikhail S. Gorbachev had quoted - in Latin - the ancient maxim ''agreements must be honored.'' Moynihan had just come from a highly satisfactory session with Thomas R. Pickering, the chief American delegate to the United Nations, and he pulled a copy of the U.N. charter from his breast pocket to recite the passage governing intervention by armed forces.
Moynihan is a tall, stooped man with silver hair and a face that could have been designed by a cartoonist - a long face, very red, with pouchy cheeks and eyebrows cocked in a forbidding expression of skepticism. As is his wont, the Senator was holding forth. I was having trouble following some portions of what he was saying, owing to Moynihan's oratorical style, a peculiar sequence of plosives and mumbles and distended polysyllables sometimes mistakenly considered British.
''This is an economic war,'' he said, ''and economic wars are rare, contrary to what you were taught at my age. We went to endless lengths in my day to prove that the munitions makers started World War I. Previously, most wars were, actually. But the 20th century has been an age of totalitarianism. The Boer War was an economic war. The Chaco War was an economic war.'' The Chaco War? ''The Paraguayans, the Uruguayans and the Argentinians.''> We were moving into the trackless terrain of Moynihania. (I discovered only later that, Moynihan's assertion notwithstanding, the Chaco War was a land dispute carried on from 1932 to 1935 between Bolivia and Paraguay.) What about Iraq, I asked a bit desperately. Should American soldiers be prepared to die in an economic war? Moynihan said he backed President Bush on the sending of troops to Saudi Arabia. But that wasn't the point he wanted to make. ''What I care about,'' Moynihan said, ''is that we are acting meticulously in terms of the charter in the first post-cold war crisis. If we can bring it off, then we have a second chance to see if the system works.''
Abstractions - the United Nations system, international law - matter dearly to Moynihan. This makes him a perfectly normal intellectual, but a most unusual United States Senator, one who insists that ideas matter, and not just interests. He stands inside the political process as no intellectual has in several generations, perhaps since Woodrow Wilson; he stands outside the process as no one else in Congress does. Moynihan's friends like to say that he occupies a category of one, by which they mean he's so large that he can have a category all to himself, and that his political principles are too personal to be typecast in Washington's limited vocabulary.
''He thinks he is unique, and I would agree with that,'' says a former aide, Tom Melia. ''I tend to share his overblown view of himself.''
''He is the only one of the 100 Senators whom I would call indispensable,'' says the columnist George Will. ''There are lots of well-schooled people, but in the sense of an educated man, one conversant with the great ideas, the large issues of the 20th century, he's it.''
Pat Moynihan worked for every President from Kennedy through Ford, and has been considered, at various times, a Kennedy Democrat, a neo-conservative, a neo-liberal and a classic, Northeastern liberal. ''There has always been a view of Pat that he was chameleon-like,'' says Lawrence Kudlow, a Wall Street economist who was a fellow traveler in Moynihan's neo-conservative moment.
I made the mistake of testing this hypothesis myself. Our first interview was held in Moynihan's office in Washington, and the Senator had stationed himself some 12 feet from me, perhaps to establish that he was delivering a lecture, not conducting a seminar. He was explaining his view that ''the national security state,'' the secret intelligence apparatus established to counter the Soviet threat, had deformed American principles at home as the militarism of the cold war had done abroad. When, a little bewildered, I remarked that he sounded surprisingly like his former left-wing critics, Moynihan fairly wheeled on me, his white eyebrows rising into a launch-on-warning posture. ''I've been in the belly of the beast,'' he said, majestically. ''I've been there. I know what it is.'' Then he lowered his voice to convey disdain: ''They don't.''
Do not presume to tell Pat Moynihan where he stands. He knows; you don't. The problem is that it's often not a recognizable place. Moynihan has argued, in a vast cataract of books and articles, that he stands for the liberal tradition, a set of principles that were obscured by the cold war and by the radicalism of the left and right. It is the ground that has shifted, Moynihan insists; he has stood firm. In the 1960's, when he was among the core group of intellectuals who founded and contributed to the neo-conservative journal The Public Interest, Moynihan argued that campus activism was ''a heresy of liberalism,'' a revolt against the basic American faith. Liberalism meant tolerance, reason, a respect for due process. Instead, he wrote with his typical flair for hyperbole, ''chaos is increasingly our condition.'' Fifteen years later, he would say much the same thing of the Reagan Administration.
Indeed, it's instructive to recall the moment when Moynihan went from neo-conservative stalwart to Reagan bugbear. He had been elected Senator in 1976 and had gathered a staff consisting largely of neo-conservative intellectuals. In his first speech, Moynihan had opposed the nomination of Paul C. Warnke as head of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, on the grounds that Warnke was too sympathetic to the Soviets. ''That,'' as his former legislative aide Elliott Abrams puts it, ''is who he was.''
With Jimmy Carter's Presidency going increasingly slack, the neo-conservatives, with their appeal to blue-collar and middle-class voters, had become the most forceful tendency in the Democratic Party. Among that group, people looked to Moynihan for leadership. In his writings, New York's new Senator pictured a world hanging by a thread: democratic values were under ''unremitting assault from totalitarianism''; the Russians, he warned, were preparing to push on from their beachhead in Afghanistan to seize Pakistan, and the West, above all President Carter, was reacting just as Chamberlain had at Munich. Norman Podhoretz, the editor of Commentary and a key member of the group of intellectuals who had grown disaffected with Democratic philosophy during the 60's, described Moynihan as his ideal Presidential candidate.
At this moment, when longstanding ideological alignments seemed poised on a pivot, that pivot was occupied by Pat Moynihan. He was a figure as frightening to the left as he was inspiring to some elements on the right. The Nation, hoping to short-circuit his supposed Presidential bid, devoted an entire issue to exposing Moynihan as not only a conservative, but also a fraud. One journalist, Fred Powledge, regretted that he had written something nice about the man in the 1960's, when he appeared to be a liberal. A fellow social scientist, Philip Green, called him a ''demagogue,'' ''a political know-nothing,'' and ''a poseur,'' and concluded, ''he does not pursue truth, nor respect it.'' To many liberals, Moynihan wasn't just an adversary; he was a traitor, a man who had abandoned the common faith. And then Pat Moynihan turned around and betrayed the other side. For one thing, he didn't challenge Jimmy Carter's nomination. (He had never really planned to.) Then, with the election of Ronald Reagan, Moynihan swiftly went into opposition. With his polemicist's gift for memorable overstatement, he assailed the 1981 Reagan tax cut as ''an auction of the Treasury,'' ''a great barbecue'' predicated on ''a magic theory of taxation'' - though polemics notwithstanding, he voted for the cut.
Afterward, he insisted that Reaganomics, with its combination of tax rate cuts and defense expenditures, was a ''conspiracy,'' masterminded by his own former disciple David A. Stockman, to ''defund'' and destroy the welfare state. Moynihan correctly predicted the immense deficits that would ensue, and helped shame Republicans as well as Democrats into undoing some of their more malignant handiwork the following year. He also opposed the invasion of Grenada and, after 1984, military support for the contras.
Moynihan's former aides, who had eagerly signed up with the Reagan revolution, looked on in disbelief. Elliott Abrams, who served as Reagan's Assistant Secretary of State for Latin America, is persuaded that Moynihan abandoned the true faith out of political expediency. ''The profile now,'' Abrams says, ''is of a liberal Democrat.'' This is also the semiofficial Washington take on Moynihan. ''He used to be a hard-liner in foreign policy,'' says James K. Glassman, editor of Roll Call, the local field guide to Capitol Hill. ''Now he's almost completely flip-flopped.''
It's almost certainly true that Moynihan emphasized his liberalism to forestall a potential challenge from the left in 1982; his friend and political adviser Richard Ravitch admits as much. (It's also true that the Senator's rhetoric has a way of outrunning his voting record.) But when the challenge failed to materialize, Moynihan continued his harsh criticism.
More to the point, Moynihan hasn't shifted in synchrony with the national mood, but against it. He moved right when the nation moved left and left when it moved right. As he had with 60's activism, he saw in Reaganism a radical and dangerous attack on the traditional center. The dubious legerdemain of the tax cut, and later the Administration's secret war in Central America, were more than enough to bring out Moynihan's horror of radical experiments. He has always been, essentially, an extremist of the center, defending liberalism from the inevitable onslaught. Opposition, in any case, suits his temperament. ''He's a controversialist,'' as Stephen Hess of the Brookings Institution puts it.
Moynihan came by his brand of liberalism almost genetically. Born in Tulsa, Okla., in 1927, Moynihan grew to adulthood in the now legendary world of Hell's Kitchen on the west side of midtown Manhattan, a Runyonesque neighborhood of tenements, barflies, gangsters, stevedores - and party bosses. There, as in almost all working-class New York neighborhoods, the Democratic Party apparatus, and its Roman Catholic hierarchy of precinct captain, district leader, boss, functioned almost as a secular church. The system was corrupt in numberless but mostly petty ways; more important, it was supremely responsive to the vox populi, and generally progressive. Moynihan has always waxed impatient at the ritual bluenose denunciation of ''the machine,'' and once wrote that his first experience of voting was much simplified when the precinct captain handed him a slip of paper telling him whom he would vote for.
Picturesque this life may have been, but it must have been hard, too. His father was a journalist and an alcoholic who moved the family around a lot until he vanished permanently when Pat was 10. His mother owned a bar in Hell's Kitchen, and Pat, the eldest of three children, always worked. Moynihan has been proud to relate that he was working as a longshoreman when he enrolled at City College.
People who know Moynihan testify to the chip he carries on his shoulder about his working-class background, which makes an odd contrast with his dandyish accent and Anglophile manner. (He calls his country home, near Oneonta, N.Y., Derrymore.) ''There's a certain touch of class warfare in Pat Moynihan,'' says one of the Senator's current aides, who recalls a $1,000 campaign contribution arriving from a wealthy backer along with a note chiding the Senator for moderating his support for Israel. Moynihan sent back the check, spluttering, ''No socialite is going to tell me how to do my job.''
Moynihan's career was not marked by spectacular early success. After serving in the Navy and graduating from Tufts University, Moynihan enrolled at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts. He wanted to be a diplomat, but he flunked the Foreign Service exam. He then received a Fulbright scholarship to continue his studies at the London School of Economics. But Moynihan decided he wasn't cut out to be a scholar. He returned to New York, and landed a job in 1955 as an aide to Gov. W. Averell Harriman. For the next four years Moynihan learned politics firsthand.
And then John Kennedy came along. Kennedy was an embodiment of Moynihan's idea of liberalism: optimistic, patriotic, a firm believer in the American Century. Moynihan, by then writing a history of Harriman's governorship, campaigned for Kennedy's Presidential bid and subsequently became Assistant Secretary of Labor.
The wonderfully clear window of the future shattered, for Moynihan and millions of others, on Nov. 22, 1963. ''We will never be young again,'' the 36-year-old Moynihan told the columnist Mary McGrory. But it wasn't only the trauma of Kennedy's death that infected Moynihan's idealism; in the days after the assassination, convinced that Lee Harvey Oswald was in danger of assassination himself and that no one would thence know whether Kennedy had been killed by conspiracy, he begged Kennedy insiders to put Oswald in protective custody. It was Moynihan's first experience of seeing the peril that others ignored. ''I then realized,'' he wrote a few years later, ''it is possible to grow enormously successful and powerful in America without knowing that the world is a dangerous place. I suppose I had always known this.''
Moynihan continued as assistant secretary under Lyndon Johnson and began to focus on the economic situation of blacks. He had recently published, with Harvard professor Nathan Glazer, the pioneering study of ethnicity, ''Beyond the Melting Pot.'' Spurred by statistics on family structure, as well as by the work of such black sociologists as Kenneth B. Clark, Moynihan came to conclude that the experience of slavery and racism had had a catastrophic effect on the black family, and that for this reason poverty would now perpetuate itself even in the absence of racism. The antipoverty program would have to focus on what Clark had called the ghetto's ''tangle of pathology.''
Moynihan's report, titled ''The Negro Family: The Case for National Action,'' became a key document of the War on Poverty. President Johnson virtually repeated Moynihan's argument in a major address at Howard University in June 1965.
The family-breakdown thesis arrived at just the moment the 60's exploded, vaporizing the liberal consensus along with so much else. Black rage stunned white liberals, who suddenly found themselves accused of ''paternalism'' and unacknowledged racism. Civil rights leaders denounced what came to be known as the Moynihan Report; so did social scientists on the left. And though 20 years later the N.A.A.C.P. executive director, Benjamin L. Hooks, would be calling for a thorough examination of the problems of the black family, friends from that time say Moynihan was deeply hurt.
In 1966 Moynihan was offered a post at Harvard. He had risen through so many strata of society; now he had arrived, an American success story, at the very doorstep of the WASP establishment. Moynihan is very sensitive about his credentials, especially about Harvard. As a former aide recalls: ''He once called me into his office and closed the door, and said, in a conspiratorial way, 'I have been invited to give the Godkin Lectures at Harvard.' And then he sat back, like, 'How about that?' And I said, 'Yes?' Usually he doesn't much care for the reaction of staff people, but he was very proud, and he said: 'Don't you understand, the Godkin Lectures. Does that not mean anything to you lads?' '' Sorry, said the aide. And the Senator, exasperated, declared: ''I've given the commencement address at Harvard, I've given the freshman orientation and I've given the Phi Beta Kappa. I've done them all now; I've done all the major addresses at Harvard.''
Moynihan joined Harvard just as campus upheaval was rocking the Ivy League, and his reverence for the institution seemed to drive him to heights of outrage. He was furious at the upper-middle-class vocabulary of revolution, and he was disgusted to see the ''frightened patriciate'' surrendering to the authoritarian demands of the students. It was as if his role was to bring the harsh realism of Hell's Kitchen to the dreamy spires of Harvard Yard - to protect liberalism from its own complacency. The 60's drove Moynihan, along with many of the other ''policy intellectuals'' at Harvard, into the arms of Richard Nixon.
Moynihan joined the Nixon Administration as assistant to the President for urban affairs, and got along with the President famously. Nixon, who had always felt intellectually underestimated, was delighted to have enrolled a legitimate Kennedy Democrat and a Harvard professor, and he loved reading the scholar's grandiose memos, which were ''veritable invitations to become part of history,'' as the two men's mutual friend Leonard Garment recalls.
Things did not work out very well for either of them, of course. In late February 1970 Moynihan's infamous ''benign neglect'' memo to Nixon was leaked to The New York Times. The memo read like a pragmatic, and unsympathetic, program for dealing with the hostility of blacks. ''The issue of race,'' Moynihan wrote, ''could benefit from a period of benign neglect.''
Moynihan hadn't said that black people themselves merited neglect; his real meaning seems to have been that the Administration's angry bluster and attack-dog tactics were playing into the hands of black radicals.
Previously, Moynihan had managed to maneuver into Congress a guaranteed minimum-income program, known as the Family Assistance Plan, over the objections of hostile White House conservatives. Nevertheless, because of the memo, he became known as the man who told the President to ignore blacks. ''It killed me,'' Moynihan told The Times a few years later. ''It won't ever be forgiven; that's all there is to it.'' The Moynihan Report had alienated civil rights leaders and some scholars; the term ''benign neglect'' alienated liberals in general. In liberal eyes, Moynihan became an effigy, a disgruntled intellectual who used ingenious phrases to convey a racist message. He became, like Nixon, a man it was permissible to hate. And the Family Assistance Plan languished in committee, then died altogether.
One thing you can say for Moynihan, though, is that he knows how to savor his martyrdom. When I asked how he felt about the abuse he'd received, he gazed at a point several feet above my head and said: ''Truman was an object of contempt - I knew that. I have lived through the days when John F. Kennedy was a fascist. So it didn't come as a great surprise when the same people learned that I was a fascist. I've seen them be disdainful to an awful lot of people.''
After two years back at Harvard, Moynihan was appointed by Nixon in 1973 to the job of Ambassador to India, thus gratifying the old dream of foreign service. During his two years in New Delhi, Moynihan completed the tedious yet valuable job of negotiating the retirement of India's debt to the United States. But he also came to some alarming conclusions about the world: In 1975, in a widely read article in Commentary titled ''The United States in Opposition,'' he wrote that democratic values were profoundly threatened by a growing totalitarian spirit in the third world, and nobody was willing to recognize it. The governing elites, as always, were complacent, paralyzed.
Henry A. Kissinger, then Gerald Ford's Secretary of State, admired the article (he found it ''staggeringly good,'' Moynihan later wrote) and suggested Moynihan for the job of chief delegate to the United Nations.
Moynihan's United Nations tenure was a sort of recapitulation of his whole career. He went intending to preach the gospel of liberal internationalism, and he wound up laying about him with a meat ax. He became infamous for his scathing attacks on third world countries, and what he took to be their Soviet sponsor. In his final days, after a Soviet delegate had suggested that the United States ''take care,'' Moynihan responded, ''We are not intimidated, we are not afraid. We will not 'take care,' we do not give a damn.''
After his United Nations tenure, Moynihan barely bothered to unpack his suitcases at Harvard before casting his porkpie into the ring as a candidate for the U.S. Senate. The incumbent, James L. Buckley, was clearly too conservative for New Yorkers, and none of the announced liberals were unbeatable. Still, it was probably The New York Times that decided the election. The editorial board, led by John B. Oakes, whom Moynihan always blamed for the storm over the ''benign neglect'' memo, wanted to come out for Bella Abzug, then a New York Representative, in the Democratic primary. But The Times's publisher, Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, overruled the board, and the paper gave its support to Moynihan, who beat Abzug by only 10,000 votes. Moynihan, of course, went on to win the election, and also to become famously obsessed with The Times. ''We were talking about some issue,'' recalls a former aide, ''and he said, 'Such-and-such from my speech was not covered.' And I said, ''Senator, it was on the front page.'' And Moynihan paused for effect, and said, ''Below the fold.''
Moynihan has nowb been a Senator for 14 years. He has become a fixture, the intellectual-laureate of the Senate. A former aide to the late Senator Frank Church, Peter Fenn, recalls his boss coming back from the floor of the Senate to say of Moynihan, ''That man just got up and spoke for 45 minutes with no notes and no reference materials, and proceeded to delineate the entire history of the Panama Canal.''
If Moynihan is considered a donnish blowhard, it's not easy to find anyone who will say so. ''He has moved into positions of power as well as respect,'' says Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey, ''and I just find that he is a national resource. I think he has put together as substantial a body of work as anyone who has ever sat in this body.''
Probably no state is represented by two such unlike figures as Moynihan and Alfonse M. D'Amato, the backslapping former machine pol from Nassau County. D'Amato, still trying to earn esteem in the Senate, has recently been chatting up Moynihan in private dinners. But in one respect, at least, D'Amato has the advantage. It is a truism among veteran New York political figures that if you want something done, you go to D'Amato, a reputation that rankles Moynihan. A Moynihan aide, in fact, made a point of telling me that in 1987 the Office of Management and Budget selected his boss its ''king of pork,'' for having sponsored more local projects than any other Senator. Nonetheless, some hardheaded businessmen who have worked with Moynihan on local issues complain about lack of follow-up after the eloquent speech is done.
With his colleagues, Moynihan is considered affable and, to use Bradley's word, ''civilized''; in the lower reaches of the Capitol, where reputations are formed, Moynihan is notorious for his rather imperial personality. Many Senators affect, or prefer, a democratic manner, and are known to staff members by first names. Moynihan is known as ''Senator.'' He is not an easy man to work for, and he appears to have established records in staff turnover. He tends to use his legislative aides the way a professor working on a book might use his graduate students, as pack animals of research, and he is notoriously impatient with inadequate work. Moynihan also has to be humored a good deal. ''It's not possible to flatter him too much,'' a former aide says. ''He'll take it as his due.''
And then there is the lingering question of how much Moynihan drinks. The subject has been kept alive not only by the media but also by Moynihan's political opponents, however gingerly. Lawrence Kudlow, now vice chairman of the New York State Republican Party, notes that ''personal problems'' precluded that theoretical Presidential campaign back in 1980. Meaning drinking? ''Drinking and health,'' Kudlow specifies. ''I think he's sort of pulled that back under control. But since I don't know anything about it, I don't want to get into it.''
There are many unattributable quotations to be solicited. At times, according to former aides, Moynihan drinks so much at night - perhaps because he has trouble sleeping - that he is groggy the following morning. Two veteran Capitol Hill reporters say they don't recall seeing Moynihan intoxicated on the floor of the Senate, and certainly not in recent years. Other reporters, however, speak of telephoning the Senator and finding him all but incoherent.
In sum, it appears that Moynihan drinks on occasions when a great many people drink, and possibly on occasions when they don't. On the other hand, he appears to have a stronger mind after three drinks than most people do when sober. As George Will once wrote in response to a whispering campaign that grew audible before the 1988 election, Moynihan has written more books than many of his colleagues have read. So perhaps we should let the poor man drink in peace. Certainly, Moynihan has made a point of keeping his private life private. He has been married for 35 years and has three grown children. His wife, Elizabeth, is an architectural historian who was also her husband's campaign manager in his last election, which he won by a smashing majority of 67 percent. The Senator's habit of speaking his mind is not unrelated to the fact that he neither aspires to higher office nor fears the prospect of the next election.
Moynihan has long since mended fences with the liberal wing of the party. His rating from the Americans for Democratic Action, which he once lectured on the need to make common cause with conservatives, hovers around a comfortable 85. In 1988, he finally realized his dream of reforming the welfare system, 23 years after he started trying. The Family Support Act, as it was called, mandated funds for education and job training at the state level and instituted experiments in ''workfare.''
As the senior Democrat on the Finance Committee, Moynihan wields real power on issues of taxation, especially since he and the committee chairman, Senator Bob Dole, often see eye to eye. For several years Moynihan has been complaining that the Social Security Trust Fund wasn't a trust fund at all, since the surplus that was building up was being used to pay for the deficit. This offended his sense of fiscal integrity.
Last Dec. 29, Moynihan called a news conference to propose that a coming Social Security tax rate increase - the third in seven years - be canceled, and that previous increases be rolled back. At first, the idea was ignored altogether. But then something delightfully perverse, something truly Moynihanian, began to happen. The conservative Heritage Foundation supported the cut, while the Bush Administration, which was not about to forgo the trust fund surplus, ridiculed it. The Democrats, desperately intent to prove their maturity and readiness to govern by raising taxes, simply fled. ''It was such an intellectually honest liberal position that none of the members wanted to look at it,'' says James Glassman of Roll Call. Indeed, It was the first tax cut proposal in memory that the purists supported, and the politicians opposed.
The payroll tax cut proposal, as Moynihan well knew, was both hard to refute and popular. By the spring, both Democrats and, warily, Republicans, began to sign up. The proposal, says George Will, ''has changed the whole trajectory of debate in 1990.''
The conflict with Iraq, on the other hand, has changed the trajectory of matters at home. Moynihan's tax-rollback proposal is expected to come to a vote sometime in the next month, and with the military commitment draining national resources and the deficit looming, pragmatism may win out over logic, equity and poetic justice.
But as the Senate's designated thinker of large thoughts, Moynihan has bigger things than payroll taxes in mind. He wants to hold hearings in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on the question: How do we reconstitute the American Government in the aftermath of the cold war? The idea may strike some of his colleagues as windy and aimless, but, says Moynihan, characteristically providing his own footnote, ''As the world is new, you must think anew - so said Abraham Lincoln.''
Beyond that, it's clear that Moynihan hopes to establish the conditions for a revival of the liberalism that once inspired him and his generation. It's striking, in one who was once so passionate an advocate of the cold war, to hear Moynihan speak of how obsession with the Soviets has led us to forget the principles of open government and ultimately, in the case of the Iran-contra scandal, to undermine the Constitution. The national security state, he says: ''controls the Presidency. It controls most of the executive departments. And it will not break out of the task for which it was designed, which is to control Communist expansion.'' The Russians have begun to confront the consequences of the 50-year war, he says. We have not.
A great deal of history stands between this country today and the country of Woodrow Wilson, the hero of ''On the Law of Nations.'' In 1917, as Moynihan recalls, a violation of international law was enough to commit the nation to a terrible war. Our principles were clear then; so much was clear. ''And then,'' he rumbles at the bottom of his register, ''it was lost to us in the fog of cold war.'' Moynihan joins his fingers beneath his chin, lifting his long red face higher still.
'' 'The fog of cold war,' '' he mutters, as if to himself. ''Nice phrase.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Daniel Patrick Moyiham; (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); Moynihan reviewing an Indian honor guard upon his arrival as U.S. Ambassador to India in 1973. (R.D. Sharma/The New York Times); Moynihan with Richard M. Nixon in December 1968, following the President's appointment of him as assistant for urban affairs. (Neal Boenzi/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); INDIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); COLD WAR (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); BOOK REVIEWS (75%); WORLD WAR I (70%); ARMED FORCES (64%); VISUAL ARTISTS (63%); 

PERSON: MOYNIHAN, DANIEL PATRICK (SEN); TRAUB, JAMES; MOYNIHAN, DANIEL PATRICK (SEN)(BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) RICHARD NIXON (55%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 



469 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 8; Page 3, Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1687 words

HEADLINE: NOTEBOOK;
Yankees Are in Critical Condition as Their New Era Begins

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
They will finish in last place for the first time since 1966, the second time since 1912 and only the fourth time in the 88-year history of the franchise. They will very likely finish with their worst record since 1913. They have already suffered the first season-series shutout (to Oakland) in their history. They also failed to win a game at Fenway Park for the first time ever.
Their team batting average is the lowest in the league, and they have scored the fewest runs. Their pitching staff has one of the league's highest earned run averages, and they may not have a starter with 10 victories.
These are the Yankees as they enter the post-Steinbrenner era, and they are in as critical a condition as a team could be as a new regime assumes command. If the Yankees were a Broadway show, Robert Nederlander, their new managing partner, would close them and move on to another project. 
The new high command consists of Nederlander, General Manager Gene Michael and Manager Stump Merrill. All three were George Steinbrenner's personal choices.
''They needed a turnaround expert, someone with credibility in the business who wouldn't take backseat driving from George,'' said one astute baseball man, who for years has had intimate knowledge of the Yankees' operation and the way Steinbrenner conducted the operation. ''You don't have that with these people. You have the suspicion that George is still there.'' On request, on condition of anonymity and with no animosity toward the Yankees or Steinbrenner, he provided a candid assessment of the problems the club's new hierarchy faces and the problems he feels the hierarchy itself presents.
Nederlander told the owners at their meetings in Pittsburgh last week that he hadn't spoken with Steinbrenner since the principal owner resigned as managing partner Aug. 20. ''He's clean,'' the baseball man said of Nederlander, ''but he's a Steinbrenner camper. George made the limited partners a lot of money. They're not going to do anything he doesn't want. They're loyal to George. No one's going to have any confidence in the plan.''
No plan is in place yet, but the baseball man said: ''It's got to be a straight rebuilding deal. They have to trade down in age, move some of the veterans like Barfield for prospects.''
That plan sounds logical, but it has an inherent problem, he cautioned.
''Yankee fans aren't going to put up with the rebuilding stuff,'' he said. ''The Yankees should do what the Pirates and the Reds did when they fell from grace. But I don't know if they'll do that because of the attitude of their fans.''
The alternative to rebuilding with young players is the continued, or even intensified, pursuit of free agents. Do they take that approach?
''I don't think anybody is going to particularly want to play there,'' the baseball man said. ''People are cognizant that New York, the city, is in bad shape. Some guys will go there for the money, but a lot of players won't.''
Some reluctant players, he added, might be less reluctant if the new hierarchy could instill greater confidence in the club's future by installing some ''heavy hitters'' at the top. He cited Whitey Herzog and Dallas Green as the type of person he meant. He also named Jeff Torborg of the Chicago White Sox and Jim Leyland of Pittsburgh - ''They're tremendous,'' he said - as the kind of manager who could provide strong leadership for young players.
''If they had hired people like that, there would be greater confidence,'' he said. ''But there's no reason for optimism.
 
Answering the Critics
 If any Nolan Ryan critics remain, especially those who use Ryan's won-lost percentage against him, let them consider the last month. In six starts, the 43-year-old Ryan compiled a 1.31 earned run average but only a 2-1 record.
He allowed more than one earned run only once and he won that game. He allowed no runs in 10 innings of one start and one run in each of two other starts (seven innings and eight innings) and he emerged with no decision in all three instances. Besides permitting seven earned runs (nine runs altogether) in 48 innings, he gave up 20 hits and 11 walks and struck out 58.
 
Strange Times in Kansas City
 Perhaps they were plunged into a state of shock by the failure of their $19 million worth of pitching Davises (Mark and Storm) or by the double-barreled injuries suffered by their top two pitchers, Bret Saberhagen and Mark Gubicza. But the Kansas City Royals have had a bizarre season, and the other day they added another strange twist.
The Royals, who were supposed to be serious challengers to the Oakland Athletics, stumbled out of contention early when they lost 16 of their first 22 games. They needed three and a half months to raise their victory total to the level of their losses, and then they managed to sneak over .500 at 63-62, 64-63 and 65-64.
But just when they appeared to be moving in the right direction, they threw themselves into reverse, losing 13 of 15 entering last night's game. Not that they ever challenged the Athletics, but their latest skid fattened their games-behind number from 15 to 25.
If there was ever a candidate to be dismissed as manager, it was the Royals' manager, John Wathan. The Royals, however, rewarded Wathan with a contract for next season. And to think that 10 years ago, Dick Howser was dismissed as the Yankees' manager after winning 103 games and a division championship.
 
No Freedom
 Jack Clark, Tom Herr, Dave Smith, Gary Gaetti, Mike Witt, Willie Randolph and Ken Griffey Sr. have been in the major leagues for six years or more and have contracts that expire at the end of this season. That means they can be free agents, right? No, in their cases, it means they can sign a new contract with their current team or they can go to salary arbitration. Those seven players and 18 others cannot be free agents because they were free agents less than five years ago and are subject to the repeater-rights clause of the free-agent rules.
Jack Morris, Detroit's 18-game loser, is in a similar position, but he has a unique difference. He can exercise an option in his contract calling for a $2.1 million salary next season. He has until Nov. 1 to make that decision. Given his record this season, he should probably not procrastinate.
 
Economics Lesson
 The last time the major leagues expanded, in 1977, Seattle paid $6.25 million for a franchise and Toronto $7 million. The cost of living and the cost of baseball franchises has soared since then. To join the National League with one of the two new teams for the 1993 season, a prospective owner will have to pay $95 million. Is the fee a rip-off? ''It's what the marketplace will bear,'' Commissioner Fay Vincent said. ''Some people are eager to pay that amount. The marketplace is always correct. If people buy at that price, the marketplace is correct. I really am a resolute believer in the marketplace.''
Vincent, who acts and speaks differently from his predecessors, has wandered into an area where most commissioners, Bowie Kuhn particularly, feared to tread. If a commissioner says the marketplace should set the price for an expansion franchise, he could not very well disagree with the players' long-held view that the marketplace should establish players' salaries.
''Sure, it should,'' Vincent said. ''I don't know any other way. How could we do better than the marketplace?'' Vincent, though, offered one cautionary note. The marketplace, he said, can go down as well as up. He cited the current real estate market as an example.
''One of these days,'' he said, ''it could happen with clubs and players. You might see an adjustment.''
Vincent predicted that expenditures in this winter's free-agent market would not be as robust as last year's. But he added, ''That's not saying much because last year was so robust.''
As for the $95 million price tag on the new franchises, it could be seen in two ways:
 1. It's an outrageous price for the right to field a team of washed-up veterans or inexperienced youngsters, considering that the two most recent sales of existing franchises were for $78 million (Seattle) and $70 million (San Diego). The Padres are light years closer to winning a division championship than an expansion franchise.
 2. The average player salary at the time of the purchase of the Seattle and Toronto expansion teams was $51,000. It's now in the $600,000 area, or about 12 times greater. If the franchise price of $7 million were multiplied by 12, it would be $84 million, or not very far from the posted price.
Of course, the new owners will have to pay those salary rates on top of their purchase price. That would seem to make the first view more logical, but as the commissioner said, people have lined up - 18 groups in 10 cities - and taken a number for what they may think is a bargain-basement sale.
 
TALK IS CHEAPER
 
Based on the Mets' comments about Darryl Strawberry, management does not believe he is worth the five-year, $23.5 million contract the Oakland Athletics gave Jose Canseco earlier this season. Value can be based on factors other than statistics, but here are the key statistics the two players have produced in their major league careers (1990 numbers are through Thursday's games): 

$	 	 	 	 	 	 	 							Slg.	Ob	Year,Player	Games	B.A.	HR	RBI	S.B.	Pct.	Pct.	'83 Strawberry	122	.257	26	74	19	.512	.336	'84 Strawberry	147	.251	26	97	27	.467	.343	'85 Strawberry	111	.277	29	79	26	.557	.389	'85 Canseco	29	.302	5	13	1	.490	.330	'86 Strawberry	136	.259	27	93	28	.507	.358	'86 Canseco	157	.240	33	117	15	.457	.318	'87 Strawberry	154	.284	39	104	36	.583	.398	'87 Canseco	159	.257	31	113	15	.470	.310	'88 Strawberry	153	.269	39	101	29	.545	.366	'88 Canseco	158	.307	42	124	40	.569	.391	'89 Strawberry	134	.225	29	77	11	.466	.312	'89 Canseco	65	.269	17	57	6	.542	.333	'90 Strawberry	140	.281	34	100	15	.528	.371	'90 Canseco	117	.278	36	93	17	.558	.368	
GRAPHIC: Photos: Darryl Strawberry; Jose Canseco

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (56%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (68%); 

PERSON: CANSECO, JOSE; STRAWBERRY, DARRYL; CHASS, MURRAY MICHAEL MCMAHON (64%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (64%); 



470 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 8; Page 8, Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES;
Just Give Me $10 Million, Baby

BYLINE: By DAVE ANDERSON

 BODY:
In their disappointment and disgust, some Oakland people burned their Raider jackets and T-shirts. And in nearby San Leandro, Calif., at Ricky's sports bar and restaurant, where Raider jerseys once worn by Ken Stabler and George Blanda are shrines, the huge white banner announcing ''Welcome Home, Oakland Raiders'' in silver-and-black lettering was taken down.
''We folded the banner ceremonially,'' the proprietor, Ricky Ricardo, said, ''like you do an American flag at a funeral.''
Oakland is in mourning. The Raiders, once so close to returning there, are committed to staying in Los Angeles, at least for now. If the Raiders had returned, Oakland would have welcomed Al Davis as a prodigal son. But now most people there despise him more than ever. You don't put people's hearts up for auction. 
Once upon a time, Davis's motto for the Raiders was ''Just win, baby.'' But now it's ''Just give me $10 million, baby.''
Three years ago, the Raiders' managing general genius accepted $10 million, nonrefundable of course, from Irwindale, Calif., politicians just for thinking about transplanting his team to that Los Angeles suburb best known as the gravel-pit capital of the word. As soon as that $10 million cleared the bank, Davis stopped thinking about moving there.
In agreeing last Tuesday to a proposed 20-year deal that would keep the Raiders in Los Angeles rather than return them to Oakland, from which they should never have been hijacked, Davis accepted $10 million as an advance. He also accepted forgiveness of still another $10 million that the franchise owed the Los Angeles Coliseum Commission.
If everybody has a price, it's obvious now what Al Davis's price is: increments of $10 million.
Just give me $10 million, baby. And if you forgive me another $10 million, so much the better.
Perhaps for old times' sake, Al Davis was willing to give Oakland a 50 percent discount. In his hours of decision last Monday night, he demanded an advance of only $5 million from Oakland's negotiators in the $124 million deal that had been restructured after an outcry by Oakland citizens over a $602 million offer. When the Oakland politicians balked this time, their negotiations ended.
''We thought we had the Raiders a week ago,'' said George Vukasin, the president of the Oakland-Alameda County Coliseum Complex. ''And if they hadn't gone 4-0 in their exhibition games and then beaten Denver in their opener before a big crowd, I think we'd have them now. But even so, Al always leaves a side door open.''
In accepting the $10 million advance and the forgiveness of the $10 million debt, the Raiders have agreed to remain in Los Angeles only through the 1991 season. If by then the private financing of $145 million in Coliseum renovations, including at least 150 luxury boxes, is not in place or if the approval of government environmental and landmark groups has not been obtained, Davis is not obliged to sign the proposed 20-year Coliseum lease.
Until that 20-year lease is signed, sealed and framed on the wall of Al Davis's very own silver-and-black luxury box in the Los Angeles Coliseum, keep in mind that his autograph is easier to get than his team.
Through the years Davis has signed various other agreements with the Los Angeles Colisem Commission. Three years ago, he signed the Irwindale deal. Early this year, he signed a $602 million deal with Oakland that collapsed when its citizens understandably complained that a city still recovering from last October's earthquake needed to finance its real problems instead of a pro football franchise.
In between, Davis romanced Sacramento, Calif., which was reportedly willing to offer $50 million and a $100 million stadium. But when the Sacramento politicians dared to suggest part ownership, not even five $10 million increments were enough. Just forget it, baby.
Shortly before the National Football League season began, whispers circulated that Davis would accept a restructured Oakland offer that would soon return the team to its ancestral home. But now Davis has committed to Los Angeles for the next two decades unless that deal were to collapse. As it could.
If the current economy doesn't improve, will Spectacor, the company that manages two dozen stadiums, arenas and convention facilities, or other private financiers be willing to invest $145 million in a face lift for the the aging Los Angeles Coliseum, which was constructed for the 1932 Olympics?
Other questions must also be answered. Even if the financing is obtained, would a face lift alter the image of this dowager of American stadiums protected by its stature as a national landmark? And if more Coliseum parking lots need to be created for more vehicles in the la-la land of smog, would environmentalists approve?
In the confusion, Oakland is twisting in the wind. After 12 consecutive seasons of Raider sellouts and two Super Bowl titles, it turned out to be pro football's Brooklyn: abandoned for Los Angeles despite the devotion of its fans. And just when it thought Davis would accept its latest offer, it was slapped in the face.
In discussing expansion for the 1993 season, some N.F.L. owners insist there's a moral obligation to grant Oakland a franchise. Others disagree, insisting that the San Francisco 49ers fill the Bay Area's need for a team.
To some Oakland people, an N.F.L. expansion team would never be quite the same as the Raiders. To others, an expansion team might eventually prove to be as popular in Oakland as the expansion Mets have been in New York despite the departure of the Dodgers and the Giants to Los Angeles and San Francisco more than three decades ago.
But when the N.F.L. owners vote next year on expansion cities for their 1993 timetable, don't expect Al Davis to vote for Oakland. If his latest deal with Los Angeles starts to get lost in the smog, he'll still want Oakland for himself. Just give me $10 million, baby. Or if it's Oakland, only $5 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); 

CITY: OAKLAND, CA, USA (96%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: OAKLAND RAIDERS (94%); OAKLAND RAIDERS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES RAIDERS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;OAKLAND (CALIF)

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL RESTAURANTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); 

PERSON: DAVIS, AL; ANDERSON, DAVE DAVID R ANDERSON (59%); DAVID R ANDERSON (59%); 



471 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 8, Column 5; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 181 words

HEADLINE: Data Update

 BODY:

NATIONAL HOUSING TRENDS	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	(In thousands of units, seasonally adjusted annual rates)	 	 	 	 		July 90	July 89	Change	Starts	 1,148	1,424	-19.4%	Completions	1,280	1,375	-6.9%	Sales	548	741	-26.0%	 	 	 	 	(Source: Census Bureau, U.S. Department of Commerce)	 MORTGAGE INTEREST RATES (Averages)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		Last Week	Previous Week	Year Ago	 	 	 	 	New York	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	10.42	10.46	10.40	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	8.40	8.40	8.85	 	 	 	 	New Jersey	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	10.23	10.26	10.24	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	8.12	8.15	8.63	 	 	 	 	Connecticut	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	10.30	10.33	10.34	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	8.28	8.33	8.81	 	 	 	 	Co-ops (N.Y.)	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	10.61	10.67	10.78	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	8.57	8.56	8.99	 Indexes for Adjustable-Rate Mortgages*	 	 	 	1-yr. Treasury security	7.74	7.93	8.27	National Mortgage Contract Rate	9.85	9.85	10.10	
 
*Rates on most adjustable mortgages are set 1 to 3 percentage points above these indexes.
 
(Source: HSH Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

INDUSTRY: SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HSH ASSOCIATES (53%); US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; HOUSING; PRICES REAL ESTATE (91%); TRENDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); CENSUS (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); 



472 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 17, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property: 10 Years of False Starts;
Of Britons, Bahrainis and a Block of Brownstones

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
Although American creativity is at the core of the office tower and museum planned on Manhattan's West 53d Street, it took a development team whose roots are in Bahrain and Britain to put the deal together.
After a decade of false starts, it appears that a new building may finally rise on the block east of the Avenue of the Americas, where a row of brownstones now stands. A three-story cube, with 40,000 square feet, would be the Museum of American Folk Art. Offset somewhat from that base would be a 31-story tower of about 160,000 square feet designed to attract tenants who are looking for - and can afford - ''boutique'' office space: small floors in a choice location.
The project, which may cost about $85 million and is to be finished in 1992 or 1993, is being developed jointly by Lionel R. Kustow, whose London & New York Estates concern operates on both sides of the Atlantic, and Investcorp, based in Bahrain, London and New York. The New York office of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill is designing the building. 
London & New York Estates, of which Mr. Kustow is chairman, principal and major shareholder, also developed the 461 Fifth Avenue building, at 40th Street, together with Mitsui Fudosan (New York). That 26-story office tower was completed in 1988. Investcorp, an international investment bank, has not ventured before into commercial real estate in New York but is well known as the purchaser of Saks Fifth Avenue, Tiffany & Company, Gucci, Carvel Corporation and Dellwood Foods. Its equity comes largely from institutional and individual investors in Bahrain, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.
''We did another project with London & New York in downtown Boston,'' said Damien Abbott of Investcorp, speaking of 70 Franklin Street. ''Because we knew them, we decided it would be appropriate to do this kind of transaction.''
What they have bought into is a project that has been 10 years in gestation.
In 1980, the Museum of American Folk Art bought two brownstones, Nos. 45 and 47. These had just been vacated by the Rehearsal Club, a boarding house for young actresses. It sheltered Shirley Booth, Carol Burnett, Blythe Danner, Sandy Duncan and Margaret Sullavan (to name a few) and inspired the play and movie ''Stage Door.''
In short order, four adjacent brownstones came on the market, including the one at No. 49 in which the museum was then leasing its gallery space. The museum bought these as well and took eightyears to relocate the more than two dozen tenants.
Almost from the start, museum officials envisioned an office tower with Folk Art galleries at the base. The attraction was the location, with neighbors like ABC, CBS and the Museum of Modern Art; the drawback was its size, plus the fact that it sat in a tiny zoning pocket that would have limited the building to about 160,000 square feet.
''That was a problem for most of the developers we talked to,'' said Ralph Esmerian, president of the board of trustees. ''They loved the idea of the museum and a cultural organization on that street, but the dollars and cents - they weren't able to stretch.''
In retrospect, the museum's original strategy appears to have been a bit backward, if esthetically well-intentioned. They chose an architect, Emilio Ambasz, before they had a builder. ''Unfortunately, marrying something that is strong in design with a developer's commercial sense is very difficult to do in this town,'' Mr. Esmerian said. ''It became an impossible design for anyone to build and so, unfortunately, we had to drop that.''
Mr. Kustow came on the scene more than three years ago and there followed what Mr. Esmerian described as ''on and off'' negotiations for month after month after month. ''I had to respect his tenacity in holding on to us,'' Mr. Esmerian said. ''He kept coming back to us with counter-proposals. There was certainly a personal interest on his part.''
As they put the deal together, the developers sought to increase the project's allowable bulk through a zoning change that would effectively add 15,000 square feet and through a merger of the 53d Street zoning lot with that of the City Athletic Club, 50 West 54th Street, directly to the north. Under that merger, 25,000 square feet of surplus development rights would be shifted from the nine-story clubhouse to the new tower.
Although Community Board 5 has been greatly concerned about density in mid-Manhattan, it concluded that the existing zoning on the 53d Street parcel was anomalous. ''Bringing that site into parity with its neighbors and restricting the use for the museum was certainly in the zoning context for 53d Street,'' said Jack Goldstein, chairman of the community board.
As part of the deal, the museum will turn over to the developers title to the land under four brownstones, Nos. 49 through 55, and will keep the land under Nos. 45 and 47. The building will be a condominium in which the developers own the office tower and the museum owns its quarters.
The physical envelope of the museum will be constructed by the developers. ''We build the entire structure, finished to the core and shell, and the facade,'' Mr. Kustow said. ''In consideration for us having the right to develop, the museum says: 'Don't give us money and tell us to go to another site. Build us a museum.' It's a very sensible arrangement.''
The museum, which has been without a formal home since 1986, has a gallery in the Two Lincoln Square building on Columbus Avenue, between 65th and 66th Streets, which is ultimately to become a satellite.
Museums and towers seem to mix on West 53d Street. Just down the block is Museum Tower, a condominium apartment building that sits atop and interlocks with the West Wing of the Museum of Modern Art, which is otherwise a completely separate space, built and owned by the museum. Across the street is the American Craft Museum at the base of the former E. F. Hutton headquarters tower, now known as 31 West 52d Street (it faces both 52d and 53d Streets). The building is divided into two condominium units, with the museum owning its space and the developer, Gerald D. Hines, owning the tower.
The developers of the new building, 53 West 53d Street, hope to complete the structure by early 1993. Financing will involve debt and equity, Mr. Kustow said, although the exact mix and sources are not set. The development will be speculative. It is not the kind of building that would be leased in advance by a large space user but rather by tenants who could do some ''tire kicking.''
As soft as the market is, Mr. Kustow said, a small building ''is the type of project that is probably holding out pretty well, where the buildings with big floor plates are having problems.'' Moreover, he said: ''Fifty-third Street, between Fifth and Sixth Avenues, is a key location and always has been. It has a good, institutional quality to it. It feels good, from a real estate sense.''
As if to underscore that contention, but otherwise coincidentally, the law firm of Phillips, Nizer, Benjamin, Krim & Ballon is subleasing 115,000 square feet at 31 West 52d Street from Shearson Lehman Brothers, which acquired Hutton and its leases in 1988.
''The Sixth Avenue corridor over the years has been able to lease space to very good companies,'' said Barry Shaw, managing director of the Williams Real Estate Company, which represented Philips, Nizer. ''In lieu of being a pioneer in some of the more western properties on Seventh Avenue or Broadway, they felt more comfortable with a fully tenanted building and, when it got down to economics, it seemed to fit.''
There were other attractions. Thanks to the building's notched shape, there are 12 corners on each floor. ''That made it even more appealing to a law firm,'' Mr. Shaw said, ''on the basis that they can accommodate a lot of partners without the typical in-house problem of, 'Who's going to get the corner office?' In this case, every senior partner is going to have a corner office.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brownstones on West 53d Street will be razed for museum space and an office tower. The former E. F. Hutton building, looking east to Fifth Avenue on West 53d Street. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times); Map of site of 53 West 53d Street Tower and Museum of American Folk Art.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TIF (NYSE) (66%); 8801 (TSE) (58%); ALMUDON (KUW) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (66%); NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (66%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (66%); NAICS311520 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERT MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2024 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERTS (66%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (55%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (55%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (54%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (54%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); BAHRAIN (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (73%); SAUDI ARABIA (73%); KUWAIT (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INVESTCORP BANK BSC (85%); TIFFANY & CO (66%); CARVEL CORP (66%); MITSUI FUDOSAN CO LTD (58%); SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (55%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (54%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: MUSEUM OF AMERICAN FOLK ART

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (87%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); RELOCATIONS (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (71%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (69%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (66%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (64%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W RALPH ESMERIAN (70%); LIONEL R KUSTOW (62%); 



473 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5, Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: Easing Interest for Called Up Reservists

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON

 BODY:
Armed Forces reservists who are called to trade their split level in suburbia for a tent in Saudi Arabia can take some comfort, at least, from a World War II law that reduces their mortgage interest rate to 6 percent and protects them and their families from mortgage foreclosure while they are on active duty.
The Soldier's and Sailor's Civil Relief Act of 1940 also puts the 6 percent cap on car payments, credit card balances and other installment debt, and allows the servicemen to break rental leases without penalty.
On Wednesday, the House Veterans Affairs Committee heard Pentagon officials testify that the act should be expanded, particularly a section barring evictions of active-duty soldiers from rental apartments.
President Bush has authorized the call up of 47,000 reservists in the Gulf crisis. About 19,000 have answered the call so far. 
Thrift industry officials believe that the financial impact from even a call-up of the full complement of reservists authorized would be greatest on the Federal National Mortgage Association, known as Fannie Mae, and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, known as Freddie Mac.
The two big federally chartered, investor-owned mortgage syndicators, which buy bank mortgages and convert them to investment instruments, have made commitments to absorb the lost interest income on their mortgages.
Kenneth A. Mills, vice president for public relations for Chase Manhattan Bank, said his company had already cut interest rate payments for about 100 servicemen involved in the commitment to the Persian Gulf crisis.
''We feel that we want to cooperate with these people in any way we can,'' Mr. Mills said. ''They are having their lives disrupted, and the least we can do is to make sure we do what the law requires.''
James Grohl, a spokesman for the United States League for Savings Institutions, estimated that the largest impact of the law would be on issuers of credit cards, where interest rates routinely top 18 percent.
''My guess would be that not all of the reservists have mortgages,'' he said, ''but they probably do have credit cards.''
Second-mortgage home improvement loans, another high-interest form of credit, would also come under the law, he said, as do all other installment debts.
In all cases, the 6 percent rate applies only while the soldier is on active duty, and the reqular rate resumes once the soldier puts on civilian clothes again. The lost interest income is lost to the bank forever, so while the secondary mortgage market will absorb most of the loss, banks holding the lowered mortgages in their own portfolios must absorb the lost interest income themselves.
There are about 12.5 million outstanding home mortgages in the country, with an average balance of $56,300.
The Relief Act passed during the first months of mobilization following the attack on Pearl Harbor, prevents a creditor from attempting to foreclose or to repossess a serviceperson's property while he or she is away on duty, unless the creditor can show a court that ability to pay is not materially affected by the call-up.
But even that approach may be difficult for an impatient mortgage lender. According to an analysis of the act prepared by the Pentagon, a person on active duty has an almost automatic right to a postponement of such a court action.
Indeed, Fannie Mae conceded that it would accept payments at a less than 6 percent rate, or even no payments at all, if the serviceman could not make them. But the missed payments below the 6 percent level would have to be made up later.
''Lenders should encourage the reservists to pay as much as possible, however,'' a Fannie Mae p0licy statement warned, ''because the mortgage should be brought to a current status when the active duty ends.''
The last time the 1940 act took force was during a Vietnam-era reservists' call-up in the late 60's, Mr. Grohl said. Mortgage rates were under 6 percent at the time and credit card use was limited, so the impact on lenders was minimal.
Although most of the attention of the law's impact is likely to be on its affect on savings and loan mortgage lenders, the act's broadest protections go to renters, including renters of business space and agricultural land.
A serviceman called to active duty may break a lease with one month's notice and the payment of a final month's rent, according to the Pentagon. If the lease is on a yearly basis, the landlord must refund any overpayment. Security deposits are also refundable when the month is up.
The act currently prohibits landlords from evicting reservists from apartments costing less than $150 a month because of non-payment of rent, a figure the Pentagon wants Congress to raise to $750.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FRE (NYSE) (93%); FNM (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (73%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (76%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; RESERVES (MILITARY); UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ARMED FORCES (91%); WORLD WAR II (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); FORECLOSURE (77%); EVICTION (77%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); SECOND MORTGAGES (74%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (69%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



474 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 1, Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2011 words

HEADLINE: Gulf Crisis Slows Decline at Military Plants

BYLINE: By JOHN ARUNDEL

 BODY:
THE crisis in the Persian Gulf could soon affect Connecticut's economy, injecting new life into the state's hard-hit military-equipment industry but possibly dealing a blow to the flourishing commercial aerospace business, military and industry analysts say.
Several small military suppliers in the state have already received new orders, as the Pentagon hastily scrambles to replace parts fouled by the desert of Saudi Arabia. And larger Connecticut military contractors, like Pratt & Whitney and Textron Lycoming, could soon benefit from the proposed sale of tanks and jet fighters to the Saudis.
On the reverse side are higher fuel prices, which could reverberate through the aerospace industry in the form of canceled orders for airplanes.
Although many analysts have warned that the boost to the military industry will not offset recent large-scale layoffs, some politicians, like United States Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, Democrat of New Haven, say they are optimistic. ''Overall, our involvement in the Persian Gulf will renew interest in the Connecticut defense industry,'' Senator Lieberman said. ''We are making products that are relevant to third-world contracts.'' 
These products include the M-1 tank, whose engines are made by Textron Lycoming, in Stratford, and the F-15 fighter plane, powered by engines from Pratt & Whitney, in East Hartford, which the Saudi Government has requested to boost its defenses.
President Bush has authorized the sale of 24 F-15's to be delivered now and has approved plans to sell another 24 next year as part of an $8 billion package of military hardware for the Saudis.
Pratt & Whitney could also benefit from possible orders for C-17 cargo planes and the Air Force's twin-engine Advanced Tactical Fighter. The cargo plane, built by McDonnell Douglas and powered by Pratt & Whitney engines, could now be saved from scheduled cutbacks, because the Persian Gulf crisis has underscored a shortage of American airlift capacity. The conflict could also revive the $38 billion jet-fighter program, which Congress has threatened to suspend because of the budget deficit.
Other countries have also expressed an appetite for Connecticut-powered tanks and helicopters.
On Sept. 4, South Korea announced plans to purchase components for Blackhawk helicopters. The airframe, rotors and other parts would be produced at Sikorsky Helicopter's Stratford plant, but the aircraft would be assembled in Korea. The deal could be worth as much as $650 million, analysts said. The company has already delivered 12 of the helicopters to Saudi Arabia this year and is bidding to co-produce 200 of the helicopters with Turkey.
Textron Lycoming, which makes the 1,500-horsepower gas-turbine engine that drives the M-1 tank, said it has also seen a boost in military sales. Egypt has ordered 550 of the latest M-1 tanks, and Saudi Arabia signed a deal in July to buy 315 in July and requested an additional 385 in mid-August.
''We're pushing hard for foreign sales,'' said a Textron spokesman, Richard Berman. ''We firmly think the M-1 will become more attractive to foreign governments because of its performance in the Persian Gulf conflict.'' Some military contractors in Connecticut have already benefited from the buildup of United States troops in Saudi Arabia, where the desert's blowing sand and baking heat have had erosive effects on American military hardware. Several of the more than 2,000 military contractors based in Connecticut have reported sales of replacement parts, Senator Lieberman said. He declined to identify the companies.
Despite the gains from the short-term burst in military sales, economic analysts and military officials concede that it is improbable that these developments will be enough to reverse the massive work force reductions at Connecticut's military contractors in the last two years following the long buildup during the Reagan years.
''Regardless of what happens in the Middle East, we're still going to see a contraction in the defense industry,'' said Russell F. Farnen, a political science professor and director of Hartford campus of the University of Connecticut. ''Things are going to get worse before they get better.''
 
Rise in Jet-Fuel Costs
Professor Farnen said the showdown with Iraq could have a negative effect on the aerospace industry. Pratt & Whitney has a backlog of nearly $20 billion in commercial aircraft engines, he said, but the sharp rise in the price of jet fuel and a drop in passenger traffic as the economy has declined could mean fewer orders and even some cancellations in the coming months. ''The effects could be devastating on Connecticut,'' he said. But others disagreed. ''I don't think Americans are going to stop using airplanes because of a rise in fuel'' costs, said United States Representative Barbara B. Kennelly, a Hartford Democrat.
Either way, Pratt & Whitney, which long ago diversified into non-military products and last year received $12 billion in orders for commercial jet engines, is preparing for leaner times because of military cutbacks announced by the Bush Administration. Officials at the state's largest private employer on Aug. 2 that the company would be eliminating 3,800 jobs in Connecticut and Florida by 1993, mostly through attrition. Half the cuts would be in its Connecuticut operations, the company said, mostly among its white-collar workers.
''The Persian Gulf situation may forestall cuts, and it could even generate some sales in certain areas,'' said a company spokesman, David Long. ''But we're still not sure, because we have to hear from Congress first.''
 
Cutting the Deficit
Contractors like Pratt & Whitney have been bracing for peace for more than two years, as the cold war has thawed. While massive cuts in the defense budget have not yet been approved by Congress, Connecticut's other military contractors have also been scaling down in anticipation of the passage of President Bush's deficit-reducing proposals to wipe out or scale down some programs, like the M-1.
Textron officials have told nearly a third of the company's 4,000 employees that they could be laid off in the next couple of years if the tank program is eliminated. ''We have to keep the tank plants open, so we can fill these foreign orders,'' said a Textron spokesman, Bill McDaniel.
An orderly slowdown of tank production would also allow the company time to increase its business in the commercial sector, he said. Textron is looking into selling engines to airplane manufacturers and other commercial buyers. It has also completed work on a transverse-mounted engine that would free up 76 cubic feet of space in the M-1 that could be used for a larger gun, more ammunition or additional protective armor. This development would make the M-1 even more attractive to foreign buyers, if not the United States Government, Mr. McDaniel said.
 
'Lean and Efficient'
''It is abundantly clear that there will be defense cuts,'' said a company spokesman, Neil D. Ruenzel, ''and we we want to be prepared for them by being as lean and efficient as we can.''
Responding to the announcement, United States Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of East Haddam, said, ''I can't imagine the Navy shutting down the only yard in the United States that's exclusively dedicated to building attack submarines.''
Last week, as the defense budget was taken up in Congress, members of the Connecticut delegation said that the Persian Gulf situation will slow reductions in defense spending.
''Clearly, the events in the Middle East have reinforced the need for a strong conventional defense system,'' Representative Kennelly said. ''I believe that certain individuals got carried away with the peace dividend, and that will be remedied in the budget process.''
She said the Persian Gulf crisis will mean ''stability'' for the F-15 jet-fighter program and a ''stronger possibility'' to go forward with funding of the C-17 cargo plane. Congressional funding of the Advanced Tactical Fighter program, she said, ''remains to be seen.''
And Representative Sam Gejdenson, Democrat of Bozrah, predicted ''some marginal turn-arounds'' in the defense package because of Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. ''If this crisis gives us anything, it gives us time,'' he said. ''Time for conversion.''
 
Aid for Workers
A bill that would aid workers, businesses and communities affected by the loss of military contracts and help them make a transition to commercial production was introduced in late July by Senators Lieberman and Dodd. The measure, slowly wending its way though Congress, would provide laid-off defense workers with severance pay and health benefits for one year. It would also create a council on economic diversification to assist workers, communities and businesses affected by the cutbacks, and it would create a fund to encourage defense contractors to switch to commercial production and to retrain their workers.
''We have an extraordinarily talented work force, and it would be foolish to walk away from that,'' Senator Lieberman said.
Connecticut's economic planners say they are already making progress in efforts to help some military-product manufacturers convert to other lines. The State Department of Economic Development administers the Manufacturing Act of 1990, which earmarked $2 million in grants and low-interest loans for companies dependant on military contracts. It made a $500,000 loan this summer to Data Products New England, a company in Wallingford, to help it convert one of its most sophisticated products, a data processor, to commercial use.
The department is preparing to announce a grant to UNC Naval Products, in Montville, which builds nuclear reactors for submarines. The company has been hard hit by a cost-cutting directive by the Federal Department of Energy that gave all future work to UNC's competitor, Babcock & Wilcox, of Lynchburg, Va. Since the decision, UNC has laid off more than 40 percent of its personnel, more than 350 people, and scrapped a nearly completed $100 million plant. More than 1,500 workers stand to lose their jobs by the time UNC closes its doors by 1991.
The company has not explored commercial markets in 38 years, said the director of the Department of Economic Development, Stephen Heintz. ''We're going to help them inventory their options in new markets,'' he said.
Bruce Andrews, the company's president, said it hopes its nuclear reactors can be used for projects like the Federal Supercollider program, the Savannah River power plant or the Strategic Defense Initiative.
 
Conversion Has Begun
Connecticut's weapon-making history goes back to the flintlock rifles used by the Continental Army. Today, more than 25 percent of the state's manufacturing exports are defense products, a state task force reported in May.About 100,000 workers in the state are directly dependent on the military industry, and another 400,000 are indirectly affected, the report said. About 70 percent of the state's manufacturing jobs are defense oriented.
Some conversion of Connecticut's economy has already taken place, said state officials, who said the diversification will soften the shock of a sudden loss in military orders. They point out that while defense receipts accounted for almost 20 percent of Connecticut's gross product during the mid-80's, defense work now accounts for only 6 percent of the state's $80 billion gross annual product.
''Our economy has diversified dramatically,'' said the department's Deputy Commissioner, Andrew A. Brecher.
G. Ronald Hertenstein, vice president for research at Forecast International, a defense and aerospace analysis firm in Newtown, said cuts in defense spending will not affect Connecticut more than any other state. ''Connecticut will always have a defense industry,'' he said.
Senator Lieberman agreed. ''Many contractors in the state have significant order backlogs that will keep them going for three to five years,'' he said. ''That will give us time to fight for more contracts.''

GRAPHIC: Photo; Dave Schallert, a test operator at Pratt & Whitney, with a F-100 engine. The power plant is used in the F-15 and F-16 fighter aircraft (Steve Miller for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TXT (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS333996 FLUID POWER PUMP & MOTOR MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS333611 TURBINE & TURBINE GENERATOR SET UNITS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); SAUDI ARABIA (96%); GULF STATES (91%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TURKEY (79%); EGYPT (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); INDIAN OCEAN (92%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: TEXTRON INC (84%); TEXTRON SYSTEMS CORP (84%); PRATT & WHITNEY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT; MIDDLE EAST

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AEROSPACE INDUSTRIES AND SCIENCES; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; DEFENSE CONTRACTS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE DEFENSE INDUSTRY (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); HELICOPTERS (89%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (89%); AIR FREIGHT (88%); NEW ORDERS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); ARMS TRADE (77%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (77%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (77%); TRENDS (77%); LAYOFFS (73%); ARMED FORCES (73%); APPROVALS (70%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (58%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: ARUNDEL, JOHN JOE LIEBERMAN (73%); 



475 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 1, Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo;
3 Familiar Faces Vie for the Title Of Mr. Outsider (And Governor)

BYLINE: By NICK RAVO

 BODY:
NOW that United States Representative Bruce A. Morrison, of Hamden, has secured the Democratic gubernatorial nomination, several economic concerns remain the major issues for November's election: the state's yawning budget deficit, the possibility of a state income tax and a sluggish economy that is forcing the layoffs of thousands of workers, particularly in the military industry.
But more than fiscal concerns, voter dissatisfaction may become the most important factor in determining whether Mr. Morrison's primary victory last week over State Representative William J. Cibes Jr., of New London, can carry him to success in the general election. Mr. Morrison faces United States Representative John G. Rowland, of Waterbury, the Republican nominee, and former United States Senator Lowell P. Weicker Jr., of Greenwich, a Republican running as an independent on the Connecticut Party ticket.
Mr. Weicker's campaign, which has held wide leads in all voter-preference polls since he entered the race in March, is based almost wholly on attracting the support of voters who have become increasingly cynical or apathetic about politics and the two major parties. Mr. Rowland and Mr. Morrison are also eager to portray themselves as political outsiders or reformers, who will make sweeping changes in the current Democratic administration, which has become saddled with a reputation as a bloated bureaucracy that has done too little and acted too late to solve the state's financial problems. ''They are all against the immediate past,'' said Morton J. Tenzer, an associate professor of political science at the University of Connecticut at Storrs. 
Though these roles as outsiders may be appealing to an increasingly alienated electorate, they are also curious casting, since Mr. Morrison is a four-term member of the Democratic-controlled House of Representatives, and Mr. Rowland has spent 10 years as a legislator in Hartford and Washington.
The outsider label is also ill-suited for Mr. Weicker, who is running the most aggressive anti-politician campaign. Although he has long and carefully cultivated a reputation as a maverick liberal in the Republican Party, Mr. Weicker has spent a quarter-century in the Senate, the House of Representatives and the General Assembly. ''It is an interesting twist for someone who started in politics in his 20's and is now in his 60's,'' Mr. Tenzer said.
Analysts say that more and more candidates are now offering themselves as alternatives to ''politics as usual.'' Charles E. Cook Jr., the editor of The Cook Report, a Washington newsletter, noted the independent Congressional campaign of the Socialist and former Burlington, Vt., Mayor, Bernard Sanders; the campaign of Boston University's president, John R. Silber, for the Democratic gubernatorial nomination in Massachusetts, and the victory of the socialist New Democratic Party in Ontario.
He also cited the upset victory by a businessman, Bruce Sundlun, in last week's Democratic gubernatorial primary in Rhode Island over the Mayor of Providence, Joseph R. Paolino Jr., and the strong campaign for the Republican nomination for the United States Senate in Louisiana by David Duke, a former Ku Klux Klan leader who is now a state legislator.
''The anti-politician sentiment may be squelched by the Persian Gulf,'' Mr. Cook said. ''But when that disaffection and cynicism is captured by a strong personality, like a Weicker or a Sanders or a David Duke, it still works.''
Questions remain, though, about whether any candidate, even an independent like Mr. Weicker, can successfully exploit alienation, particularly in Connecticut's gubernatorial battle, a confusing three-way contest in which the Democrat paints himself as running against two Republicans, the Republican contends he is running against two Democrats, and the independent candidate attempts to appeal to members of both parties.
 
Doubts on Income Tax
Some voters may also suspect that Mr. Morrison supports a state income tax more than he has indicated. He has said he would support one if approved by the voters in an advisory referendum. Conversely, voters may doubt that Mr. Rowland will be able to keep his pledge to solve the state's fiscal crisis without raising taxes. And as for Mr. Weicker, voters appear to be unsure whether he supports or opposes a state income tax, probably because he has said that he will neither rule the idea in or out.
''There is a high level of cynicism out there that comes from the things like the Congressional pay raise and Republicans supporting raising taxes,'' Mr. Cook said. ''It's sort of like they can't even trust Republicans not to raise taxes anymore.''
Professor Tenzer said a more likely result of the alienation would be a lower voter turnout, which is what occurred last week, when only 19 percent of the eligible voters participated in Connecticut's Democratic Party primary.
In the Republican primary in the Third Congressional District, in which State Senator Thomas Scott, of Milford, defeated former State Representative Gerard Patton, also of Milford, only 6 percent of the eligible voters participated, a figure skewed by the fact that unaffiliated voters in Connecticut can cast ballots in some Republican primaries but not Democratic ones.
''There is a higher level of apathy out there than there has been on previous occasions,'' said Prof. James W. Dull, a former political reporter and chairman of the political science department at the University of New Haven.
 
Distracted Voters
Besides alienation, the low turnouts last week are also linked to the fact that this is an off-year election, meaning that there is no Presidential race, as well as the current lack of a statewide incumbent candidate, and the notion that political campaigns do not become interesting until the final weeks.
Some politics watchers, like Professor Tenzer, also noted that some of the apathy emanated from the Persian Gulf conflict, which has distracted potential voters and overshadowed local political news.
''I think that's changing,'' he said. ''And by October, more interest will be focused on the political races.''
Others, though, have another explanation. ''I attribute it to the anti-government feeling that grew during the Reagan Administration,'' Professor Dull said. ''There are a great deal of people out there that don't believe government can make a difference.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (72%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); LAYOFFS (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); INCOME TAX (57%); 

PERSON: RAVO, NICK; MORRISON, BRUCE A (REPR); ROWLAND, JOHN G (REPR); WEICKER, LOWELL P JR BERNIE SANDERS (58%); 



476 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 22, Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 315 words

HEADLINE: Florio and the Need To Raise Taxes

 BODY:
Re: ''Florio's Response to Tax Critics Is Questioned,'' Aug. 5:
I hate to pay taxes as much as anyone, and certainly the prospect of Governor Florio's substantial increases gets me where it really hurts. On the other hand, the behavior of the leadership of the anti-tax Hands Across New Jersey movement galls me even more.
At a meeting with the Governor, the tax repeal people, according to press reports, had nothing substantive to say as to how to manage our state's economy without new taxes. They talk of budget cuts but do not indicate just where they would act to effect economies. Apparently all they could identify as extravagant was the cost of the telegram sent to invite them to the meeting. 
Our State Constitution requires that all New Jersey children receive an adequate education. Our Supreme Court has determined that this is not taking place and has ordered that more money must be spent in poorer districts. How do the anti-taxers and their petition signers intend to pay for the added costs, or do they propose to change the New Jersey Constitution?
Toxic sites pollute our drinking water and the air we breathe. Do the no-sayers want something done, or are they content to ignore the danger?
Just how many police officers and firefighters should be fired to reduce the costs of government? Should some prisons be closed and their inmates released? Highway maintenance could be reduced, allowing the roads to further deteriorate. Crews could stop filling potholes, mowing lawns in summer and spreading salt and plowing in winter.
Casino revenues now dedicated to help senior citizens pay for their utilities could be diverted to the State treasury.
Yes, it is going to cost each and every one of us about three cents more for a roll of toilet paper, perhaps $3 a year - but maybe, just maybe, it might be worth it.
 
ARTHUR L. YEAGER, D.D.S.
 Westwood

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: TAXATION TAX INCREASES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); TAX RELIEF (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); WATER POLLUTION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); BUDGET CUTS (70%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (69%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); PETITIONS (68%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (64%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (64%); CASINOS (51%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%); 

PERSON: FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV) MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 



477 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 22, Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 266 words

HEADLINE: Initiative Amendment: Dissenting Views

 BODY:
Mr. Hochbaum argues that because our Legislature in recent years has become more ''open,'' and because it has spawned a growing bureaucracy of specialized committees with larger and larger staffs, it is well equipped to make good decisions for us. He says that the public's use of referendums would amount to amateur meddling, and that we should patiently wait for the next election if our representatives outrage us. 
I find that preposterous. Far from ''weakening our system of representative government,'' the initiative and referendum amendment would give us an indispensable tool to encourage our elected officials to pay attention to our needs and wishes on an on-going basis, and not just immediately prior to an election.
Open access? Mr. Hochbaum argues that committee meetings of the Legislature are announced in advance and that interested citizens have the right to testify, and that we should confine ourselves to such participation in government between elections. How many of us can take time to attend every committee hearing in Trenton that is considering legislation that could affect us?
Who does send experts to testify? Only pressure groups who hold the Legislature hostage to single-issue voting blocks, or well-heeled lobbyists whose money the legislators may find hard to ignore. So much for the ''open'' access to the process.
We need initiative and referendum to make legislators pay attention. And we need it quickly so that this tax package can be rolled back before it throws New Jersey's economic engine into reverse.
 
H. TIMOTHY MCCANN
 Madison

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; REFERENDUMS REFERENDUMS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); TESTIMONY (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); EXPERT WITNESSES (68%); TAX LAW (65%); 

PERSON: HOCHBAUM, MARTIN



478 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 20, Column 6; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: Orchestra Gambles To Win The Young

BYLINE: By TESSA MELVIN

 BODY:
WHEN a summer downpour forced the Philharmonia Virtuosi to move its popular free outdoor performance of Vivaldi's ''Four Seasons'' from Kensico Plaza to the cavernous County Center one Tuesday, gloomy orchestra officials predicted that few members of the audience would follow inside.
More than a thousand showed up in the center, carrying picnic dinners and blankets, many with children. ''We figured no one would come,'' Richard Kapp, the orchestra's musical director, recalled with a grin. ''Then we saw all those people and we said: 'Wait a second. If people will bring their kids in the rain on a Tuesday, why wouldn't they come back on a weekend in the fall?' '' 
The chamber orchestra has decided to find out. In an unusual effort to encourage more people to attend its subscription concerts and to build future audiences, the Philharmonia Virtuosi has announced a new ''Kids Attend Free'' policy, allowing children between the ages of 8 and 18 to attend subcription concerts at no charge if accompanied by a subscriber, with a limit of two free children with each adult.
 
The Audiences of Tomorrow
Leaders of other symphonic groups in the metropolitan area agree the policy is unprecedented and say they will be watching the results closely. ''It's a risk, but where else are the audiences of tomorrow going to come from?'' Mr. Kapp said. ''I have never felt price should be a barrier. Music should be as accessible as the movies.''
Recalling the crowds that attended the orchestra's free outdoor concerts this summer at Lyndhurst, the National Historic Trust property on the Hudson in Tarrytown, and at Kensico Plaza in Valhalla, Mr. Kapp said: ''It was very exciting for those people to be there, as they all wanted to be there. The desire to participate is more important than the $20 we could get if we charged for each seat.''
Under the old policy, parents who took children to Philharmonia Virtuosi concerts at the Performing Arts Center on the State University of New York campus in Purchase paid $40 a subscription for each child, Mr. Kapp said. But if they left their children home, he added, ''the price for a babysitter is still $25. Parents are caught between Scylla and Charybdis, so we decided to remove the barriers.''
 
As Patrons Grow Older
The new policy is also an attempt to strengthen the orchestra's shrinking subscriber base, a two-year decline that Mr. Kapp called slight but worrisome. The problem, he said, is one that arts organizations around the country face as patrons grow older without an accompanying increase in younger audiences.
A nationwide Harris Poll about two years ago found overall attendance at arts performances to be down by 12 percent from the previous year, matching the subscriber decline the Philharmonia Virtuosi is experiencing. The poll cited graying patrons as one factor, together with the reluctance of a younger generation to pay the prices charged for tickets and the competition for diminishing leisure time.
As long as there are seats available, Mr. Kapp said, now is the time for orchestras ''to decide who they want in them.'' The Kids Attend Free Policy reflects the orchestra's belief that a new audience ''can only be found through people's value systems,'' Mr. Kapp said. ''Otherwise, there is no way to market and sell those seats.''
 
A Look at Westchester
In Westchester, a downturn in the economy has also dampened subcriber enthusiasm, Mr. Kapp said. ''Westchester has changed immensely. People are spending less, and money is definitely tighter.'' Telephone calls to non-renewing subscribers confirm that many are moving from the county in search of better working and economic conditions, Mr. Kapp said.
Officials of the New Orchestra of Westchester, which presents a series of double concerts at the State University of New York in Purchase each season, are also noticing a trend toward an older audience, said Sara McClure, its executive director.
She said ''normal attrition'' among subscribers was 15 percent. ''The overall report is that we are doing very well, and you would be hard-pressed to find a seat at our SUNY concerts on Saturday night,'' Ms. McClure said. But the orchestra's audiences ''are getting a little older,'' she added, ''and we don't have a lot of 35-year-olds subscribing.''
The New Orchestra of Westchester charges $5 for children under 18 with a subscriber, and Ms. McClure said that this year, for the first time, a special marketing effort was being made to notify parents of that policy.
 
A Change in Ticket Purchasing
Subscriptions at the Westchester Symphony Orchestra are down 10 percent from last year, said Dr. Henry N. Oppenheimer, president of the orchestra. He added that more people were purchasing tickets individually instead of by subscription. ''People don't want to commit for a subscription,'' Dr. Oppenheimer said. ''With so many offerings around, you could tie up all your weekends for the year.''
The Westchester Symphony is concerned about building an audience for the future, Dr. Oppenheimer said, and a special family package is under consideration. ''Looking at our current patrons,'' he said, '' we can tell they are not the ones who go to rock concerts.''
The Philharmonia Virtuosi is hoping its new marketing ploy will be as successful as some unusual techniques it has tried in the past. For a special performance at Carnegie Hall several years ago, for example, the orchestra decided to charge only $7 a seat to attract an audience unfamiliar with the Westchester-based group.
''We took out an ad that said for $7 you can stand in line to see a movie or you can join us in Carnegie Hall,''' Mr. Kapp said. ''And we sold 3,500 tickets in 24 hours.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHILHARMONIA ORCHESTRA

SUBJECT: MUSIC; CHILDREN AND YOUTH CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (65%); 

PERSON: MELVIN, TESSA RICHARD KAPP (93%); 



479 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 340 words

HEADLINE: NATIONAL NOTEBOOK: Houston;
Skywalker's Successor

BYLINE: By LETTICE STUART

 BODY:
 "Since the proposal is two years old, Mr. Cordish is in the process of updating his economic analysis," said City Attorney Clarence West. "We may be ready to move forward in several weeks."
The convention center, in the heart of the downtown theater district, has been vacant since the new 601,000-square-foot George R. Brown Convention Center opened 14 blocks away three years ago. 
Skywalker had proposed to transform it into a glitzy complex of restaurants, clubs, participatory games, shops, movie theaters and water-oriented activities on the Buffalo Bayou -- all tied into a Star Wars theme. A 100-foot-tall globe covered with glimmering lights was to be the project's signature.
But complications developed over a contract involving a 60-year lease and negotiations over splitting the costs of capital improvements with the city.
The project was scrapped when Japanese investors with whom the developers had been working for more than a year lost interest in it. Efforts to find other financing sources were unsuccessful.
According to Mr. West, the City Council purposely left the door open in 1988 to reconsider the Cordish proposal should the Lucas proposal fall through.
The Cordish proposal, said Arlene Cho, the company spokeswoman, includes a mix of retail, entertainment and restaurant space highlighted by an enclosed arboretum with a 60-foot waterfall spilling out of the building down to the bayou. The architect is D'Agostino, Izzo, Quirk Architects of Cambridge, Mass.
The original financing commitment from Winthrop Financial Associates, an affiliate of the Boston real estate firm First Winthrop, is no longer in place, said Mrs. Cho, but "we feel certain we will be able to get financing for the project."
Founded in 1967, Cordish has developed other festival marketplaces around the country, including Rainbow Center in Niagara Falls, N.Y., Trappers Alley in Detroit and Trolley Square in Salt Lake City. The company soon will begin construction of a hotel and conference center in Philadelphia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (78%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL ASSOCIATES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HOUSTON (TEX)

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); CITIES (78%); RESTAURANTS (75%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (69%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (67%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (61%); THEATER (57%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (57%); 

PERSON: STUART; LETTICE ARLENE CHO (69%); 



480 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1, Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 384 words

HEADLINE: NATIONAL NOTEBOOK: Augusta, Ga.;
Riverside Plans Generate Hope

BYLINE: By FORD RISLEY

 BODY:
 Until a few years ago, it was virtually impossible to get to the river from downtown. A 56-foot-high levee was built early in the century by the city to keep it from overflowing and, although dams and lakes later were built, the levee remained.
In 1986, the city breached the levee and two years later opened the first section of a mile-long riverfront park. Earlier this year, the final part of the park, known as Riverwalk, was completed. 
Port Royal is being developed by Port Royal Associates, a local development company, and C.F.I .,a Parisian investment group. It includes an 80,000-square-foot shopping mall and a 13-story condominium tower, said Wayne Rogers, vice president of Port Royal Associates. Completion is due next March .
The Riverfront Center originally was to be finished about the same time, but ran into financial problems. Those were resolved when William S. Morris, chief executive officer of Morris Communications, a local publishing company, became a limited partner in the development firm, Augusta Riverfront. Now the opening is expected early in 1992.
Riverfront Center will include a 240-room hotel, a 140,000-square-foot office building and a 30,000-square-foot conference center, said William Bailey, president of Bailey & Associates, another partner in Augusta Riverfront. The hotel and conference center are being financed partly through a $7.5 million grant from the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development and $8 million from the City of Augusta.
Hotel business downtown has slumped in recent years, with the occupancy rate averaging 65 percent in 1989, and no hotel operator has been signed yet for the Riverfront Center. Port Royal officials hope the mall will be 80 percent leased before opening but admit they are far from that goal.
Except for the annual Masters Golf Tournament, the city has never been a big tourist destination and most residents shop in suburban malls. Mr. Rogers said the Riverwalk already has started to bring tourists and residents downtown by making the river accessible. The city's Fourth of July celebration this year on the Riverwalk attracted about 250,000 people downtown, he said.
"It's amazing," Mr. Rogers said, "how many residents have never had the opportunity to see the river from our vantage point."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: AUGUSTA, GA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;AUGUSTA (GA)

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL REAL ESTATE (90%); RIVERS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (76%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); RETAIL PROPERTY (74%); CITIES (73%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (71%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (69%); RETAILERS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (67%); TOURISM (64%); GOLF (62%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (62%); SUBURBS (62%); PUBLISHING (52%); 

PERSON: RISLEY, FORD WAYNE ROGERS (56%); ESTELLE MORRIS (56%); 



481 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1, Column 4; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 340 words

HEADLINE: NATIONAL NOTEBOOK: Portland, Me.;
First Venture By Japanese

BYLINE: By JEFFREY L. SMITH

 BODY:
 The project, Back Bay Tower, is a joint venture of Gleichman & Company of Portland and Mitsui Kensetsu of Chicago, a subsidiary of Mitsui Construction Company of Tokyo.
Thirty-four apartments have been set aside for tenants whose income is below the median for the area. A family of four, for example, earning no more than $18,900 will be able to rent a two-bedroom apartment for $326 a month. 
Market-rate rents vary from $675 a month for a one-bedroom to $1,450 for a three-bedroom penthouse with a wrap-around terrace. About 40 percent of the units, including about a dozen for low-income tenants, have been rented.
The project, designed by Sasaki Associates of Waterton, Mass., was financed in part by a $4.5 million low-interest loan to the developers by the city through a Federal grant in exchange for setting aside the low-income units.
Most apartments have views of either Casco Bay or Back Cove and there is an indoor pool, exercise equipment, a half-acre private garden, a doorman and covered parking for 128 automobiles with 18-hour manned security. Parking spaces rent for $55 a month.
The Portland City Council approved the project in 1984, but changing Federal tax policies and bureaucratic delays caused early investors to back out, said Pamela Gleichman, owner of her company.
The project was able to retain its low-interest loan when Mitsui Kensetsu became a financial partner in 1986.
Mitsui officials had started looking at Portland for possible investmentto strengthen the new sister-city relationship between Portland and Shinagawa, which is a Tokyo borough, said Shinichi Sugiura, executive vice president of Mitsui Kensetsu. The company ultimately invested $2.25 million.
Ms. Gleichman, 46 years old, who founded her small company in 1979 and who has has developed similar subsidized housing projects in Connecticut and Maine, said she has invested more than $1 million in the $16 million project.
Gov. John R. McKernan called the project a significant capital investment in an otherwise slow economy.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The 15-story, 115-unit Back Bay Tower in Portland, Me. (Gary Guisinger for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (90%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (76%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, ME, USA (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: MITSUI CONSTRUCTION CO LTD (91%); PORTLAND CITY COUNCIL (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PORTLAND (ME)

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); JOINT VENTURES (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); CITIES (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (71%); CITY LIFE (68%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); APPROVALS (66%); GRANTS & GIFTS (53%); 

PERSON: SMITH, JEFFREY L MITSUI KENSETSU (86%); PAMELA GLEICHMAN (67%); 



482 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5, Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: Focus: The Midwest Market;
Demand is Strong and Prices Are Rising

BYLINE: By Jennifer Stoffel

DATELINE: CLEVELAND

 BODY:
In marked contrast to the housing picture in the rest of the country, the demand for homes throughout the Middle West remains robust, with brisk sales and rising prices signaling the region's emergence as the strongest market in the country.
The number of resales rose 4.2 percent in the second quarter throughout the region's 12 states, compared to a year earlier, in contrast with a decline of 0.5 percent nationally, according to the most recent survey by the National Association of Realtors. The states are Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North and South Dakota, Ohio and Wisconsin.
In that same period, 50 of the 98 metropolitan areas throughout the country surveyed by the trade group posted price increases at or above the 3.4 percent national average, with four in the Midwest showing double-digit gains. They were Chicago (an 11 percent rise in the median resale price of a one-family house, to $116,600); Indianapolis (16.1 percent, to $82,300), Lincoln, Neb. (10.9 percent, to $61,900), and Rockford, Ill. (14.9 percent, to $68,700). 
''The Midwest has just not been subject to the big run-ups in price that have happened on the coasts,'' said Norman D. Flynn, president of the National Association of Realtors. ''Sure, it's not remarkable, it's not a super boom, it never will be. It's steady as she goes.''
For much of the region, as the overall economy experienced a rejuvenation during the late 80's - the stock market crash of October 1987 had little effect here - housing also made a rebound.
''New home product sat and there was virtually no building in the early 80's,'' said Vincent Aveni, president of Realty One of Cleveland, where stagnating sales and foreclosures accompanied the economic recession in the early 80's.
''Now,'' he added, ''with new jobs being created, the overall move-up market is good. With every first-time home buyer there is a filtering up which creates three more transactions.''
The National Association survey reported that the Cleveland area's increase of 7 percent, to a median home price of $81,500, was surpassed in Ohio only by the gain in Columbus, 7.4 percent, to $82,400. And the number of sales statewide, the survey found, was up 5.8 percent.
Yet, while signs of more prosperous times are welcomed here, on closer examination the housing figures reveal a pattern of growth and development that, if it continues, will leave many cities drained. The acceleration of migration to the suburbs, a decades-old trend, is prompting a debate about public policy and the future of city housing.
In particular, the market for move-up houses in suburban subdivisions has prospered in recent years from the region's changing economy.
Smokestack industries no longer dominate and jobs in manufacturing have remained flat after a drop of 22 percent in the early 80's. Thus, in Cleveland and the rest of the Middle West, the recovery is attributed to a growth in service industries.
Changing life styles also appear to be spurring suburban growth and the continued strength in sales of higher-priced houses. In addition to better schools and less crime, recreational amenities - such as pools and jogging trails - ample green space and large lots are typically what lure young professionals with children to new developments.
''Young people want to do everything today,'' said Lois Latina, a principal in Latina & Latina Builders, a local developer. ''And why not? Why wait to give yourself and your kids the good things in life?''
The continued growth of such Cleveland suburbs as Strongsville exemplifies the trend.
As the largest suburb in land area in Cuyahoga County - with 24.5 square miles - and with downtown Cleveland just 18 miles to the northeast by way of Interstate 71, Strongsville had the right combination to justify predictions of growth. In fact, a decade-long residential housing boom added 2,737 single-family homes during the 1980's.
Expecting expansion to continue and new suburban housing to remain attractive to move-up buyers, Parkview Corporation, a local developer, started a planned unit development of one-family homes in Strongsville in the late 70's. It consists of two distinct communities - High Point and Deerfield Woods - that share such amenities as 46 acres of open space, tennis courts, a pool and a jogging trail.
When the 230-acre High Point development is completed in mid-1991, it will have 608 one-family residences, 122 of them detached cluster homes, built around the open-space area. As it stands now, 500 homes are completed.
Prices in the development range from $145,000 for a 1,500-square-foot, two-bedroom villa in a cluster site to $500,000 for four- and five-bedroom homes of 4,000 square feet.
The other community, Deerfield Woods, has been proposed for an adjacent 78 acres. Approvals have not yet been received from the city, but the developoment is expected to comprise single-family homes of 3,200 to 4,200 square feet starting at $275,000.
Similar projects ring the metropolitan area. At Rolling Brook Estates, in Solon, on the far southeastern side of Cuyahoga County, 20 miles from downtown, most homes are over 4,000 square feet and begin at $450,000. Sales began there in 1987, aimed at professional families in their late 30's to 40's with children; 34 of 38 five-acre lots have been sold.
Another local developer, Transco Construction, began construction in Solon last month of Cambridge Park Estates, 41 one-family homes beginning at $275,000 on one-acre lots. Since the initial offering earlier this year only 18 lots remain.
Yet local officials and planners concede there is a downside to the economic resurgence that is driving the boom in suburban development.
Across the state, suburbs prosper as people continue to abandon cities, and new construction is out of balance with the number of new households, according to a study released in June by the Ohio Urban University Program, a consortium of seven urban Ohio universities.
Further, the study indicates, the flight from the cities is being reinforced by policies as varied as public financing of road improvements and school expansions - with much of the work in the suburbs - and mortgage assistance programs for first-time home buyers.
The study covered Akron, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Columbus, Dayton, Toledo and Youngstown.
''The state and Federal Government enable and invite people to move out,'' said Thomas E. Bier, director of housing policy research at Cleveland State University and a contributor to the study. ''I'm not saying there is an easy answer to this, but over the long term we will literally empty the cities.''
Among Ohio cities, the study showed, Cleveland was second only to Youngstown in both population loss and housing surpluses through the 80's, with a ratio of 1.8 new housing units to one additional household.
If the trend continues as predicted, the report anticipates that 14.7 of the households and 17.8 percent of the population will leave Cleveland for the suburbs this decade, creating an 18.8 percent housing surplus in the city.

GRAPHIC: Photos: High Point, a community in Strongsville, Ohio, is one of the prospering suburban subdivisions in the Cleveland area. Homes in High Point range from $145,000 to $1 million. (Roger Mastroianni for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); LINCOLN, NE, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); ROCKFORD, IL, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SECURITIES DEALERS INC (52%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (83%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE WESTERN STATES (US)

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PRICES; SALES PRICE INCREASES (92%); REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TRENDS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); FORECLOSURE (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); CITIES (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); SUBURBS (69%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (63%); JOB CREATION (61%); 

PERSON: STOFFEL, JENNIFER



483 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: Sands Bloom With Growth In Las Vegas

BYLINE: By ROBERTO SURO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS, Nev.

 BODY:
Out in the desert suburbs, far from the casinos' bright lights, workers are hurriedly building monuments to the assumption that this city will always come up a winner.
As fast as stucco can dry, subdivisions, apartment complexes and shopping malls are rising in the sandy wastes to accommodate the horde of newcomers who have helped Nevada's population grow by almost half over the last 10 years.
While the population of Nevada is only 1,193,000 people, according to preliminary census data, that represents a hefty increase from 800,000 in 1980 and 489,000 in 1970, making it the fastest-growing state in terms of percentage over the last 20 years.
Most of the growth in the last decade took place in Las Vegas and surrounding Clark County.
Many new Las Vegas developments have names like Bay Breeze, Sunset Bay and Bermuda Springs, as if the aquatic imagery could defy the dust and pale rock all around. More than 1,000 single-family homes are built each month, in contrast to the trend almost everywhere else in the country. 
 
Migration to Sun Slows
In the 1980's, Americans continued their long migration to the warm climes of the Southwest. But recently the Sun Belt dream of limitless space for unending growth has faded. It has fallen victim to the polluted haze of traffic in Los Angeles and has turned sour with the real estate slump in Phoenix. Not here. ''In Las Vegas, we believe in looking forward and making big plans,'' said James Cashman 3d, president of a construction and mining equipment company. ''Sometimes we maybe make our plans too big on purpose, but that's because we expect to grow and want to grow, and that very attitude makes it happen.''
And there is little nostalgia for the ways of a small city, left behind in the 1960's as Las Vegas took on urban problems like street gangs, drug abuse and overtaxed public services.
''This is not a town of looking-back people,'' Mr. Cashman said.
 
Rewards of Growth
Since the mid-1980's, rapid expansion of gambling and tourism has fired up the Las Vegas economy, creating thousands of jobs. Gambling receipts have climbed 30 percent in the last two years, enriching the state government, which collects a 6.4 percent tax.
Also, the absence of any personal and corporate income taxes and the availability of relatively inexpensive real estate 280 miles from Los Angeles have proved a powerful draw for retirees and businesses. In effect, Las Vegas has become Southern California's most far-flung suburb.
Only the first apprehensions over growth are being whispered here. ''I could not have imagined a traffic jam in Las Vegas even a few years ago,'' said Mr. Cashman, a rare third-generation native. ''Now we're starting to get them - little ones compared to anywhere else - and it makes me wonder whether we couldn't just take a breather to catch up some before we keep on going.''
In the 1970's, the population of the metropolitan Las Vegas area grew about 70 percent, from 273,000 to 466,805. In the next decade, the metropolitan population grew 31 percent more, to 612,602. Some suburban communities in surrounding Clark County, like Henderson, grew by nearly 150 percent in the 1980's, according to the census figures.
School enrollment figures show acceleration in the second half of the 1980's. In September 1985 the number of students in the Clark County public schools was up 2 percent over the previous year; in every year since then, the rate of expansion has increased. The district expects enrollment to be up about 7.6 percent this year.
It is in the schools that keeping up with growth has proved most difficult. A number of schools have twice the number of students they were designed for, said Ray Willis, a school district spokesman. Classrooms have been partitioned so that they could be used by two classes at once, he said, and several schools are holding two sessions a day, obliging half the students to begin classes at 6:30 A.M. and the other half to stay until late afternoon.
So new schools are being built. Eleven new schools opened for the first day of school this year, and eight more are under construction.
For the first time, several prominent candidates for local and state offices are campaigning on promises to take account of the costs of rapid growth to the environment and public services. Gov. Bob Miller, a Democrat who will face the voters in November, proclaims that Nevada is at a crossroads and that ''the time has come to define our goals.''
The debate in the Las Vegas area, which is home to about 60 percent of the state's population, still focuses on whether efforts should be made to manage growth while encouraging it. So far, there has been no large audience for the kinds of proposals to restrain growth that are now regularly debated elsewhere in the West.
''It hasn't happened yet, but you can sense that a political change is coming,'' said Jeff German, a columnist for The Las Vegas Sun.
 
Upgrading the Image
But for the moment, Las Vegas is still reveling in what many people here perceive as a radical improvement in its image.
''We are starting to be seen as more of a typical city,'' said Mr. German. ''Even though we still have the gambling and the glitz, the rest of the country no longer thinks of Vegas as a sin capital run by organized crime. Now there is legal gambling all over, whether it is state lotteries, casino ships or Atlantic City.''
The spread of gambling has not only legitimized Las Vegas but also presented it with widespread competition. In response, the big corporations that now run many of the major hotel casinos have gone after the convention market and developed new attractions that are virtual theme parks under a single roof.
Two such establishments, the 3,000-room Mirage and the 4,000-room Excalibur, have opened within the last year to vast and appreciative crowds. The Mirage has a tropical island motif,, while the Excalibur is a medieval fantasy world complete with jousting matches. The properties, which dwarf Atlantic City's newest offering, the 1,200-room Trump Taj Mahal, increased Las Vegas's hotel capacity 10 percent, to nearly 70,000 rooms. Another establishment, the Sahara Hotel and Casino, is adding 600 rooms, bringing the total to 2,100.
Some of the older casinos announced layoffs this summer, though, prompting industry analysts to ask how much more growth can be sustained and whether some of the aging landmarks on the Las Vegas strip will be able to compete with the new resorts.
Although Las Vegas has attracted a number of financial services companies, some light manufacturing and several large warehousing and distribution operations, the growth in gambling and tourism has overwhelmed efforts to develop a more diversified economy.
In the years of the city's rapid expansion, tourism and gambling have consistently provided about 30 percent of the employment in Clark County and taxes on gambling have accounted for nearly half the state's revenue. The dominance of this industry is Las Vegas's most frequently cited vulnerability.
''If you look at the city's fiscal and economic dependence on this one activity, then it is a house of cards,'' said R. Keith Schwer, director of the Center for Business and Economic Research at the University of Nevada in Las Vegas.
But he added, ''If you look beyond the casinos to an entire tourism business and the growing ties to a market of 29 million people in California, then it looks much more solid.''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 18, 1990, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about the growth of Las Vegas misstated the state tax rate on gambling revenues. It is 6.25 percent, not 6.4 percent

GRAPHIC: Photo: Over the last 10 years Nevada's population has grown by almost half, and subdivisions are rising from the desert to accommodate the newcomers. Construction, above, in May in northwestern Las Vegas. (Associated Press); Graph: Building permits per 1,000 people in select U.S. cities (Source: Alfred Gobar and Associates) (pg. A20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (96%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SUN BELT RENTALS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LAS VEGAS (NEV)

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GAMBLING; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; POPULATION; TAXATION TRENDS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); CENSUS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); CORPORATE TAX (60%); RETAILERS (57%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%); INCOME TAX (50%); 

PERSON: SURO, ROBERTO JAMES CASHMAN (58%); 



484 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: High-Tech Medicine At High-Rise Costs Is Keeping Pets Fit

BYLINE: By JON NORDHEIMER

 BODY:
For 30 minutes, as much time as it takes to place a patient inside the metal doughnut of a CAT scanner and make a cross-sectioned study of his cancerous throat, the fate of Buster hung in the balance.
Luck was on the side of the 7-year-old West Highland terrier. Pictures from the computer-controlled imaging device showed that the cancer was not widespread. Ahead lay a seven-week regimen of chemotherapy and cobalt radiation and a $4,000 medical bill for Buster's owner. The guarded prognosis: Buster could have good ''quality of life'' for another year or two. Without treatment, he would die by Christmas.
Although prize livestock and racehorses have always received high-level care because of their value as property, in the last decade household pets, mostly dogs and cats, have become beneficiaries of medical and technologically advanced diagnostic treatments perfected on humans. 
The most advanced procedures, like brain and heart surgery, bone transplants and nuclear medicine, are available at regional training hospitals. Advanced skills and treatments less dependent on special training or equipment are making their way into neighborhood clinics.
As the reach of medicine helps more animals at an ever-higher cost, a debate is gaining momentum on veterinary school campuses and in professional journals that veterinary ethics are not keeping pace, especially with changes in social attitudes toward pets.
''What's different is the unbelievable elevation of the importance of the human-animal bond and evidence that humans have benefited emotionally from the presence of pets,'' said Dr. James Wilson 3d, a bioethicist at the University of Pennsylvania School of Veterinary Medicine. ''More than two out of three Americans think of their pets as family members; some 20 percent in surveys say they are as important as a child.''
Americans spent nearly $6 billion on veterinary services in 1987, up 20 percent from the previous survey in 1985, said J. Carl Wise, an economist for the American Veterinary Medical Association, the profession's governing body, which has 49,875 licensed members. $4,000 Operation on Pet Not long ago, $250 was considered a high price for veterinary services for an injured or dying pet, because advanced treatment was limited and euthanasia was relatively common and accepted.
Today nearly that much can be spent at a local animal hospital for a single ultrasound examination. Major orthopedic and heart surgery can cost $1,500 to $4,000. Most such services are not covered by insurance.
There are many people, including pet owners, who consider it unseemly, even shocking, to spend thousands of dollars on advanced pet care in a society where humans often have little or no access to such help.
But Bruce Jennings, an associate for policy studies at the Hastings Center, a medical ethics research institute in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., said that kind of reaction was misplaced.
''As long as the money comes out of an individual's pocket and not public resources, it makes no particular sense to single it out from other economic purchases such as jewelry or a fancy car. From an ethical point of view, aiding an animal may be a more noble expenditure than jewelry.''
 
Animal Charity Hospitals
Rising costs do pose a quandary for veterinarians, though. Even as they profit from medical advances, they are coming under pressure to provide for animals from low-income households.
''Many people can't afford anything but euthanasia,'' said Dr. Michael W. Fox, vice president of the Humane Society of the United States. ''The big question for animal doctors is what to do for a loving elderly person with limited resources whose pet needs a $6,000 operation. It suggests the need for community support for a network of full-service animal charity hospitals like the ones provided in England.''
Jerrold Tannenbaum, a lawyer who teaches a required ethics course at Tufts University's veterinary school, said rising costs of the new services pose the question of whether veterinarians - who on average earn $51,000 a year, just 40 percent of what physicians make - should offer more low-cost or free care.
Another question for some veterinarians is the kind of moral claim animals - at least a select number of companion animals - have on humans. They say choices about treatment are being made within a social and legal tradition that animals are chattel and can be put to death on a whim or on grounds of economic utility.
About 7.5 million dogs and cats -healthy or disabled, old and young -are killed each year in this country, according to the Humane Society of the United States. Dr. Wilson, the bioethicist, said veterinarians were beginning to balk at an owner's demand that an animal in basic good health be destroyed.
 
Animal Rights Issues
''They are saying that the pet may be the owner's property, but they won't push the plunger,'' Dr. Wilson said. ''This is especially true of the younger graduates influenced by the animal rights movement.''
He described the situation of a young veterinarian whose identity he would not disclose. ''An elderly widow with a terminal disease wanted her pregnant 3-year-old dog put to sleep because she couldn't afford the cost of a Caesarean procedure and she was afraid, in any case, no one would care for her dog after she herself was gone,'' he said.
The veterinarian offered to drastically cut his fee, but was unable to change her mind. Although he agreed to destroy the animal, he could not bring himself to do so and delivered the litter at his own expense and found homes for the mother and pups. When the dog owner learned what he had done, she was outraged. She sued him and complained to the state licensing board.
''He did the right moral and ethical thing and faces having his license lifted,'' Dr. Wilson said.
For Dr. Mike Shires, acting dean of the veterinary school at the University of Tennessee in Knoxville, there is another spin in the ethics debate.
''Despite a poor prognosis, many people pursue all sorts of extreme medical treatments for their pets that weren't available a few years ago,'' he said. ''In cases where continued treatment is cruel, we still have the option denied in human medicine and we recommend euthanasia. If they still insist, and you only have to be in this business a short time to learn there are a lot of oddballs out there, we tell them to take their pet somewhere else.''
 
Supply of Advanced Equipment
The demand for the best in pet care has created a secondary market for medical technology. CAT scans and ultrasound diagnostic equipment used on humans are sold to animal hospitals at cut-rate prices when hospitals replace them with state-of-the-art equipment. Similarly, $5,000 pacemakers that go unused beyond recommended shelf life are sold for about $100 and implanted into dogs for about $700, compared with $12,000 for the same procedure on a human.
''If expense is not a consideration, veterinary medicine can do anything on dogs and cats that we can do on human patients,'' said Dr. Michael Garvey, medical chairman of the Animal Medical Center in New York, where Buster was treated. It is one of a score of teaching hospitals around the nation where the latest treatment is available for pets. ''I like to say we work out the bugs on humans and when it's safe enough, we adapt the procedures for animals.''
The center handles 70,000 pet visits a year. Its surgeons repair defective heart valves, do double hip replacements and use dialysis to get cats through a dangerous kidney infection.
At the University of California at Davis, veterinary students volunteer their time to a telephone counseling line. ''Pet owners can't express their grief in the usual ways because some people might think it's silly,'' said a fourth-year student, Jennifer Martin, 24 years old. ''But consciousness is being raised as more and more clients are demanding it from the profession.''
 
Element of Human Nature
''I don't push the advances on owners with geriatric pets or ones without good quality-of-life prospects,'' said Dr. Jane Mason, of Chantilly, Va., who graduated from Auburn University in 1986. ''It's funny how human nature is, but people with lots of money sometimes won't do anything to save a pet and those who have to scrape every dollar together want to go on with the CAT scans and try chemo.''
For those who can pay, the price seems worth it.
''Hey, you don't put a price tag on the life of someone in your own family,'' said Buster's owner, Noel Cooper, of Rego Park, Queens, who owns several laundromats. ''He's like our child. How could I do anything less for someone that gives me so much pleasure?''

GRAPHIC: Photos: In the last decade, household pets, mostly dogs and cats, have become beneficiaries of medical and technologically advanced diagnostic treatments perfected on humans. Buster, a 7-year-old West Highland terrier suffering from throat cancer, underwent a CAT scan to determine the extent of the cancer.; Pets undergoing surgery at the Animal Medical Center in Manhattan, one of a score of teaching hospitals in the nation where the latest treatment is available. The center handles 70,000 pet visits a year. (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) (pg. A20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN VETERINARY PHARMACEUTICALS (52%); HUMANE SOCIETY (59%); ELMER & MAMDOUHA BOBST HOSPITAL OF THE ANIMAL MEDICAL CENTER (59%); HUMANE SOCIETY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HUMANE SOCIETY OF THE UNITED STATES HUMANE SOCIETY OF THE UNITED STATES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; GREAT BRITAIN

SUBJECT: VETERINARY MEDICINE; ETHICS; FINANCES CATS (90%); PETS (90%); CANCER (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (89%); ETHICS (89%); VETERINARY SERVICES (89%); ANIMALS (88%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (78%); PET FOODS (78%); ORTHOPEDICS (78%); NUCLEAR MEDICINE (78%); DOGS (77%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (77%); MEDICAL ETHICS (76%); ANIMAL WELFARE (75%); VETERINARY DRUGS (75%); DEATH & DYING (75%); BIOETHICS (75%); FAMILY (75%); HUMAN SUBJECTS (73%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (67%); MEDICAL ULTRASOUND (58%); RADIOLOGY (56%); 

PERSON: NORDHEIMER, JON; WILSON, JAMES 3D (DR); FOX, MICHAEL W (DR) JAMES WILSON (56%); 



485 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-14
 
President Bush spoke to Iraq on the nation's national television, and he warned the people that their leaders had brought them to ''the brink of war'' with the West and the rest of the Arab world. Page A1

 
Iraq was condemned by the U.N for acts of violence against foreign embassies in occupied Kuwait. The unanimous vote of the Security Council also promised new steps to tighten the trade embargo of Iraq. A11

 
Several thousand Kuwaiti refugees streamed into Saudi Arabia after Iraqi troops opened a border crossing. They spoke of an atmosphere of fear and sorrow in Kuwait. A1 
 
 
Experts tally the cost of rebuilding Kuwait D4

Kuwait refugees in Turkey at least have food and water A10

Crisis activates I.M.F. loan plans D1

Egypt raises its guard against Iraqi terrorism A12

Israelis, irked by Saudi arms sale, ask more of U.S. A12

 
AIDS is so ingrained in Africa that it is posing challenges to cultural foundations, ancestral beliefs, familial obligations and conceptions of morality and sexuality. A1

 
Vignettes of AIDS victims A14

 
A generation of black South Africans has very poor educational skills because many had focused their energies on the struggle against apartheid instead of school, and others were served by a horrendous school system. A8

 
Rally for township amity stirs hard feelings A8

 
An attack by Ghanaian planes on Liberian rebel positions in Monrovia may be a signal of a new offensive by the West African peacekeeping force in Liberia. The attack was reported by a spokesman for the force. A3

 
The civil strife in Angola may be resolved with the help of the United States and the Soviet Union. The superpowers have agreed to work jointly as mediators to revive Angola's stalled peace talks. A3

 
American Jesuit in Sri Lanka is missing and feared dead A3

 
Muscovites rallied near the Kremlin to vent their economic frustrations. Tens of thousands demanded the resignation of President Gorbachev's Cabinet. A1

 
Poland is facing Jewish issues that have emerged on two fronts: a resurgence of bigotry, like anti-Semitic graffiti, and a debate on whether Jewish politicians should disclose their background. A6

 
Bremen Journal: Why Kaisers' heir is happy A4

French protest of sheep imports turns ugly A9

Scandal embroils Spanish leader A13

Spaniards are divided over why boom is over D4

Chilean journal recognizes Allende suicide A7

Benefits are expected for Japan as yen bounces back D1

 
NATIONAL A16-20
 
A law to improve nursing home care and protect patients' rights was passed three years ago, but the Federal Government has not issued rules needed to carry out the law. A1

 
A budget accord may be reached as early as this evening, said Congressional leaders of both parties, who said they thought negotiators could resolve their differences over tax policy. A20

 
News analysis: The process of confirming a nominee to the Supreme Court is watched as closely as the nominee himself, David Souter. A18

 
Souter gives little comfort to wary conservatives A18

Washington Talk: Cabinet may play musical chairs A16

 
Las Vegas is still booming, despite the slowdown in population growth in other parts of the Sun Belt. Developers are building more than 1,000 single-family homes each month. A1

 
Cats, dogs and other household pets with illnesses are now being treated with highly advanced medical devices, like computerized X-ray scanners, that were perfected on humans. A1

 
Hate crimes have shaken Madison in recent weeks. The Wisconsin city known for its liberal tradition and appreciation of diversity has been the site of a number of crimes against Jews and gays. A16

 
Religion and the environment has been the focus of a number of gatherings in which religious leaders of different faiths talk about overpopulation, pollution, deforestation and other environmental issues. A16

 
6 Florida winners to split $105 million prize A17

 
REGIONAL B1-7
 
Another plan to fight crime in New York City was offered. The latest came from Senator D'Amato, who said he would introduce legislation that would allow the city to use Federal transit funds to hire 4,400 police officers. B1

 
Tourists are aware of the violence in New York, but many say they believe that violent crime is more the exception than the rule. Some statistics indicate that tourists are less likely to victimized than city residents. B3

 
After 2 weeks' groping, a new approach on crime B3

Manhattan woman killed by man, who then shoots himself B3

6 get fished to safety by copter B5

News analysis: Post or no Post, dailies face flux D1

 
New York was a festival of festivals this weekend. An ambitious stroller could have experienced attractions as diverse as a Nigerian dwarf-goat show and steel drum players banging out Bach. B1

 
A plan for the Catskill reservoirs that hold New York City's drinking water is upsetting Catskill residents, who feel the plan imposes too many curbs on how they can use their lands. B1

 
The New Jersey legislative session this month may be contentious. Republican leaders have indicated that they plan to respond to this summer's wave of taxpayer anger. B1

 
Middle-income school districts like Toms River in New Jersey are to receive increases in state school aid under Governor Florio's new tax plan, but that has done little to ease voter hostility toward the plan. B4

 
Poll shows Weicker's lead is narrowing in Connecticut race B5

Money is the word for cruciverbalists B5

 
BUSINESS DIGEST D1

 
SPORTSMONDAY
 
Baseball: Mets fall to Phils C1

Yanks beaten by Tigers C3

Red Sox lose again C3

Expos complete sweep of Pirates C4

Bill White has no apologies C4

Column: Anderson on Jets C6

Features: Sports World Specials C2

Question Box C4

On Your Own C12

Football: Jets beat Browns C1

Bears defeat Packers C5

49ers top Redskins C5

Dolphins defeat Bills C6

Frantic finish for Notre Dame C6

Giants rout Cowboys C7

Hockey: Devils' Shanahan in step C2

Horse Racing: Meadow Star wins C10

Outdoors: The feast that follows the catch C12

Yachting: Despite feats, Conner not revered C1

 
OBITUARIES B11
 
Steve Condos, tap dancer
 
ARTS/ENTERTAINMENT
 
What William Hurt has to say C13

Malevich's new reality C13

On writing in China C13

Music: Jessye Norman as Alceste C16

Word and Image: A rap-based sitcom C17

''What Happened Was This'' by Josh Greenfeld C17

Emmys for Falk, Wettig and ''Murphy Brown'' C16

The Iraq crisis on TV C18

 
EDITORIALS/LETTERS/OP-ED
 
Editorials A22

 
Why not use the oil reserve?
Bank insurance
David Anderson: Policing
 
Letters A22

 
William Safire: Taking to account A23

Anthony Lewis: Politics of hate A23

Gerald F. Uelmen: Alas, Judge Souter won't read this A23

Robert G. Bottoms: Sure we need beauticians . . . A23

Doug Bandow: The myth of Iraq's oil stranglehold A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (95%); KUWAIT (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); LIBERIA (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); AFRICA (92%); ANGOLA (92%); GHANA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ISRAEL (79%); TURKEY (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); SRI LANKA (79%); CHILE (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (68%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); REFUGEES (77%); TERRORISM (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); AIDS & HIV (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); SUICIDE (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); NURSING HOMES (60%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (50%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



486 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: Superpowers Seeking an Angola Agreement

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 16

 BODY:
In another sign of growing superpower cooperation, the United States and the Soviet Union have agreed to work jointly as mediators to revive Angola's stalled peace talks and end civil strife there, American and Soviet officials say.
Angola's intermittent 15-year conflict pits a Marxist Government, backed by 1,100 Soviet advisers and $800 million a year in Soviet military aid, against a guerrilla group, the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola, which receives more than $50 million in annual aid from Washington.
The war has devastated the southwest African country's economy and has continued even after the negotiated withdrawal of 50,000 Cuban troops and advisers beginning late in 1988.
Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d and the Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard A. Shevardnadze, discussed Angola at length last month in Siberia and agreed to work together to encourage their allies to work out their differences. 
Their diplomatic push comes at a time of increasing Soviet and American coordination in attempting to wind down the civil wars in Afghanistan and Cambodia. But as in those conflicts, the two sides fighting in Angola have such deep mutual disdain that even the best efforts by Washington and Moscow may not be enough to bring them together.
 
Pressure to Settle
Several factors are leading the superpowers to act now, including pressure in Moscow and Washington to wind down their expensive commitments to a conflict that both Governments view as peripheral to their interests. Fears are growing inside and outside Angola that if a cease-fire is not reached sometime in the next several months, a spreading famine could kill many thousands of people next year.
Moreover, the Persian Gulf crisis has underscored Angola's potential importance as an oil producer. The African country currently produces 500,000 barrels a day, far below its potential.
American oil companies based in Angola are quietly pressing the Bush Administration to settle the conflict. But conservatives, and some officials in the Central Intelligence Agency and National Security Council, are urging the White House to help the guerrilla leader, Jonas Savimbi, achieve a military victory.
A senior State Department official said that although the Bush Administration was continuing covert efforts in Angola to boost Mr. Savimbi, it did not share the Reagan Administration's hard commitment to the struggle and realized that Congressional opposition was growing.
''You can't go on forever getting aid from the hill for Unita,'' he said, referring to the guerrilla group by its Portuguese acronym. ''We're in the end game.''
By a narrow margin, the House Intelligence Committee earlier this month secretly voted to continue covert aid to the guerrillas. But opponents of the policy have threatened to bring the issue to the floor, which could embarrass the Administration. A bruising battle is also expected in the Senate. Covert aid is usually tucked into budget bills and not openly debated.
Both the Angolan Government in Luanda and the guerrillas have expressed their desire to end the war and hold multiparty elections. But in three negotiating sessions over the last five months, distrust has blocked meaningful progress. Meanwhile, the guerrillas have gone on the offensive in the northern provinces, apparently with renewed military support from right-wing South African elements.
The Portuguese Government, Angola's former colonial ruler and the current sponsor of the talks, has asked the superpowers to press both sides to compromise.
Leonid Sofanov, counselor of the Soviet Embassy in Washington, said the superpowers ''could act as sponsors or mediators, or act as co-chairmen'' in the peace talks.
The Soviets have been pressing a partial peace proposal called the ''triple zero option,'' which called on Moscow and Washington to stop military aid to Angola, and on the two sides not to accept weapons from anyone else. Angola accepted the proposal, but Washington turned it down, saying it would only benefit the Marxist Government in Luanda.
 
Baker-Shevardnadze Contacts
American officials said Mr. Baker approached Mr. Shevardnadze about a joint effort on Angola in March, when the two diplomats joined in independence festivities in Namibia, which borders Angola. Mr. Shevardnadze agreed that the superpowers could cooperate to end the Angolan war as they had in helping bring Namibia to independence.
Since the Baker-Shevardnadze meeting last month in Siberia, lower-level diplomats of both countries have intensified discussions on Angola.
To this point, Luanda and the Unita rebels have discussed only the broad outlines of a statement of principles governing a final settlement. Unita has said it would recognize the authority of President Jose Eduardo dos Santos until there are general elections. In return, it wants legal status as a political party.
The Angolan Government has said that it wants the country to evolve into a multiparty democracy. But the two sides disagree over the pace of democratic change. Mr. Savimbi wants elections immediately. Mr. dos Santos believes that it will take many months or years to prepare the nation for a vote.
Maj. Gen. Roberto Monteiro, chief military adviser to Mr. dos Santos, said relations with the United States would be difficult as long as the Bush Administration insisted on arming Unita.
During a visit to Washington this month, General Monteiro insisted that his Government was fully committed to economic and political reforms. In an interview, he said, ''We're closer on how to get to a cease-fire and how to create a national army.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); ANGOLA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); PORTUGAL (73%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (73%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ANGOLA; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; FOREIGN AID; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGETS (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); CONSERVATISM (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); OIL EXTRACTION (68%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (66%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 



487 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: American Jesuit in Sri Lanka Is Missing and Feared Dead

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE; Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Sept. 16

 BODY:
An American Jesuit missionary who spent 41 years in Sri Lanka building up a well-known vocational school for boys has been missing since Aug. 15, and may have been killed in fighting between rival ethnic factions in a renewed civil war.
According to his family in Lafayette, La., the priest, Eugene J. Hebert, 66 years old, was last seen driving a motor scooter from Valachehenai to Batticaloa on Sri Lanka's east coast, where he lived.
In addition to offering courses in welding, electrical work and refrigeration to unemployed young men, the priest's vocational school had been trying to rehabilitate former guerrilla fighters, giving them a trade to help them return to civilian life. 
Father Hebert, a familiar figure around Batticaloa, where he also coached basketball teams, had been visiting Muslim surviviors of an attack by Tamil guerrillas. A Red Cross worker told his family that after comforting the victims, Father Hebert went to the site of the massacre, in Eravur, before returning to Batticaloa.
 
'We Just Want to Know'
According to those who saw him last, he had given a ride to a Tamil boy. Father Hebert's niece, Yvonne Dumesnil, said in a telephone interview last week from Louisiana that one theory suggested to the family by fellow priests and aid workers in Sri Lanka is that enraged Muslims may have attacked the Tamil boy, drawing her uncle into the fight.
''We are trying not to think the worst,'' Ms. Dumesnil said. ''But we just want to know something.'' She said that other Jesuit priests in Sri Lanka had been warned not to go into the area to look for Father Hebert.
Thomas Gradisher, a spokesman for the United States Embassy in Colombo, the Sri Lankan capital, said that American diplomats are in constant touch with the Foreign Ministry and the army, but that no progress had been made in solving the case.
Other diplomats in Sri Lanka say that they are putting aid programs on hold and withdrawing foreign workers until a semblance of security is restored to the Batticaloa region. Father Hebert's school was supported by Norwegian and Canadian aid programs.
 
Hit-and-Run War
Tamil guerrillas, ethnic Sinhalese, who dominate the army as Sri Lanka's largest ethnic-linguistic group, and Muslims, who consider themselves a separate ethnic entity, have been clashing since mid-June. A series of attacks and reprisals began after the last armed guerrilla group in the field, the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, reopened a hit-and-run war for control of the east coast, singling out Muslims for not cooperating with them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (94%); SRI LANKA (94%); 

STATE: TAMIL NADU, INDIA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available MISSING PERSONS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); RELIGION (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (89%); LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); HIT & RUN (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); BASKETBALL (69%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (68%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (68%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); INTERVIEWS (66%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (56%); 

PERSON: EUGENE J HEBERT (93%); YVONNE DUMESNIL (59%); 



488 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 7, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Leftist Journal Concludes Allende Killed Himself

BYLINE: By SHIRLEY CHRISTIAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SANTIAGO, Chile, Sept. 16

 BODY:
Saying that the ''historic truth'' should be known, a Chilean news magazine identified with the left has published a special report concluding that former President Salvador Allende committed suicide 17 years ago.
Although a reputable witness and ample other evidence had pointed to this conclusion from the outset, the article in the magazine Analisis last week seemed to be aimed at making the fact acceptable to the Socialists, Communists and others who supported Dr. Allende. The article appeared a week after Dr. Allende's remains were exhumed from an unmarked grave in Vina del Mar and brought to Santiago for a public burial attended by his family, President Patricio Aylwin and his Cabinet, and tens of thousands of mourners.
Although Mr. Aylwin, a Christian Democrat, was a strong opponent of Dr. Allende, his participation was seen as part of an effort by the six-month-old democratic Government to heal old wounds. 
Analisis said the version that Dr. Allende was killed by the army as it captured the presidential palace was invented and spread by the Moscow radio and President Fidel Castro of Cuba within days of the coup on Sept. 11, 1973. ''In that way, the world left generated its own truth about what had occurred in the last minutes of the life of Allende,'' the magazine said.
 
Political Significance
It said that the claim of either assassination or death in battle took on a political significance that was useful in opposing the 16-year military regime that followed the fall of Dr. Allende.
Admitting the suicide ''would have been to recognize total defeat,'' the magazine continued, while assassination ''created better conditions for confronting the usurpers.''
Analisis does not publicly identify with a particular political group, but it has been known for having unusually good access to guerrillas, the Communist Party and others of the far left.
Juan Pablo Cardenas, the editor, aroused international sympathy during the former Government of Gen. Augusto Pinochet when he served a sentence of 541 nights in jail for offenses to the armed forces. He spent his nights in jail and continued to run the magazine during the day.
Dr. Allende had served less than three years of the six-year term to which he was elected when the armed forces overthrew him in response to widespread public opposition to his socialist economic policies and general economic chaos.
A subsequent investigation by a United States Senate committee led by Frank Church, a Democratic Senator from Idaho at the time, found that the Central Intelligence Agency had helped to finance some of the groups that opposed Dr. Allende with strikes and other actions.
 
Physician's Evidence Cited
It also found that the Nixon Administration had tried, in 1970, to persuade Chile's Christian Democrats to vote against Dr. Allende when the final electoral decision went to Congress after no candidate received an absolute majority of the popular vote. But the Church report found no evidence of direct United States involvement in the coup three years later.
The Analisis article, written by the political editor, Francisco Martorell, said the suicide had been confirmed by the physician and Government officials who exhumed Dr. Allende's body before the recent reburial and examined the remains.
The magazine said those doing the examination were able to confirm that Dr. Allende's face had been partly destroyed by a bullet and that the rest of his body had not been struck.
This coincides with the account of Dr. Patricio Guijon Klein, Dr. Allende's personal surgeon, who was in the palace that day and reported seeing the President fire a rifle pointed upward from between his knees.
The magazine said that Mr. Castro, on Sept. 28, 1973, in Havana, had claimed that Dr. Allende, while advancing toward army troops firing his own weapon, had been struck by a bullet in the stomach, another in the chest, and had finally died in a hail of bullets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHILE (95%); CUBA (88%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: IDAHO, USA (79%); 

CITY: SANTIAGO, CHILE (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHILE; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); CUBA

SUBJECT: SUICIDES AND SUICIDE ATTEMPTS; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT LIBERALISM (90%); COUPS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); SUICIDE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); WITNESSES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ARMIES (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); SENTENCING (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: CHRISTIAN, SHIRLEY; ALLENDE, SALVADOR FIDEL CASTRO (55%); 



489 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1350 words

HEADLINE: CONFRONTATION IN THE GULF;
U.N. Seeks Wider Embargo In Vote Assailing Iraqi Acts

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 16

 BODY:
The Security Council unanimously condemned Baghdad early today for acts of violence against foreign embassies and their personnel in occupied Kuwait and promised new, unspecified steps to tighten the mandatory trade embargo against Iraq.
Diplomats said the new measures would probably include an expansion of the embargo to include air traffic.
Today's resolution marks the seventh time the Council has condemned Iraq since it invaded Kuwait on Aug. 2. The most significant provision, diplomats say, is a commitment by all 15 Council members ''to take further concrete measures as soon as possible under Chapter VII of the Charter in response to Iraq's continued violation of the Charter, of resolutions of the Council and of international law.''
 
Turning Up the Pressure
Although not spelled out, these measures are likely to include a new resolution intended to turn up the pressure on Iraq by authorizing an air embargo, diplomats say. Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter empowers the Council to blockade countries flouting its orders. 
In addition, France has called for a secondary embargo against countries caught trading with Iraq and Kuwait in breach of the existing Security Council embargo. And the United States is suggesting seizing Iraqi merchant vessels around the world to insure they are not used to bring in forbidden supplies.
An air embargo would authorize countries to cut all air links with Iraq and occupied Kuwait by closing their airspace to planes traveling there and denying the aircraft landing and refueling rights.
It probably also would allow countries with warplanes deployed in the Persian Gulf to intercept aircraft suspected of violating the sanctions and to order them to land for inspection or turn back. But lawyers planning the new measures say the Security Council cannot authorize the shooting down of civilian aircraft even if they are clearly breaking the sanctions because this is banned by international law.
 
Immediate Enforcement Sought
After today's resolution was voted, the American United Nations representative, Thomas R. Pickering, said he hoped agreement on the new measures could be reached later this week. He called for the five permanent members of the Security Council, which have veto power, to start work ''immediately, and today if possible'' on new enforcement steps.
The permanent members are Britain, France, China, the Soviet Union and the United States. Tonight, their representatives held discussions at the French United Nations mission in New York.
After this morning's vote, France's representative, Pierre-Louis Blanc, whose country's embassy in Kuwait was the most seriously violated by Iraq, said the international community ''is now determined to adopt other measures'' as a result of Iraq's refusal to withdraw from Kuwait.
Britain's representative, Sir David Hannay, warned that Iraq's intransigence would ''lead to an intensification of pressure to bring it into conformity with the decisions of this Council.''
 
Warning From the Soviets
The Soviet representative, Deputy Foreign Minister Yuli M. Vorontsov, told the Council it had given Iraq ''a strict warning that its failure to comply will result in futher measures against it.''
Iraq's Deputy Representative to the United Nations, Sabah Talat Kadrat, attacked the Council for moving so rapidly against his country while taking no action against Israel for occupying the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.
He denied that the Iraqi army had violated the French Embassy's diplomatic immunity in Kuwait and accused France of creating a pretext to justify ''an expansionist policy'' in the Middle East aligned with that of the United States.
The Security Council has already imposed a mandatory ban on all trade by land, sea or air with Iraq and Kuwait and barred financial dealings with the countries under the terms of Resolution 661, which it approved on Aug. 6.
Nine days later, the Council voted to give the United States and other countries with warships in the gulf the right to enforce the blockade by halting shipping headed for Iraq and Kuwait, even though the United States and Britain said they already enjoyed such a right under international law.
 
New Legal Issues
But an air embargo promises to raise thorny legal problems, experts warn, because of the possible clash with international agreements safeguarding the rights of civilian aircraft operators.
In particular, the 1944 Chicago Convention governing international civil air traffic bars the use of military force against civilian aircraft except in self-defense, making it illegal for any country to attack a plane breaking the trade sanctions.
This ban was written into the Chicago Convention in 1984 after the Soviet Union shot down a Korean Air Lines passenger jet that had strayed from its flight path into a closed military area.
Warning of these difficulties, Alfred Rubin, Professor of International Law at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, said, ''The legal situation could become so complex that the essential rectitude of our mission might come into question.''
But although force may not be used against civilian aircraft, diplomats say a Security Council resolution imposing an air embargo on Iraq and Kuwait would help deter violations of the sanctions by making it difficult - and probably impossible - for commercial aircraft operators to obtain insurance for planes flying to these countries or get them serviced at foreign airports.
 
A Surprise Unanimity
The Security Council's unanimous adoption of today's new resolution, known as Resolution 667, came as something of a surprise because Cuba and the Council's only Arab member, Yemen, have previously sought to weaken sanctions against Iraq, often abstaining on key resolutions or voting against them.
But several Council members expressed doubts about the Council's adoption of ''further concrete measures'' against Iraq and Kuwait, fearing that they might increase the risk of war.
China described the threat of further measures as ''too wide'' and said it had reservations about that portion of the resolution even though it voted in favor. Cuba said some countries might use the passage to justify military action against Iraq. Another third world member, Malaysia, said that the Council must show ''resolve'' in enforcing its embargo but that there was no need ''to resort to more force.'' ---- Italy Expels Iraqis ROME, Sept. 16 (Reuters) - Italy expelled Baghdad's military attache in Rome today and said it would urge the European Community to take stronger measures against Iraq to force it to pull out of Kuwait.
Italy banned Iraqi embassy aides from leaving the capital without permission and ordered the expulsion of the military attache and his staff after Iraqi troops were accused of raiding a French Embassy residence and other Western missions in occupied Kuwait.
The Italian Foreign Minister, Gianni De Michelis, who will head a meeting of the European Community Council of Ministers in Brussels Monday, said he would urge the community to adopt a joint strategy against Iraq.
''It's necessary to exert a stronger pressure because I see it unlikely that Hussein will yield to the current conditions,'' he told reporters in Cernobbio, near Como in northern Italy. ''A more severe embargo is needed.''
The Iraqi military personnel in Rome have 10 days to comply with the expulsion order, a statement of the Foreign Ministry said. Italian Government sources said six or seven people were affected.
France, which on Saturday ordered more troops to join the United States-led force in Saudi Arabia, expelled 29 Iraqis today under armed guard by air to Amman, Jordan.
The group included three people who officials said were suspected of spying and 26 military personnel. It did not include 11 Iraqi diplomats declared personae non grata who were given several days to pack and leave. Eight of those flown out of France had been at Brest, where they were studying new radar systems. Another 12 had been at a military base at Rochefort.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Security Council condemned Iraq yesterday for the seventh time since the invasion of Kuwait, this time for violence against embassies. From the left were Marjatta Rasi of Finland, Pierre-Louis Blanc of France, Ismail Razali of Malaysia and Aurel Dragos Munteanu of Romania. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (97%); KUWAIT (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (90%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; KUWAIT; IRAQ

SUBJECT: SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); EMBARGOES; FOREIGN SERVICE EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (89%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (77%); VETO (73%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (64%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL



490 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: CONFRONTATION IN THE GULF;
Israelis, Irked by Arms Sale To Saudis, Ask More of U.S.

BYLINE: By JOHN KIFNER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Sept. 16

 BODY:
Israeli officials expressed alarm today over American plans to sell more than $20 billion in advanced weapons to Saudi Arabia, and they began making efforts to get more military aid for themselves.
Defense Minister Moshe Arens is expected to press Israel's case for more arms when he meets in Washington early this week with Defense Secretary Dick Cheney.
Even before the huge sale to Saudi Arabia was reported, Mr. Arens told the Parliament's Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee last week that Israel is losing its edge over its Arab neighbors in the quality of its arsenal because of sales of advanced weaponry to other countries.
President Bush is expected to notify Congress officially this week of his decision on the Saudi deal, which has been approved by the Pentagon. Congress appears willing to permit the sale. 
 
Fighter Jets and Tanks
The $20 billion arms deal, a record peacetime sale to one country, would include some of the latest weapons, including F-15 fighter planes, about 385 M-1A2 Abrams battle tanks with advanced armor, 48 new Apache antitank helicopters and 26 Patriot ground-to-air missiles. A separate arms package valued at $2.2 billion was ordered by the Saudis last month.
''This is a staggering amount of weapons and money,'' Avi Pazner, an adviser to Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir, said. ''That kind of weapons and money could gravely affect the Middle East balance of power.''
The Israeli Cabinet discussed the Saudi arms purchase today at its weekly meeting. Housing Minister Ariel Sharon, the hard-line former Defense Minister, assailed the deal ''as a major danger to Israel'' as he emerged from the session.
Health Minister Ehud Olmert said the Cabinet feared that ''the huge increase of such weapons given to Saudi Arabia'' might be used for purposes other than confronting Iraq. ''We might be the target,'' he said.
 
Army Chief Urges a Balance
The Army Chief of Staff, Lieut. Gen. Dan Shomron, said the arms sale was ''definitely not a formula for stability.''
''I hope this situation will be balanced in order to guarantee our technological superiority and our deterrence,'' he said.
Asked in an Israeli radio interview whether Israel expected to receive anything to balance the American sale to the Saudis, the general replied, ''I don't know if it will be as an exchange or directly, but it's clear there must be equilibrium.''
Israel, which is still technically at war with most of the Arab countries in the region, has been critical of previous American arms sales to Saudi Arabia. But in deference to Washington's wishes, it has been keeping a low profile as the United States tries to assemble a pro-Western Arab alliance to oppose Iraq's takeover of Kuwait.
Saudi Arabia is at the geographic center of this new alliance, and the arms sale is intended to bolster the Saudis' relatively weak capability on the ground. Embassy Complains to U.S. In Washington, the Israeli Embassy said in a statement that the sale ''represents an additional risk for Israel'' that it termed ''very serious.''
The statement said Israel expected the Bush Administration to consider ways ''to prevent this drastic change in the balance of power, and to keep the qualitative edge of Israel.''
Israel receives about $3 billion a year in American economic and military aid, the largest sum of any country. It received its first two Apache attack helicopters in a ceremony last week as part of a $350 million arms deal with the United States.
Israel was the first country that Washington permitted to acquire the helicopters, which carry 16 laser-guided Hellfire missles, 76 rockets and 1,200 rounds of 30-millimeter ammunition.
The American Ambassador to Israel, William Brown, said the United States was providing the weapons because ''we treat with utmost seriousness our commitment to safeguard Israel and preserve its qualitative edge.''
Prime Minister Shamir hailed the arrival of the two helicopters as ''an omen for further equipment we will receive in the next weeks and months.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (99%); ISRAEL (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAQ (92%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: SAUDI ARABIA CONCRETE PRODUCTS LTD (91%); PENTAGON CONGRESS (59%); ISRAELI EMBASSY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; SAUDI ARABIA

SUBJECT: ARMS SALES ABROAD; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); ARMS TRADE (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); ARMIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (66%); HELICOPTERS (52%); 

PERSON: KIFNER, JOHN; ARENS, MOSHE (MIN) EHUD OLMERT (59%); DICK CHENEY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



491 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Lawmakers Hopeful on a Budget Deal

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 16

 BODY:
Congressional leaders from both parties said today that they thought negotiators working on a new Federal budget could resolve differences over tax policy and reach a compromise as early as Monday night to reduce the deficit.
After taking the day off on Saturday, White House officials and Congressional leaders resumed their budget talks at Andrews Air Force Base nearby in Maryland today, meeting in small groups during the day and in a full session this evening.
Stung by partisan disclosures of information last week, participants on both sides refused today to discuss publicly the substance of a potential agreement.
But interviewed on the NBC News program ''Meet the Press,'' the Speaker of the House, Thomas S. Foley, a Washington Democrat, and the Senate Republican leader, Bob Dole of Kansas, said they hoped an accord could be reached by Monday night. 
On the ABC News program ''This Week,'' Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady suggested that votes in the House and Senate be postponed until a budget agreement was struck so the negotiators would not be distracted.
 
Disagreement on Capital Gains
The main issue that has stymied the talks has been the Republican insistence on a reduction in the tax on the gains made when investments are sold, and the Democratic determination to block a cut in that tax unless it is accompanied by higher rates on the earnings of wealthy taxpayers.
It is now agreed that without an offsetting tax on the well-to-do, a capital gains tax cut would be regressive: it would mean that the wealthy pay a smaller share of their incomes than other taxpayers. ''We have to have a balance,'' Mr. Dole said today. ''We have to have progressivity. And I think we're going to have it.''
Mr. Foley also hinted at a compromise, saying Democrats could ''conceivably agree'' to a capital gains reduction ''if there was a balancing burden sharing by high-income, wealthy taxpayers.''
Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, one of the strongest Republican supporters of a capital gains tax cut, also suggested that a compromise was likely. Also interviewed on the ABC News program, he said: ''I think, A, that a capital gains tax reduction will take place. We need it to strengthen the economy. I think, B, it will be offset so that the system does not get less progressive.''
At their meeting tonight, participants said, Republicans and Democrats modified their tax proposals somewhat in search of a compromise, but no concensus was reached.
President Bush has adamantly opposed an increase in income tax rates, the vestige of his ''no new taxes'' campaign pledge. But there are other ways to adjust tax policy so that the wealthy pay more .
The White House, for example, has proposed limiting the amount of state and local income taxes that could be deducted on Federal returns. The proposal would directly affect only taxpayers with incomes higher than about $100,000 who pay state income taxes.
But lawmakers from states like New York, New Jersey and California that rely on high state income taxes have vowed to vote against any package that contains a limit on those deductions.
 
Limiting Other Deductions
Some legislators from those states say they could support a ceiling on all deductions, not just those for state and local income taxes. But such a proposal would surely be opposed by the real estate lobby, because the price of expensive houses would be brought down by a limit on the amount of mortgage interest that could be deducted.
Democrats have suggested a 20 percent surtax on taxpayers with incomes above $500,000. Fewer than 100,000 taxpayers would be affected. But many experts fear that the effect of such a policy would be to give rebirth to the tax shelter industry.
If no budget policy is in effect by Oct. 15, two weeks after the next fiscal year begins, across-the-board spending cuts of more than 40 percent in most Government programs would be automatic. Both parties agree that the economy would collapse under such large cuts.
The lawmakers on the television programs today emphasized that there would be unpopular aspects of whatever budget agreement is reached.
''Balancing the budget is like going to heaven,'' Senator Gramm said. ''Everybody wants to do it. They just don't want to do what you have to do to make the trip.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (83%); WHITE HOUSE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TAXES & TAXATION (93%); BUDGETS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INCOME TAX (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); ARMED FORCES (57%); AIR FORCES (57%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E PHIL GRAMM (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



492 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: Use Oil Reserves? When, if Not Now?

 BODY:
The U.S. has spent billions of dollars creating the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, 600 million barrels of oil stored in salt domes along the U.S. Gulf Coast, to protect the economy during emergencies. Yet the Bush Administration has refused to tap the reserve in the wake of Iraq's invasion of Kuwait and the immediate loss of four million barrels of oil exports each day from the region.
Energy Department officials say there is no emergency because there is no ''shortage.'' And releasing oil to smooth price shocks smacks of price controls that shackled the economy during the oil crises of the 1970's. Others argue that the reserve can't be used because it's full of the ''wrong'' type of oil - sour crude that contains too much sulfur for most refineries. 
These fears are excessive. On Thursday, Energy Secretary James Watkins came close to admitting as much when, finally, he held out the possibility of opening the reserve. He need not wait. The reserve was created to shelter the economy from a rainy day. Saddam Hussein has made it rain.
The Energy Department is correct on one score: Unlike the 1970's, there is no shortage of oil because the Government no longer imposes price controls. Now, no matter how much oil supplies fall, prices rise to squash demand and eliminate shortages. Under the Energy Department's definition, that means there is no emergency, and therefore no need to use the reserve.
This position is nonsensical. A central purpose of the reserve is to ward off panic buying, thereby mitigating price shocks. In the crises of the 1970's, a drop of just a few percentage points in oil exports from the Persian Gulf led to a tripling of oil prices, which then helped drive the U.S. into recession. Modest releases from the reserve can stop that type of overreaction.
Measured use of reserve oil would lower current prices by several dollars a barrel. That would still leave them well above pre-invasion levels, and thus still provide ample incentives for consumers to buy less and producers to supply more. And the economy would be spared an unnecessary blow.
Economists have suggested a number of methods to manage the reserve. Some would make the oil available at a cost somewhat above the market price; that would calm jittery markets, permitting prices to fall, and even generate revenue to restock the reserve. Others recommend releasing a modest amount of oil each day, say 500,000 barrels. Either method beats abstinence, the current policy.
Some raise another problem with releasing reserves: that it's mostly sour crude and can't be readily refined. Yet most experts agree that refineries are flexible and can blend the reserve oil with lighter crudes from elsewhere. The sour crude is a troubling but manageable problem that government planners say they've anticipated.
The Strategic Petroleum Reserve can soften the economic devastation of temporary supply shocks. Why, after all, was the reserve established in the first place, if not to use in situations like the present one - and without further delay?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (92%); KUWAIT (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); ENERGY DEPARTMENT (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; MIDDLE EAST

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; EDITORIALS; STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (90%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (88%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%); 



493 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: Bank Insurance: Proceed With Care

 BODY:
Yes, the Federal insurance fund for bank deposits needs fixing. No, despite some dire talk in Washington, it is not on the verge of collapse. Members of Congress, badly burned by the savings and loan crisis, now itch to ''do something'' before the banks' problems become even more costly. Haste could do more harm than good. 
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation's insurance fund is shrinking; starting in 1988, annual pay-outs to depositors of failed banks have been $2 billion greater than premium income from insured banks. At year-end, the fund will be $14 billion, roughly 70 cents per $100 of insured deposits. That's the lowest ever, and far less than it should be. If the fund is wiped out, as the Federal savings and loan fund was, taxpayers will be socked again to make up for it. Two agencies of Congress, the General Accounting Office and the Congressional Budget Office, offer worst-case scenarios more serious than the S.& L. scandal. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan says they exaggerate. Many banks are in trouble from weakness in real estate and foreign loans. A recession would make matters worse. But Mr. Greenspan foresees no disaster of S.& L. proportions.
What to do? The Treasury will make proposals in a few months, and Congress is developing its own ideas. The options boil down to three basic approaches: Replenish the insurance fund. Reduce coverage. And strengthen the banking system.
Two bills were introduced last week to remove the ceiling on premiums. The F.D.I.C. plans to raise them as much as the law allows on Jan. 1 - up 30 percent, to 19 1/2 cents per $100 of insured deposits. Uncapping makes sense, but could wait for broader reforms; for instance, one promising idea with wide support would set a bank's premium according to the riskiness of its portfolio.
The idea that gets most attention is also the worst - reduction in the $100,000 coverage for each account. Cutting coverage would incite a legitimate public outcry and possibly heavy withdrawals. Reducing coverage to $100,000 per depositor is no better. Anyone can have multiple $100,000 accounts now, all insured. A per-person limit may sound reasonable, but evasion would be easy.
The coverage of huge institutional funds is a more likely target. Pension funds now subdivide their multimillions into smaller amounts representing each pensioner, and deposit those amounts in insured accounts. Still another thorny issue is the ''too big to fail'' policy. Because the failure of big banks can reverberate far and wide, the Government has extended full coverage on all their accounts - over the $100,000 limit and even to uninsured deposits in branches abroad. That's a drain on the insurance fund that hasn't been faced.
None of these issues address the fundamental matter of bank soundness. Federal insurance was established to protect depositors after a catastrophic run of failures in the Depression. President Franklin D. Roosevelt approved it reluctantly, pointing out that it would also let banks be less prudent. One sure way to make them be more careful is to require stronger capitalization; if owners and stockholders have more at stake, they'll take less risk. Another essential is closer regulation, accurate measurement of the actual value of banks' assets, and authority to close banks that are close to the edge.
Resolving these issues will be difficult. It is urgent that they be resolved. But not in haste.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (83%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (83%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (56%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (56%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (FDIC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; EDITORIALS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; DEPOSIT INSURANCE SAVINGS & LOANS (92%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANK FAILURES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); FOREIGN LENDING (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PENSION FUNDS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ACCOUNTING (68%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (66%); 



494 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: Immigration Bill Invests in America's Future

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Give Me, Also, Your Skilled'' (editorial, Aug. 27), arguing for immigration reform, graciously mentions my family unity and employment opportunity bill, H.R. 4300, pending before the House of Representatives. You are wide of the mark in criticizing as ''punitive'' the proposed assessment of a fee on medium- and large-size businesses that import workers to pay for education and training for United States citizens.
And it is hard to take seriously the charge that a bill that increases family- and employment-based immigration could smack of the old-time fear of foreigners. The most sweeping immigration reform in 25 years shows no fear of foreigners. It is hardly punitive to make it easier for employers to hire immigrants. 
Common sense shows the connection between American industry's unfilled needs for highly skilled workers and the failure of our schools to provide them. In charging larger companies a modest fee for immigrant workers, all my bill proposes to do is make a contribution to solving our long-term educational problem while answering our immediate need.
The fees are not large - $500 for a medium-size company, $1,000 for a large company, and small businesses and nonprofits would be able to hire immigrants free. Large companies that import workers for highly skilled jobs that cannot be filled from our domestic labor pool pay much more just for the paperwork. The employment-based immigration system I propose will be far simpler. Employers will save money bringing in workers -and they'll make money when the workers are here.
My bill proposes to use most of the fees to help states establish education and training programs. For example, Connecticut workers need to begin shifting from defense industries to high-tech, export-oriented industry. The rest of the fees will go for math and science scholarships for students in need.
American unemployment is relatively low, except where it is shockingly high. How can that be? The answer is that we have a swiss-cheese economy. Let's use expanded immigration to help fill in the holes. Let's not forget those Americans who are not ready, but who could be prepared in the future, if education and training are improved.
The classic liberal formation that everybody should pay for education and training is flawed. It is the same lesson taught by our budget mess: When everybody is supposed to pay, nobody seems to get the bill.
Fees to establish an American workers educational trust fund will not raise enough to pay for the massive investment we must make in better education and training. However, it will be a step in the right direction.
 
(Rep.) BRUCE A. MORRISON
Chairman, Subcommittee on
Immigration, Refugees
and International Law
 Washington, Sept. 4, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION IMMIGRATION (94%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); FAMILY (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (76%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); REFUGEES (73%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); BUDGETS (69%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (68%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: MORRISON, BRUCE A (REPR)



495 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 268 words

HEADLINE: Immigration Bill Invests in America's Future;
Burden on Economy

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Our nation of immigrants still benefits from newcomers who contribute energy and skills to our economy. Congress is considering immigration bills that would increase the number of people who come to this country every year (editorial, Aug. 22). The United States should continue to be the most generous country in the world in immigration. We should also realize that immigration is a mixed blessing.
New people demand jobs, housing, education and other social services. There is room in our economy to absorb some new people, but it is not unlimited. Immigration policy should take into account our ability to offer these immigrants a high quality of life while providing for our own citizens.
Legislation being considered in the House of Representatives would greatly expand the level of immigration when our economy is growing more slowly. It would increase the number of people admitted for their job skills from about 24,000 to 75,000. More important, it would ask America to absorb approximately 770,000 immigrants without regard for job skills or employability.
The bill sponsored by Rep. Bruce Morrison of Connecticut would also impose an immigrant tax on those who employ immigrants.
These problems and the bill's provisions giving preferential treatment to certain nationalities and amnesty to more illegal aliens are more than differences to be ironed out. They are flaws that make this legislation bad policy, not worthwhile reform.
 
(Rep.) LAMAR SMITH
Vice Chairman, Subcommittee
on Immigration, Refugees
and International Law
 Washington, Sept. 4, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION IMMIGRATION (96%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); AMNESTY (73%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); REFUGEES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); 

PERSON: BRUCE MORRISON (55%); LAMAR SMITH (54%); 



496 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 303 words

HEADLINE: Immigration Bill Invests in America's Future;
Quota Inequities

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Give Me, Also, Your Skilled'' (editorial, Aug. 27) perpetuates an unfair myth by stating that in 1965 ''Congress gave more favorable treatment to immigrants from Asia and the Western Hemisphere.''
While the 1965 amendments eliminated the highly discriminatory national origins quota system, it did not replace it with a system that favored regional geographical areas. The 1965 reforms treated all countries equally, that is, it allowed a maximum of 20,000 immigrants per year per country under the quota system. More immigrants came from Asia and Latin and South America because of suffering economies in those areas.
One could wonder about the fairness of a system that allocates the same number of immigrants regardless of the sending country. Consider India, with its approximately 775 million, and Mexico, with its proximity to the United States and a population of some 85 million, compared with Ireland, with some 3.5 million.
Finally, while the present system of bringing in needed workers is complicated and needs simplification, its philosophy is correct and should not be substantially changed: The system rewards those with green cards whose services are needed by the United States economy, irrespective of educational level. Live-in domestics are in short supply and greatly needed in a society where both parents commonly now work. But physicians, despite the common misconception, are not.
As those of us who practice immigration law long ago recognized, the easiest way for a physician to obtain a green card is to marry a nurse, of whom, despite their fewer years of training, this and other urban areas are in great need.
 
PETER HIRSCH
 New York, Sept. 2, 1990
The writer is an officer of the New York chapter of the American Immigration Lawyers Association.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION IMMIGRATION (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); NURSES & NURSING (65%); 

PERSON: BILL INVESTS (56%); 



497 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 23, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: ABROAD AT HOME;
Politics Of Hate

BYLINE: By Anthony Lewis

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
Edwin O'Connor drew the classic picture of Massachusetts politics in ''The Last Hurrah.'' It was a world of hacks and scoundrels, of lovable rogues and rented dogs. O'Connor modeled his tainted hero on James Michael Curley, the Mayor, Governor and Congressman who served a term in Federal prison.
After a spell of reform, Massachusetts these days is rapidly sinking back into the Old Politics. But with a difference: There is nothing funny about the games being played now, and nothing lovable about the characters. 
Consider an episode that played out last month. If O'Connor had put it in his novel, critics might have dismissed it as too far-fetched.
Gov. Michael Dukakis nominated as a trial judge the head of the organized crime division in the United States Attorney's office, Diane M. Kottmyer. Judges and lawyers uniformly said she was a superb choice. But she was defeated by a vote of 5 to 4 in the Governor's Council, a Colonial relic, one of whose few remaining functions is to confirm judges.
The Councilor who led the fight against Ms. Kottmyer was Joseph Langone 3d, a mortician to whose funeral parlor reputed organized crime figures go when they die. He said he wanted ''to bury'' Ms. Kottmyer.
Why? Mr. Langone served six months once, for assaulting a Federal narcotics officer. He said he opposed Ms. Kottmyer because she was law clerk at the time to the judge who sentenced him. When that proved untrue, he said, ''I just believe she hates Italians.''
A factor in that disgusting episode, as in much else in Massachusetts today, is the collapse of Governor Dukakis's influence here after his defeat for the Presidency in 1988. The lack of leadership has been devastating as the state has felt the economic misery afflicting all of the Northeast.
Tax revenues fell off badly with the recession. That created a state budget crisis, and an inept and divided Legislature dithered for months over how to meet it. As a result, the financial services have given Massachusetts bonds the lowest rating of the 50 states.
The fiscal disaster and the politicians' craven ineptitude in dealing with it have heated public distrust of politicians to the boiling point. The atmosphere here is poisonously hostile to government and anyone who has had anything to do with it.
In that mood, there is a very good chance that voters in November will pass an initiative proposal to make massive cuts in state taxes and fees. Revenues would be cut by as much as 15 percent. When schools then close and towns go bankrupt, the public will no doubt be unhappy. But right now it is enough to say ''We'll teach them a lesson.''
This week Democrats and Republicans pick their nominees for governor. And here again the hateful atmosphere has had its influence. One of the Democratic candidates, John Silber, is running as the last angry man.
Mr. Silber, the president of Boston University, is making his first run for public office. But he comes on with the certainty of his own rightness that makes Donald Trump look shy.
He vents his spleen on not only politicians but racial groups. Early in the campaign he denounced the small group of Cambodian refugees in the state. In a debate last week he was asked why he had not spoken in a predominantly black area of the city. He replied:
''Well, I will tell you something about that area. There is no point in my making a speech on crime control to a bunch of drug addicts.''
Mr. Silber's meanness and arrogance have made him enemies. But he still might win the primary, so hostile is public feeling toward those who have been in power. His opponent in the Democratic race is Frank Bellotti, longtime State Attorney General, an old-style politician.
Competing for the Republican nomination are Steven Pierce, minority leader in the State House of Representatives, a conservative, and William Weld, former United States Attorney, a Yankee moderate. Mr. Weld said of the Kottmyer affair: ''Only in Massachusetts would a convicted felon be able to . . . tell us who's fit to be a judge.''
Both Republicans have endorsed the tax-cut initiative; both Democrats opposed it. It will be rough justice if a Republican wins, as seems increasingly likely - and has to deal with the fiscal consequences of the voters' anger.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MASSACHUSETTS

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (US); PRIMARIES; PUBLIC OPINION; RACIAL RELATIONS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JUDGES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CRIME RATES (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SENTENCING (77%); MAYORS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); ORGANIZED CRIME (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); PRISONS (71%); BUDGETS (67%); BUDGET CUTS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); BANKING & FINANCE (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (62%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY; SILBER, JOHN; DUKAKIS, MICHAEL S (GOV) MICHAEL STANLEY DUKAKIS (70%); 



498 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: Deficit Threat and Tax Ire Greet Trenton's Fall Session

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING

DATELINE: TRENTON, Sept. 14

 BODY:
State legislators returned to the capital this week facing the sobering possibility that the slowing economy would create yet another budget deficit, despite their approval of the biggest tax increase in state history in June.
Administration officials and the Democratic majority have few major new initiatives in mind, and are hoping for a relatively quiet session. Republican leaders, however, have let it be known that they will lose no opportunity to respond to this summer's wave of taxpayer anger.
The most recent legislator to urge actively reconsidering the explosive tax question is Senator Gerald Cardinale, a Bergen County Republican, who suggested that Democrats and Republicans ''work together'' to find ways to roll back the tax increases.
Democrats like Senator Gabriel M. Ambrosio, also of Bergen County, say they would like to move on to matters like health insurance and new ethics laws, but concede that the tax questions are not likely to fade away. 
Given that political backdrop, administration officials have made it clear that they will be talking about fiscal matters in terms of cuts instead of new revenues.
''If in fact over the course of the budget year the $280 million surplus budgeted is gone and more is needed, it will be found with spending reductions,'' said Steven P. Perskie, Gov. Jim Florio's chief of staff and chief legislative tactician.
But Mr. Perskie, the Governor and Treasurer Douglas Berman agree that projections for the size of the drop in revenues that kept this year's budget to only a modest 2 percent increase may very well turn out to be too optimistic, and a revenue shortfall could occur.
 
Hints of Possible Shortfall
The hints by the Governor and top members of the administration about a possible shortfall come during calls by most Republicans and some members of the Democratic majority in the Legislature to roll back all or some of the $2.8 billion in new and increased taxes.
Even as legislators began assembling for committee hearings before the floor sessions begin on Oct. 1, Mr. Berman, at the request of the Governor, ordered all department heads except the prisons commissioner to start finding ways to cut their budget proposals by 8 percent for fiscal 1992.
When the state budget was drawn up this spring, a national economic slowdown was foreseen.
But a crisis in the Mideast was not, and the oil price increase that is resulting - and the chance that the rise in oil may slow the economy even further - could depress tax revenues enough to create a shortfall even in the current budget.
''I think we have been very conservative in our budgeted revenue projections,'' Governor Florio said in an interview this week. ''But I have already told the commissioners they have to start thinking about giving me another 8 percent off central management in their departments.''
''There undoubtedly will not be a $280 million surplus,'' he said. ''The energy crisis, the national economic downturn, will both have an effect. The $280 million is a minimum cushion in a $12 billion budget.''
 
Surplus Is Expected to Shrink
Mr. Perskie, who will be replaced as chief of staff on Oct. 2 by a longtime Florio friend and political strategist, Joseph Salema, said, ''None of us expects we will finish with the full surplus.
''We all expect it will be tighter than that,'' he said. ''Whether it will be tighter by some of the surplus or all the surplus or more than the surplus, we can't evaluate.''
When the $2.8 billion tax package was passed, the Governor's plan was to use $1.5 billion of the tax increase to close existing deficits and the remaining $1.3 billion to revamp school aid and hold down local property taxes. But that plan was quickly overshadowed by the storm of protest across the state at the increases.
The tax package increased sales taxes from 6 to 7 percent, a change that was projected to bring in $1.3 billion in new revenue. Income taxes were raised for high-income taxpayers; the change was expected to bring in another $1.3 billion. The addition of items like soap, paper products and heavy trucks to the sales tax list, along with new taxes on alcohol and cigarettes, was to raise another $200 million.
 
Tax Repeal and Recall Sought
One grass-roots protest group, Hands Across New Jersey, says it has gathered 600,000 signatures on a petition calling for repeal of the taxes and for the creation of a mechanism for the recall of state officeholders, including the Governor, and for the initiation and repeal of legislation by referendum.
Republican leaders have joined the outcry, calling for repeal of all or part of the taxes, and supporting the call for a recall mechanism and for popular legislative initiative and referendum.
Last month, in a televised rebuttal to a speech Governor Florio gave in defense of his tax package, Chuck Haytaian, the Assembly minority leader, called for a partial rollback of the tax increases, to be offset by a 5 percent reduction in state employees' salaries and by spending some of the surplus.
But he later retreated, saying he actually meant a 5 percent reduction in salary outlays through attrition.
 
Tax Outcry Continues
Still, the outcry over taxes continues, with bills already introduced to eliminate outright the extension of the sales tax to paper products, a particular focus of outrage among tax protesters, along with a Democratic alternative that would exempt recycled paper products from the tax.
Other bills introduced by Republicans would amend the state constitution to allow for recall of officials, would repeal the tax on heavy trucks and would guarantee taxpayers' access to information about tax matters.
Before its late summer recess, the Legislature had given the Governor everything he had proposed in an ambitious legislative agenda, including the huge tax increases, a greatly revamped school-aid financing formula that will take state aid away from 15 percent of the wealthiest districts to give the other districts more money, a total revamping of the state's financially battered auto insurance system and a ban on sale of military style assault weapons.
Although continuing partisan battles over the tax package are likely and new initiatives loom - most notably in health care for the unininsured - the Governor and others predict a much quieter new session.
 
Health Care for Uninsured
''For the most part we're looking to refine and manage the things we have already done,'' Mr. Florio said. ''There is not a particularly aggressive new legislative agenda for the rest of the year.''
One major concern is likely to be how to provide health care to the more than 800,000 New Jerseyans who are without health-care insurance of any kind - 65 percent of whom have jobs - and what to do about the financially ailing Uncompensated Care Trust Fund, which currently underwrites health care for the uninsured.
Two commissions, one appointed by the Governor and another within the Legislature, are to report on recommendations by Oct. 1. The current fund expires Dec. 31.
The Legislature is also expected to deal with a package of ethics bills offered by the administation. They would limit the ability of former state officials to work for entities doing business with the state, establish rules for awarding no-bid contracts and provide for more public participation in an ethical standards commission.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: TAXATION; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT TAXES & TAXATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); BUDGETS (91%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); APPROVALS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); TRENDS (72%); ETHICS (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (53%); 

PERSON: FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV); KING, WAYNE JIM FLORIO (79%); STEVEN P PERSKIE (69%); 



499 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: New York's Water Rules Worry Catskills

BYLINE: By ALLAN R. GOLD

DATELINE: MARGARETVILLE, N.Y., Sept. 15

 BODY:
Little by little, from Woodstock to Delhi, the reality is sinking in: If New York City is to avoid spending $4 billion to filter the drinking water it draws from these parts, life in the Catskills will never be the same again.
Local residents have been circulating copies of the regulations proposed last Tuesday by New York City to control the pollution of six Catskill reservoirs that supply more than eight million people with drinking water.
What they are finding are provisions that could put thousands of acres of privately owned land off-limits for building and threaten the existence of dozens of dairy farms. The rules would even follow residents to the grave: cemetery expansion is regulated.
''A lot of people have bought property up here and paid taxes,'' said Russell Roefs, an Ulster County legislator who owns a septic tank business. ''And all of a sudden the watershed people come in and say they can't build.'' Whether addressing septic tanks or manure spreading, the new rules would essentially call for wider buffer zones between potential pollutants and streams in the watershed and reservoirs. The net effect would be to make many acres off limits to development or farming. 
 
Unfair Expense Charged
Catskill residents who have read or heard about the proposed regulations say they are concerned that the city intends to assure its water quality at their expense. If New York wants clean drinking water, they say, it should pay for it, not the people of the Catskills.
''It's not fair,'' said Dave Taylor, a Margaretville dairy farmer about six miles upstream from the Pepacton Reservoir in Delaware County. ''If New York City is going to come up here and say I can't use my land for anything, then they should buy it.''
Besides tourism, the underpinnings of the regional economy are building and farming. Changes that would be required by the proposed regulations could hurt an area with little money to begin with.
 
'Not a Lot of Money'
''When you look at the Catskills, you're looking at some of the lowest per-capita incomes in the state,'' said Michael Welsh, a local conservationist who supports stricter watershed regulation but is sympathetic to the economic situation here.
''There's not a lot of money for paying for measures that they don't see the benefit of,'' said Mr. Welsh, an official at the Catskill Center for Conservation and Development in Arkville.
For the first time since 1954, New York City is overhauling its regulations governing discharges of a wide range of pollutants - human and animal waste, fertilizer, road runoff - into the 18 reservoirs it owns in the Catskill, Delaware and Croton systems. An 85-year-old state law gives the city the right to take what measures are necessary to preserve the quality of its drinking water.
Mayor David N. Dinkins and his Environmental Protection Commissioner, Albert F. Appleton, want to avoid the appearance of forcing the new rules down the throats of Catskill residents. That will be difficult: distrust of big-city water officials already runs deep, and has festered since the first Catskill towns were flooded in the early 1900's to make way for the Ashokan Reservoir in Ulster County.
 
'We Want to Make Sure'
''Nobody is against pure water. But we want to make sure that they don't take any more of our land than necessary,'' said Marian Umhey, Shandaken's Town Supervisor.
City officials are also sensitive about the suggestion that the proposed regulations are thinly veiled zoning instruments.
''These proposed regulations are not anti-development,'' Mr. Appleton said. ''They are anti-environmentally irresponsible development.''
The Dinkins administration says it has a difficult choice: Impose stricter controls over activities in the Catskill and Delaware watershed or spend $4 billion to build a filtration plant by 2005.
Officials in both Washington and Albany are pressuring the city to do something about its drinking water quality. The Federal Environmental Protection Agency says New York must filter its water unless it can assure that the watershed is protected from pollution. But the State Health Department, which is responsible for carrying out the Federal water rules, goes one step further.
 
Debate Over Filtration
It doubts the city can adequately safeguard the Catskill water supply and proposes that filtration plans go forward. City officials hope the tougher watershed regulations will convince the State Health Commissioner, Dr. David Axelrod, who has final authority, that filtration is not necessary. Filtration would double the rates for city water users for a product that would not taste as good, Mr. Appleton asserts.
The city is already building a $600 million plant to filter water from the Croton watershed in Westchester and Putnam Counties. The 12 reservoirs there supply about 10 percent of the city's water needs. City officials point to the Croton experience as evidence of what can happen to the Catskill and Delaware systems if unchecked development is permitted.
A decision by Dr. Axelrod on the filtration question is expected by January, but with the stakes so high, the actual resolution will likely take much longer.
In the meantime the proposed watershed regulations will go through a two-stage review, a process city officials hope will allay upstate suspicions. This fall informal discussions are planned to give upstate communities an opportunity to air their grievances. Then a revised, formal draft of the regulations will be prepared, followed by public hearings. The final regulations could be ready by March, Mr. Appleton said.
 
Some Farmers Irate
In Delaware County, where dairy farming dominates the economy, New York City officials are headed into a buzzsaw of opposition over the regulations. Farmers are incensed and are using words like ludicrous and ridiculous to describe the rules.
''It will probably put a lot of farmers out of business,'' said Dean Frazier, a local agricultural extension agent.
Of the county's 310 dairy farms, 200 are in the watershed area, and all will be affected by the proposed rules, Mr. Frazier said.
To reduce nutrient flow into reservoirs, the rules would prohibit discharge of drainage from barnyards or feedlots within 100 feet or more of a stream and the spreading of manure or fertilizer within 100 feet of a stream. Also, runoff from grazing areas would have to be eliminated, even it meant building dikes along a stream to block the flow.
Mr. Taylor's picturesque dairy farm in Margaretville has 75 tillable acres. His property is crisscrossed by streams that eventually feed the Pepacton Reservoir. Corn and alfalfa to feed his 55 registered Holsteins grow next to or near streams. The cows cross a stream on the way to pasture. The main barn is within 100 feet of one. End to Dairying Feared ''If they go in and enforce these regulations, it's going to put us out of business,'' said Mr. Taylor, a 58-year-old lifelong farmer who wants to sell the operation to his son when he retires.
Mr. Frazier said the conditions on Mr. Taylor's farm were not unlike those found on any farm in Delaware County. But even if the rules are workable, he said, few farmers think they are necessary, because they doubt their operations are responsible for the increased nutrient flow into the reservoirs. How could they be, he asked, when their numbers have declined in the last 10 years?
The dairy farmers' feelings about the regulations may be best characterized by a drawing making the rounds of Delaware County. Above a caption saying ''Preserving N.Y.C. Water Quality,'' it depicts a cow with its bottom enclosed in a giant diaper secured by a large safety pin.

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''If New York City is going to come up here and say I can't use my land for anything, then they should buy it,'' said Dave Taylor, a Margaretville dairy farmer. City officials released proposed regulations that include limits on land use to control pollution of Catskill reservoirs. (Alan Zale for The New York Times); Map: Margaretville, N.Y. (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: DELAWARE COUNTY REAL ESTATE (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; CATSKILL MOUNTAINS

SUBJECT: WATER; WATER POLLUTION; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; CEMETERIES; AGRICULTURE; DAIRY PRODUCTS WATER POLLUTION (90%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); WATER QUALITY (90%); DAIRY FARMING (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (89%); NONPOINT SOURCE POLLUTION (77%); COUNTIES (77%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); FERTILIZERS (74%); CEMETERIES (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); SEPTIC & PORTABLE TOILET SERVICES (68%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (59%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 



500 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: After 2 Weeks' Groping, a New Approach on Crime

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
In late-night phone calls and early-morning meetings, over lunch with business leaders and a swordfish dinner with a public relations czar, Mayor David N. Dinkins and his aides have groped for two weeks to say and do what they think is right on crime in ways that others think is right, too.
They have fought over whether the Mayor should go to California for a speech and decided he should publicize meetings with community groups that had been held quietly before. They have prodded his Police Commissioner to push his brain trust's pencils faster and agreed that Mr. Dinkins must say what he means more clearly, even if that means saying it again and again.
Finally last week, Mr. Dinkins seemed to be playing the media game with more gusto. He gave two early-morning talks to police officers, had two meetings with community groups, used Time magazine's unpublished poll data to rebut its own cover story on how bad New York is, made his case in an Op-Ed piece for The New York Times and politely dared other politicians to help pay for the new police officers they insist he must hire. 
''I've had the ability to withhold the fire until I've seen the whites of their eyes,'' he said on Friday, referring to those who demand 5,000 new officers. ''And so what you have now is everyone on board, determined to do exactly what I asked them to do in the first place'' - decide whether more officers are needed and agree to help pay.
 
Behind-the-Scenes Soul-Searching
That may overstate the case, but that Mr. Dinkins could say it with such satisfaction, after addressing roll call at the 23d Precinct in Manhattan at the end of a week in which Gov. Mario M. Cuomo not-so-subtly upstaged him by agreeing to support calls for 5,000 officers, is testament to behind-the-scenes soul-searching.
And coming up, the Mayor will meet with major business groups including the Association for a Better New York, the Real Estate Board, the Convention and Visitors Bureau, the Fifth Avenue Association and the New York City Partnership to discuss crime, the police and how to finance their hiring.
''We thought we had previously done the obvious,'' said First Deputy Mayor Norman Steisel. ''Now we obviously have to do the obvious again.''
The challenge for the Mayor is how to make his message heard on an issue that could permanently damage his credibility without changing his style in ways that would seem fake. Some of his closest aides say Mr. Dinkins has such an aversion to showboating that he does not appreciate the values of showmanship in public life.
 
A Little Public Relations Help
Among those who have gotten into the act are Howard Rubenstein, perhaps the city's most well-connected public relations executive. He met with the Mayor and senior aides for four and half hours Monday night, suggesting ways of making the Mayor's case.
When the aides said they had already tried many of them, he argued for doing them again.
Just after that meeting, Mr. Steisel appeared on ''Newsline New York'' on WNYW-TV and said the city was unequivocally committed to hiring unspecified thousands of officers - something the Mayor had suggested but never directly said before.
While Mr. Rubenstein and other power brokers volunteered their help privately, they were also putting public pressure on the administration. Two weeks ago, after Brian Watkins, a tourist from Utah, was stabbed to death in the subway, Mr. Rubenstein made the dire prediction that the killing could set back city tourism five years.
''They know that I have no political ax to grind,'' Mr. Rubenstein elaborated last week. ''I was sounding a warning to government.''
 
First, a String of Child Killings
Crime became the predominant issue after a string of children were killed by gunfire intended for others, and politicians, the media and the public clamored for more police officers. Mr. Dinkins, after backpedaling, squeezed money from the budget to hire 1,058 new officers.
The same day, the Mayor's senior aides revealed that he had ordered Police Commissioner Lee P. Brown to tell him by Oct. 1 how many new officers he needed and how to pay for them, suggesting the Mayor would find a way.
That bought time. But alarming crimes continued, Rikers Island erupted, an assistant District Attorney was killed by a stray bullet and then, on Labor Day weekend, Mr. Watkins, in town for the U.S. Open, was slain.
The killing turned the spotlight back on the Mayor, and found him watching the tournament in Flushing Meadows, to which he twice traveled by helicopter because of a tight schedule. Was Dinkins Outraged Enough? Then came complaints that the Mayor was not outraged enough by the killing, suggestions that he took the helicopter every day and demands that he not wait for Mr. Brown's report before hiring thousands of officers.
But meantime, business leaders including Felix G. Rohatyn and David Rockefeller were warning him in a luncheon meeting two weeks ago at City Hall (where a bowl of pasta salad cracked and spilled down Mr. Steisel's back) that higher taxes to pay for officers could hurt the city's economy.
Mr. Dinkins maintained last week that he was not unhappy with the way things stand. ''We've been able to just listen and withstand the critiques of all who demanded that a number be used'' to specify how many officers to hire, ''until we're in a position wherein everybody has now committed themselves to assist,'' he said after his talk to the officers on Friday.
Asked later whether he would hold politicians' feet to the fire on money for the new police, he replied: ''People will hold their feet to the fire.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY PARTNERSHIP (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLICE FORCES (78%); REAL ESTATE (64%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (50%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (50%); 

PERSON: RUBENSTEIN, HOWARD; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); PURDUM, TODD S DAVID N DINKINS (92%); HOWARD RUBENSTEIN (69%); 



501 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 13, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1672 words

HEADLINE: Review/Art;
Malevich's Search for a New Reality

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BRENSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The Kasimir Malevich retrospective that opened Sunday at the National Gallery of Art is more than a landmark exhibition. It is an exceptionally moving event. For the first time the American public is being given a thorough look at the greatest 20th-century Soviet painter, one of the select few who helped shape the modernist imagination.
Because so many of his works were tucked away in Soviet museums during the cold war, inaccessible to the West, Malevich is a household name whose work remains largely unknown. The historical importance of his 1915 to 1919 Suprematist abstractions - those white squares, black squares and geometric fields diagramming a utopia in which nothing is tied down and everything has weight - has long been unquestionable. Now it is possible to see these paintings in the context of a career so consistently surprising that it can make you shake your head in reverential disbelief. This show is not easy. 
Suprematism - an attempt through abstract painting to define a new, supreme universal reality - is the heart of an exhibition that includes around 170 works, 91 of them paintings, but does not feel big. The installation moves quickly, in solid, thumping steps that reflect the compression of the paintings and the acceleration of Malevich's development. It begins with the Impressionist works from the early 1900's that reveal Malevich's feeling for outdoor life, attraction to Symbolist mood and color, and hunger to explore and test every inch of the pictorial space.
When Malevich moved from the Ukraine to Moscow in 1907, he came in contact with the work of the European avant-garde and met the painters Natalia Goncharova and Mikhail Larionov; like them, he was attracted to Russian folk art and icons. In his brightly colored Neo-Primitive paintings from 1911 and 1912, big earthy people stomp and brood their way to the edges of a picture frame that seems barely able to contain them. In 1912 Malevich's space flattens and his machinelike peasants suggest a belief in the compatibility of rural and industrial life. Space begins to become overloaded. In 1913, the forms are more and more abstract and they seem to stick together magnetically. In 1914, Cubist-inspired constructions begin to be inhabited by rectangles of pure color that press against the crowds of faceted shapes, on the verge of blotting them out or vacuuming them in.
Then the rectangles take over and Suprematism is born. Malevich did not want to be nature, unlike many artists in the tradition of Monet and van Gogh. He did not move step by step from nature to abstraction, like Mondrian. He wanted to get beyond nature and define a new reality in which the part would merge with the whole and human and cosmic laws would be combined. His Suprematism is a sudden, jolting leap.
Then this all-or-nothing artist apparently stopped painting for close to 10 years, concentrating on teaching, theory, applied art and cultural administration. The show ends with the puzzling and poignant figurative paintings of 1928 to 1935 in which Malevich stampeded from style to style while painting immobile people incapable of flight. In the end, as at the beginning, the quality of concentration is remarkable.
Malevich was a brilliant, grandiose, messianic figure: ''a fanatic pamphleteer,'' said Wim Beeren, the director of the Stedelijk Museum in Amsterdam; ''a mad monk,'' declared his artistic and political enemies during the early Stalin years; ''president of space,'' he appointed himself in 1917. He felt that art was a religion and Suprematism its Bible. Like other modernist pioneers, he believed in the possibility of an artistic tabula rasa. He did not want life to lead art but art to lead life, and to do that it had to be transcendent and new. He lived at a time when artists believed that revolutions in thought could be made through form. ''There is beginning, a renovation of life through artistic form,'' he wrote in 1928. Form could send a message to economics. It could be the prophetic sermon that would convince the human congregation to follow painting into the promised land. If it was going to change others, it had to change him first. ''I have transformed myself into the zero degree of form,'' Malevich said in 1915.
Malevich was not a painter of doubt. He was in the end not a painter of dynamism, although he was capable of creating a convincing sensation of movement. He was not a confessional painter; even the earnest, clerical, somewhat Edvard Munch-like self-portrait (from 1908) that begins the show and the ironic self-portrait of himself as a Renaissance prince (from 1933) that ends it hide more than they reveal. Malevich tried to turn the self into a non-issue. His force of personality and will can be felt at all times, but the identity of the man behind the iconic, mystical Suprematist mask is elusive.
The one constant in Malevich's Suprematism is the white ground. It is utterly selfless and anonymous yet distinct. It is a dense emptiness, or full void. It is atmospheric yet it has little air, and it does not suggest sky. It does not envelop or squeeze the rectangles, rings and lines. It is ready and available but not transparent. It is not open or closed but both at the same time. Some white shapes nestle inside it. Most shapes stick to it. Nothing is trapped. Everything seems held yet free. Shape and whiteness are different but they never struggle.
It may be impossible to believe in painting more than Malevich did. In his best work, the relationship between edge, texture, color and space has an authority that is hard to surpass. He may have been the first abstract painter to demonstrate the inexhaustible potential for meaning in the dialogues between edge and shape, color and texture, restless and silent form. ''Kasimir Malevich: 1878-1935'' is a revised version of the 1988-89 Malevich retrospective, which consisted entirely of works from the State Russian Museum in Leningrad, the Tretyakov Gallery in Moscow and the Stedelijk in Amsterdam, the largest Malevich repositories in the world. That was the first Malevich exhibition in the Soviet Union since 1929, when Stalin was in power and Malevich, like other avant-garde artists, was being oppressed. The director of the Tretyakov was imprisoned for organizing the 1929 show.
The current retrospective is a collaboration between the National Gallery, the Armand Hammer Museum and Cultural Center in Los Angeles - which will open with this retrospective in November - and the Metropolitan Museum of Art. The consulting curator, the art historian Angelica Zander Rudenstine, who conceived the rigorously intelligent installation, included fewer early and late works in this show. She also added around a dozen paintings from American museums, including the Museum of Modern Art's 1918 ''White Square on White'' and the 1915 ''Suprematist Painting. Rectangle and Circle,'' from the Busch-Reisinger Museum in Cambridge, Mass., two of the works that make the Suprematist room seem like a gathering place for geometric abstract art.
The exhibition documents Malevich's involvement with costume, stage and fabric design and includes three of the ''arkhitektons'' he designed in the 1920's, transforming the shapes in Suprematist paintings into architectural models in which each unit seems mobile yet secure. As significant as this exhibition is, it is still only a beginning. It does not resolve the big Malevich questions. The best scholarship in the catalogue is in the chronology and checklist.
No essay addresses the formidable dating problems of the late works, although Mrs. Rudenstine offers her interpretations in her installation. No essay discusses why Malevich stopped painting between 1919 and 1927. There is no evaluation of his teaching or consideration of the relationship between his theoretical commitment to systematic thought and his artistic belief in the importance of illogic and intuition.
There is no attempt to interpret the late figurative works. Partly because they are not radical like the abstractions, they have been largely avoided or dismissed by critics and art historians for whom artistic and social progress remains the only measure of esthetic worth.
But these late paintings have to be addressed. Suprematism was a prodigious distillation of politics, religion, art and self into a new pictorial essence. Painted in the paranoia and repression of the Stalin years, Malevich's late figurative works seem to shatter his earlier hard-won unity into multiple personalities and styles. In their own way, however, the late paintings are no less absolute and proud.
The figurative paintings include many flat, frontal, faceless figures standing in fields. Some look like straitjacketed ciphers. But their blank faces, like the blank faces of the black and white squares, also suggest tabulae rasa, or clean egg-shaped slates in which something can be born or on which something new can be written. The importance of Suprematist geometry and color - red, white and black - remains.
In the late paintings, the prophet sometimes seems to be disguised as a dandy. There is plenty of irony and a feeling for manner and dress. In ''Red House,'' there is a building by a lyrical blue sea. Only the house is a windowless and doorless shack and the sea rises up behind it like a tidal wave. There is more than a touch of apocalypse here. There is also defiance: the house, like Malevich's peasants, seems indestructible. In the poverty and pain of his last years, Malevich continued to find in painting a life force, one that that enabled him to laugh, to delay the arrival of the hangman and to issue an utterance that will endure.
''Kasimir Malevich: 1878-1935'' remains at the National Gallery of Art through Nov. 4. It will travel to the Armand Hammer Museum of Art and Cultural Center in Los Angeles (Nov. 25 to Jan. 13), and then to the Metropolitan Museum of Art (Feb. 7 to March 24). At the National Gallery, the exhibition was financed in part by Philip Morris.

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''The Woodcutter'' (1912), one of the Cubism-inspired paintings by Kasimir Malevich at National Gallery. (Stedelijk Museum)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UKRAINE (54%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (91%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (WASHINGTON, DC)

SUBJECT: ART; REVIEWS; ART SHOWS EXHIBITIONS (90%); PAINTING (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); COLD WAR (72%); FARM LABOR (64%); 

PERSON: BRENSON, MICHAEL; MALEVICH, KASIMIR



502 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Oil and the Mideast
The I.M.F. and the World Bank are planning to make loans more quickly and provide other help to countries hurt by trade losses, higher oil prices, lower worker remittances and other consequences of Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. [Page D1.]
Kuwait can rebuild its economy if it is liberated, provided that foreign workers feel safe enough to return. Kuwait's main assets, its oil reserves, will not be disturbed by any fighting. [D4.] 
 
International
Japanese executives have barely been able to contain their glee at their company's purchase of the Pebble Beach golf resort in California. Yet General Coast Enterprises has concocted an elaborate legal structure to distance itself from the deal. [D1.]
Benefits are expected for Japan from the yen's rebound to a 13-month high. The rise is seen aiding the fight against inflation and lifting the stock market. [D1.]
Tens of thousand rallied outside the Kremlin in Moscow to protest a shortage of meat. [A1.]
Spain acknowledges that its four-year economic boom is over, and many blame Government policies. [D4.]
A fledgling South Korean carrier hopes to take advantage of an expected Asian travel boom. Asiana Airlines is challenging the long-established flag carrier, Korean Air Lines. [D4.]
French farmers have stepped up their violent attacks on trucks hauling imported livestock. [A9.]
 
The Media Business
Whether The New York Post lives or dies, its fate will raise the curtain on a period of tremendous flux in the city's already distressed newspaper market. New Analysis. [D1.]
The new prime-time television season begins tonight with more than $4 billion worth of advertising committed to network programs for the season. [D10.]
The failure of the weekly 7 Days turned into a boon for its editorial staff of 32. Everyone who wanted a job has found one since the magazine folded in April. [D10.]
Two new one-volume encyclopedias are on their way to bookstores and two others are being planned. [D10.]
The chairman of Ayer denied reports that his agency is on the verge of signing a deal to sell a minority stake to Dentsu. Kim Foltz: Advertising. [D11.]
 
 
 
Companies
The F.C.C. is likely to grant local telephone companies greater latitude to set prices, while the Government's decision last year to grant A.T.&T. more pricing freedom is still being debated. The new system sets price ceilings for broad categories of services and drops close regulation of profits and prices. [D1.]
The recently announced sale of American cigarettes may add more to the profits of the rich United States tobacco business than the numbers suggest, Wall Street analysts say. [D5.]
State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance has told its agents to stop accepting new customers in Pennsylvania. [D5.]
Stockholders of the General Mills Company will be asked to approve a plan that gives top managers the choice of taking pay increases in the form of stock options. [D8.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
A growing number of creditors are seeking to use an old legal theory, known as fraudulent conveyances, to undo highly leveraged transactions that are littering the bankruptcy landscape. Stephen Labaton: Business and the Law. [D2.]
The prospect of an auction for Dole Food is generating growing interest on Wall Street. Market Place. [D8.]
The recent decline in the dollar is a source of growing concern to the participants in the bond markets. Credit Markets. [D1.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 020560 (KSE) (55%); GIS (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (60%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (50%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (50%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (50%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (50%); 

COUNTRY: KUWAIT (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAQ (92%); FRANCE (79%); SPAIN (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%); 

COMPANY: STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (60%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); ASIANA AIRLINES INC (55%); GENERAL MILLS INC (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS AIRLINES (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (71%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (71%); RESORTS (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (66%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (63%); JAPANESE YEN (54%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (50%); 



503 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Benefits Expected for Japan As the Yen Bounces Back

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
After weakening most of this year while the German mark and the Swiss franc reached record highs against the dollar, the yen is bounciing back.
At 136.95 against the dollar Friday in New York, the yen is at its highest level in 13 months. It has risen 14.4 percent since its low in April, and 9 percent in the last month. It has also rallied against the German mark and other European currencies. And a few forecasters predict that within the next year, the yen can near its all-time high of 120.90 against the dollar, which it reached in November 1988. 
 
Restoring Confidence
For the Japanese, the rise in the yen's value will help fight inflation by making imports, especially oil, less expensive. The stronger yen could also help restore investor confidence in the beleaguered Tokyo stock market, which fell 28 percent during the first quarter and has declined by 19 percent since the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait on Aug. 2.
For the United States, the rise of the yen is just another indicator of the weakening dollar. And the focus on fighting inflation in Japan with higher interest rates - a policy that is also being pursued in much of Europe -makes it unlikely that the United States and its allies will take any substantive action to support the dollar. Such cooperation would require a lowering of interest rates abroad and an increase of interest rates here -moves that would not help Japan or Germany fight inflation or the Federal Reserve defuse a recession.
 
Interest Rate Trend
The rally in the yen has been long in coming, although one of the crucial determinants of currency levels - interest rates - has been moving in Japan's favor since the beginning of 1989. When one country's interest rates are higher than another's, investors tend to favor the currency of the country with the higher interest rate because of the greater return that can be earned on investments in that currency.
What has finally changed the equation, analysts say, is a new belief among traders and investors that the Bank of Japan will stick to its plan of fighting inflation, a policy that this summer pushed Japanese short-term interest rates to levels above those in the United States for the first time in a decade. But it has taken five increases in Japan's official discount rate since May 1989, including the most recent jump to 6 percent on Aug. 30, to consolidate this attitude.
''The Bank of Japan had been moving much too slowly,'' said Michael R. Rosenberg, the manager of international fixed-income research at Merrill Lynch.
 
Shift in Differential
Since February 1989, the interest rate differential between Japanese and American three-month government bills has moved from a spread of 570 basis points in favor of the United States to a 30-point spread in favor of Japan. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
Although the interest rate differentials began to move in the yen's favor in early 1989, the yen - and other currencies - remained overshadowed by the dollar in part because foreign investors were clamoring to buy into the rising American stock and bond markets and ignored the narrowing of the spreads.
Then last fall, the dollar began to fall sharply against the German mark and other European currencies. Interest rates were falling here and rising abroad, making other currencies more attractive to investors than the dollar. And the prospect of the opening of Eastern Europe drew many investors to Europe, including the Japanese.
 
A Missed Rally
But the yen did not participate in the rally. Instead, it began to weaken sharply, falling to 160 yen to the dollar in April, even after the Bank of Japan raised its discount rate to 5.25 percent in March. Undermining the yen were the fall of the Tokyo stock market in the first quarter; Japanese buying of stocks overseas; a public dispute between the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Japan over raising the bank's official discount rate, and the uncertainties about the new Government of Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu.
The yen finally began to gain some strength as market interest rates moved higher at the end of June and in July, raising expectations of another increase in the official discount rate by the Bank of Japan. At the same time, the expectation of lower interest rates in the United States was reinforced by a small easing of credit by the Federal Reserve.
''The fundamentals are the key,'' said Kermit L. Schoenholtz, an analyst in Tokyo for Salomon Brothers. ''With short-rate differentials favoring the yen, appreciation is natural.''
 
Less Vulnerability
The rally was stalled briefly by the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait as investors worried that Japan's economy would be seriously hurt by the big jump in oil prices. But Japan has proved less vulnerable to such shocks because it has reduced its dependence on oil, so the yen is rallying again.
The new confidence in the Bank of Japan and the resulting expectation of rising interest rates have been reinforced by the surprising performance of the Japanese economy this year, which has proved less vulnerable to the falling stock market or the weak yen than many had thought. It is, in fact, much stronger now than the economic policy makers would like, which is why they would consider raising interest rates further to ward off inflation.
''Even after the oil price hike, the Japanese consumer is still spending,'' said Shin Kawaguchi, assistant general manager of the economics department at the Sumitomo Bank Ltd. in New York.

GRAPHIC: Charts: comparing the Yen with the Dollar, and the Yen with the Mark (source: Data Stream) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (52%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (91%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%); BANK OF JAPAN (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INFLATION; CURRENCY JAPANESE YEN (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); TRENDS (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); RECESSION (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (64%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN



504 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bond Markets Worried by Fall of Dollar

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
The recent decline in the dollar, which has received at least tacit approval from the Federal Reserve Board and the Treasury Department, is a source of growing concern to credit market participants.
After almost seven months of relative stability against major currencies, in late July the dollar began to sag, briefly touching a 42-year low against the German mark and a post-World War II low against the Swiss franc. The lengthening crisis in the Persian Gulf has produced more weakness, most recently against the Japanese yen.
Some American officials have suggested that the dollar's decline since Iraq invaded Kuwait may be exaggerated by distortions associated with the international freeze on Kuwaiti and Iraqi assets. 
 
Life for an Anemic Economy
But the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, recently suggested that the Fed would not be opposed to a further orderly decline in the dollar, a drop that presumably would increase exports and breathe some life into an anemic economy.
To private analysts, the logic of the Fed's tactics seem fairly clear, especially in light of Mr. Greenspan's strong suggestion last week that the Fed will delay any move to lower interest rates until after a ''credible and enforceable'' Federal budget package is passed. But some wonder whether the strategy will pay off.
''Even though economic conditions are weak, inflation is going up, and that is causing the Fed to slow down in lowering interest rates,'' said Donald J. Fine, chief market analyst at the Chase Manhattan Bank.
 
Milder Impact Seen
''As a result, the Fed may be looking to the exchange rate mechanism to help the economy,'' he added. ''The only thing I question is whether a depreciating dollar will have the economic impact it did in 1987. A depreciating dollar will have a much milder impact than it did two or three years ago, because the economy is a lot weaker now.''
Even if a drop in the dollar helps to bolster exports and capital spending, those benefits will probably take many months to show up, because of the lag in the effect that changes in currency values have on overseas orders and spending plans.
Of more immediate concern, analysts at Salomon Brothers said, was the effect a further drop in the dollar would have on foreign capital flows into the United States. ''Foreign investors are losing patience with our ability to come to grips with our fiscal problems,'' said Richard B. Berner, a vice president and economist at Salomon.
''With interest rates overseas higher than they are here and continuing to rise, we are starting to border on the edge of where foreign investors don't really seem to care about what our economic policies produce,'' he added.
 
Drop in Foreign Demand
Foreign demand for American portfolio investments was in a sharp decline throughout the first half of 1990, analysts at Salomon said. A further drop in the fourth quarter, when Treasury borrowing needs are likely to exceed $60 billion, could have highly negative ramifications for the credit markets.
During the first half of 1990, foreign investors bought a total of $9.4 billion worth of stocks and bonds, the Salomon figures show, the smallest amount since late 1987, when the dollar was also weakening.
In addition, the allure of higher yields and stronger currencies elsewhere attracted a record net purchase of $10.9 billion of foreign stocks and bonds by American investors in the second quarter, Salomon said, adding that those flows were likely to intensify.
''U.S. investors are considerably underweighted overseas,'' Nicholas Sargen, a manager of international fixed-income research at Salomon wrote in the firm's weekly Comments on Credit publication.
While not disputing the figures, other analysts said the capital movements in the first half of the year did not necessarily bode ill for the future.
 
'Unanswered Question'
In light of recent problems in West Germany and Japan, the ''unanswered question in all of this is which markets are attracting the capital,'' said David Resler, chief economist at Nomura Securities International.
''Prices are being marked down in securities markets all over the world,'' he added. ''What we might be seeing is a global retreat into a more cautious stance by providers of capital.''
Moreover, the fallout from the Persian Gulf crisis may soon lead to a weakening of major European currencies against the dollar.
While a Federal budget agreement may emerge at any time, analysts are quick to point out that convincing members of Congress may take considerable effort. Conceivably, the job might not be finished until the middle of October, the last possible minute before automatic spending cuts become final under the Gramm-Rudman budget-balancing law.
 
Consumer Index Awaited
For market participants, this week's most important news on the economy is expected on Tuesday, with the release of the Consumer Price Index for August.
As with producer prices, which rose 1.3 percent last month, the surge in oil prices almost certainly bloated the consumer index, analysts said. An increase of eight-tenths or nine-tenths of a percent - the largest rise since January - is widely forecast.
Excluding the food and energy components, consumer prices probably rose last month by three-tenths or four-tenths of a percent, analysts said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); IRAQ (92%); KUWAIT (92%); GULF STATES (57%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (57%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CREDIT; CURRENCY US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (88%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (72%); GERMAN MARK (72%); BONDS (71%); WORLD WAR II (56%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N ALAN GREENSPAN (73%); 



505 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1474 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Post or No Post, Dailies Face Flux

BYLINE: By ALEX S. JONES

 BODY:
The fate of The New York Post, be it life or death, raises the curtain on a period of tremendous flux in the city's already tense and economically distressed newspaper market -particularly for The Daily News, which is embroiled in its own showdown with unions.
Union leaders, industry analysts and executives at New York's dailies say that whatever happens, the struggle to save The Post will drastically change the city's newspaper landscape. Ultimately, either The Post or The News, or even both, will almost certainly disappear, they predict. They say the long-term importance of what happens at The Post today is its impact on The Daily News, which is far larger and more likely to survive.
After a week of intense negotiations, Peter S. Kalikow, owner of The Post, said on Friday that the paper's survival depended on whether the 350-member Newspaper Guild votes tonight to approve $5 million in wage and benefit cuts. The cuts would reduce weekly salaries for Guild members by about 20 percent. The paper's other eight unions, representing roughly 500 jobs, have already agreed to $15 million in cuts to keep the paper alive. 
The voting is scheduled for 6 P.M., and should the Guild's members reject the plan, Mr. Kalikow said tomorrow's issue of The Post would be the last.
''I think it's going to be very close,'' said Barry F. Lipton, president of the Guild, who has endorsed the proposal but faces strong opposition from many in the union who say the cuts are too deep. The Guild, the paper's largest union, represents news, advertising and clerical employees.
No other city in the nation has more than two big daily newspapers, but New York City has four - including The New York Times and New York Newsday - and their battle for survival has made this particular newspaper war a fascinating spectacle for the industry, rather like watching scorpions in a jar.
Interviews with senior executives at The News, The Post and The Times, who were willing to discuss the situation last week on condition that they not be named, suggest that every newspaper in the city, including New York Newsday, has a stake in what happens to The Post, if only indirectly. While The Times and New York Newsday are not in jeopardy of closing, they have a vital and conflicting interest in what happens to The Post because of the potential effect on The News and on the competitive climate in general.
Though New York Newsday has not yet made an operating profit on its own, its parent, Long Island Newsday, is quite profitable. Furthermore, the Times Mirror Company, which owns Newsday, has shown no sign of cutting back. Robert M. Johnson, publisher of Newsday and New York Newsday, said that what happens at The Post would have no effect on New York Newsday's fundamental strategy of slowly building circulation.
 
Pivotal Role of The News
What happens at The Post will either strengthen or weaken The News, which is the pivotal newspaper as far as The Times and New York Newsday are concerned.
Analysts and newspaper executives say New York Newsday would rush to fill the void if The News closed; The Times, on the other hand, would be helped if The News survives and acts as a buffer to New York Newsday, which with substantially more circulation could be a formidable competitor for the advertising aimed at affluent readers that now appears mostly in The Times.
As for The Post, newspaper analysts predict that the paper will get a temporary reprieve, at best, if Mr. Kalikow means it when he says he is unwilling to absorb more losses. The Post has been unprofitable for two decades, and its advertising has declined sharply in the last two years, along with that of the city's other papers, as part of a regional economic slump.
If a settlement is reached, inflation will almost immediately start to eat away at the savings that had been agreed upon. The paper must find new revenue to maintain an equilibrium.''It's as sure as death and taxes that costs go up,'' said John Morton, a newspaper analyst at Lynch, Jones & Ryan in Washington.
 
Kalikow's Strategy
Mr. Kalikow's strategy has been to hope for a strike at The News that The Post could exploit to win circulation and advertising, but union leaders have said that they will not strike The News under any circumstances.
In a strategic sense, The Post's existence is very important to unions as a bargaining chip in their negotiations with The News. Union leaders can point to the negotiations at The Post as a model of successful negotiating, putting public relations pressure on The News to do the same, rather than to continue pursuing its demands for ''management rights'' that would strip unions of virtually all their power.
On the other hand, closing The Post would help the management of The News by eliminating a rival and leaving unions wounded by the lost jobs. And if The Post closes on the basis of a union vote, it would be a public relations disaster for the unions.
 
Newsday Has Different Unions
And it is not lost on the labor leaders that while the same unions represent workers at The News, The Post and The Times, Newsday has different unions. The growth of New York Newsday does not translate into more jobs for their members.
George E. McDonald, president of the Allied Printing Trades Council, said yesterday that the scenario of one union effectively throwing its brothers out of work would be so catastrophic that it might have been scripted by the Tribune Company, which owns The Daily News and which labor leaders consider virulently anti-union.
Since January, when bitter negotiations with The News began, the unions have acted in concert with unusual harmony, which has greatly strengthened their position.
The News would almost certainly try to exploit the crack in union solidarity that would result from a Guild vote to reject the Kalikow proposal.
The strategy of The News from the start has been to make favorable deals with some unions, like the Guild, and isolate unions representing the pressmen and delivery drivers, which News management has accused of featherbedding and other wasteful practices.
 
Anxiety Over News Article
Anxiety that The News was trying to sabotage the Guild vote ran high yesterday after an article appeared in The News on Sunday asserting that members of the drivers' union at The Post would get ''$100-a-week raises'' rather than a pay cut.
The story ran on page 3 of The News under the headline, ''Drivers Post sweet deal.''
Representatives of Mr. Kalikow and Michael J. Alvino, president of the Newspaper and Mail Deliverers Union of New York, which represents the drivers, characterized the article and headline as misleading.
''The article was designed to put The Post out of business,'' Mr. Alvino said.
They said that from 90 to 96 of the paper's 263 drivers would be laid off and that those remaining would no longer receive guaranteed overtime pay, which averaged 10 hours a week, and would also lose some other benefits. Though the base pay would increase by $100 a week, they said, the take-home pay for drivers would decrease.
 
Reaction at The News
James P. Willse, editor of The News, said that the paper was reporting what information it had available at the time and that suggestions of ulterior motives were ludicrous. The News published an editorial in the same issue expressing hope that The Post would carry on. The potential ripple effect of The Post's survival or demise has made union leaders very sensitive to anything that they think might be calculated to harm the negotiations.
Union leaders were incensed last week when The News notified the Newspaper Guild that it intended to seek any concessions granted The Post through a portion of the Guild contract known in labor parlance as a ''me-too'' clause.
The News terminated all union contracts last spring as a negotiating tactic, and union leaders said there was no legal basis for seeking the concessions.
Then The Times declared that it, too, would seek any concessions granted to The Post, to the extent that they were created by overall economic conditions.
 
Lawsuits Threatened
Union leaders and Mr. Kalikow threatened lawsuits against both The Times and The News on the ground that they were trying to interfere in labor negotiations. Spokesmen for both The Times and The News said they were simply stating their intentions.
The Times is already negotiating with union leaders about the staffing of the paper's new, highly automated plant in Edison, N.J., which is scheduled to open this fall.
While The Times remains profitable, its advertising has dropped in recent months and profits are down. Though the framework of the Edison talks does not include considering overall economic conditions, the message to union leaders is clear: The Times is serious about saving money, too.

GRAPHIC: Charts showing the decrease of advertising in The New York Post, The Daily News, Newsday & The New York Times (source: Media Records) (pg. D1); Photos: Peter S. Kalikow, owner of The Post, says the paper's survival depends on whether the Newspaper Guild votes to approve a weekly salary cut of about 20 percent.; Barry F. Lipton, president of the Guild, has endorsed the proposal but is faced with strong opposition from many in the union who say the cut is too much. (Photographs by The New York Times) (pg. D10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (85%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (85%); NEWSDAY INC (85%); TIMES MIRROR CO (60%); THE NEWSPAPER GUILD (83%); THE NEWSPAPER GUILD (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK POST

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; ADVERTISING; NEWSPAPERS NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (89%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); APPROVALS (68%); COMPANY PROFITS (62%); 

PERSON: JONES, ALEX S PETER S KALIKOW (70%); 



506 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: Easing Local Phone Rules: Fight on Profit

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
A year ago the Government granted the American Telephone and Telegraph Company greater freedom to raise or lower prices while eliminating most controls on its rate of return. The idea was to encourage better services, cut costs and create savings for consumers and shareholders.
Experts disagree on how well the new system is working, but on Wednesday the Federal Communications Commission is likely to extend it to local telephone companies. Under the new system, price ceilings are set for broad categories of services, and close regulation of profits and specific prices are dropped. Rates on local telephone calls would not be directly affected.
 
Too Quick a Rise Feared
Because F.C.C. approval for the change is widely expected, the debate has shifted to how quickly the ceilings should rise for the local phone companies in coming years. An unlikely alliance of consumer groups and the two biggest long-distance companies, A.T.&T. and the MCI Communications Corporation, contends that the new ceilings will rise too quickly under the F.C.C. staff proposal up for approval. 
The alliance warns that over the next four years local telephone companies will be able to cut their costs for conveying calls from homes and businesses to the nearest long-distance switching centers by $5 billion more than they have estimated and will not be obliged to pass the savings on to long-distance companies. These payments, estimated to be about $50 billion over the next four years, are the most important factor in determining long-distance rates, and the alliance says the additional costs will be borne by customers.
If the price ceilings are allowed to rise more slowly, as the A.T.&T. alliance advocates, the long-distance carriers and consumers will benefit at the expense of the local phone companies.
Some consumer advocates have also warned that the new regulatory system will not give local phone companies enough incentive to invest in their networks, resulting in a decline in the quality of phone service.
 
Regional Bells Fight Back
On the other side are the local phone companies, led by the seven regional Bell companies created in the 1984 breakup of A.T.&T. They say that consumers will not suffer and that the proposed increase in price ceilings will barely allow them to cover their costs and maintain profit margins. The future cost savings predicted by A.T.&T. and its allies are impossible, they say.
The A.T.&T. alliance argues that raising the price ceilings at a slower rate would force the local phone companies to try to be even more efficient, stretching for even more savings. But there is much disagreement over whether further efficiencies are feasible. ''Stretching the companies is a good idea for the Government's purposes; we're just not sure whether that stretch will be too much,'' said Janice Obuchowski, head of the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, a Commerce Department agency.
A coalition of 30 companies and associations, led by A.T.&T., opposed the F.C.C. staff's plan in a petition filed last Wednesday and asked that any decision this week be tentative. If the commissioners make a tentative decision, they would have to vote again on the issue before price caps could take effect as planned Jan. 1. The extra vote would give the coalition time to lobby for amendments to some of the new rules.
 
Influence on Local Rates
A decision will not directly affect rates for local telephone calls, which are regulated by state commissions. But California, Nebraska and Vermont have already introduced price ceilings, and several other states are considering doing so. The F.C.C.'s decision may influence decisions by state regulators.
Price caps are currently popular with most economists in the United States because the system appears to address problems with the profit-based regulatory system that has prevailed for decades.
Under price caps, a weighted average of a phone company's prices for each of several very broad categories of services may rise, but less quickly than producer prices in the economy.
But the company has considerable latitude to change prices for various services in meeting these averages. And if a company keeps the rate at which its costs increase below the rate at which its price ceiling rises, the company can keep the difference, instead of being forced to distribute the savings to consumers, as required by the current profit-based rules.
 
Incentive to Overinvest
Under existing regulations, a local telephone company's profits are limited to a fixed percentage of any investments that are approved by regulators. The limits have often been set above comparable returns in other industries. So companies have had an incentive to overinvest in buildings and equipment to earn a high return on more money. This has meant a top-quality network but also rates higher than they might have been.
More important, current regulation has discouraged the risky development of new services by forcing companies to absorb the losses if the experiments fail but to distribute the benefits to consumers if the services prove extremely successful. ''In the past, when we have put in any efficiencies, we have not been able to share any of that with our shareholders,'' said Larry J. Sparrow, the vice president for telephone regulatory and governmental affairs at the GTE Corporation, one of the largest local phone companies.
The potential problem of price caps is that phone companies may cut costs and increase profits for shareholders at the expense of quality. ''There is a legitimate concern about creeping dilapidation of the network,'' said Patricia D. Dennis, a former F.C.C. commissioner who worked on the price cap plan for A.T.&T. and is now a communications lawyer in Washington.
 
Approach Called Almost 'Suicidal'
Local phone companies argue that state regulators already monitor quality closely, and that they must invest heavily to offer new and more profitable services. Cutting investment ''would almost be suicidal,'' said Danley T. Hubbard, the vice president of revenues and public affairs at the Southwestern Bell Telephone Company in St. Louis.
The results of price-cap regulation at A.T.&T. are unclear and disputed. The company says its long-distance rates dropped by $462 million during the first 12 months after it came under price caps on July 1, 1989. But most of the savings went to businesses rather than residential customers, and it is unclear whether the rate reductions resulted from regulatory change or competition in the long-distance telephone industry.
Even A.T.&T. is reluctant to call price caps a success, noting that only 21 percent of its price changes in the last year were made easier by the new regulatory system. ''It's really too short a time to make a realistic evaluation of how it has gone,'' said Thomas H. Norris, A.T.&T.'s corporate vice president for Federal regulatory affairs.
 
A.T.&T. Increased Prices
But some consumer and telephone user groups that criticized the introduction of price caps for A.T.&T. say that the results confirm their early fears. After repeatedly lowering long-distance rates since the divestiture in 1984, A.T.&T. used its freedom of pricing last November to raise its night and weekend long-distance rates by an average of 1.3 percent, they point out. And when the F.C.C. ordered local telephone companies on July 1 to reduce their access charges to long-distance carriers by $1.1 billion, A.T.&T. passed on only half of its savings.
''The residential customer is being shortchanged,'' said Gene Kimmelman, the legislative director and telecommunications expert at the Consumer Federation of America, a nonprofit Washington group.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (91%); VZC (LSE) (91%); VZ (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (91%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO INC (AT&T); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC)

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES; PRICES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; RATES LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (92%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); TELEPHONE RATES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 



507 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
S.& L. Failures Benefit Seller of Troubled Assets

BYLINE: By DANIEL F. CUFF

 BODY:
The misfortune of the savings and loan industry has brought good fortune to Joseph E. Robert Jr. Mr. Robert is chairman of the J. E. Robert Companies, an organization that was in the right place at the right time when the Government needed to contract for managers to dispose of the assets of failed institutions.
Robert Companies is scheduled to assume control today of the $2.4 billion in assets of the University Federal Savings Association in Houston. The contract from the Resolution Trust Corporation, to manage and dispose of the assets, is the largest awarded to date by the Government. 
The Robert organization, which is based in Alexandria, Va., will be paid about $21.8 million over three years to manage the properties that were owned by the association and $19.6 million to dispose of the properties over the same period. The fees will depend on the company's performance.
Mr. Robert said his company acted like a giant loan collection department and as a manager of property that has already been foreclosed. ''The better we do at maximizing the recovery, the better off the taxpayers are,'' Mr. Robert said.
Mr. Robert, 38, said he got into the real estate workout business ''by default'' when he was working for a Washington developer whose business failed in 1974. As the economy turned around most people got out of the workout business. ''The difference was, I stayed in it,'' he said.
From 1974 to 1981 he concentrated on such projects as condominiums. In 1981 he formed his company and began to focus on troubled debt portfolios.
In 1984 he won his first contract from the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation. ''The business has grown since with the rising tide of failures,'' Mr. Robert said. Today the company oversees $10 billion in assets and is adding 80 to 100 employees to a staff of about 170, he said.
Mr. Robert grew up in the Washington area and attended three colleges without earning a degree, working in the real estate business at age 19 and going to school at nights, he said. ''I'm the only one around here without a degree,'' he added.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: ROBERT COS (64%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (57%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY FEDERAL SAVINGS ASSN (HOUSTON); ROBERTS, J E, CO

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES SAVINGS & LOANS (91%); BANK FAILURES (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (78%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); CONTRACT AWARDS (72%); CONDOMINIUMS (69%); 

PERSON: CUFF, DANIEL F; ROBERT, JOSEPH E (JR)



508 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
Kroger Picks President And Chief Adds Title

BYLINE: By DANIEL F. CUFF

 BODY:
The Kroger Company, a major supermarket chain, has named a president and chief operating officer, and its new chief executive has added the title of chairman.
The new president is Richard L. Bere, who is 59 years old and currently a senior vice president. Mr. Bere (pronounced beer) also joins the Kroger board.
The management changes began with the naming in June of Joseph A. Pichler, 49, to be the chief executive, succeeding Lyle Everingham, 64. Mr. Everingham, chairman and chief executive for 11 years, was to have remained chairman until the age of 65 in 1991. On Friday, however, the Cincinnati-based company announced that Mr. Pichler had been elected to the additional post of chairman. 
A company spokesman said the succession plan had been accelerated because Mr. Everingham was planning to do some traveling, both for personal reasons and for the company. Mr. Everingham, who began as a clerk in a store in Adrian, Mich., in 1946, will remain on the board and was elected chairman of the executive committee, a post he will hold until his retirement in January.
In other changes, Patrick J. Kenney, 53, currently president of the Texas operating group, was named a senior vice president to succeed Mr. Bere. William J. Sinkula, 60, and David B. Dillon, 39, were named executive vice presidents. Mr. Sinkula will continue as chief financial officer and Mr. Dillon as head of Dillon Companies, a supermarket unit of Kroger based in Hutchinson, Kan.
The new Kroger team constitutes something of a brain trust. Mr. Pichler, a former dean of the University of Kansas business school, holds a doctorate in economics from the University of Chicago. Mr. Bere holds a doctorate in agricultural economics from Ohio State University.
Mr. Bere has been with Kroger for 33 years, having worked in St. Louis and Nashville before joining the headquarters staff as senior vice president in 1988. In the early 1970's, when he was in charge of produce merchandising, he took Kroger fruits and vegetables out of their plastic trays after customers complained they could not smell or touch what they were buying. The company said the move increased produce sales strongly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: KR (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (93%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (66%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (71%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: KROGER CO (93%); DILLON COS INC (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: KROGER CO

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BOARDS OF DIRECTORS EXECUTIVES (97%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (93%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); BOARD CHANGES (90%); SUCCESSION PLANS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); AGRICULTURE (63%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (61%); 

PERSON: CUFF, DANIEL F; BERE, RICHARD L; PICHLER, JOSEPH A; EVERINGHAM, LYLE; KENNEY, PATRICK J; SINKULA, WILLIAM J; DILLON, DAVID B DAVID DILLON (89%); 



509 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: Tobacco Industry Sees Boon in Sales to Soviets

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
The recently announced sale of American cigarettes to the Soviet Union will fatten the already rich profits of the tobacco industry in the United States to a larger extent than the numbers involved suggest, Wall Street analysts say.
''This Soviet deal is one of the most important things that has happened to the industry in a long, long time and not just because it is going to raise exports,'' said Lawrence Adelman, an analyst with Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.
By using idle factory capacity, the deal will raise the profits on cigarettes sold domestically, he said, adding, ''This is an uplifting experience from a profit point of view.''
Cigarette companies earn in excess of 40 cents for each dollar of assets. 
 
Anti-Smokers' Outcry
The announcement last week that the Philip Morris Companies and RJR Nabisco Inc., the two biggest companies in the tobacco industry, would sell 34 billion cigarettes to the Soviet Union was quickly followed by an outcry from anti-smoking groups protesting that serious health problems would be exported.
''We fear that the Soviets will place the Marlboro Man in a place of honor right next to Lenin's Tomb,'' said John R. Seffrin, chairman of the American Cancer Society, on Friday. ''This is going to help bring about an epidemic of tobacco-induced diseases the likes of which the world has never seen.''
Mr. Seffrin called on Philip Morris and RJR Nabisco to place warning labels on the Soviet-bound cigarettes that would resemble the United States Surgeon General's warning on smoking and tobacco-linked illnesses, including cancer. The Soviet Union does not require such labels.
Since the Surgeon General's 1964 report attacking cigarettes, cigarette consumption in the United States has declined. Last year, Americans smoked about 524 billion cigarettes, a decrease of about 6 percent from the year before.
 
Some Price Resistance
Cigarette companies are still highly profitable because of efficient production and smokers' willingness to pay regular twice-a-year price increases. Still, the discount cigarettes known as generics have become the industry's most successful product introduction, indicating some price resistance among smokers.
Now, instead of trying to keep plant efficiency high by making generics, American factories can make higher-profit full-price cigarettes for the Soviet Union.
The brands to be exported include Philip Morris's Marlboros, the world's best-selling brand, and RJR Nabisco's Winstons, another top-selling brand. No price for the cigarettes has been set yet. But if valued at United States retail prices in 1989, excluding taxes, the shipments would be worth about $1.9 billion, or a little over a dollar a pack.
For Philip Morris, the Soviet deal means little in the short run, said Rebecca Barfield, an analyst with the First Boston Corporation. It will yield perhaps $40 million to $60 million in pretax profit annually for Philip Morris. That is about 3 cents a share for a corporation that last year earned $3.18 a share, or nearly $3 billion.
But tobacco accounts for nearly two-thirds of Philip Morris profit, and Philip Morris's strong cash flow has made it a favorite on Wall Street, especially among institutional investors. ''The fact that Philip Morris will surely be close to running at 100 percent efficiency means that their bottom line will be very favorably affected,'' Ms. Barfield said.
In addition, the Soviet deal will give Philip Morris nearly 5 percent of the Soviet market and RJR Nabisco, which is privately held, more than 3 percent. ''If Americans, and especially Philip Morris, penetrate the Russian market, I don't see why they couldn't get 20 percent or more in a relatively short period,'' said John C. Maxwell Jr., an analyst with Wheat First Securities Inc.
 
Smoking a Pack a Day
The Soviet Union is negotiating with tobacco companies in the United States and other countries to solve a shortage that already totals at least 50 billion cigarettes. The 70 million Soviet smokers are believed to smoke nearly a pack a day, but this is a lower figure than the nearly pack and a half a day smoked by 50 million Americans.
Darryl J. Jayson, an economic analyst with the Tobacco Merchants Association, a trade group, said per-smoker consumption figures are misleading because Soviet production could not keep up with demand.
Soviet smokers spend about 10 percent of their income on cigarettes, Mr. Jayson said. ''Even in a country where food and shelter are heavily subsidized, we're talking a very heavy smoker here,'' he said.''It isn't any wonder that there have been riots in the streets over cigarettes.''
The shortage has been developing for a long time. Mr. Jayson cited Agriculture Department estimates that Soviet inventories of domestically grown tobacco leaf have been declining for the last five years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (94%); PMI (SWX) (85%); PM (PAR) (85%); PM (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (71%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (56%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: ALTRIA GROUP INC (94%); PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC (85%); DEAN WITTER REYNOLDS INC (71%); KRAFT NABISCO (56%); AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY (55%); AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: SMOKING; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TOBACCO TOBACCO INDUSTRY (93%); TOBACCO MFG (92%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); SMOKING (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (89%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (87%); CANCER (87%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (85%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); PLANT CAPACITY (70%); PRODUCT LABELING (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); BRANDING (64%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY DARRYL J JAYSON (56%); 



510 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-14

 
The top-ranking Air Force officer was abruptly dismissed by Defense Secretary Dick Cheney for publicly discussing Pentagon contingency plans for waging a war against Iraq, including specific targets for American air strikes. Page A1

 
Cheney has staked out authority at Pentagon A12

 
Air blockade of Iraq is backed by President Bush A12

 
U.N. drafts plan to tighten embargo of Iraq A13

 
Iraqi forces seized Kuwaiti men between the ages of 17 and 35 as they tried to cross the border between Kuwait and Saudi Arabia. The Kuwaitis reacted with a sense of panic and stunned disbelief. A1

 
Europeans expelling Iraqi military attaches A13

 
Arab radicals say they will avenge Iraq A13

 
A mother's plea to Hussein frees her son A14

 
Israeli says crisis has eroded Israel's military situation A14

 
The role of women in the military has changed drastically. Never before have so many women held so many types of jobs - and never before have so many husbands and children been left behind. A1 
 
A modern missionary in Africa, Vangu Tsumbu, runs a highly successful AIDS-prevention program. He uses social marketing techniques to distribute condoms. A1

 
Cooperation by prostitutes in Kenya prevents AIDS cases A10

 
The confusion over economic reform in the Soviet Union was compounded by President Gorbachev, who proposed a referendum on the question of whether the private ownership of land should be legalized. A1

 
Walesa declares he will run for President of Poland A3

 
Hungary's chief begins to accept popularity A7

 
A new law published in Nicaragua grants Sandinista commanders broad permanent authority over the structure and operations of the country's large military forces, even though the Sandinista Front lost power six months ago. A11

 
Intense street battles rage in Monrovia A8

 
Aquino asks Americans to quit Filipino bases A3

 
Australia's chief watches his support ebb A5

 
Journal: A tale of the saintly (and the smart) A4

 
National A16-25, B6-8

 
The nominee for the Supreme Court, Judge David H. Souter, seemed to endorse a more activist court on his last day of Senate testimony. He said he could not think of one recent instance in which the Court had ''improperly created new rights.'' A1

 
Mayor Barry will not be retried on the 12 drug and perjury charges that a jury was unable to resolve last month, prosecutors said. They said a new trial would be unlikely to achieve ''substantially more.'' A18

 
A string of courtroom reverses suffered by the Justice Department, like the divided verdict in the trial of Mayor Barry, has raised questions about the Government's fairness to well-known defendants. A18

 
Bush calls on negotiators to adopt cut in capital gains tax A22

 
Washington Talk: Bicycles get a day in the sun A16

 
Exxon's second summer in Alaska cleaning the mess from the nation's worst oil spill has ended with praise for how much was accomplished but discord over what was not. A16

 
A Pentagon program to acquire land has been suspended, following stiff resistance from farmers, ranchers and environmentalists. The program would have added 4.5 million acres to the 25 million acres now managed by the military. A16

 
Contract enhancing job security is agreed on by union and G.M. A20

 
Veterans chief apologizes for use of ethnic slur A23

 
The president of Boston University, John R. Silber, has thrown the Democratic primary for governor of Massachusetts into turmoil with a provacative remark about blacks and attacks on the news media. A24

 
Oklahoma vote to test drive to curb lawmakers' tenure A24

 
Study finds Jews split on marriage A25

 
Academy of Sciences urges changes in meat inspection B7

 
Regional B1-5

 
A young Bronx man killed a man who he believed had attacked his mother, the police said. Victor Lopez, 18 years old, has been charged with manslaughter, and his mother, Maria, says she has lost her battle to keep her children away from trouble. A1

 
As many as 3,100 new prison beds should be added to Rikers Island, the New York City Correction Commissioner said. The beds would handle what he said would be an increase in prisoners resulting from the addition of 5,000 police officers. B1

 
Watkins family endorses a plan to hire more police B4

 
Businesses offer aid to Dinkins to combat crime B4

 
A probation officer is taken hostage in Manhattan courthouse B3

 
New York City's Police Department must enforce a court order to keep black-led demonstrators at least 50 feet away from two Korean grocery stores in Brooklyn, an appellate court ruled. B1

 
Jury selection begins in another Bensonhurst trial B4

 
Members of the Newspaper Guild at The New York Post overwhelmingly approved an agreement that will keep the paper alive but slash their salaries 20 percent. B1

 
A handsome New Jersey community has been a favorite backdrop for 15 years for film companies making television commercials. But now the mayor of the community wants to ban the filming completely. B1

 
A poll finds New Yorkers are not blaming Cuomo for their woes B2

 
Ads by London jab at Cuomo and Rinfret as two of a kind B2

 
State panel releases plan for park along the Hudson B3

 
New York's welfare rolls up for first time in seven years B5

 
Business Digest D1

 
Science Times

 
Testing troubles for anti-missile defense program C1

 
What would an increase in carbon dioxide mean for plants? C1

 
An untouched tribe collides with civilization C1

 
Shuttle launching delayed again
 C2

 
The Doctor's World: The value of a business degree C3

 
Proposed dam on a Ganges tributary raises concerns C4

 
Science Watch C8

 
Personal Computers C6

 
Arts/Entertainment

 
Boyhood hero inspires best seller C11

 
Theater: Linda Lavin in ''Gypsy'' C11

 
''Through the Leaves'' C18

 
National Endowment for the Arts supports pledge C12

 
Music: India-Pakistan Masters C14

 
New York Philharmonic C14

 
Dance: Americans in Lyons C11

 
Word and Image: The perplexing Emmys C15

 
''The Duel,'' a history C15

 
Man vs. man vs. nature C16

 
Obituaries B10-11

 
George Hardy, service union organizer
 
Dr. Cushman Haagensen, cancer specialist
 
Fashion Page B9

 
Sports

 
Baseball: $102.5 million award in collusion case D25

 
The races with no starting lines D25
 
Mets in race: to re-sign Strawberry D25

 
Red Sox snap losing streak
 D25

 
Reds' Rijo blanks Giants D26

 
Blue Jays beat Yankees D26

 
Columns: Vecsey on Joe Gardi D25

 
On Horse Racing D27

 
Football: Backup players help Giants D27

 
Broncos edge Chiefs D27

 
Appeals court overturns conviction of agents D27

 
Golf: Cypress Point drops PGA Tour event D26

 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed

 
Editorials A26

 
Sack Dugan, save the strategy
 
Boris Yeltsin, reconsidered
 
Moynihan goads the Senate
 
Fair for unions, and N.Y.C.
 
Letters A26

 
A. M. Rosenthal: Dumping on David A27

 
Russell Baker: Just the fax, Ar nold
 A27

 
Reginald A. Boddie: Apartheid at Virginia Beach A27

 
Johanan Bein: Those ''lies'' were true A27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); KUWAIT (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); HUNGARY (79%); KENYA (79%); EUROPE (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); POLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ARMED FORCES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); JURY TRIALS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%); WOMEN (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); AIDS & HIV (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (66%); TESTIMONY (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); VERDICTS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (60%); JUDGES (60%); REFERENDUMS (50%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (50%); 

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); DAVID SOUTER (56%); 



511 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 7, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: Hungary's Chief Begins to Accept Popularity

BYLINE: By CELESTINE BOHLEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BUDAPEST, Sept. 17

 BODY:
The shock of last year's tumultuous changes has begun to wear off for most Hungarians, but not for Arpad Goncz. The writer, translator and, for six years, prisoner in a Communist prison still has trouble getting used to the idea of being President of the republic.
''Somehow, I feel as if I fell into the middle of a cyclone,'' Mr. Goncz said before leaving on an unofficial trip to the United States. ''It has changed my life basically.'' 
On Aug. 3, Mr. Goncz, 68 years old, was officially elected to a five-year term as President after serving in a largely ceremonial post on an interim basis since May.
He had by then already established himself as one of the country's most popular figures, a sprightly man with a self-deprecating wit who stands out in a political landscape weighted down by solemnity. He sees his own role in family terms. ''At the moment, I feel as I were the grandfather of all of Hungary,'' he said in an interview with several reporters. ''It means if the children are fighting, you have to make peace.''
He again had to play that role recently, reminding politicians not to call each other names during a growing controversy over Foreign Minister Geza Jeszenszky's accusation that members of the opposition espouse ''Marxist, atheist, free-thinking and unpatriotic ideas.''
Even after parliamentary elections in the spring, Hungarian politics continued to be split between two camps, as the opposition keeps up its criticism on the shape and pace of Prime Minister Jozsef Antall's program for economic and social change.
Mr. Goncz was chosen last spring by both sides because he is one of the few public figures in Hungary who can cross the political divide. He was a founding member of the Alliance for Free Democrats, now the main opposition party. But in his youth, he was a rising young star in the Independent Smallholders, a rural party that is now part of the governing coalition. He also has personal ties to Mr. Antall, who is head of the centrist Hungarian Democratic Forum.
As head of state, Mr. Goncz greets foreign visitors and performs other politically neutral tasks. But this month, he drew fire by granting clemency to four spies who had worked either for the C.I.A. or West German intelligence. The four, all sentenced in the 1980's, were considered Hungary's last political prisoners.
Critics raised a moral question: whether a country, by changing its political position in the world, can redefine the terms of treason. Mr. Goncz acknowledged the complexity of the case. He said he privately considered the spies' behavior ''not very commendable,'' but said that under the circumstances they had served enough time in jail.
His decision was to grant not amnesty, but clemency, he noted.
 
Constantly Ringing Doorbell
''I did not want to make anyone a saint just because he was working for the Americans,'' he said.
A year ago Mr. Goncz, who during his career has worked as a laborer and an agronomist, became president of the Hungarian Writers Association - a post that he recently gave up to make room for his other duties. An author in his own right, he has also translated Saul Bellow, John Updike, William Styron and George Bush into Hungarian. He learned English in prison, where he was sentenced for his role in the 1956 Hungarian uprising, and was even drafted into doing translations for his jailers.
As President, Mr. Goncz said he had lost those anonymous hours he used to spend reading or writing in his small Budapest apartment. Now his doorbell is constantly rung by people looking for solutions to grievences and complaints that, he said, often date back to 1917.
Hungarians, many of who have found the last year to be a time of troubling uncertainty, have responded to Mr. Goncz's low-key charm with warmth and enthusiam.
''I'm sincerely surprised,'' he said about his popularity. ''But I have never promised anything I could not fulfill. As long they don't catch me lying, I expect I will be credible.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HUNGARY (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HUNGARY

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION POLITICS (90%); PRISONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ESPIONAGE (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WRITERS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); SENTENCING (77%); TREASON (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: GONCZ, ARPAD; BOHLEN, CELESTINE ARPAD GONCZ (95%); 



512 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: CONFRONTATION IN THE GULF;
IRAQ AIR BLOCKADE IS BACKED BY BUSH

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 17

 BODY:
President Bush said today that he was prepared to support efforts to extend the United Nations naval blockade of Iraq to halting the air shipments that are now a hole in the international sanctions against President Saddam Hussein.
Although the Administration has hesitated to take that step out of fear it could set off armed conflict, there has been growing pressure in the United Nations for an air blockade. ''I would be prepared to work with anybody to tie that additional knot in the sanctions,'' Mr. Bush said.
At a news conference, the President said that he worried about how long public support for the Persian Gulf military operation would last if the current stalemate dragged on or if open warfare broke out. 
He also conceded for the first time in public that he regretted United States efforts to improve relations with Mr. Hussein in the months before the invasion of Kuwait. But he insisted that this policy did not cause the current crisis.
Talking to reporters and editors from smaller news organizations, Mr. Bush said the American people are now ''magnificently united'' behind his Persian Gulf policy.
If there is war, he said he hoped the public would respond as it did during World War II. ''There was a lot of sorrow, there was a lot of regret,'' Mr. Bush said. ''Everyone identified with the families who lost loved ones, but the country stayed fairly well together.''
 
'How Long Is Too Long?'
If there is no open fighting and the deployment continues month after month with no end in sight, he said, ''I'm not clear in my own mind on how long this kind of support holds up,'' adding,''How long is too long? I think about those questions, but I can't define it for you.''
Mr. Bush declined, as he always does, to speculate about the likelihood of open warfare in the Arabian peninsula. But he said that despite the presence of troops from other countries and the need to consult with the American troops' Saudi hosts, the United States would make its own decisions about how and when to use military force.
''We're not going to have to stand around waiting for someone else to decide if there is some provocation'' that would justify a military attack, Mr. Bush said.
He also said, ''I have no hesitancy at all to say to the parents of the kids over there, or families, 'Should something happen that required combat, the command structure will function very, very smoothly.' ''
The Administration has been stung by recent newspaper columns suggesting that its policy of trying to improve relations with Mr. Hussein may have emboldened him to strike Kuwait.
Asked whether he now regretted the Administration's overtures to Mr. Hussein and its efforts to prevent passage of sanctions proposed in Congress against the Iraqi leader, Mr. Bush said, ''Absolutely.''
Mr. Bush said that at the time, ''there was reason to believe that perhaps improved relations with the West would modify the behavior'' of the Iraqi leader.
With the benefit of hindsight he said, ''You'd go back and say, 'This doesn't make much sense.' ''
But he added that he was ''not sure'' a different policy ''would have changed Saddam Hussein's intention to take over Kuwait.'' He said, ''I don't think this is caused by a miscalculation in United States policy. I think it's caused by a miscalculation by Saddam Hussein.''
On another issue, Mr. Bush said he had ''indirect assurances'' from Iran that it would not violate the trade embargo against Iraq. Benefit of the Doubt Referring to news reports that Iran had agreed to take Iraqi oil in exchange for food and other supplies, he said, ''Until I am shown that Iran is violating the sanctions, I'm not going to buy into the argument that they've made some secret deal to violate the sanctions.''
Although the United States led the way in imposing a naval blockade on Iraq, it has hesitated to try stopping air traffic into Iraq out of fear that such an operation would be provocative and could more easily initiate open warfare than the naval embargo, since it would risk clashes between warplanes from Iraq and other countries.
Administration officials have said that the volume of air traffic in violation of the embargo is too small to justify the risk of intensifying the conflict. But there has been growing pressure in the United Nations for an air blockade and Mr. Bush expressed concern about the continued air supplies to Iraq.
On Sunday morning, the United Nations Security Council adopted a resolution calling for ''further concrete measures'' to enforce the embargo on trade with Iraq and the council's permanent members met privately on Sunday and again tonight to consider ways to do that.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); GULF STATES (92%); KUWAIT (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST ; IRAQ; PERSIAN GULF

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); MILITARY ACTION; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PUBLIC OPINION; MIDDLE EAST-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); FAMILY (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); NEWS REPORTING (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); ROSENTHAL, ANDREW ; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (86%); 



513 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: Bush Again Calls on Negotiators to Adopt Cut in Capital Gains Tax

BYLINE: By SUSAN F. RASKY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 17

 BODY:
As White House and Congressional budget negotiators tried today to put together the final pieces of a deficit-cutting deal, President Bush renewed his call for a cut in the capital gains tax rate, saying a budget agreement that includes a rate reduction would be the best antidote to economic slowdown.
Although President Bush stopped short of saying he would reject a deficit package that did not include a cut, the budget negotiators ended their deliberations at Andrews Air Force Base tonight at loggerheads over that very issue.
House and Senate leaders from both parties are scheduled to meet Tuesday on Capitol Hill with Administration negotiators to see if they can find a way to compromise. ''It's not quite an impasse, but it's pretty close to one,'' said Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the Senate Republican leader. 
 
Points of Contention
Democratic officials said that while there were some areas in which the two sides had narrowed their differences, the problem came down to the Republicans' insistence that the package include a cut in the capital gains tax rate and the Democrats' refusal to accept one unless it was accompanied by a rise in income tax rates for the wealthy.
''They have to choose between having an historic budget deal or having the whole thing go down in the flames of capital gains,'' said a Democratic spokesman.
Officials involved in the talks, which have been held for the last week and a half at the base, on the outskirts of Washington, said the two sides had tentatively agreed on $59 billion in tax increases over the next five years as well as $123 billion in spending cuts over the same period from programs in which benefits are automatic for those who qualify, like Medicare, Federal retirement benefits and farm subsidies. But the bulk of the tax increases that would be needed to meet the negotiators' target for cutting the deficit by $500 billion over five years remain to be settled.
The $59 billion in tax increases on which tentative agreement has been reached include a 10 percent luxury tax on boats and cars with prices of more than $30,000, electronic equipment priced at more than $1,000, jewelry costing more than $5,000 and furs costing more than $500; a tax on ozone-depleting chemicals, and a rise in excise taxes on spirits, beer and wine.
Democrats and Republicans exchanged deficit-reduction proposals again tonight, but the Democratic plan included a proviso that it was ''entirely contingent'' on not having a capital gains tax cut.
 
Both Sides' Offers
The Democrats are calling for a 20 percent surcharge on incomes of more than $200,000 and a broad-based energy tax. Republicans presented an offer stipulating that the current income tax rate structure be preserved. But their plan would limit deductions for state and local income taxes to offset the revenue that would be lost from cutting the capital gains tax rate. It also calls for new taxes on petroleum fuels.
On Capitol Hill earlier in the day, some lawmakers, including members of the budget negotiating team, raised the possibility of legislation to postpone the deadline, on Oct. 15, when automatic budget cuts will take effect if no agreement has been reached on reducing the Federal deficit.
Lawmakers, especially those in the House, who all face elections in November, are eager to wind up the Congressional session by the second week in October, but the uncertainty over a budget agreement is delaying action on a number of major bills.
Mr. Bush, in his comments, made to a group of reporters for regional newspapers, said he did not believe there was a financial crisis in the country or that the economy was in recession. ''The economy's growth is slow,'' he said, adding that he was ''absolutely convinced'' a reduction in the capital gains rate would spur growth by creating jobs and investment incentives. Of the budget talks, he said the negotiators had ''made some headway recently.''
Capital gains are currently taxed at the same rate as ordinary income, 28 percent or 33 percent, depending on the taxpayer's income level. Republican negotiators have been pushing for a 15 percent capital gains rate. But Democrats argue that a reduction in the rate would benefit mainly the wealthiest taxpayers.
 
Opposition to Limiting Deductions
Limiting the state and local income-tax deductions faces stiff opposition from lawmakers in both parties and especially from those from high income-tax states, like New York, California and Massachusetts, that rely on such taxes to finance a variety of programs and services. But capping all deductions might be equally unpopular.
In his comments to the reporters, Mr. Bush said that the final budget agreement must include real spending reductions and that Congress must devise a system to see that the spending cuts are enforced over the next five years. The negotiators have yet to agree on such a system.
With the Oct. 15 deadline rapidly approaching for imposition of the automatic spending cuts, Representative Silvio O. Conte of Massachusetts, the senior Republican on the House Appropriations Committee and who is part of the negotiating team, raised the possibility of legislation to postpone the cuts, which fall on domestic and military programs. But Congress faces a second deadline - an even tighter one - on Oct. 1, the start of the Government's new fiscal year, to approve 1991 spending bills.
The spending bills are currently in a sort of legislative limbo pending the outcome of the budget negotiations, and Mr. Conte said Congress might be forced to pass a huge stopgap spending bill to finance the Government.
''I have heard that ugly rumor,'' Representative Robert H. Michel of Illinois, the House Republican leader, told the reporters. He said a confrontation over how to handle the spending cut deadline and the growing legislative logjam could come when the Administration makes its request for additional 1990 military spending to help pay for operations in the Persian Gulf. That request is expected soon.
Mr. Michel said the Administration was expected to seek between $1.5 billion and $2 billion in additional military spending for 1990.
For 1991, Democratic budget negotiators have proposed a $10 billion cut in the military budget from current levels and a further cut of $23 billion in fiscal 1992.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US); CAPITAL GAINS TAX; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING CAPITAL GAINS TAX (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); BUDGETS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EXCISE TAX (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); TAX RELIEF (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (72%); MEDICARE (62%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (60%); BEER & ALE (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); ARMED FORCES (56%); AIR FORCES (56%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%); OZONE DEPLETION (50%); 

PERSON: RASKY, SUSAN F; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



514 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: Politics in Massachusetts: More Division Than Vision

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOSTON, Sept. 17

 BODY:
With a provocative remark about blacks and then angry attacks on the news media, John R. Silber, a candidate in the Democratic primary for governor,has thrown Tuesday's race into turmoil, apparently leaving Francis X. Bellotti in the lead.
A poll published over the weekend in The Boston Globe showed Mr. Bellotti, a former Massachusetts Attorney General, leading Dr. Silber, president of Boston University, 48 percent to 37 percent. The poll, of 457 likely voters, has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus five percentage points.
But with Massachusetts voters angry at conventional politicians for a prolonged budget crisis, it was unclear whether Mr. Bellotti, who is 67 years old and first ran for governor in 1964, could hold his lead over the acerbic Dr. Silber, who has depicted himself as the candidate of change. 
Both candidates seemed to have damaged themselves in the past week - Mr. Bellotti with a rambling debate appearance and Dr. Silber by saying in a televised meeting that he had not campaigned in predominantly black sections of Boston because ''there is no point in my making a speech on crime control to a group of drug addicts.''
But some polls suggest Dr. Silber's remark has generated more support among white voters.
 
A Blue-Collar Appeal
Indeed, although Dr. Silber's comments have outraged many Massachusetts voters, they seem to have appealed to many disaffected blue-collar voters who believe the Democratic Party has become too liberal. By the very extremes of his remarks, he is perceived by some voters as an honest candidate willing to say what others are afraid to say.
The third Democratic contender, Lieut. Gov. Evelyn Murphy, withdrew last Monday from the race after a comic-opera attempt to seize power while Gov. Michael S. Dukakis was on a trade mission in Europe. Mr. Dukakis, the 1988 Democratic nominee for President, is not running for re-election.
The Democrats' mistakes, along with Massachusetts' continuing budget problems, have helped the state's small Republican Party, which will choose between two candidates for governor: Steven Pierce, the minority leader in the State House of Representatives, who is a strong opponent of abortion; and William F. Weld, a former United States Attorney who supports a woman's right to abortion.
Mr. Pierce had been ahead in polls, but Mr. Weld has surged in the last few weeks with a blitz of television advertisements that poke fun at Mr. Pierce for repeatedly filing his tax returns late.
The Republicans, who make up only 13.4 percent of the registered voters in Massachusetts, have not won the governor's race since 1970.
 
A Tax-Cutting Proposition
But whoever wins the Democratic and Republican primaries might have to cope with a proposition on the November ballot that would roll back taxes to 1988 levels, forcing the next governor to cut an estimated $2 billion a year from the $13 billion state budget. The proposal is sponsored by the Citizens for Limited Taxation, a conservative group led by Barbara Anderson, who helped win an antitax proposition in 1980 that has limited the ability of local communities to raise property taxes.
While Ms. Anderson has acknowledged that there will be big cuts in human services, welfare and health care if the proposition is approved, she has said she is confident a new governor and a new legislature can ''restructure government from the bottom up.''
Despite the likelihood that approval of the tax-cutting proposition will have drastic consequences, the plan is popular, having picked up further support since July when Governor Dukakis enacted the largest tax increase in the state's history while imposing spending cuts totaling 8 percent.
Both Republican candidates for governor back the proposal, while the two Democratic candidates oppose it.
 
'A Public Nervous Breakdown'
So far none of the four contenders have inspired voters with a new vision of how to cope with the state's declining economy. After an extraordinary decade of growth in the 1980's, Massachusetts has tipped into recession, with unemployment rising to 6.7 percent in August, double its rate a year earlier. The economic downturn has meant a sharp drop in state revenue, intensifying the budget problem.
Despite this sense of crisis, The Globe said in an editorial last week that it would not endorse a candidate for governor, contending that all the candidates had done was raise ''a Babel of politics-as-usual bombast'' without facing up to the ''unpleasant political and economic truths.''
The Boston Herald has endorsed Dr. Silber, although he has repeatedly denounced the newspaper's coverage of him as being ''distorted.''
The Globe said Dr. Silber, an articulate, forceful man who has helped build Boston University into an important institution of higher learning, ''flunked self-control and self-discipline.''
 
'A Threat to Democracy'
Dr. Silber's propensity for making provocative remarks was evident again last week with his comment about not campaigning before drug addicts, which a number of blacks denounced as racist.
Although he has a record of support for civil rights, dating to the 1960's when he was dean of the University of Texas, Dr. Silber soon found himself in a shouting match with television reporters pressing him over his comment. At one point, he said, ''This is why television is a threat to democracy.''
To try to undo the damage, Dr. Silber invited television reporters to cover him at what he said would be a speech on crime the next day at a street corner in Roxbury, a black section of Boston. But his appearance rapidly degenerated into street theater, with one black woman, Priscilla Flint Russell, yelling that she was not a drug addict and then shouting, ''Hey, man, get out of here!''
''I've got no time for that fanaticism,'' Dr. Silber retorted, abruptly ending his television appearance. The next day Ms. Russell was arrested on charges of passing a bad check, and it turned out that she had pleaded guilty last year to defrauding a bank of $67,800, according to court records.
 
Silber's Appeal and Liabilities
The incidents underscored both Dr. Silber's appeal and his liabilities in speaking so bluntly. The incidents also recalled the divided reaction in an earlier debate when Dr. Silber suggested that the state should consider rationing medical care. ''When you've had a long life and you're ripe, then it's time to go,'' he said.
Mr. Bellotti pounced on the remark, contending that it showed Dr. Silber's insensitivity to the elderly. But Dr. Silber replied that he only wanted to point out the need to contain rapidly rising medical costs.
On the Republican side, Mr. Weld is widely considered a more formidable candidate in the general election. He is on the popular side of the abortion question in Massachusetts and has raised more money than Mr. Pierce, a 12-year veteran of the Legislature.
''A Republican can win this year,'' said Tom Kiley, another Democratic consultant who is not connected to any of the candidates. ''These voters really want to vote for change, and sooner or later they are going to find a way to do it, regardless of how badly the candidates perform.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Francis X. Bellotti, right, seems to be leading the Democratic race for governor of Massachusetts, according to a recent Boston Globe poll. (Associated Press for The New York Times); John R. Silber, president of Boston University and a Democratic candidate for governor, has made some politically damaging remarks in recent weeks. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (97%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON GLOBE (58%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (94%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MASSACHUSETTS ; BOSTON (MASS)

SUBJECT: PRIMARIES; ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; PUBLIC OPINION; GOVERNORS (US) ; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); LIBERALISM (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); REFERENDUMS (76%); LAWYERS (76%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: SILBER, JOHN R; BELLOTTI, FRANCIS X; BUTTERFIELD, FOX ; PIERCE, STEVEN; WELD, WILLIAM F MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 



515 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: What's Fair for Unions, and the City?

 BODY:
The Dinkins administration is moving toward a settlement with the city unions that New York simply cannot afford. Unless City Hall reconsiders, all New Yorkers - including municipal workers - will suffer the grave and long-range consequences of deepening debt.
Mayor Dinkins is reportedly ready to give non-uniformed workers a 5 percent wage increase, perhaps leading to even higher settlements with other unions. A 5 percent increase, covering inflation, would be reasonable and just in normal times. Fairness and the morale of city workers is always important, as are competitive salaries from the suburbs. But New York City is in a recession. Everybody will have to sacrifice if the city is to remain economically viable. 
The Mayor has budgeted only for a modest 1.5 percent increase in labor costs this fiscal year, with the understanding that a final settlement would go higher. But the city's own budget figures show that a 5 percent settlement would help produce a budget gap of nearly $1 billion in the first year. If tax revenues fall below expectations, the deficit will be higher still.
City officials understand this and have found a way of covering most of the 5 percent increase in the first year. They start with the budgeted 1.5 percent. Then, their idea is to link the rest of the increase to union agreement on reducing the city's contribution to its employee pension funds by about $300 million yearly.
The prudence of that move is not evident. Can the funds afford to lose part of the city's regular contribution in this ragged economy? Moreover, any money saved from the pension fund might be better spent elsewhere, or not only on unions. Since union representatives make up half of the pension boards, they won't approve cuts in the city's contributions unless they benefit.
Even if the pension money becomes available, the city cannot afford a 5 percent increase over two or three years unless it raises taxes significantly or makes dramatic cuts in services. The city just imposed $900 million in new taxes, on top of new and higher state taxes, and is considering imposing a dedicated tax to pay for more police officers. City Hall will have to find more productive strategies than always raising taxes.
To sidestep the issue, officials talk about a one-year contract, instead of the traditional two or three years. That's no answer. It would raise expectations for a better settlement in only a year, and sentence the city to enormous uncertainty. A two-year pact makes more sense. It would provide some stability and, if the economy rebounds, a chance to go back to the table in a relatively short time.
Especially because Mayor Dinkins won office with union support, he has a responsibility to prepare the work force for a settlement below inflation. The private sector has suffered job and business losses. It is not unreasonable to ask the public sector to sacrifice as well. The alternative - an even more wounded economy that could force massive municipal job layoffs - benefits no New Yorker.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CONTRACTS; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; EDITORIALS; FORECASTS; TAXATION; WAGES AND SALARIES WAGES & SALARIES (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TAX INCREASES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); SUBURBS (72%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR)



516 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: Japan Would Like Some Say for Its Gulf Aid

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In ''Where's Their Fair Share?'' (editorial, Sept. 6), you criticize Japan for not paying its share of the United States-led Operation Desert Shield. I can understand why some Americans are angry over Japan's apparent vacillation on the American initiative to contain Iraq. But blaming Japan will not bring it to share the open-ended costs of the operation. 
Last month in Japan, I tried to persuade Government officials and politicians, including Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu, to show Japan's support by promptly offering Japan's first burden-sharing package. I proposed three core actions: (1) Japan's immediate purchase of 300,000 tons of rice from Texas, Arkansas and other areas (the same amount of rice that the United States used to export to Iraq annually) and its direct shipment by Japanese ships and aircraft to the Persian Gulf together with other supplies for the multinational forces and refugees. (2) Immediate untied economic aid of $2 billion to Egypt, Jordan and Turkey to shore up their resolve. (3) Sending a medical contingent of 100 to assist refugee relief in Jordan.
The politicians saw the wisdom of my package, but the bureaucrats rejected it. There is nothing mysterious about Japanese politics. It is run by bureaucrats, not politicians. However, I was able to expose the inappropriateness of Japanese bureaucrat-led politics when Japan's belated offer of burden sharing met unequivocal disappointment inside and outside Japan. The Japanese have finally begun to debate the dangers of letting myopic bureaucrats chart Japan's course of action in this volatile world.
Misleading and conflicting demands from the United States have not only confused the Japanese Government, but also helped the bureaucrats drag their feet. United States demands that Japan send mine sweepers and soldiers to the Persian Gulf raised the suspicion that the hidden United States intention was to force revision of the Japanese Constitution, which, like the Constitution of West Germany, forbids sending military forces abroad.
The Japanese Constitution may have to be revised to fit the 21st century. However, revision should be carried out after the crisis in the Middle East subsides and be closely linked to possible revisions in United Nations roles in the global and collective security of member nations. New United Nations roles may include Germany and Japan as permanent members of the Security Council. United States demands that Japan increase its cost sharing for United States forces in Japan and buy American military hardware were seen as hasty attempts to exploit events in the Persian Gulf to settle bilateral trade and security issues between the United States and Japan.
If the United States needs the open-ended support of Japan, Germany and other countries, it should consult them on strategy for containing Iraq as a model for a future collective security arrangement under the stronger United Nations mandate. No nation would be totally willing to share in the ever-bulging costs of the United States-led operation unless it is also consulted first on the immediate and larger goals of such operations.
 
YOSHI TSURUMI
Professor of International Business
Baruch College
New York, Sept. 7, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (99%); IRAQ (94%); GERMANY (93%); JORDAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); GULF STATES (91%); EGYPT (79%); TURKEY (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; PERSIAN GULF; JAPAN; IRAQ

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); REFUGEES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); ARMED FORCES (62%); 

PERSON: TSURUMI, YOSHI



517 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: Textile Bill Helps Workers, and Fair Trade

 BODY:
To the Editor:
America's textile and apparel deficit is a staggering $28 billion. Congress must respond to the human toll resulting from the deficit. Each $1 billion of excess imports over exports has eliminated some 25,000 American jobs. Since 1980, more than 400,000 garment, textile and shoe workers have lost their jobs to imports. Congress is considering a textile, apparel and footwear trade bill, H.R. 4328, to limit the growth of imports. It will aid workers who have been hardest hit, and it should become law. 
The United States garment and textile industry is the most productive in the world. It provides jobs for more than two million workers, including more women and members of minorities than any other United States industry. It contributes more than $50 billion annually to our gross national product and pays billions in Federal, state and local taxes.
Employment in the textile industry, despite its economic record, is at a 50-year low. Imports control 60 percent of the United States textile and apparel market, and footwear imports control 80 percent.
The economic base of New York is being eroded by the loss of its manufacturing industries. Our workers, consumers and communities have been devastated by the uncontrolled flood of imports. Every day, factories close and jobs are permanently lost to unfair competition from countries that pay workers as little as 16 cents a hour, employ child labor and subject workers to unconscionable conditions such as were outlawed here many years ago. A great number of these American workers have few other job options or skills and are forced to go on the public dole to feed their families.
Almost 75 percent of the American public favors legislation to restrict the growth of imports. New Yorkers have never been fooled by the myth of ''lower-priced imports.'' They know that retailers mark up the prices to those of domestic goods and have enjoyed inflated profits.
It is time Congress took a stand in favor of fair trade. The Senate has already passed H.R. 4328 by a 68-32 vote. The House of Representatives will vote shortly. I urge all members of the New York delegation to vote for H.R. 4328 and help their constituents to lead productive, independent working lives.
 
THOMAS VAN ARSDALE
President, New York City Central
Labor Council, A.F.L., C.I.O.
New York, Sept 6, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL LABOR COUNCIL (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: TEXTILES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); LABOR; APPAREL TEXTILES (93%); FABRIC MILLS (90%); IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); TEXTILE MFG (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FOOTWEAR (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (77%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); FAMILY (77%); IMPORT PRICES (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); DISMISSALS (72%); CHILD LABOR (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); RETAILERS (66%); 

PERSON: VAN ARSDALE, THOMAS



518 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: Albany Practices Energy Conservation on State Vehicle Fleet

 BODY:
To the Editor:
As the commissioner with responsibility for New York State's fleet of vehicles and central purchasing program, I was very pleased by your Aug. 30 report that the state would buy 268 cars and buses powered by alternative fuels in the next five years.
Increasing vehicle energy efficiency certainly cannot be overlooked in overall energy conservation. I agree that raising fuel-efficiency standards for the state's vehicle fleet to 40 miles per gallon over the next 10 years is a laudable goal, and we are moving in that direction. However, pressure must also be placed on automobile manufacturers to produce more efficient vehicles and on the Federal Government to raise average fuel economy standards for manufacturers. Our efforts to improve the fuel efficiency of the state's fleet depend on the manufacturers to produce highly fuel-efficient cars for us to purchase. 
We are also taking actions within our control. For example, since the oil embargoes of the 1970's, we have added subcompact sedans and small-sized wagons to our fleet car contracts, discontinuing full-size sedans as a standard option for agency use.
Yes, the present fuel efficiency standard is 29 miles per gallon, but this is an aggregate figure for all types of automobiles and mini-vans. The state fleet vehicle contract for the 1990 model year (also available to local governments and public authorities) includes subcompact and compact vehicles with 34 and 32 miles per gallon ratings respectively. The midsize wagon in the contract has a 30 miles per gallon rating.
We have reduced the size of our passenger fleet by approximately 20 percent since Gov. Mario M. Cuomo called for such a reduction in December 1988. Our energy conservation efforts also include purchasing contracts for rerefined lubricating oil, recapped truck tires and remanufactured automotive parts. These contracts are available to public authorities and local governments, as well as state agencies.
The efforts of manufacturers, government at all levels and those in the forefront of the environmental movement will make possible a cleaner environment less dependent on foreign fuels.
 
JOHN F. HUDACS
Commissioner, New York State
Office of General Services
Albany, Sept. 5, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PUBLIC PROPERTY; CONSERVATION OF RESOURCES; ENERGY AND POWER ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (92%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); TIRES (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); SEDANS (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (53%); 

PERSON: HUDACS, JOHN F (COMR)



519 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 27, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: OBSERVER;
Just the Fax, Arnold

BYLINE: By Russell Baker

 BODY:
You are in a movie house on the edge of your seat because the Indestructible Thing from Ghastly Galaxy is sneaking up on Arnold Schwarzenegger with a spray gun carrying liquefied muscle-shrinking gas, one drop of which can reduce a weight lifter to a 97-pound weakling faster than you can say Schwarzenegger.
Suddenly the telephone rings in the next seat. ''Hello, this is Jason,'' says your fellow moviegoer, then, ''Jennifer! You got me at the movies, Jen . . .
''No, not Stallone. It's Schwarzenegger, but the special effects aren't so hot. Just that old thing with a guy's brain being squeezed out through his eye sockets. Speaking of Stallone . . . 
''Jen, I know you weren't speaking of Stallone. I was speaking of Stallone. Did you see the new Vanity Fair? The one with Stallone on the cover and the big print saying, 'I want to be Stallone'? Makes him sound just like Greta Garbo. 'I vahnt to be Stallone . . .'
''Who's Greta Garbo? Come on, Jen, nobody's that young. She's the one who said, 'I vahnt to be alone . . .' ''
By now Schwarzenegger has the Indestructible Thing by five of its tentacles and is squeezing its eyeballs out through its spray gun, and you no longer care, do you? You're too busy fighting the urge to squeeze Jason's cellular phone out through his tonsils.
Yes, this scene is fictional, but something very much like it is being played out nowadays in enough movie theaters to create demands for banning cellular phones in movie houses. In California, which is always first with the worst as well as the best of everything American, people are even saying there has to be a law, and you can guess what this will lead to. Yes, a movement. Just what this country needs, right? Another movement. There's no avoiding it once angry movie fans start leaning on governments, movie theaters and Jack Valenti to ban cellular phones from the Bijou.
I know, it's not the Bijou anymore. It's the Plex One, Two, Three, Four And Upwards Through Sixteen, but the ban makes more sense when we imagine it being enforced at a Bijou, because when Americans still went to the Bijou it was to see the movie.
When you go to places called Plex, whether Plex One or Sixteen, you probably ought to expect to have half the audience gassing on the phone. Since the typical Plex's screen isn't much bigger than the typical home TV, the distractions which Americans accept as normal parts of the TV night may seem natural there: going out for beer just as the Indestructible Thing aims its nozzle, working the crossword puzzle, using the phone to tell Jennifer who Greta Garbo was.
Nevertheless, excessively Plexed though America is, there are still real moviegoers - at least in California -who would rather fight than have their Plexes, small and grim though they are, turned into TV rooms.
They can expect angry resistance from telephone addicts. With enough lawyers and lobbyists, the nation's telephoners will have no problem finding a constitutional right to bear telephones wherever the bearing impulse dictates. After all, it's not telephones that disturb moviegoers, it's people using the telephones.
Why punish people who desperately need telephones in their pockets and purses when they go to the movies? What of the typical American investor, so crucial to the nation's economy, who needs up-to-the-second stock-market quotations from Hong Kong, London, Tokyo?
Should he be denied the right to relax for an hour or two in a Plex because purist movie extremists refuse to have Schwarzenegger's big scene spoiled by a call reporting an unparalleled opportunity to make a quick million in Hong Kong?
No wonder America is in danger of losing its Number One standing and becoming Number Three, Four, Five or even - Heaven forbid! - Number Sixteen. That we should ever see the day when movie fanatics trample the constitutional right to bear telephones . . .
But I am carried away in expressing the arguments that are so easily foreseeable in this business, when in fact my sympathies are all on the side of the phone ban.
The history of technological nuisances suggests that before this particular issue is settled, something even nastier than cellular phones will turn up at the Plex. I mean the portable fax.
I hear it already: A gasping Schwarzenegger is being crushed in the coils of an interplanetary robotic boa constrictor when the machine rings in the next seat.
''Jason here, Jennifer. Send all 500 pages. Just fax me at the Plex.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; CELLULAR TELEPHONES; TELEPHONES; FACSIMILE SYSTEMS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); MOVIE THEATERS (89%); FILM (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (86%); WEIGHTLIFTING (72%); 

PERSON: BAKER, RUSSELL ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (91%); 



520 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Korean Stores Win Restrictions in Boycott

BYLINE: By ARNOLD H. LUBASCH

 BODY:
A unanimous appellate court ruled yesterday that the New York City Police Department must enforce a court order to keep black-led demonstrators at least 50 feet away from two Korean food stores in a tense eight-month dispute in Brooklyn.
At City Hall, Mayor David N. Dinkins and Police Commissioner Lee P. Brown said the police will begin enforcing the court order today. When asked for his reaction to the court ruling, the Mayor said, ''My reaction is not to appeal, but to ask the Police Department to enforce that order.''
He also made it clear that the decision not to enforce the boycott had not been made at City Hall. ''This action, although people may not believe it, was the action of the Police Department,'' he said. 
Picketing of the two Korean-owned stores became a politically sensitive issue, putting pressure on Mayor Dinkins to end it. Commissioner Brown contended that police restraint reduced tensions and that the department should use its discretion in handling demonstrations.
The decision yesterday, by the Appellate Division in Brooklyn, came down strongly on the side of the order restricting the demonstrations, which began after a Haitian woman complained of being attacked by one of the store workers.
''We plan no appeal,'' the City Corporation Counsel, Victor A. Kovner, said after the decision. ''The Police Department has had a full hearing before the Appellate Division and now that the decision has been rendered, the 50-foot order will be enforced.''
Richard A. Izzo, the lawyer for the Korean store owners, said they are happy about the court decision but remain wary because of the past failure to enforce the order. He said he regretted that the store owners had to ''pay the emotional, financial price to see the process through to this point.''
Colin A. Moore, the lawyer for the woman whose complaint prompted the boycott, said he believes that the court decision violates the First Amendment rights of the demonstrators and will provoke more demonstrations ''feeding the flames of the boycott.''
Store employees said demonstrators, sometimes only a few and sometimes dozens, have continued to show up every day at various times to picket in front of the two stores on Church Avenue in the Flatbush section.
The nine-page appellate decision was written by Justice Sybil Hart Kooper, with the concurrence of Justices Richard A. Brown, Stanley Harwood and Vincent R. Balletta Jr. The panel affirmed an order issued on May 10 by Justice Gerald S. Held of State Supreme Court in Brooklyn.
The dispute began on Jan. 18, eight months ago today, when Giselaine Felissaint complained that employees of the Family Red Apple, owned by Bong Jae Jang, assaulted her while she was shopping. Her complaint touched off the boycott of the store and a neighboring Korean-owned store, the Park Fruit and Vegetable Market.
''In the months that followed,'' the court said, ''the boycott often became volatile and racially charged in tone, resulting in several instances of violence, as the demonstrators, using bullhorns and positioning themselves in close proximity to the store entrances, exhorted and in certain instances verbally abused shoppers in order to dissuade them from patronizing petitioners' establishments.''
Police officers have been at the site since the boycott began, the appellate court continued, but the store owners have complained that the police presence failed to ''mitigate the intensity and racially strident character of the protests or to prevent the protesters from effectively intimidating their clientele and damaging their businesses.''
On May 10, Justice Held issued a preliminary injunction to bar demonstrators from congregating within 50 feet of the stores. He said he was balancing the constitutional rights of both sides.
The appellate court observed that when the demonstrators refused to comply with the order, the police did not enforce it, but tried instead to persuade the demonstrators to ''moderate their activities.'' On June 26, Justice Held ordered the Police Department to enforce his May 10 injunction.
 
City's Arguments Rejected
In appealing, the city argued that the police are not a party in the civil case, that they are not obligated to enforce court orders in civil cases between private parties and that they have exclusive discretion in law enforcement.
Rejecting the arguments, the Appellate Division said the court's ''power to compel the police to act derives from its inherent authority to interpret the Constitution, which the Police Department is sworn to uphold.''
Although the Police Department has ''a broad measure of discretion'' in tactics, the court said, law-enforcement personnel are not free to ''abdicate'' their responsibilities, regardless of their motives.
The boycott was organized by two small, loosely knit groups called the Flatbush Coalition for Economic Empowerment and the Flatbush Frontline Collective. The Family Red Apple's manager, Pong Ok Jang, has been charged with a misdemeanor involving the assault alleged to have occurred in the store, and has denied the charge.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Police Department will begin enforcing a court order today to keep demonstrators at least 50 feet from two Korean grocery stores on Church Avenue in Brooklyn that have been the target of an eight-month boycott. Protesters stood yesterday behind barricades in front of one store. (Steve Berman for The New York Times) (pg. B3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: POLICE DEPARTMENT (88%); 

ORGANIZATION: PARK FRUIT AND VEGETABLE MARKET (BROOKLYN); FAMILY RED APPLE (BROOKLYN); POLICE DEPARTMENT (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BROOKLYN (NYC)

SUBJECT: FOOD; KOREAN-AMERICANS; BLACKS (IN US); BLACKS (IN US); SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; PICKETING POLICE FORCES (94%); APPEALS COURTS (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (91%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CITIES (90%); STRIKES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); APPEALS (89%); LAWYERS (78%); RIOTS (78%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (77%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); ASIAN AMERICANS (72%); 

PERSON: ;LUBASCH, ARNOLD H



521 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 433 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Not Being Blamed for State Ills, Poll Finds

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Sept. 17

 BODY:
A statewide poll released today indicates that New Yorkers have grave concerns about the direction of the state, but that they are neither holding Gov. Mario M. Cuomo to blame nor turning to his Republican opponent for salvation.
The poll, conducted by the Marist Institute for Public Opinion, shows Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, with a huge lead over Pierre A. Rinfret, the Republican challenger in Mr. Cuomo's bid for a third four-year term. Although the poll indicated increasing concern about crime and the economy, the Governor was regarded favorably by almost two-thirds of those questioned. 
Among registered voters who expressed a preference in the Nov. 6 election, Mr. Cuomo was selected by 60 percent and Mr. Rinfret was chosen by 15 percent. Herbert London, the Conservative Party candidate, followed with 4 percent and Louis P. Wein, the Right to Life Party nominee, had 2 percent.
The poll of 821 registered voters was conducted on Sept. 10-11 and has a margin of error of plus or minus four percentage points.
 
Cuomo Leads Across State
The Governor held a substantial lead over Mr. Rinfret in all regions of the state, with his greatest strength found in New York City. Mr. Rinfret, a New York City economist making his first run for elected office, had the support of only 29 percent of the members of his own party and only 22 percent of those who identified themselves as conservative.
''Rinfret has managed not to even tie down his core base of support, which takes some doing,'' said Lee M. Miringoff, the director of the Marist Institute.
Taken when the state's economy is teetering on the brink of recession and when New York City has rising crime, the poll found that 56 percent of those surveyed thought the state was headed in the wrong direction.
Yet 65 percent said they had a favorable impression of Mr. Cuomo. He was viewed unfavorably by 27 percent. The Governor's favorability rating was down 15 percentage points from this time four years ago, but the number is still considered healthy by political analysts.
Mr. Rinfret, whose name was recognized by 62 percent of those polled, was regarded unfavorably by more people - 24 percent - than he was favorably - 14 percent. The Republican nominee's strategy has focused on attacking Mr. Cuomo's record on taxes and crime, but news coverage has been dominated by a series of political miscues and changing positions.
The poll also showed that only 26 percent of those surveyed had heard of the 21st Century Environmental Quality Bond Act, a nearly $2 billion measure that faces a referendum on Election Day.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: MARIST INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC OPINION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MARIST INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC OPINION; DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY MARIST INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC OPINION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); PUBLIC OPINION; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTIONS POLLS & SURVEYS (95%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); CONSERVATISM (77%); POLITICS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); BONDS (71%); REFERENDUMS (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); RINFRET, PIERRE A; SACK, KEVIN MARIO M CUOMO (94%); PIERRE A RINFRET (92%); 



522 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 5, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Welfare Rolls Show Increase, First in 7 Years

BYLINE: By DON TERRY

 BODY:
For the first time in seven years, the number of New Yorkers receiving public assistance has increased, another sign of the region's economic downturn, Mayor David N. Dinkins said yesterday in his first annual review of city services.
Mr. Dinkins said the increase, in the fiscal year that ended in June, suggested that ''the economic downturn is hitting New York Citys's poorest residents the hardest.''
Nearly 860,000 residents received public assistance during fiscal 1990, an increase of 5.5 percent from 1989. 
Norman Steisel, the First Deputy Mayor, said the longer assistance rolls would put ''a lot of pressure on our social-services system'' - a system that has been overburdened for years.
 
Gains Amid the Gloom
At a City Hall news conference yesterday, Mr. Dinkins said he was generally satisfied with how the city was being managed but admitted that the 582-page report was filled with more pain and less gain than he would like.
The report said that homicides were up, more residents had AIDS and the streets were dirtier because there were substantially fewer workers to sweep them.
But there were also gains, Mr. Dinkins said.
There was a decline in child abuse cases, there were more homes for the homeless, the Emergency Medical Service improved its response time, and many crimes, including aggravated assault and rape, were down.
But for years the welfare rolls had been declining, and now they are up and that has Mr. Dinkins concerned.
Deputy Commissioner Allen Kraus of the Human Resources Administration, said there were several reasons for the increase.
 
Big Influx of Refugees
There are about 1,000 new cases involving people with AIDS and an equal number of new cases involving people in drug-treatment programs, he said.
An influx of Soviet emigres applying for public assistance accounts for about 4,000 new cases, Mr. Kraus said.
He said that the city had absorbed thousands of Soviet emigres recently but that the majority first received assistance from federally financed organizations and then found jobs and never joined the city's welfare lines.
''It's the biggest influx of refugees in many, many years,'' he said.
Mr. Kraus said that changes in public-assistance regulations had also contributed to the increase but that most of the rise was because ''of a general economic downturn.''
''Mainly it's people losing their jobs,'' Mr. Steisel added.
Mr. Kraus said he did not know how much the increase in welfare was costing the city.
 
Rise in Jail Population
Most of the new public-assistance cases involved single people, but the number of families receiving food stamps rose 6.4 percent, and a record total of 7.7 million meals were served by the Department for Aging, up 3.2 percent. The nonprofit Citymeals on Wheels program delivered 817,172 meals to the homebound, up 9 percent.
The city's jail population also rose, as did the length of time spent behind bars, according to the report.
The average daily census in Department of Correction jails was 19,643 inmates in 1990, up 12.6 percent.
The jail system was at 102.5 percent of capacity, up from 101.7 percent in 1989, and the average length of stay for inmates rose to 47 days.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: EMS (NYSE) (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES LP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); FAMILY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (76%); AIDS & HIV (74%); HOMICIDE (67%); CHILD ABUSE (66%); DISMISSALS (66%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (65%); FOOD STAMPS (64%); POLITICS (61%); HOMELESSNESS (51%); PRISONS (50%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); TERRY, DON DAVID N DINKINS (91%); ALLEN KRAUS (86%); NORMAN STEISEL (58%); 



523 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 3, Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: THE DOCTOR'S WORLD;
Business Degrees Arm Physicians to Face Nonmedical Challenges

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN, M.D.

 BODY:
FOR most doctors, the eight years of medical classes and hospital training are long enough. But many doctors are now spending up to two additional years earning degrees in business, administration and management.
Some have gone into public service, like Dr. Woodrow Myers, Health Commissioner for New York City. Others have headed for Wall Street to analyze drug company stocks and to finance new ventures in biotechnology and health-related fields. Still others work for insurance companies.
Most go to work as administrators in hospitals and clinics to deal with increasing government regulations. They also develop marketing strategies to help medical centers attract patients, meet competition from large hospital chains and deal with growing problems of cost control and quality improvement. 
Some private practitioners have enrolled in business and management programs to run their offices more efficiently and profitably.
Dr. Thomas E. Baron, a urologist in Springfield, Ill., said he learned how unprepared doctors were to make many business and management decisions when he became president of a 67-member multi-specialty clinic.
''You can always hire consultants to tell you what to do but the problem is you don't know if they are giving you good advice,'' Dr. Baron said. ''You feel very helpless because you don't have the proper tools to make good decisions.''
Dr. Baron said the M.B.A. degree he earned by studying nights and weekends at the University of Illinois has helped the clinic decide whether to lease, buy or acquire a new piece of medical equipment such as a CAT scan X-ray machine that might become outdated in a few years.
''You want to find out how many patients will need it and what your break-even point will be so you can pay for the equipment without altering your ethics or practice plan,'' Dr. Baron said. ''You don't want to be put in a position where you buy something and say we have got to pay for it so we had better order unnecessary tests on every patient who walks through the door.''
Vast economic, organizational and political changes have eroded the independence the medical profession enjoyed before it was transformed in recent years into a huge industry largely controlled by the government and private health insurance companies.
Business and management degrees are weapons that doctors are using to increase their voice in the budgetary and decision-making process that is increasingly falling to legislators and business executives.
Physicians say that administrators who lack medical training cannot comprehend health care unless they have been up all night with a patient who is critically ill or with a family whose loved one is dying. But a growing number of doctors also realize they need a stronger grounding in business and management practices to work out a budget, to negotiate contracts and to develop a program and see it through.
Doctors once did that. But in recent decades few went into administration, and some were regarded by colleagues as misfits because they did not practice. The attitude was costly to the medical profession.
''Doctors have abdicated their management responsibilities over the last 30 years,'' said Dr. David B. Nash, a physician with a degree in business administration who is a health policy expert at Thomas Jefferson University Hospital in Philadelphia.
In an era of unlimited spending for health care, doctors held to what many consider a romanticized view: physicians could concentrate on caring for patients and rely on non-physicians to manage the medical institution.
Then as the government introduced cost-cutting measures and imposed regulations on medicine in the 1980's, Dr. Nash said, ''many hospital boards woke up and said, 'Get us a doctor who understands the regulations.' ''
The demand is likely to increase as more boards of hospitals, universities and companies look for chief executive officers with such skills.
There are no national statistics on the number of doctors who also have degrees in management and business. The American College of Physician Executives, a group based in Tampa, Fla., says its membership of 5,200 has grown by 100 each month since 1987. However, not all of its members have business or management degrees and not all doctors with such training belong.
Some members have spent two years earning M.B.A.'s at leading business schools. Others have earned degrees in hospital and medical administration by taking courses at night and on weekends while they practiced medicine during the day. Some have earned such degrees while on sabbaticals from academic medical centers or in summer programs. A few graduate business schools have programs aimed at doctors. Stanford's Graduate School of Business is recruiting four doctors for a fellowship program sponsored by the John A. Hartford Foundation of New York City and the National Fund for Medical Education in Boston. The program is tailored for doctors who want to devote careers combining clinical practice and management in medical centers.
At the University of Wisconsin at Madison, Dr. David Kindig offers a two-year part-time program in which doctors study at the Wisconsin campus for short periods but do most of the course work at home.
Dr. Myers, the New York City Health Commissioner, said that when he earned an M.B.A. at Stanford, ''everyone told me I was crazy to do it.'' He added, ''Now they think otherwise.''
By learning ''the language of money and many other things that are daunting to a physician,'' Dr. Myers said, ''I was not afraid to step in another world, and when you can walk in two worlds you are better off than in one.''
Dr. Neal H. Cohen said he spent a sabbatical earning a business degree because he did not have the managerial skills he felt he needed as head of an intensive care unit at the University of California at San Francisco.
When he teaches young doctors, Dr. Cohen said, he is now more apt to discuss economic issues involved in the care of patients than he did before his sabbatical.
Dr. Cohen said that in learning a new vocabulary he had become skeptical of administrators who tried to impress health care workers by spewing jargon without understanding the words.
Dr. Cohen, who is an anesthesiologist, said his business training was helpful in representing the university hospital in negotiations with anesthesiologists at Mt. Zion Medical Center when the two hospitals merged.
Nevertheless, Dr. Cohen and others said they were frustrated because their superiors did not know how to use their newly acquired talents effectively.
Dr. Peter D. Mazonson, a physician who also has an M.B.A. degree, said he has became an entrepreneur, working for Genetics and IVF Inc. in Palo Alto, Calif., after interviewing with hospitals that told him he would have to practice for five years before he could also have a significant managerial role.
Yet the same organizations, Dr. Mazonson said, would not make a cardiologist practice general medicine for five years before they let him perform the special heart procedures he was trained to do.
Dr. Mazonson said most of his doctor colleagues also did not understand why he would enjoy the business side of medicine when he had trained to be a clinician. He said he found the challenge of getting the medical and business sides to agree on a venture equal to the satisfaction he derives in managing a sick patient.
Dr. Mazonson recalled meeting a researcher friend who railed about negotiating the financial aspects of becoming a professor at a university medical center.
Dr. Mazonson said he laughed and told his friend: ''Our goals are the same. We both are in business. The only difference is in business the financial aspects are up front and in academic medicine and private practice they often are tacit and covert.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Woodrow Myers, New York City Health Commissioner, has master's degree in business administration from Stanford. Many doctors earn advanced degrees in business and management. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; DOCTORS; HEALTH INSURANCE HOSPITALS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (72%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (70%); ETHICS (70%); MARKETING STRATEGY (55%); UROLOGY (55%); 

PERSON: ALTMAN, LAWRENCE K THOMAS E BARON (73%); 



524 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 11, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: Review/Dance;
A Wingding in Lyons a l'Americaine

BYLINE: By ANNA KISSELGOFF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LYONS, France, Sept. 17

 BODY:
Barely noticed during its first season in 1984, the International Dance Biennial in Lyons has grown into Europe's most ambitious dance festival.
A spectacular start was promised this past weekend when the biennial opened a mammoth and concentrated three-week celebration of American dance featuring 17 companies from the United States. Merce Cunningham's and Martha Graham's companies have already arrived; Cyd Charisse, her famous dancing figure as slim as ever, and Stanley Donen, revered in France as the ultimate musical comedy movie director, were on hand as co-chairmen of the festival's gala tribute to tap dancing and film musicals. They also awarded prizes at a Hollywood theme costume ball in a six-block-long meat market turned movie lot. 
Dream factories are just that, however: life intrudes. The American dancers and the festival as a whole were rocked on Sunday night when Steve Condos, who had performed so brilliantly as a tap virtuoso at Friday's gala, collapsed and died of a heart attack in a dressing room after finishing his solos. The program with veterans like Mr. Condos, who would have been 72 years old on Oct. 12, and new tap stars like the teen-age Savion Glover, was repeated for the third time on Sunday and had been added after the first two performances sold out a major concert hall, the Maurice Ravel auditorium.
Despite efforts backstage by David Parsons, a modern dancer who was on the same bill, to give Mr. Condos mouth-to-mouth resuscitation, he could not be revived. His fellow tap artists, who included the Nicholas Brothers, Jimmy Slyde, Eddie Brown, Lavaughn Robinson, the Jazz Tap Ensemble and Sarah Petronio (an American tap teacher from Paris), agreed with Guy Darmet, the festival's artistic director, to continue the show.
The news of Mr. Condos's death was announced to the audience and later at a reception here for the Graham Company, given by Robert J. Korengold, minister-counsellor for public affairs at the United States Embassy in Paris.
Even before his death, maintaining a festive tone had been something of an effort during the first few days of the biennial, which offered a more light-hearted start in 1986 with its hugely successful theme of ''400 years of French dance.''
Mr. Darmet made a point of emphasizing the toll that AIDS had taken in both French and American dance circles by placing votive candles at the entrance of the theater where the biennial officially opened on Thursday with a low-key performance by Annabelle Gamson and her company. Ms. Gamson is an American specialist in the dances of Isadora Duncan, and since Mr. Darmet has again chosen a historical context for his programming, the Duncan dances were suitable as well as beautiful.
The final piece, nonetheless, was Ms. Gamson's dignified tribute to victims of AIDS, ''Requiem,'' set to Mozart and subtitled, ''In Memory of My Friends and Colleagues.'' Saturday's Hollywood ball, a benefit for Lyons's dance activities, was pervaded by a joyless atmosphere of its own. The event was a grandly produced exercise in excess in the Halle Tony Garnier, a former slaughterhouse used for rock concerts and named after a local architect. Reportedly underwritten at a cost of more than $1.5 million, the ball featured a huge fountain of champagne and make-believe movie lots. A Cleopatra rose, drenched and upright, out of a pool in a mini water ballet at one point and a genteel rumble from ''West Side Story'' worked only as pastiches of a pastiche.
The French have often viewed the American myth through Hollywood's eyes. But the Lyonnais in particular seemed less than familiar with the allusions that the ball's organizers had provided with great care and humor. Of the 2,000 to 3,000 guests, who paid $170 to eat and dance until 7 A.M., most were content to dress in evening wear and few displayed the fantasy of the 1986 ball inspired by Jean Cocteau's film ''Beauty and the Beast.'' This correspondent, who came as Harpo, found only one Groucho in the crowd.
Given the slim competition, Rene Gimbert, an architect in Lyons, easily won first prize for the best costume by disguising himself as Leo the Lion, his head framed in the M-G-M logo.
Ms. Charisse, who needed no disguise as a Hollywood star, awarded him the golden plaque. Like Mr. Donen, she was besieged with existential questions from French reporters about the death of the American musical.
Speaking at a news conference earlier, Mr. Donen blamed economics and the demise of the studio system for the demise of Hollywood musicals. He said he would like to direct a film with Michael Jackson, but was warned he was too old to battle the protective ''army'' surrounding Mr. Jackson. Ms. Charisse said that ''many forget that no one is writing the wonderful music that Richard Rodgers, Irving Berlin and others composed for musicals.''
Asked about the threat of increased censorship of the arts in the United States, she replied: ''In my day, the censors were very strict. But musicals were very popular and perhaps you could get away with a little more in dancing than in a dramatic scene - as long as the neckline was not too low and the leotard not cut too high.''
Freedom within form was the keynote of the night before, with the Jazz Tap Ensemble from Los Angeles (Lynn Dally, Mark Mendonca, Sam Weber and musicians) and the veteran hoofers, who improved through the four-hour program.
The first half of the program was, unfortunately, a mishmash. In addition to Mr. Parsons in a magnificently danced solo, ''Caught,'' there were Kader Belarbi and Wilfried Romoli, Paris Opera Ballet dancers twitching as ''the Blues Brothers''; Lambert Wilson, a French actor singing Bernstein, Porter and Berlin with a British inflection; and Pierre Dulaine and Yvonne Marceau of the American Ballroom Theater.
Emmanuel Krivine conducted the National Orchestra of Lyons in Gershwin's ''American in Paris'' and leaped straight up in the air with feet flexed on the beat.
With its fund-raising and gala activities out of the way, the festival promises to find its true center when it gets down to the business of presenting the major companies and specially commissioned premieres.
Carole Armitage, Lucinda Childs and Ralph Lemon, for instance, will show new works to music by Frank Zappa, choreographed for the Lyons Opera Ballet. Like its controversial start (members of the press corps have likened the ball during the Gulf crisis to waltzing on the eve of World War I), the programming may not please all. Mr. Darmet has covered himself in advance by stating that the companies are his personal choices as reflected in the biennial title, ''An American Story.'' An American story through very French eyes.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The opening of the International Dance Biennial in Lyons, France. Steve Condos, third from left, died of a heart attack soon after. (Monroe Warshaw for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: INTERNATIONAL DANCE BINENNIAL (LYONS)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); 

STATE: RHONE-ALPES, FRANCE (91%); 

CITY: LYON, FRANCE (96%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; FRANCE; LYONS (FRANCE)

SUBJECT: DANCING DANCE (93%); FESTIVALS (91%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); DANCERS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); FILM (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CELEBRITIES (76%); JAZZ & BLUES (75%); FILM GENRES (75%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (75%); FILM DIRECTORS (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); DEATHS (72%); HISTORY (72%); COMEDY FILMS (70%); THEATER (55%); 

PERSON: CONDOS, STEVE; KISSELGOFF, ANNA MERCE CUNNINGHAM (58%); STANLEY DONEN (57%); MARTHA GRAHAM (57%); 



525 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

OIL AND THE MIDEAST
 
Crude oil prices climbed on renewed concerns about a possible war in the Middle East, breaking a seven-year record in futures trading. [Page D1.]
 
Pressure to tap the Strategic Petroleum Reserve is being felt by the Administration from Congress and from within its own ranks. [D6.] 
 
THE ECONOMY
 
Regulators resolved a dispute on the capital that banks must hold as a cushion against losses, averting a standoff. [D1.]
 
Business inventories rose 0.7 percent in July, the biggest pileup in a year, and sales fell 0.5 percent, the Government said. [D9.]
 
As budget talks went on, Bush renewed his call for a cut in the capital gains tax rate. [A22.]
 
COMPANIES
 
I.B.M. and Microsoft redefined their agreement to work together in developing basic software for personal computers. [D1.]
 
Emerson Radio said it had formed an alliance with Fidenas Investment, a foreign investment group. [D1.]
 
Apple Bancorp said its directors had dropped their opposition to a longstanding takeover bid. [D5.]
 
FAG Bearings agreed to acquire Barden for $66.50 a share, or $131.1 million. [D5.]
 
Kodak, in a bid to combine electronics with traditional picture-taking, plans to sell a system for storing photographs on compact disks and displaying them on TV and computer screens. [D6.]
 
A Los Angeles man whose speedy ascent among military contractors drew a White House award pleaded guilty to bribing Pentagon purchasing officials. [D23.]
 
The U.A.W. and G.M. reached a tentative three-year pact that apparently broke new ground on job security. [A20.]
 
Union members at The New York Post overwhelmingly - if bitterly - approved an agreement to keep the paper alive. [B1.]
 
Pirelli said it was seeking to acquire a controlling interest in Continental A.G., the largest tire company in West Germany. [D5.]
 
The ratings on the debt of Sears and some of its units have been lowered by Moody's. [D16.]
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
The I.M.F. was challenged by an organization representing the world's largest commercial banks on one of the most sensitive points of the global debt strategy. [D2.]
 
Products made with forced labor in China have been exported to the U.S. in violation of American trade law, the G.A.O. said. [D8.]
 
MARKETS
 
Stocks drifted aimlessly in quiet trading. The Dow added 3.22, to 2,567.33. [D10.]
 
The American Stock Exchange plans to develop Hawaiian securites trading to give the exchange extended hours. [D23.]
 
Prices of Treasury securities dipped in sluggish trading amid worries about the consumer price report. [D16.]
 
The dollar continued to slide as traders anticipated a move by the Fed to push interest rates lower. [D17.] Gold futures prices rose strongly. [D17.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
 
The sharp differences in oil company profits reflect the mix of businesses. Market Place. [D1.]
 
The Liberian civil war's impact is discussed by the head of a Bridgestone/Firestone division. Talking Business. [D2.]
 
The battle of the kitchen floor is on, as Mannington takes on Armstrong with a big ad campaign. Advertising. [D20.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: CON (FRA) (81%); MSN (NYSE MKT) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (81%); SIC7539 AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR SHOPS, NEC (81%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (81%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); 

COUNTRY: MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONTINENTAL AG (81%); APPLE BANCORP INC (69%); EMERSON RADIO CORP (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); NYSE MKT LLC (51%); PRICES OF TREASURY (56%); I M F (56%); WHITE HOUSE (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); FUTURES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); TAX LAW (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TIRES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (76%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); TAKEOVERS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (73%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (72%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (71%); INVENTORIES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (70%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (69%); ACQUISITIONS (67%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (65%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); GUILTY PLEAS (50%); 



526 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Oil Prices Climb on War Fears

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
Crude oil prices climbed yesterday, breaking a seven-year-old record in futures trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Traders cited renewed concerns about a possible war in the Middle East.
Light sweet crude for October delivery rose $1.87 a barrel, or 5.9 percent, to settle at $33.63. The jump followed a $1.72-a-barrel increase last week in the benchmark contract for such oil. 
As the price keeps rising, the Administration is feeling growing pressure from both Congress and within its own ranks to stop resisting proposals to tap the nation's Strategic Petroleum Reserve. [Page D6.] Alarmed by French Move Traders were alarmed by the announcement on Saturday that France, which had close relations with Iraq through most of the 1980's, would send 4,000 troops to join the multinational force in Saudi Arabia, said Michael Wilner, the president of the Hilltop Trading Company, an independent trading and brokerage firm.
''The overall tone of the political situation is that there's less and less talk of peace,'' said Christian D. Gohler, an energy futures trader and vice president at Merrill Lynch Futures Inc. ''By the end of the week we could certainly see $35, and in a few weeks, potentially we could see $40'' a barrel, he added.
Prices also rose yesterday because speculators became convinced that the market had established a clear pattern of steady increases and rushed to invest, Mr. Wilner said, adding, ''There's nothing that brings participants into the market like a clearly trending market.''
 
Oilfields Could Be Destroyed
A war in the Persian Gulf could destroy production equipment at many oilfields and disrupt the supply of crude. Traders expect prices for the remaining supplies to soar if war breaks out because such a conflict probably would not reduce worldwide demand for oil and the military operations might even increase demand.
Michael W. Libbey, a spokesman for the Chevron Corporation, said the price of oil to make gasoline had risen by 29 cents a gallon since Aug. 1 while the company had raised the wholesale gasoline price that it charges service stations by 19 cents a gallon. ''We cannot absorb higher raw material costs indefinitely,'' he added. ''Eventually, prices will have to rise.''
The main reason prices have not risen further, and might continue to stay below $40, is that oil companies have large stockpiles of crude, Mr. Gohler said. These stocks accumulated during the summer partly because of production problems at refineries, and remained unusually high in the United States in the first week of September, the American Petroleum Institute said last Tuesday.
Trading was frantic in the closing minutes yesterday, with the October contract climbing 55 cents in the last five minutes, said Robert S. Jonke, an energy futures trader at Cargill Investor Services. ''It seemed everyone was scared,'' he added.
Many traders wanted to buy oil yesterday but delayed doing so in hopes that prices would fall, and were forced to buy at the end of the day when the hoped-for decline never came, Mr. Gohler said.
Yesterday's trading reflected a recent tendency of the oil markets to rise early in the week as bullish traders accumulated contracts, and then fall late in the week as traders sold those contracts to avoid holding large positions over the weekend, Mr. Wilner said. ''Two days is a long time if a news item hits and you can't get into the market,'' he added.
 
Rumor Helps Lift Prices
A rumor of pipeline problems that might depress Soviet exports helped push up prices in early trading. The rumor was later denied.
Gasoline for October delivery climbed 1.31 cents, or 1.4 percent, to 91.67 cents a gallon, while the heating oil contract was up 2.52 cents, or 3 percent, to 85.31 cents a gallon.
Product prices showed more modest percentage increases than crude oil prices because they depend more on domestic stockpiles and refinery capacity than crude oil prices, traders said.
The settlement price yesterday of the October contract exceeded the previous record of $32.20 a barrel, set in August 1983, and was the highest level since the Merc began the trading of oil futures contracts on March 30, 1983. But adjusted for inflation, the peak price in August 1983 would correspond to a price of nearly $44 a barrel now.
The benchmark light sweet crude includes 10 grades of oil that are easily refined because they are less dense and have less sulfur than other grades.
Spot and official Government prices for oil before 1983 are not directly comparable because they do not reflect the variety of blends allowed for delivery under the Merc contract, or the types of delivery allowed. Official prices ranged as high as $41 a barrel in 1981, although some countries undercut their posted prices so as to increase sales.

GRAPHIC: Graph: Price of crude oil per barrel from 7/2/90 to 9/17/90 (Source: Knight-Ridder Tradecenter) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (68%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (68%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (68%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (68%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (68%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (64%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (64%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (64%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (64%); 

COUNTRY: MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); GULF STATES (79%); FRANCE (71%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH PIERCE FENNER & SMITH INC (68%); CHEVRON CORP (64%); CARGILL INVESTOR SERVICES INC (50%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES; FUTURES TRADING OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); FUTURES (93%); PRICE CHANGES (91%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (79%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (79%); GAS STATIONS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); TRENDS (76%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%); WHOLESALERS (68%); POLITICS (68%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH MICHAEL WILNER (70%); CHRISTIAN D GOHLER (70%); 



527 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Plan on Lending Is Challenged by Banks

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 17

 BODY:
An organization representing the world's largest commercial banks openly challenged the International Monetary Fund today on one of the most sensitive points of its global debt strategy, the fund's willingness to lend money to countries behind in interest payments to commercial banks.
Escalating a dispute that will be discussed during next week's joint annual meeting of the I.M.F. and the World Bank, the banking organization, the Institute of International Finance, warned the practice would drive commercial banks from global lending.
The complaint was made in a letter by the institute's managing director, Horst Schulmann, a former senior Finance Ministry official in West Germany, to heads of policy-making committees of the fund and the World Bank, lending organizations charged with sweeping responsibilities in the global economic system.
 
U.S. Stake in Each
The policy committees gather here early next week on the eve of the annual meeting, a stock-taking of world economic issues, which opens on Sept. 25 with an address by President Bush. The bank and fund get their capital from their 151 member governments. The United States has about a 20 percent stake in both organizations. 
''Toleration of arrears to banks erodes standards of conduct and discipline towards all creditors and destroys the confidence of other would-be investors,'' stressed the letter, which was mailed today.
Commercial banks are riled by loans the I.M.F. has made in recent years to countries like the Ivory Coast, Costa Rica, Argentina and Ecuador, while those countries were still running substantial arrears to commercial banks.
 
Brazil Seeks $2 Billion
One possible new case is Brazil, which has paid no interest to commercial banks since last June and which is negotiating a $2 billion I.M.F. loan. Brazil signed a letter with the fund last week, setting forth conditions it would meet to get the money.
Brazil has proposed an escrow account to address the arrears question. But commercial bankers are unhappy with the arrangement because it implies they will receive no interest payments this year.
They also say Brazil, which runs one of the world's largest trade surpluses, projected this year at $15 billion, can afford to pay its arrears. The country is seeking the I.M.F.'s help for a program to curb inflation and reduce other economic imbalances.
The banks want the fund to condition its new assistance on settlement of the commercial interest accounts.
The I.M.F. declined to comment today on Mr. Schulmann's letter. But in earlier cases, its managing director, Michel Camdessus, contended that the agency could not afford to await completion of a package with the banks. His point was that the economic and political momentum for support of an I.M.F. program, usually involving some austerity for the country, would be lost.
Asked about the dispute today, the United States Under Secretary of the Treasury, David C. Mulford, seemed to side with the banks. ''As far as we're concerned, there should be interest payments to the banks,'' he said.
Referring to the Brazilian situation, he said that barring settlement of the arrears issue, ''it is very difficult to see how there could be a credible beginning on the I.M.F. program.'' $604.6 Billion Is Owed According to the institute's numbers, 50 leading borrowing countries will owe $604.6 billion to governments and other so-called official creditors, compared with $577.5 billion to commercial banks.
''Arrears are driving the process,'' Mr. Schulmann said in the letter. From the end of World War II until 1973, governments were the prime source of loans to developing countries. With petrodollars flowing into banks after the oil price increases of the mid-1970's, the commercial banks, anxiously seeking loans, then became the primary source of third world finance.
Now, Mr. Schulmann suggests that with the buildup of arrears, the tide may be turning again.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ARGENTINA (79%); GERMANY (71%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (95%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL FINANCE (83%); INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL FINANCE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF); INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL FINANCE INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL FINANCE; 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; BANKS AND BANKING INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ETHICS (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (60%); EROSION (58%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H GEORGE WALKER BUSH (55%); 



528 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 330 words

HEADLINE: FAG Bearings to Acquire Barden Corp. for $131 Million

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
The FAG Bearings Corporation, the United States-based subsidiary of a large West German bearings and industrial systems manufacturer, said yesterday that it had agreed to acquire the Barden Corporation for $66.50 a share, or $131.1 million.
The combination of the two reflects the growing consolidation in the bearings industry and the passing into foreign hands of another of the basic industries in the United States.
Barden, which is based in Danbury, Conn., is a maker of bearing products, precision plastic moldings and metal stampings and assemblies. Barden said it had sought to be acquired to survive the growing consolidation and increased competition in the industry. 
On news of the agreement, Barden's stock soared $30 - a 94 percent gain - in over-the-counter trading yesterday, closing at $63.
FAG Bearings is a subsidiary of FAG Kugelfischer Georg Schaefer, a bearing and industrial systems maker based in West Germany. The company last year had sales of $2.8 billion worldwide and of $270 million in North America.
The bearings industry is considered an important industrial component of the manufacturing economy, with about $4 billion in sales in the United States. Bearings, which reduce friction between moving parts, are used in virtually every mechanical product from automobile transmissions to yarn-winding spindles.
 
Bearings Industry Targeted
Analysts said that the American bearings industry had been increasingly a target of foreign companies in recent years to get around dumping cases, which have been brought against a number of foreign manufacturers.
Under the terms of the agreement, FAG Bearings will acquire Barden through a tender offer that will begin no later than Friday.
Stanley Noss, president and chief executive of Barden, said that the acquisition by FAG Bearings was crucial to the long-term survival of Barden. ''We have limited resources and this brings significant additional resources to our company,'' Mr. Noss said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS332991 BALL & ROLLER BEARING MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3562 BALL & ROLLER BEARINGS (96%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FAG BEARINGS CORP (96%); BARDEN CORP (93%); FAG KUGELFISCHER GEORG SCHAEFER AG (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BARDEN CORP; FAG BEARINGS CORP

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES BALL & ROLLER BEARING MFG (92%); ACQUISITIONS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); TENDER OFFERS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (63%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN STANLEY NOSS (67%); 



529 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 9, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Reports A 0.7% Surge In Inventories

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 17

 BODY:
Business inventories rose seven-tenths of a percent in July, the biggest pileup in a year, and sales fell five-tenths of a percent, the Government said today.
Although the level of inventories is not recessionary, surging stockpiles are a danger sign, said Robert Brusca, the chief financial economist at Nikko Securities International Inc. in New York.
''When inventories rise faster than sales, particularly when sales are in a lagging mode, it's reasonable to assume you're going to see cutbacks in manufacturing output,'' Mr. Brusca said. 
 
'Not a Good Sign'
The Commerce Department said inventories in July totaled a seasonally adjusted $801.94 billion, up from $796.47 billion in June. It was the biggest increase since an eight-tenths of a percent gain in July 1989.
The combination of falling sales and rising inventories produced a 1.49 ratio of inventories to sales, up from 1.47 in June and the same as May's 1.49. The ratio means it would take 1.49 months to exhaust the backlog of goods at the July sales pace.
Mr. Brusca said he does not believe the ratio is dangerously high. ''But with evidence that retail selling is weak and that output is falling, to have inventories building is not a good sign for the economy,'' he said.
The June backlog had declined a revised five-tenths of a percent from the previous month, rather than the four-tenths of a percent originally reported.
Sales in July, meanwhile, dropped to a seasonally adjusted $539.52 billion, from $542.44 billion a month earlier. The June sales were also revised to a weaker six-tenths of a percent gain, rather than the 1 percent advance first reported.
Cynthia Latta, an economist with DRI-McGraw-Hill Inc. in Lexington, Mass., said sales rose only on the retail level in July. But she also noted that retail sales deteriorated in August, when they fell six-tenths of a percent, according to a Commerce Department report last week.
While retail sales increased four-tenths of a percent in July, the gain was less than half of the 1.1 percent jump for the previous month. Retail sales represent about half of all consumer spending, which itself accounts for two-thirds of the nation's economic activity.
All the major business categories experienced gains in inventories. Manufacturing backlogs were up seven-tenths of a percent, to $373.3 billion. Wholesalers posted a five-tenths of a percent gain, to $192.2 billion. Retailers registered an eight-tenths of a percent advance, to $236.5 billion.
Manufacturing sales, meanwhile, declined eight-tenths of a percent, to $237.5 billion, while wholesalers posted a 1 percent drop, to $152 billion. Retail sales totaled $150 billion.

GRAPHIC: Graph: Inventory sales ration (Source: Commerce Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DRI/MCGRAW-HILL (65%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) SALES FIGURES (91%); INVENTORIES (91%); RETAIL SALES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); RECESSION (78%); RETAILERS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 



530 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 10, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: Dow Advances by 3.22 in Quiet Trading

BYLINE: By ROBERT J. COLE

 BODY:
Stocks drifted aimlessly yesterday in quiet trading, with the rising price of crude oil and continued wrangling over the budget keeping many investors out of the market. The Dow Jones industrial average added 3.22, to 2,567.33.
Even program traders - who often provide the only action in an otherwise lethargic market these days -seemed to have little interest. 
Birinyi Associates, which tracks such activity, said that the overall effect of what little interest there was lifted the Dow 6.5 points.
Trading volume slumped to 110.6 million shares. It was the slowest since the day after Labor Day, when volume plunged to 92.9 million.
Declines narrowly outstripped advances, 768 to 681, but while 16 stocks touched new highs, 151 hit new lows. Among them were Disney, Digital Equipment, AMR, Chase Manhattan and Clorox.
But Rao Chalasani, chief investment strategist for the Cleveland investment firm of Prescott, Ball & Turben, found the current level ''encouraging.''
He noted that only a month ago, when the Dow slid to a 13-month low of 2,483.42 on Aug. 23, there were 707 new lows and only one new high.
''The new lows are declining in number,'' he said, ''and that's encouraging.''
But he added: ''We have a market with no direction. It's trying to react to a very oversold condition and is being kicked around by confusing signals: the budget talks, the gulf crisis and economic news.''
Speaking of the budget, he said, ''One day it looks like there's a resolution, but it keeps dragging on, not for days but for weeks.''
He said the Persian Gulf crisis was ''adding a lot more dimensions, making it difficult to see the ultimate outcome.''
Figures released yesterday on business inventories were higher than expected, he said, but had only a slight impact on the market.
Stock market data showed that yesterday's advance was fairly widespread in the big stocks and far less so in the smaller ones.
The Dow average of 30 industrial blue-chip stocks rose slightly more than a tenth of 1 percent but the Standard & Poor's index of 500 leading stocks rose three-tenths of 1 percent, to 317.77, up 0.94. The New York Stock Exchange index of common stocks also rose nearly three-tenths of 1 percent, to 174.62, up 0.47.
But the Nasdaq composite, still under pressure from technology stocks, actually fell close to one-tenth of 1 percent while the American Stock Exchange's market value index rose slightly less than a tenth of 1 percent.
Disney, which slid 7 1/4 last week, fell to a new low yesterday of 92 1/2 before bouncing back to 94 3/4, up 1/8.
Nike, the athletic shoe maker, which soared 6 3/4 last week, fell 3, to 72, in heavy trading. At its annual meeting in Portland, Ore., Josie Esquivel, apparel analyst at Shearson Lehman Brothers, said she could not explain the drop. ''Everything they said was great,'' she said. ''I advised my clients to buy.''

GRAPHIC: Favorite stocks chart

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); NYSE MKT LLC (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); COMMON STOCK (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); BONDS (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); US LABOR DAY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); INVENTORIES (64%); 

PERSON: COLE, ROBERT J



531 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 16, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 175 words

HEADLINE: Deposit Fund Bill Advances

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 17

 BODY:
The House of Representatives voted today to remove the ceiling on premiums the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation charges to insure deposits at banks and savings and loan associations.
The move came amid concern that the economic downturn in some parts of the country may threaten banks and increase pressure on the fund. 
 
Under the bill, backed by the
Bush Administration, the ceiling on what the F.D.I.C. can charge and the annual increase that it can demand from banks and savings and loan associations would be eliminated. It would require a 60-day notice period before the F.D.I.C., which administers the Bank Insurance Fund and the Savings Association Insurance Fund, could raises premiums.
The bill was approved in a voice vote after a brief debate.
Similar legislation is being proposed in the Senate by Donald Riegle, the Michigan Democrat who is chairman of the Banking Committee.
A savings and loan industry group expressed concern at a potential increase in premiums, but the American Bankers Association supported it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (93%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (51%); 

CITY: LANSING, MI, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (93%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (55%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (FDIC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS; DEPOSIT INSURANCE; LAW AND LEGISLATION SAVINGS & LOANS (93%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (88%); BANKING LAW (88%); INSURANCE (88%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (88%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (88%); INSURANCE LAW (88%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); APPROVALS (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (66%); 

PERSON: BILL ADVANCES (57%); 



532 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 17, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 307 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Continuing Its Slide Amid Prospects of Fed Move

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar continued to slide yesterday as traders anticipated a move by the Federal Reserve to push interest rates lower.
The market expected the Fed, facing growing evidence of a slowing economy, to nudge down interest rates when negotiators reach agreement on $50 billion in Federal budget cuts, said Ronald H. Holzer, the vice president and chief dealer with Harris Trust & Company.
Little progress was reported yesterday from the budget talks in Washington, but the market anticipated an eventual agreement. 
The dollar, like all other currencies, is supported by higher interest rates. When traders sense that rates are likely to fall in the United States, they sell dollars.
The American currency has fallen sharply in recent months amid continuing signs of economic weakness. The Persian Gulf crisis has also taken a heavy toll on the dollar.
Mr. Holzer said the dollar also fell on expectations of a widening in the United States trade deficit. The Commerce Department will release July trade figures today, while the Labor Department will announce consumer price figures for August.
The dollar managed to gain slightly against the Japanese yen, rising to 136.55 yen in New York, from 136.45 late on Friday. In Tokyo earlier, the dollar rose to close at 137.00 yen, from 136.55 yen on Friday. Later, in London, it was quoted at 136.47 yen.
But the dollar skidded against the British pound, which has been lifted in part by higher interest rates. Sterling rose to $1.9140 in New York, from $1.8930 late on Friday. In London, the pound rose to $1.9025, from $1.8980 late Friday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with those of late Friday, included: 1.54865 German marks, down from 1.5695; 1.2768 Swiss francs, down from 1.2990; 5.1870 French francs, down from 5.2565; 1,160.00 Italian lire, down from 1,171.75.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); INDIAN OCEAN (55%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CURRENCIES (92%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BRITISH POUND (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); GERMAN MARK (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); 

PERSON: RONALD H HOLZER (73%); 



533 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 17, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Gold Prices Rise Sharply, But Less Than Jump in Oil

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Gold futures prices rose strongly yesterday on the Commodity Exchange in New York as fears of tightening oil supplies pushed crude oil futures to record highs, spurring some investors to buy gold as a hedge against inflation.
But precious metals analysts said gold's gains were relatively small compared with the advance in energy prices, suggesting that the historical relationship between the two markets had changed.
On other commodity markets, livestock and meat futures rose sharply, soybeans fell and grain futures advanced. 
Gold futures settled $4.20 to $4.30 higher in New York. The spot September contract was at $389.40 an ounce, and the more actively traded contract for delivery in October settled at $390.60 an ounce.
Silver futures ended 1.6 cents to 1.9 cents higher, with the September contract at $4.766 an ounce.
The rally in gold prices extended the run-up to five days since the September contract plunged $10.90 on Sept. 10. The contract has regained all but 10 cents of that amount.
John Jonat, a precious metals trader with Deak International Inc., said traders were focusing less on the inflationary implications of higher oil prices than on a perception that the oil jolt and the military buildup in Saudi Arabia would send the American economy into a recession.
Livestock and meat futures rose sharply on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, led by gains of 2 cents a pound, the limit, in the pork belly market. The increases came amid reports of higher cash hog prices and strong demand for pork products.
Trading volume in the cattle pits is expected to drop in the next two days in anticipation of a monthly Agriculture Department report to be released tomorrow. The report is expected to show a year-to-year increase of about 4 percent in the number of cattle on feedlots in the seven largest producing states.
Live cattle settled 0.30 cent to 0.75 cent higher, with October at 79.37 cents a pound; feeder cattle were 0.25 cent to 0.80 cent higher, with September at 89.17 cents a pound; live hogs were 0.33 cent to 1.13 cents higher, with October at 53 cents a pound, and frozen pork bellies were 2 cents higher across the board, with February at 56.65 cents a pound.
Soybean futures prices fell on the Chicago Board of Trade in a move that some analysts attributed to weather forecasts and slow export demand and others to a technical correction after last week's gains.
Corn and wheat futures rose moderately, reversing the trend of the three previous sessions.
After the close, a weekly Agriculture Department report showed 5 percent of the American corn crop and 1 percent of the soybean crop harvested as of Sunday, slightly behind the usual pace.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (92%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (92%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; PRICES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; GOLD FUTURES (96%); GOLD MARKETS (94%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); COMMODITIES TRADING (91%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); METALS MARKETS (90%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (90%); SILVER MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (90%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (89%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); PORK (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (89%); CORN MARKETS (89%); HOG & PIG FARMING (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); SPOT MARKET (79%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); RECESSION (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); TRENDS (77%); SOYBEAN FARMING (76%); MEATS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); WEATHER (73%); FROZEN FOODS (71%); CATTLE FEEDLOTS (69%); CORN FARMING (68%); 



534 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 19, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Careers;
Gulf Crisis Stirs Interest In Geology

BYLINE: By Elizabeth M. Fowler

 BODY:
SMALL liberal arts colleges like Wooster, in Wooster, Ohio, report growing student interest in geology as a major, as do engineering schools like the Colorado School of Mines.
This might be an obvious outcome of the Persian Gulf crisis, but the news comes with a twist because there is already a shortage of geologists.
Many geologists work for small environmental companies and local and Federal governments instead of for oil companies. Shortages are certain to increase as the oil industry's need for geologists, especially those with master's degrees, grows. 
Samuel Root, professor of geology at Wooster, said there was increased interest by students in the environment and such problems as water contamination and waste handling, both of which require geologists' skills.
''There is a tremendous increase in the numbers of geologists working on cleanups,'' he said. ''Many recent grads work with small environmental companies. Now, with the oil situation, we will need even more.''
He said that when he first joined the Wooster faculty in 1983 there were 20 to 25 geology majors. ''That dropped to 7 after a couple of years and now it has almost doubled, to 13 this year,'' he said. The liberal arts college has 1,800 students.
''Students find out from friends about good jobs and they get excited and declare a major,'' he said.
Today's geology majors, Dr. Root stressed, ''need a lot more chemistry, several courses in computer science as well as a course in the flow of fluids.''
Professors of geology also need to take more courses, he said, especially refresher courses, which are often given by professional associations.
''I now teach a hydro geology course,'' he said, ''Next week I am going to a three-day program in Sarasota, Fla., given by the National Water Well Association on the subject of contaminated waters and how to clean them up. I will work the material into my course.
''With the gulf crisis and higher oil prices, I think we are looking at a long-term need for more geologists. We will need more research and development in other energy areas -coal production, for example.''
Dr. Root has an academic as well as a corporate background. He received a master's degree from the University of Manitoba, Canada, and holds a doctorate in geology from Ohio State University. For several years, he worked for Exxon, mostly in South America.
''Students often ask what I did working for a large corporation and what interesting assignments I had,'' he said.
Samuel S. Adams, professor of geology and geological engineering at the Colorado School of Mines in Denver, says that students make up their minds about majors while they are in high school and even grade school these days.
''Students catch on quickly to economics and it filters down through high schools,'' he commented. For example, he said that in his department, before retrenchment by the oil companies and low oil prices in the mid-80's, there were 60 geology majors in each of the junior and senior classes, but that there were now about 15 majors in each of the classes. Students generally do not declare majors until the end of their sophomore year in college.
He explained that during that retrenchment, young people in Colorado watched their fathers and other relatives lose jobs in the oil industry, and turned away from the idea of becoming geologists or petroleum engineers.
But he says those effects are starting to wear off. ''Even without the gulf crisis we have turned the corner,'' he said. ''Geology majors now are getting jobs, research funding is moving up, interviews on campus are increasing.''
Mr. Adams explained that environmental issues had ''opened up jobs for our students, all of whom are also trained as engineers.''
''The word is getting around,'' he said. Aided by a grant from Amoco, he had brochures printed explaining careers in geology that his undergraduate students are handing out at Colorado schools. ''They are also giving talks,'' he said. ''Very young people don't want to listen to a gray-haired old fellow like me. My students are almost their peers.''
He likened the differences between geologists and petroleum engineers to the differences between linguistic experts in Romance languages and Slavic languages.
But geologists and petroleum engineers can work together effectively through computer graphics, he explained. ''We geologists are detectives and historians,'' he said. ''I can represent my views graphically by computer and the petroleum engineers can overlay their ideas on it, also graphically.''
Dr. Adams, who received his doctorate from Harvard, explained that cooperation between these professionals had become much easier because of $2 million in computer hardware and professional help provided by the International Business Machines Corporation to establish the I.B.M. Center of Geo-science Computing on campus.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CAREERS (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (93%); INDIAN OCEAN (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MANITOBA, CANADA (79%); 

CITY: SARASOTA, FL, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL WATER UGANDA (53%); 

SUBJECT: GEOLOGY COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); COAL MINING (72%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (64%); ENERGY RESEARCH (60%); COAL INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: FOWLER, ELIZABETH M SAMUEL S ADAMS (67%); SAMUEL ROOT (67%); 



535 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 23, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: Amex Plans Expansion to Hawaii

BYLINE: By KURT EICHENWALD

 BODY:
The American Stock Exchange announced yesterday that it had reached an agreement with an outside group to plan the development of a securities trading operation in Hawaii. The move is intended to give the American Exchange extended hours of trading, as well as increase its reach into Japan and the Pacific Rim.
Exchange officials said that over the next 18 months they hope to prepare a business plan to establish the operation with the Economic Development Corporation of Honolulu, a nonprofit organization leading efforts to set up a financial hub in Hawaii.
In a press briefing announcing the agreement yesterday, James R. Jones, the chairman of the exchange, said it expected to spend as much as $200,000 in the development of the project, much of that going toward travel expenses. 
Mr. Jones said the exchange had undertaken the project in an effort to win more business between the markets in Japan and the United States. Such an effort, he said, might create greater Japanese order flow into this country.
The business day of a trading operation in Hawaii would overlap the trading day in Tokyo, although specific times have not been set.
 
'Keeping Our Options Open'
Mr. Jones added, however, that the exchange had made no determination about how the trading operation would work and did not know if, at this point, it would include a trading floor. ''We haven't precluded anything,'' Mr. Jones said. ''We are keeping our options open.''
Competitors, like the New York Stock Exchange, have responded to the push for global trading by extending their hours, planning to trade 24 hours a day. Mr. Jones said yesterday, however, that he did not believe those efforts would work and that the American exchange needed to establish a presence in another time zone to develop its global business.
''I don't think you are going to see 24-hour trading or even 18-hour trading in only one location,'' Mr. Jones said.
Richard Torrenzano, a senior vice president with the New York exchange, defended its plan for 24-hour trading. The Big Board ''now has in place the most advanced trading and communications technology that can readily process orders from anywhere in the world,'' Mr. Torrenzano said. ''Hawaii is beautiful, but it seems unnecessary and expensive to travel thousands of miles to set up a redundant system when state-of-the-art facilities are in place and operational here today.''
The American Exchange is attempting a project that has proved daunting to other exchanges. In 1988, the Pacific Stock Exchange reached a similar agreement, only to abandon the project after a year of study.
Moreover, the project comes at an extremely difficult time for the American exchange. With volume dwindling, the exchange is not earning as much as it did in the 1980's, and the commitment adds an extra financial burden.
 
'A Great Forward Move'
But one executive with a company listed on the exchange said he hoped the project would go forward. ''We are very excited about what is happening,'' said John Hatsopoulos, chief financial officer of the Thermo Electron Corporation. ''We think it is a great forward move.''
Mr. Hatsopoulos said a large number of investors in his company are Japanese and that the establshment of operations in Hawaii would give them greater ability to trade their shares.
In a separate announcement yesterday, Mr. Jones said the American Exchange was planning to begin trading in put and call options on an index of Japanese stocks. The index, called the Japan Index, measures the aggregate performance of 210 leading stocks on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.
Exchange officials said the product was aimed largely at retail investors who wanted to bet on the direction of the Japanese stock market. The exchange already offers warrants based on a Japanese index, and exchange officials said it was not clear what impact the new product would have on the warrants.
The option, which must still be approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission, was designed to compete with futures and options products based on the Tokyo market that are expected to begin trading on Sept. 25.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (94%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NYSE MKT LLC (84%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); NYSE ARCA INC (50%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (94%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (AMEX)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAWAII

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); BUSINESS PLANS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); BONDS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (56%); 

PERSON: EICHENWALD, KURT JAMES R JONES (93%); 



536 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: Defining Souter, Some;
Undogmatic Middle-of-the-Road Nominee Is Surprise for Liberals and Conservatives

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 18

 BODY:
In his three days before the Senate Judiciary Committee, Judge David H. Souter defined himself as an undogmatic, middle-of-the-road Supreme Court nominee by what he said and what he chose not to say.
Judge Souter's silence was especially striking on Monday, his final day before the committee, when he passed up many chances to criticize modern Supreme Court decisions as examples of ''judicial activism'' or as undue intrusions into the affairs of other branches of government.
Pressed repeatedly by Senator Charles E. Grassley, an Iowa Republican, and other conservative senators to cite instances when the Supreme Court went too far in the direction of establishing new constitutional rights, Judge Souter appeared unable to think of any.
''Has there never been an occasion where the Court improperly created rights?'' demanded an exasperated Senator Grassley, who had declared earlier that the criminal procedure rulings of the Warren Court provided one example.
Judge Souter responded with a long defense of those rulings, particularly the landmark Miranda decision, which requires the police to inform criminal suspects of their rights. He described the 1966 ruling as a ''pragmatic'' effort by the Supreme Court to protect the pre-existing right against involuntary confessions. 
''Pragmatic'' and ''practical'' appeared to be words of high praise from Judge Souter. ''Courts have an obligation to come down with practical decrees that implement rights,'' he said at another point in his testimony. He offered no criticism, and perhaps even a veiled endorsement, of a recent Supreme Court decision that upheld Federal judges' authority to order local tax increases to pay for remedies for past discrimination.
As the Judiciary Committee moved into the next phase of the confirmation hearing today, taking testimony from supporters and opponents of the nomination, it was apparent that Judge Souter's silence as well as his words had been evaluated very differently by different parts of his audience.
Leaders of the two major abortion rights groups, the National Abortion Rights Action League and Planned Parenthood Federation of America, asked the 14-member panel to vote against confirmation because Judge Souter had failed to commit himself to retaining a constitutional right to abortion.
''After days of evasive answers and filibusters, we know nothing more about Judge Souter's views on reproductive rights than we did before the hearings began,'' Faye Wattleton, Planned Parenthood's president, told the committee. Leaders of several women's rights groups also testified against confirmation.
A number of public officials and lawyers who have worked with Judge Souter testified on his behalf, including prominent Democrats like Griffin B. Bell, a former Federal judge who served as President Jimmy Carter's Attorney General.
 
No Comment From Some Groups
The witness list today was notable for the liberal groups that chose not to testify against Judge Souter. People for the American Way, the Alliance for Justice, the American Civil Liberties Union and the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund decided not to oppose confirmation. All actively opposed the Supreme Court nomination of Judge Robert H. Bork in 1987, as did the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, an umbrella group of 180 civil rights organizations. While some conference members oppose Judge Souter's confirmation, the conference as a whole testified to its ''serious concerns'' but did not declare opposition.
Before the hearing began last week, many of these groups were poised to oppose Judge Souter's confirmation. But as several senators said today, the portrait that emerged after three days of testimony was quite different from the outlines discerned from the rather spare record on constitutional issues that the nominee acquired in his years as New Hampshire's Attorney General and as a state court judge. He has served on the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit, in Boston, only since late spring.
 
Contrast With Bork
From his first moments before the committee last Thursday, Judge Souter's testimony was strikingly different from Judge Bork's in both tone and substance.
While Judge Bork, whom the Senate ultimately rejected, criticized many modern Supreme Court decisions as illegitimate, Judge Souter took every available opportunity to assure the senators that he supports an active role for the Court in protecting individual rights, particularly in fulfilling the 14th Amendment's guarantee of equal protection. Conservative senators appeared most alarmed by Judge Souter's declaration that a failure by Congress to carry out its obligations under the 14th Amendment creates a ''vacuum'' in which the Court has a responsibility to act.
Judge Bork said the Constitution did not encompass a right to privacy or other rights not spelled out in the text. Judge Souter said he accepted the right to privacy as ''fundamental,'' at least in the context of protecting a married couple's right to use birth control. He said constitutional interpretation required a search for the document's ''meaning'' and ''principles'' rather than for the specific intent of the Constitution's 18th-century framers.
Judge Souter also said he saw a continuing need for affirmative action and indicated his support for the Supreme Court decision last June that upheld Congress's authority to design special economic opportunities for blacks and other racial minorities. That 5-to-4 decision was written by Justice William J. Brennan Jr., whom Judge Souter would succeed.
 
Pleasant Surprise for Liberals
Liberal senators and interest groups were pleasantly surprised by these statements. But they remained wary because much of Judge Souter's testimony was so general that it remained impossible to predict his vote in particular cases.
His comments on affirmative action did not indicate how he would rule on programs outside the Congressional context that award special benefits to members of racial minorities who have not themselves been victims of proven acts of discrimination.
His cautious comments on the right to privacy steered clear of any commitment to support the continued validity of Roe v. Wade, the 1973 decision that found a woman's choice to terminate a pregnancy to be an aspect of the the fundamental right to privacy.
He said he supported the result in Griswold v. Connecticut, the 1965 birth control case that established a fundamental right to privacy in the context of marriage. He declined to say whether he thought that unmarried couples had the same fundamental right to privacy for their reproductive decisions, or whether the Court had properly extended the right to include abortion.
 
Attitudes on Precedent
Those searching the hearing record for tea leaves on the future of Roe v. Wade have other comments to consider: Judge Souter's views on what weight to give to precedent. He said the rule that the Court should ordinarily adhere to its precedents ''is a bedrock necessity if we are going to have in our judicial systems anything that can be called the rule of law.''
On the New Hampshire Supreme Court, he said, he had voted to uphold precedents with which he disagreed. He said one factor supporting adherence to precedent was ''whether private citizens in their lives have relied upon it in their own planning to such a degree that, in fact, there would be a great hardship in overruling it now.''
On the other hand, he said, a precedent merited less support when ''the prior case has simply been eroded, chipped away.''
If there is a Supreme Court decision that meets each of those considerations, it is Roe v. Wade.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kate Michelman, left, executive director of the National Abortion Rights Action League, and Faye Wattleton, president of the Planned Parenthood Action Fund, before the Senate Judiciary Committee. They asked that the Supreme Court nomination of Judge David H. Souter be rejected. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times) (pg. A24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (84%); NARAL PRO-CHOICE (59%); NARAL PRO-CHOICE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US); SENATE COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY; ABORTION RIGHTS ACTION LEAGUE, NATIONAL; PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA INC; 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES SUPREME COURTS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); JUDGES (90%); LITIGATION (89%); ABORTION (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); LAWYERS (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); WITNESSES (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); APPEALS (78%); JUDICIAL ERROR (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TRIAL & PROCEDURE (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); MIRANDA RULE (74%); TAX LAW (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (69%); WOMEN (69%); US PRESIDENTS (63%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA; SOUTER, DAVID H (JUDGE); MICHELMAN, KATE; WATTLETON, FAYE DAVID SOUTER (94%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (73%); JIMMY CARTER (54%); 



537 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: Atlanta Selected Over Athens for 1996 Olympics

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 18

 BODY:
With a powerful display of personal lobbying and financial clout, Atlanta today won the right to hold the 1996 Summer Olympic Games, turning back a strong sentimental appeal by Athens to become the site for the 100th anniversary of the first modern Olympic Games.
The dramatic decision by the International Olympic Committee, announced tonight after five rounds of secret balloting, brings the summer Olympics back to the United States only 12 years after the Games were held in Los Angeles.
[There was jubilation in Atlanta while Greeks expressed shock and anger. Pages B9 and B10.]
Atlanta had fashioned a proposal to spend about $1.2 billion in private funds to hold the Games, with the expectation of generating about $1.4 billion in revenues from television broadcast rights, ($549 million) commercial sponsorships ($331 million), tickets ($337 million) and other promotions. 
But to the 300 delirious Georgians in the official delegation here, the Olympics' appeal was less in the profits, which officials said would be used exclusively to fund sports programs, than in the opportunity to display Atlanta as a symbol of racial tolerance and economic progress in the new South.
''I've never felt more elated in my entire life,'' declared Mayor Maynard Jackson in between rounds of embracing and crying with other delegates. ''I felt like an exclamation point has just been laid down in the life of our city.''
Members of the I.O.C. said afterward that Atlanta won the Games - to be held from July 20 to Aug.4 - because it offered excellent facilities in a secure environment and could guarantee large television revenues, matching if not surpassing the overwhelming financial success of the Los Angeles Olympics.
Atlanta brought computerized graphics and videos and a delegation of 300 people as part of its $7 million drive, perhaps the most elaborate and expensive bid in history. Also shown to the Olympic committee this morning was a special appeal for support by President Bush.
 
Young's Role Called Critical
But a surprising and crucial factor also appeared to be the work of Andrew Young, the former Mayor of Atlanta, who had lobbied hard among African, Middle Eastern and Asian countries based on his contacts as a former chief delegate to the United Nations in the Carter Administration.
''Without Andy Young, Atlanta could not have made it,'' said Jean-Claude Ganga, a committee member from the Congo who is also president of the Association of National Olympic Committees of Africa, a group Mr. Young addressed last December.
''We know Andy Young as a leader of black people in America, a civil rights leader and an associate of Martin Luther King,'' Mr. Ganga added. ''When he visited my country to push for Atlanta, he was cheered by crowds like some sort of a chief. He is a hero in my country.'' Athens Is Runner-Up The final vote of the I.O.C. was 51 for Atlanta and 35 for Athens. In each of four earlier tallies, the city with the fewest votes was eliminated and another balloting took place. First to be dropped was Belgrade, Yugoslavia, followed by Manchester, England, Melbourne, Australia, and then Toronto.
Until the end, many people thought Athens had the best chance. Its spirited drive was backed by Prime Minister Constantine Mitsotakis and other leading figures, plus endless recorded crescendos from Vangelis Papathanassiou, the Oscar-winning composer of the score from the movie ''Chariots of Fire.''
In Greece's favor was the fact that Athens had been the site of the first modern Olympics in 1896, when the Games were reborn in their place of origin under the leadership of the French baron, Pierre de Coubertin.
But Athens was hobbled by the perception that it was not equal to the task of coping with the modern and risk-prone extravaganza that the Olympics have become.
Its bid appeared to fall victim to an image of political instability, potential security problems, air pollution, traffic congestion and the fact that it would have to spend about $3 billion to improve its infrastructure of airports, roads, rail lines and other amenities.
There were also signs of some resentment over Athens's demanding that it be named as the site of the Olympics because of its ''historical right due to its history,'' in the words of Spyros Metaxa, a businessman who is president of the Athens Olympic Bid Committee.
 
Geography Hampers Melbourne
As predicted earlier by many Olympic officials, the bids with the least support were those of Belgrade and Manchester, the two cities eliminated first. Melbourne offered itself as a city with experience, having put on the 1956 Games, plus enormous enthusiasm from the Australians.
The city's theme was ''It's time for another continent,'' designed to appeal to the delegates' sense of fairness after decades of holding the Olympics in Europe, Asia and North America. But Melbourne's distance from other places turned out to be one of its biggest handicaps.
Toronto also brought huge enthusiasm, Olympic officials said, with promises to build a waterfront aquatic center and other facilities. A domed stadium was completed last year. But when Toronto failed on the fourth ballot, its supporters appeared mostly to go to Atlanta as the other city in North America.
One revealing aspect of the lobbying by Toronto and Melbourne was that the two cities emphasized that they had large communities of people of Asian and African extraction giving them an air of multiracial identity.
Their presentations stressing this theme appeared to underscore the sensitivity by the Olympic movement in putting on games in rich, prosperous countries of the West in which many athletes from poor countries in the developing world often excel.
 
Human Rights Theme
Mr. Young, who acted as chairman of the Atlanta organizing committee, said he sought to emphasize this theme by noting, for instance, that ''We Shall Overcome'' is now a popular anthem in Africa and elsewhere, although it began as a Georgia Baptist hymn adopted by the American civil rights movement.
''The human rights angle of the Olympic movement is something we really worked on,'' he said. ''The fact is, at least half the people of our city are of African descent, so when African delegates came and walked down the street, they saw people who looked like back home.''
Aside from fears about crime in Atlanta, the biggest obstacle Atlanta had to overcome, said William Porter Payne, president of the organizing committee, was invidious comparisons to Los Angeles. Some Olympic officials, while admiring the enterprise in those games, found the commercialization distasteful.
''The Atlanta Games will not be about money,'' Mr. Payne said he repeated again and again. ''They will not be about sponsorship. They will be about people. We have tried to eliminate the perception that Atlanta will be making a lot of money.''
He added that Atlanta would be much more low key about many aspects of commercialization than Los Angeles, and that its profits would be more limited, but he declined to provide details.
Atlanta began its preparations in early 1987 and then proceeded to win unanimous support from its City Council and from the Georgia State Legislature, a factor that also seemed to impress the delegates, especially after a group of Canadian dissidents demonstrated here against the Toronto bid.
In the course of its campaign, Atlanta brought more than 70 of the Olympic Committee members for tours of the city and held numerous sporting events of its own to raise money and enthusiasm.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Atlantans cheering yesterday after their city was chosen as the site for the 1996 Summer Olympics. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GREECE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); ATHENS, GREECE (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (84%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ATLANTA (GA); ATHENS (GREECE)

SUBJECT: OLYMPIC GAMES (1996); SUMMER GAMES (OLYMPICS); THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES OLYMPICS (97%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (89%); LOBBYING (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (88%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); SPONSORSHIP (74%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (74%); SPORTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (69%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (60%); ANNIVERSARIES (57%); 

PERSON: WEISMAN, STEVEN R; JACKSON, MAYNARD (MAYOR); YOUNG, ANDREW MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 



538 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: New York to Expand Putting the Homeless Into Welfare Hotels

BYLINE: By THOMAS MORGAN

 BODY:
Reversing a two-year effort to move homeless families out of run-down welfare hotels, New York City officials said yesterday that a sharp rise in the number of homeless people would force them to move many more of the homeless into the hotels.
The city said in papers filed yesterday in State Supreme Court in Manhattan that 2,228 families came to welfare offices needing apartments in July and August, 27 percent more than in the same period last year. The Legal Aid Society had gone to the court in March seeking to force the city to stop placing homeless families in welfare hotels.
In court yesterday, the city asked to be released from an agreement to move all the homeless families out of the hotels by July 31 of this year. The city filed its motion to answer complaints by Legal Aid lawyers and advocates for the homeless that it had failed to live up to the agreement, which was signed on June 1. 
City officials yesterday portrayed the increase in the number of homeless families seeking apartments as a response not to the weakening local economy, which has contributed to the first rise in seven years in the number of families on public assistance, but to the city's recent success in providing low-cost housing to the poor. They said families not listed as homeless because they were living with relatives came forward for the first time because they had heard that apartments were now available.
''We had been moving families out of homeless shelters and hotels at such a high rate that we think it became fairly well known that this was a good time to come into the system to get an apartment,'' said Jeffrey Carples, executive deputy commissioner the city's Human Resources Administration, the agency that runs the city welfare system. ''We began to create our own demand.''
But Steven Banks, a lawyer with the Legal Aid Society's Homeless Family Rights Project, said: ''The reason why so many families are seeking shelter is because of the city's failure to provide sufficient permanent housing. If there was a comprehensive permanent housing program in this city, there would be no need for welfare hotels now.''
At the peak of the homeless crisis in 1987, more than 3,600 families were living in 62 welfare hotels, many of which were populated by drug addicts, prostitutes and child abusers.
 
High Cost Under Criticism
The use of the hotels had been criticized by housing advocates and others for several years, in part because the city spent an average of $1,800 a family each month to house the homeless in welfare hotels. The city now spends $2,300 a month for each family in welfare hotels, Mr. Carples said.
Mr. Banks said the Legal Aid Society would seek to hold the city to its promise to move the homeless families out of the hotels. ''The city plan was to have 3,500 lawful shelter units in place by the summer and to produce permanent housing to end the use of welfare hotels,'' he said. ''The numbers of families in the system needing housing are still less than 3,500 units of lawful housing agreed to.''
Since January, city officials said, they have placed 4,158 families in apartments in public housing projects and apartments renovated by the city's Housing Preservation and Development Department. In addition, more than 2,370 families have been placed since January in what officials call transitional housing, with kitchenettes and private bathrooms.
But 428 families are now being kept in five commercial hotels in Manhattan, Queens and Brooklyn in direct violation of the court order.
Mr. Carples played down the effect of the economy in driving families to seek city housing. But Mayor David N. Dinkins said on Monday that the economic downturn had hit the city's poorest residents the hardest. He announced then that the city's welfare rolls had increased for the first time in seven years, rising 5.5 percent in the 1990 fiscal year from the year before.
Samuel M. Ehrenhalt, regional Commissioner of the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics said that while the economy was not the biggest factor in creating homelessness, a downturn in the economy could force people living on the margin into homelessness.
''Once they get an economic shock,'' he said, ''they find it difficult to recover from it.''
Often, the city welfare agency is an unknowing player in creating family chaos, which sometimes leads to homelessness. When welfare checks are cut off for administrative reasons, like missed appointments with social workers, families may hover at the brink of homelessness.
 
No More Welfare Checks
Calixta Velez, who lives in a decrepit apartment building in East Harlem, worries that she might be evicted soon because the city canceled her welfare checks, food stamps and housing subsidy when she missed an interview earlier this year.
Mrs. Velez qualified for public assistance and rent subsidies for herself, a mentally retarded son and four other children. But she speaks little English and finds welfare regulations hard to understand. Despite her appeals through social workers from a Catholic agency, she has been unable to get the city to restore the welfare payments or to pay rental subsidies from February to September.
Already her landlord has sent a letter threathening to evict her for nonpayment of rent since February.
''I'm afraid I'm going to be thrown out on the streets,'' she said through an interpreter. ''I worry about losing the apartment. I have nowhere else to go.''
Advocates for homeless families have long argued that the city's plan to provide housing for homeless families only accounted for those families already in shelters. A continuing problem, they say, is a lack of city planning for the more than 100,000 families that city officials agree live doubled up with friends and relatives.
Mr. Carples said the city would respond to future housing needs for low-income families if, through negotiations with the state, it could adopt a $30 million proposal to keep families from joining the ranks of the homeless.
 
Legal Services
That proposal includes providing legal services to families facing evictions to stop such actions, payment of rent arrears, and more social-service workers in the housing courts to help families understand rent regulations and alternatives to eviction.
But only $12.5 million has been allocated for the program in the city's capital budget, Mr. Carples said.
City officials said that if the demand for housing had matched the historical demand, the city would have met its goal of vacating the commercial hotels and would have been ''in compliance with the stipulation.''
In June, for example, 947 homeless families applied for housing, up from 890 in June 1989. The number grew to 1,057 families in July 1990, compared with 872 a year ago.

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''I'm afraid I'm going to be thrown out on the streets,'' said Calixta Velez, right, shown with her family at their East Harlem apartment. They face homelessness because her welfare checks and other benefits were canceled after she missed one of the periodic interviews the city requires. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: WELFARE HOTELS (58%); LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (83%); LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: LEGAL AID SOCIETY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; HOTELS AND MOTELS; WELFARE (US); SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; HOUSING HOMELESSNESS (94%); FAMILY (94%); LEGAL AID (91%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); LAWYERS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); CHILD ABUSE (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); INTERVIEWS (68%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (60%); HUMAN RESOURCES (50%); 

PERSON: MORGAN, THOMAS JEFFREY CARPLES (65%); 



539 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: CONFRONTATION IN THE GULF;
Jordan Seems to Have Quit Shipping Food to the Iraqis

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: RUWEISHID, Jordan, Sept. 18

 BODY:
Jordan appears to have stopped its shipments of food and other goods to Iraq, after more than a month of argument and delay.
Jordan, Iraq's closest ally, came under strong criticism from the United States and other countries last month for not strictly adhering to the United Nations sanctions against Iraq.
Last month 200 trucks a day were rolling across the border toward Baghdad, carrying tomatoes, oranges, rice, cotton, sheet metal and a wide range of other items.
Ten days ago visitors to Ruweishid reported that shipments were still proceeding across, though in smaller numbers. But here at the border today, nothing was being allowed to pass into Iraq, though several truckers were trying. 
 
No Trucks In or Out
''They're not giving permits,'' complained one Jordanian trucker, standing beside a flatbed loaded with cotton. ''Customs won't allow it past.'' ''No, no, no,'' said another trucker standing nearby. ''Nobody's being allowed to go.''
In his office a few yards away, Nabil Hindawi, acting director of the Jordanian Customs office here, shook his head as he said: ''Trucks are not coming in or going out. That is the policy.''
There is no chance that trucks are sneaking in through some other route, either. The landscape here is inhospitable, rock-strewn desert. There is no other road, and off-road travel is impossible. Neither of Jordan's Arab neighbors, Syria and Saudia Arabia, would allow passage through their territory, since those countries are arrayed against Iraq.
Today the Ruweishid customs yard was filled with dozens of empty, flatbed trucks. Many suddenly unemployed Jordanian truck drivers were trying to earn a few dinars by carrying furniture and household goods for the steady stream of Kuwaiti refugees from Iraq, heading toward Amman.
''I used to make 1,000 dinars for a run to Baghdad,'' said Farid Ali, a trucker who was standing, arms crossed, next to his empty flatbed. A dinar is worth about $1.50.
''Now I stand here all day and just hope for a run with furniture for 200 dinars.''
 
Oil Tankers Still Roll
While Jordanian shipments to Baghdad appear to have stopped, the long, desolate desert highway was crowded today with tankers carrying crude oil from Iraq to refineries in Jordan, although the United Nations embargo precludes all trade with Baghdad.
''The only thing between us and Iraq now is the oil,'' a senior Government official said. ''We don't have any trucks going to Iraq, none at all.''
Another senior official added: ''We get 80 percent of our oil from Iraq. We can't cut that off until someone is willing to replace the supply. So far no one has offered.''
Almost as soon as the United Nations imposed the trade sanctions on Iraq last month, Jordan said it would comply but added it needed time to study the language to see what kind of trade with Iraq, if any, would be allowed. In the meantime, trucks continued rolling. Many carried goods arriving at the Jordanian port of Aqaba, and others ferried Jordanian produce and other locally produced goods to Baghdad.
The United States openly complained, and President Bush specifically criticized Jordan for continuing to import Iraqi goods through Aqaba.
Now, thanks in part to the United States naval blockade in the Red Sea, the port at Aqaba is virtually closed. As far as can be told, local goods are not being driven to Iraq either. As a result, 80 percent of the nation's 11,000-vehicle truck fleet is now idle, sad Bassam E. Kakish, chairman of the Aqaba regional authority.
 
'This Is a Genuine Crisis'
As Jordanian officials say they have cut off their exports to Iraq, they are also making fresh pleas for international aid to compensate them for losses. Iraq was by far Jordan's largest trading partner.
''You are talking about an integrated economy between Iraq, Kuwait and Jordan, and 800,000 of our people also worked in Iraq and Kuwait,'' said a senior aide in the Royal Palace. ''This is a genuine crisis.''
The apparent end of the Jordanian shipments to Iraq has been gradual. Three weeks ago, ''we couldn't cross the road, there were so many trucks,'' said Atef Atta, a mechanic, as he and his brother sat behind a greasy desk in their tiny garage in Azraq, looking out at the highway to Baghdad just 10 yards away. ''Now maybe we see three or four,'' he said. And judging from what truckers said at the border, even those are not being allowed to pass.
''We used to close at 8 or 9 at night,'' Mr. Atta added. ''Now, with the business falling off, sometimes we close at 1 P.M.''
Iraqis trying to ferry goods into Jordan do not appear to be having any better luck. The United Nations sanctions forbid both imports to Iraq and exports from the country as well.
An Iraqi trucker who would give his name only as Mahmoud sat in the incoming truck yard today and complained that he had been trapped, sleeping in his truck, for almost 10 days. The flatbed was loaded with fertilizer from Iraq.
''I can't go in,'' the Iraqi said, throwing up his hands. ''They won't give me permits. They won't even start the procedures. And I can't get permits to go back either. They say the load has already been imported, so it can't go back.''
Asked what he would do, the man shook his head and said, ''I'm just waiting for God to show his mercy.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: An empty supply truck crossing the border into Iraq yesterday as cars heading for Jordan waited at the Ruweishid border crossing. (Steve Miller for The New York Times); Map: Ruweishid, Jordan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%); 

COUNTRY: JORDAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SYRIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); AMMAN, JORDAN (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; JORDAN; IRAQ

SUBJECT: SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); EMBARGOES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOOD INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); TRUCK DRIVERS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); BULK SHIPPING (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); REFUGEES (72%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (68%); 

PERSON: BRINKLEY, JOEL MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 



540 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: CONFRONTATION IN THE GULF: THE GENERAL'S ERROR;
Others Have Said as Much as Dugan But 'on Background,' Not on Record

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 18

 BODY:
In the final analysis, the problem wasn't really what Gen. Michael J. Dugan said that hurt him so much.
What cost the former Air Force Chief of Staff his job, Bush Administration officials and Pentagon-watchers on Capitol Hill agreed today, was the timing of his speculation on American contingency plans in the Middle East, how he went about it and who he was.
He was unguarded, speaking on the record, meaning that he could be quoted by name; he spoke at a moment when the diplomatic situation was delicately poised, and he made it sound as if generals, not civilians, decided such matters.
''In this town, in a crisis, you talk about options, not about decisions, unless you're the President,'' a White House aide said. ''I guess nobody told this guy Dugan about that.'' 
 
Undoubtedly an Option
No one in official Washington, or in Baghdad or Riyadh, for that matter, doubts that an air attack on the Iraqi capital is one option under serious consideration as President Bush ponders how he might force President Saddam Hussein of Iraq to pull his troops out of Kuwait if United Nations economic sanctions fail to do the job.
Military analysts in Washington think tanks, members of Congress knowledgeable about such matters and even a few Pentagon experts have been quite willing, in recent days, to discuss such an attack and evaluate its pros and cons. In fact, one of the commonplaces of discussion here has been the observation that it would be a mistake to engage in a war of attrition on the ground with the million-man Iraqi Army, and that air power would therefore have to carry a heavy burden.
For example, Senator John McCain of Arizona, a Republican, said last week that ''the very worst strategy we could follow would be a land battle in which we trade American bodies for Iraqi bodies'' and advocated the use of air and naval power rather than infantry, at least in the early stages of any conflict.
 
'On Background' Comments
A variety of Pentagon planners and other military authorities surveyed the week before said that Mr. Bush would inevitably seek to exploit vastly superior American technology, including lasers and infrared equipment as well as air power in general, to overcome the marked Iraqi advantage in numbers and familiarity with combat terrain and climate. Several of them mentioned the possibility of trying to kill or even kidnap Saddam Hussein.
But saying such things ''on background'' - not for attribution to any individual - is not the same as a member of the Joint Chiefs saying flatly that they have adopted a plan to ''decapitate'' the senior Iraqi leadership by making President Hussein and his inner circle the primary targets, as General Dugan did. And it is not the same as declaring that ''the cutting edge would be in downtown Baghdad.''
It may well be that the general was engaged in a bit of truth-telling, drawing back the curtain for a few moments on Pentagon contingency planning. It may be literally true that the Joint Chiefs of Staff believe, as he said, that only killing Mr. Hussein would do the job - although there were plenty of senior people in the Administration and more outside it who were willing to say today, on background of course, that they did not believe the Joint Chiefs held any such view and that if they did, it was thoroughly wrongheaded.
But nearly all Presidents, not just the security-conscious Mr. Bush, dislike the publicizing of staff recommendations, because that cuts down their freedom of action - especially on life-and-death matters of military tactics.
 
It Might Not Work
What is more, there are many reasons why the President might choose to disregard any advice from the Joint Chiefs to put ''the cutting edge,'' in the form of heavy bombardment, in downtown Baghdad. To cite just three: It might not work, any more than similar attacks on downtown Tripoli or downtown Hanoi forced Libya or North Vietnam to reverse their policies; it might be unacceptable to European allies in the campaign to isolate Iraq, such as France and the Soviet Union, and it would almost certainly inflame Arab public opinion, if not push Egypt and Syria back into Mr. Hussein's embrace.
Judgments on such political and diplomatic matters have to be mixed, in any ultimate decision, with whatever military judgments reach a President.
General Dugan may have been attempting a pre-emptive strike, trying to state the Air Force case in such a way that Mr. Bush would find it hard to ignore. But that cannot be done directly; the accepted Washington procedure is for a general to put ideas into the ear of a sympathetic columnist or commentator, or to ask a friendly Senator or Representative to make the public argument.
Some officers at the Pentagon were reported to have said that they would feel more inhibited about talking to reporters as a result of Defense Secretary Dick Cheney's decision to dismiss General Dugan. But in fact, it is hard to imagine that there are many officers with significant experience, either in Washington or in the field, who would have taken it upon themselves, even before the Dugan episode, to state publicly what course of action the Joint Chiefs were recommending.
Quite apart from angering Presidents, quite apart from diplomatic considerations, such disclosures could help actual or potential enemies, which is not what military officers ordinarily seek to do. General Dugan, who also made public Air Force strength figures in the Persian Gulf that the Pentagon had been guarding closely, apparently thought the security risk small.
He had few defenders today at the Pentagon or elsewhere in Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (75%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (77%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; PERSIAN GULF

SUBJECT: MILITARY STRATEGY AND TACTICS; AIR FORCES; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION; GOVERNMENT INFORMATION POLICIES; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE ARMED FORCES (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); ARMIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (66%); 

PERSON: DUGAN, MICHAEL J (GEN); APPLE, R W JR SADDAM HUSSEIN (88%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); 



541 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: CONFRONTATION IN THE GULF;
Iran, Holding Key, Hints at Hostage Release

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 18

 BODY:
Iraq's invasion of Kuwait may have indirectly improved the chances of freeing American hostages long held in Lebanon, Administration officials said today.
In the confusion of the invasion, a group of prisoners whose fate is tied to that of the hostages were freed and are now in the hands of the Iranian authorities, the officials said. Iran has considerable influence over the Shiite Muslim factions linked to the fundamentalist Party of God, which holds most of the 12 Western hostages in Lebanon.
In 1983, 17 men were imprisoned in Kuwait for conducting a terrorist campaign against the American and French embassies and public buildings and oil installations. The primary condition for the release of some of the Western hostages was freedom for these prisoners, Iraqis who belong to Al Dawa, or The Call, a radical Shiite Muslim group outlawed by President Saddam Hussein of Iraq that was dedicated to exporting Iran's revolution. 
 
Iranian Predicts a Release
The first official hint of a possible hostage release came in statements today by Javad Mansoori, Iran's Ambassador to Pakistan, who said that some hostages may be freed in the next few days. ''The number and when is not known,'' Mr. Mansoori said at a news conference in Islamabad, The Associated Press reported. The Ambassador added that Iran had received ''promises'' from pro-Iranian groups holding the hostages in Lebanon.
In Damascus, President Hafez al-Assad of Syria announced that he will visit Teheran next week, where the fate of the hostages is expected to be one of the main topics. Syria, Iran's main Arab ally and the primary power broker in Lebanon, has helped bring about earlier hostage releases.
Islamic Holy War, a pro-Iranian group, has repeatedy demanded the release of the prisoners as a condition for freeing its hostages, Terry A. Anderson, the chief Middle East correspondent of The Associated Press, and Thomas Sutherland, dean of agriculture at the American University of Beirut, who have both been held since 1985. The leader of Islamic Holy War, Imad Mugniyah, is the brother-in-law of one of the prisoners.
''Iran has always had some ability to influence the hostage takers, but now their influence is greatly enhanced,'' said Zalmay Khalilzad, a senior analyst at the RAND Corporation and a former State Department official who followed Iran and Iraq.
The Kuwaiti Government, with strong United States support, consistently refused to bargain the prisoners for the hostages. But Iran has varying degrees of leverage over the loosely knit terrorist groups known collectively as the Party of God that hold six Americans, three Britons, two West Germans and an Italian.
The Teheran Government has occasionally used its influence to win the release of Western hostages, and President Hashemi Rafsanjani of Iran has indicated that all foreign hostages in Lebanon should be freed.
When Kuwait was invaded, 15 of the Dawa prisoners were still being held and 2 had been released after serving five-year sentences.
Administration officials do not agree on how the prisoners fell into Iranian hands. Some say that during the invasion the 15 prisoners escaped from the high-security Salibeyeh Prison. Most made their way to Iran, although some are believed to have fled elsewhere, probably to Lebanon, these officials said. Other officials say the prisoners were seized by Iraqi troops, taken to Baghdad and handed over to Iran to win concessions from Teheran. Baghdad has reportedly been trying to induce Teheran to help break the economic embargo imposed on Iraq after the invasion of Kuwait.
The release of the American hostages is of deep concern to the Bush Administration. Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d told reporters that he discussed the issue in his meeting last week with President Assad of Syria.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (62%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); KUWAIT (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); LEBANON (94%); IRAQ (94%); SYRIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAN (72%); FRANCE (57%); 

CITY: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (72%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (62%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; LEBANON; IRAN; IRAQ; KUWAIT

SUBJECT: HOSTAGES HOSTAGE TAKING (94%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); TERRORISM (78%); FUNDAMENTALISM (76%); RELIGION (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE SADDAM HUSSEIN (74%); HASHEMI RAFSANJANI (59%); 



542 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: CONFRONTATION IN THE GULF;
Security Council's Military Panel Reviews Naval Efforts to Enforce Trade Embargo

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 18

 BODY:
The military arm of the United Nations Security Council met informally today to review naval efforts to enforce the Council's trade embargo against Iraq and Iraqi-occupied Kuwait.
Their meeting came as the five permanent members of the Council moved toward agreement on a new plan to tighten the embargo.
Their emerging new resolution would impose an air transport embargo on Iraq and occupied Kuwait. It also would provide for the detention of Iraqi merchant shipping and tighten the freeze on Iraqi and Kuwaiti financial assets held abroad. 
The resolution also would threaten new trade sanctions against countries that violated the current embargo and encourage countries to reduce the size of Iraqi diplomatic missions.
The representatives of two permanent members predicted today that the full Security Council would approve the resolution by the end of the week.
Today's meeting of the Security Council's Military Staff Committee -its second on the Iraq crisis after a long period of cold-war dormancy - followed a meeting in Bahrain last weekend between senior naval officers from the countries deploying warships in the Persian Gulf. At the meeting, they discussed plans to coordinate patrols and other enforcement activities, Western diplomats said.
Today's meeting brought together military officers and their political advisers from Britain, France, China, the United States and the Soviet Union, five permanent Council members, which have a veto over decisions. All but China have deployed naval forces in the gulf area. The United States military representative was Col. Robert R. Anderson, military adviser at the United States Mission.
Western diplomats say such meetings satisfy a Soviet demand that the Military Staff Committee become more involved in coordinating enforcement action. They said the meetings also serve as a reminder that the gulf forces are acting in support of a United Nations decision.
 
Role of U.N. Military Committee
Under the United Nations Charter, the Military Staff Committee, made up of the Chiefs of Staff of the five permanent Security Council members, is supposed to direct military operations mounted by the Council.
Cold-war tensions kept the committee paralyzed until recently, when the Soviet Union suggested reviving it. The United States agreed, in part at least, to help secure Moscow's backing for the Council's embargo against Iraq and Kuwait, diplomats say.
China, the most reluctant of the five to consider military action against Iraq, has insisted that the committee discuss only operations approved by the Security Council. So the five agreed that the committee would discuss only naval activities in the gulf.
Details of the planned air embargo are still being worked, but officials say it would be aimed primarily at civilian cargo aircraft and not at regular passenger planes.
Under the plan, nearby countries would close their airspace to cargo flights heading for Iraq or Iraqi-occupied Kuwait unless they agreed to be inspected. The Security Council cannot authorize shooting down planes caught violating sanctions, since this is already prohibited by international law.
Diplomats say that no country that is likely to try to break the embargo has sufficient aircraft to be very successful at it. Civilian aircraft operators would find it impossible to insure planes flying to Iraq or Kuwait or get them refueled at foreign airports.
Today the Red Cross said that it would postpone an offer to dispatch $100,000 in emergency medical supplies to Iraq and Kuwait after a vigorous United States protest that it would violate United Nations sanctions.
The United States told the Geneva-based League of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies last week that it lacked evidence that these supplies were needed and that its plans for monitoring their distribution did not meet Security Council guidelines.
But Jose Aponte, Director of International Services for the American Red Cross, said today that the League would now await an assessment of Iraq's medical needs from Red Cross officials in Baghdad before deciding whether to send the supplies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); KUWAIT (94%); CHINA (93%); GULF STATES (92%); BAHRAIN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); FRANCE (55%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; PERSIAN GULF; IRAQ; KUWAIT

SUBJECT: MILITARY ACTION; NAVIES; EMBARGOES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ASSETS, FROZEN ; SHIPS AND SHIPPING EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (95%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (90%); NAVIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); COLD WAR (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); AIR FREIGHT (89%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (76%); APPROVALS (76%); AIRLINES (62%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (58%); 

PERSON: ;LEWIS, PAUL



543 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: CONFRONTATION IN THE GULF;
Embargo May Lead To Hussein's Ouster, C.I.A Director Says

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES

 BODY:
The Director of Central Intelligence said last night that intelligence experts expected dissatisfaction with Saddam Hussein's rule to grow among the Iraqi leader's closest associates as a global trade embargo began to crimp that nation's economy seriously.
The Director, William H. Webster, said experts believed that those associates would ''present the greatest threat'' to President Hussein's continued power, ''more so than those who wish they were in a greater position of power,'' like dissident minority groups. 
Mr. Webster's remarks came in a question-and-answer session at a meeting of the Foreign Policy Association, a private New York group that promotes public interest in foreign affairs.
 
Not Advocating Overthrow
Mr. Webster said he was not advocating the overthrow of Mr. Hussein. But his statement is the strongest suggestion to date that the Bush Administration is pressing the worldwide embargo vigorously in part because officials believe it to be the most effective means of unseating the Iraqi President.
Of Mr. Hussein's rule, Mr. Webster said only that ''the likelihood of those close to him deciding that he was no longer leading Iraq in the best interests of the country will grow with the effectiveness of the sanctions,'' especially their ability to create food shortages, a decline in living standards and difficulties in selling Iraqi goods abroad.
In answer to another question, Mr. Webster said the United States would not seek to assassinate Mr. Hussein, either by covert action or by more public means like a military strike.
But he added that the Central Intelligence Agency and other intelligence organizations were not barred from assisting foreign groups that might seek to remove Mr. Hussein, as long as his death was not an object of a coup plot.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

COMPANY: YORK GROUP INC (56%); YORK GROUP LTD (56%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (90%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (90%); FOREIGN POLICY ASSOCIATION (57%); FOREIGN POLICY ASSOCIATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ

SUBJECT: FORECASTS; INTELLIGENCE SERVICES; EMBARGOES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); POLITICS (71%); COUPS (70%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (50%); 

PERSON: WEBSTER, WILLIAM H (DIR); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); WINES, MICHAEL SADDAM HUSSEIN (93%); 



544 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: CONFRONTATION IN THE GULF: WASHINGTON TALK;
Did U.S. Overtures Give Wrong Idea to Hussein?

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 18

 BODY:
In an unusually reflective moment this week, George Bush gave Presidential prominence to questions lurking at the fringes of public debate since American soldiers first landed in Saudi Arabia: How did the United States get into this? Were the Administration's overtures to Saddam Hussein partly responsible?
At a news conference on Monday, President Bush insisted that his efforts to improve relations with Iraq had nothing to do with President Hussein's decision to invade Kuwait. But in saying that he now regrets those overtures and suggesting that part of Mr. Hussein's thinking might have been a calculation that he would not meet strong opposition, Mr. Bush left open the door for discussion. Members of the House leaped in today, in a hearing in which lawmakers from both parties accused the Administration of conducting appeasement based on ''fiction and fantasy.'' 
As the Persian Gulf crisis nears the end of its seventh week, this may be just a first taste of a problem that is not going to go away. Indeed, if Americans start dying in the Saudi desert or if the stalemate drags on interminably, it could prove to be the very thing that eats away at the public support that is so apparent now.
As he mused aloud on Monday about the endurance of public support, Mr. Bush was evidently sensitive to this. ''I don't think this is caused by a miscalculation in United States policy,'' he said. ''I think it's caused by a miscalculation by Saddam Hussein, and I think the American people understand that to a fare-thee-well.''
Throughout the year, the Administration sought to foster friendlier ties with Baghdad, lobbying against Congressional passage of economic sanctions against Mr. Hussein. According to some accounts, John Kelly, the Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern and South Asian Affairs, killed a Voice of America editorial lambasting Mr. Hussein. Last week, newspaper columnists said April Glaspie, the Ambassador to Iraq, had argued for ''better relations'' in a meeting with Mr. Hussein in July and said the United States did not want to meddle in disputes between Arab states. The suggestion was that Mr. Hussein took this to mean his argument with Kuwait over territory and oil prices.
Asked about these reports, Marlin Fitzwater, the White House spokesman, said it was ''stupid'' and ''ludicrous'' to suggest that the United States had somehow given Mr. Hussein the ''green light'' to enter Kuwait. But Mr. Fitzwater and other officials did not dispute the accounts of the Glaspie meeting.
Why did the United States court Mr. Hussein in the first place, since he had already used chemical weapons against his own people and was thought to be developing nuclear bombs? And did the Administration fundamentally misread Mr. Hussein and keep up its friendly gestures when he was intent on war?
The White House is groping for an effective reply.
Part of the answer lies in Mr. Bush, who prides himself on his ability a diplomat and relies heavily on personal contacts with world leaders, like King Hussein of Jordan, who was telling him to continue the overtures to Iraq. It is only hindsight that makes his policy seem misdirected, Mr. Bush said. ''There was some reason to believe that perhaps improved relations with the West would modify the behavior'' of Mr. Hussein, he said.
This carrot-and-stick argument is an old one. It is a diplomatic spear on which this Administration has been impaled before: Mr. Bush took much heat for his overtures to China after Tiananmen Square, when he chose the carrot and later confessed that it produced nothing.
Mr. Bush did little to put the question to rest this week in relation to Iraq. In light of the invasion, he said, one could argue that his policy didn't ''make much sense.''
A few minutes later, the President seemed to open a new rhetorical trap.
Mr. Hussein's invasion of Kuwait, he said, was ''clearly irrational'' if the Iraqi President had believed in advance that ''it would bring down the wrath of the United States and 20 other countries, and indeed the entire world at the United Nations.''
That left an obvious question hanging, that was not asked this time: If Mr. Hussein expected little opposition, was that at least in part because the United States seemed so interested in improving relations?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); GULF STATES (91%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (78%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (90%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; PERSIAN GULF; KUWAIT

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); LOBBYING (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); WRITERS (68%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (67%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (60%); 

PERSON: HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); ROSENTHAL, ANDREW SADDAM HUSSEIN (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 



545 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: CONFRONTATION IN THE GULF;
Western Europe Urges Air Embargo Against Iraq

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Sept. 18

 BODY:
Moving toward closer coordination of their military policies, nine Western European nations urged the United Nations Security Council today to extend the trade embargo against Baghdad to include aircraft entering and leaving Iraq and Kuwait.
At the United Nations on Monday, the permanent members of the Security Council agreed on a broad outline of a proposal including an air blockade, which has yet to be approved by the full 15-member Council.
The nine countries meeting here, all members of the Western European Union, a regional military organization, also agreed to tighten coordination between European naval, ground and air forces that have already been sent to the Persian Gulf region.
So far, only Britain and France have major military detachments in the area, although six other European countries have sent warships. The Netherlands said today that it was ready to deploy 18 F-16 fighter aircraft in Turkey, while Italy plans to move eight Tornado fighters to the region. 
With 28 European warships now assigned to the gulf area, France, Britain, the Netherlands and Italy also announced today that they had agreed on their respective patrol areas in the gulf and the Red Sea and that they would continue to share information and logistical support.
 
Meeting Called by France
The meeting today was called by France in reaction to the incursions by Iraqi forces into the French, Belgian, Dutch and Canadian Embassies in Kuwait last Friday. On Monday, the 12-nation European Community agreed to expel Iraqi military attaches from the region in retaliation for the raids.
A statement from the foreign and defense ministers attending the meeting today said they had agreed to adopt ''supplementary measures'' to increase the efficiency of the embargo against Iraq and warned that an air blockade could also be applied against countries that violate the trade embargo.
Britain's Foreign Secretary, Douglas Hurd, said the United Nations Security Council would determine the details of an air blockade, but he added that ''everyone is very keen'' on such a measure. ''A key element is the states over which planes may fly and their responsibilities,'' he added.
Echoing views heard from other ministers, Britain's Defense Secretary, Tom King, said he was ''very impressed'' by the progress by the long-moribund Western European Union in coordinating naval activities in the gulf since it first met here Aug. 21.
 
Overshadowed by NATO
The Western European Union has traditionally been overshadowed by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, but it has proved useful in recent weeks because, unlike NATO, it can operate outside Europe and North America. Further, with the European Community now unable to deal with military matters, it has helped bring order to the European response.
United States and British criticism of much of Western Europe's slow military reaction to the gulf crisis has nonetheless revived demands that the European Community's charter be revised so that it can take security responsibilities in future international crises.
Italy, which holds the rotating presidency of the community in the second half of this year, has even gone as far as suggesting the union be absorbed by the community, although three members of the community - Denmark, Greece and Ireland - are not members of the union and Ireland is neutral.
Jacques Delors, the President of the European Commission, has also strongly endorsed plans by community governments to discuss integration of their foreign and military policies at a conference dedicated to ''political union'' scheduled to open in Rome in December.
 
Security Community Urged
Sir Leon Brittan, the vice president of the European Commission, has proposed the creation of a European Security Community within NATO. ''As soon as the focus of the crisis moved beyond purely economic measures to military preparations and high-level diplomacy, the United States was forced to assume world leadership,'' he noted last week.
In the past, the United States has discouraged discussion of a security dimension for the community for fear that this could weaken NATO. Adding to American suspicions, the idea was often promoted by France, which does not belong to NATO's integrated military command and has often adopted an independent military policy.
The gulf crisis has led to broad rethinking of the shape of Europe. A sign of that came Monday when Italy's Prime Minister, Giulio Andreotti, suggested that Britain and France give up their permanent seats on the United Nations Security Council in favor of the European Community and Japan. Until now discussed only in private, this idea is strongly opposed by Britain and France.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Soldiers of the French Sixth Light Armored Division at their base in Nimes as they prepared yesterday for deployment to Saudi Arabia. France and other Western European nations announced yesterday that they have agreed on respective patrol areas in the Persian Gulf. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); FRANCE (95%); IRAQ (95%); WESTERN EUROPE (94%); GULF STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); KUWAIT (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); TURKEY (79%); BELGIUM (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (94%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); WESTERN EUROPEAN UNION (83%); WESTERN EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTERN EUROPEAN UNION; UNITED NATIONS (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; EUROPE; IRAQ; FRANCE; PERSIAN GULF; SAUDI ARABIA

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; EMBARGOES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (73%); AIRLINES (72%); APPROVALS (71%); 

PERSON: RIDING, ALAN



546 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Says It Is Ready to Cut Philippine Force

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MANILA, Sept. 18

 BODY:
The United States Government is prepared to reduce its military forces in the Philippines, an American official said today as talks on American bases opened.
The official, Assistant Defense Secretary Richard L. Armitage, made his statement the day after President Corazon C. Aquino said in a nationally televised address that it was time to discuss the ''orderly withdrawal'' of the 40,000 American troops stationed at six installations here.
In a statement, Mr. Armitage, the American chief negotiator at the talks, said ''the days of a very large presence of U.S. sailors and airmen are coming to an end.'' He did not specify a period for troop reductions, and he called for a nationwide vote on the issue. 
The American bases provide employment to 80,000 Filipinos and bring in aid worth $481 million a year. But Mrs. Aquino, whose address was her first call for a withdrawal of American military forces in the Philippines, said that while the American bases were important, ''they are not the heart'' of the Philippine economy.
The treaty, which expires in September 1991, allows the United States use of Clark Air Base, Subic Bay Naval Base and four smaller places. Demonstrators protested today outside Clark Air Base, 50 miles north of Manila, in the southern city of Cebu and in front of the American Embassy in Manila.
The Philippine and American Governments agree that the negotiators should seek a ''new relationship'' that addresses rising nationalism and increasing concerns about the violation of sovereignty in the Philippines. But the two sides have yet to agree on issues like the schedule, terms and conditions of an American withdrawal.
Mr. Armitage asked for ''appropriate time'' for the American military to reorganize, adding, ''What remains for us to determine is the rate at which this presence will be reduced and the nature of the relationship our two governments wish to pursue during and after this transitional period.''
He proposed that ''the electorate of the 21st century decide whether or not they believe a continued U.S. presence will be helpful.''
Rafael Alunan, the spokesman for the Philippine negotiators, rejected Mr. Armitage's broad proposal. In a statement, Mr. Alunan said, ''This matter is not to be decided in the 21st century; the time for decision is now.''
Government officials say the Philippines hopes for a stay of the American bases for, at the longest, 10 years after the security agreement ends in 1991.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PHILIPPINES (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); 

CITY: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (93%); 

COMPANY: CLARK AIR BASE (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PHILIPPINES

SUBJECT: MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PHILIPPINES-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ARMED FORCES (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); NAVIES (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (66%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (65%); 

PERSON: ARMITAGE, RICHARD (ASST SEC); AQUINO, CORAZON C (PRES) RICHARD L ARMITAGE (91%); RAFAEL ALUNAN (64%); CORAZON C AQUINO (62%); 



547 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: LAYOFF PROVISIONS BUOY AUTO UNION

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 18

 BODY:
The subject was unemployment, but the mood of auto workers employed by the General Motors Corporation was anything but bleak.
One reason is a provision of the United Automobile Workers' tentative contract with the company under which General Motors may lay off workers for only 36 weeks at most over the next three years even if car and truck sales plummet.
While any contract that envisions 36 weeks without a job might seem to provide little reason for cheer, this proposed safeguard on employment was greeted joyfully by the union, whose 310,000 members have been battered by shutdowns in the past decade.
''If the bottom falls out, you want to have something to fall back on,'' said John Chapman, an elected bargainer from Local 14 in Toledo, Ohio. ''No one likes to go through life with a cloud hanging over their head.'' 
The tentative contract was approved today by the union's bargaining council, a group of about 400 representatives elected by the company's hourly workers. Mr. Chapman and others predicted that all the workers would overwhelmingly ratify the proposed contract within two weeks.
 
Ford and Chrysler Next
In that event the union would begin negotiating with the Ford Motor Company and the Chrysler Corporation on agreements that it says will be patterned on its contract with G.M.
At present, an auto worker who is laid off for more than a few months could run out of unemployment benefits almost entirely, depending on seniority and how much money remained in a fund provided by the company.
The American automotive industry has historically provided the largest and most secure job benefits of any industrial sector covered by collective bargaining agreements. This year G.M. and the auto union might break newer ground by providing employees with guaranteed income whether there is work for them or not.
''It's very exciting,'' said Richard Block, a professor of labor relations at Michigan State University. ''What G.M. has done is separate the issue of its plant capacity from the issue of jobs.''
In effect, Mr. Block said, the company would get the right to open or close as many plants as it needed by agreeing to make sure that all its workers have a salary. He compared the proposal to the lifetime employment at some Japanese factories, although he noted that Japanese companies are also more likely to reduce pay and benefits when the economy is weak.
David Cole, head of the office for transportation studies at the University of Michigan, noted that G.M. has an additional motive for improving its pensions and its provisions for buying out older workers.
''They've now got the flexibility to shut plants,'' Mr. Cole said, ''and they would like to get the older folks out.''
Under the call-back proposal, G.M. would agree to recall workers to their jobs once they have accumulated 36 weeks of layoff, during which time they would be protected by normal unemployment benefits. If there is no work to do, the company would continue to pay unemployment benefits that are close to normal straight-time pay.
While committing up to $4 billion to pay for layoff benefits, G.M. also appears to have strengthened its power to reduce its hourly work force, especially older workers.
Issa Fakhoury, 48 years old, of St. Clair Shores, Mich., a 20-year G.M. employee who works at the Cadillac plant in Hamtramck, had not heard the details of the proposed contract. But, he said, ''if they raise the retirement benefits to give us more money to get by on, I would consider retiring early.''
He reckoned he would be entitled to $800 a month of early-retirement benefits under the current contract, as against more than $1,500 a month for a worker with full-retirement benefits.
Under the current contract, G.M. workers must be at least 62 and have 30 years of seniority to retire with the largest possible pension. The proposed contract would grant annual raises on monthly pension payments for those who retire early and would pay lump-sum raises to workers who have already retired.
A company spokesman declined to discuss the contract, pending its ratification. But G.M. executives have long wished to reduce labor costs to match those of Japanese auto makers who have American plants. One way to do that is to encourage older workers to retire and to replace them with younger ones, who have smaller salaries and spend less in medical benefits.
The company would not necessarily have to spend all $4 billion it has allotted for income security. If it can regain some of the customers it lost in the last decade, G.M. may need some of the plants and workers that are now redundant.
Executives at Ford would probably not mind granting job and income security provisions similar to those in the G.M. contract, since the No. 2 auto maker reduced its size in the early 1980's and does not have much, if any, excess production capacity or work force. But Ford would probably not like a provision that forces auto makers to pay a higher financial penalty for every hour of overtime. Ford relies heavily on overtime by its workers rather than hiring new workers.
Chrysler, which has been in tough financial shape for the past 18 months, has announced it could not afford a labor contract based on a ''pattern'' agreement signed at Ford or G.M.

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''If they raise the retirement benefits to give us more money to get by on, I would consider retiring early,'' Issa Fakhoury said of the proposed pact between General Motors and the United Automobile Workers. Mr. Fakhoury has 20 years at G.M.'s plant in Hamtramck, Mich. (Peter Yates for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW); GENERAL MOTORS CORP UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION; 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LAYOFFS (LABOR); LABOR AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (88%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); OLDER WORKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); APPROVALS (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); PLANT CAPACITY (61%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P



548 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Illinois Journal;
A Legacy Once Scorned Now Adored

BYLINE: By ISABEL WILKERSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Sept. 18

 BODY:
There was a time in parts of this state when you could hardly give away a piece of furniture designed by Frank Lloyd Wright. Now the state has dug deep into its pockets to create a shrine to the man.
Earlier this month, Gov. James R. Thompson unveiled the painstaking $5 million restoration of a mansion in Springfield where workers had gone so far as to examine the walls by microscope to duplicate the paint colors. Upon seeing the house, a former draftsman under Wright said it was restored ''the way God would if He had the money.'' 
Emotions run deep in Illinois, where Wright did most of his early and important work a century ago. The state has the largest accumulation of Wright buildings anywhere, about a fourth of the 414 homes, office buildings, museums and churches he designed, not to mention the furniture and stained glass he created. Despite some critics, Illinois is rabidly, lovingly guarding its treasures.
For his part Governor Thompson tracked down pieces of furniture missing from the mansion and went to Christie's in New York himself to bid $130,000 and thus acquire a lamp Wright designed for the house. He bid $704,000, by telephone, for another Wright lamp; it now sits in the 86-year-old mansion's living room.
So far thousands of people have walked through the mansion's hand-trimmed entryway, seemingly oblivious to the criticism the Governor got when the state bought the house for $1 million during a recession nine years ago.
''The Governor took a lot of heat on this,'' said Susan Mogerman, deputy director of the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency. ''Now the Wright market has exploded and a million dollars seems like a fire sale price.''
While Wright's bold horizontal designs made him celebrated during his lifetime, especially in the first two decades of the century, his popularity ebbed in the 1940's and 1950's as people turned from his iconoclastic ideas toward conformity. But his work became more fashionable after his death in 1959 and reached new heights in the 1980's after Tom Monaghan, a Detroit pizza magnate, paid $1.6 million for a Wright dining room set, starting a run on anything with Wright's name on it and thus reminding Illinoisans of their good fortune.
In Illinois, seemingly anything can be forgiven if it involves Wright, who Illinoisans like to forget was born in Wisconsin. Citizens who may not be able to afford so much as a chip of a Wright-designed window these days seem to share a stewardship for the work of an adopted son.
When the second floor of a Wright house caught fire in suburban Oak Park last month, neighbors stood outside holding each other, as firefighters rushed to spread covers over the original Wright woodwork and furniture while putting out the flames.
One reason people take these things personally around here is that Wright structures are everywhere. The home and studio where he worked for 20 years stands as a monument in Oak Park, a town where virtually whole neighborhoods and even people's garages were designed by the architect. The recent fire has rekindled debate over just how much of a role Wright had in the house, whether it or any number of other Wright houses may have actually been designed by his apprentices and just what a Wright house is.
Most experts agree that the house that burned, known as the Beachy house, can safely be called a Wright house. But there are many high-quality lookalikes and many homeowners who insist they too have the real thing.
''Some people become very defensive when I tell them who really built their house,'' said Timothy Samuelson, a preservation specialist. ''They will deny the true creator. They react as if I'm telling them their BMW is a Chevrolet.''
Not so with the state's newest mansion. The house was built for a widowed socialite, Susan Lawrence Dana, whose estate sold it to a publishing company, which sold it to the state. The house was almost exactly as Wright designed it, high-back dining chairs and all.
Only a few pieces had escaped. And Governor Thompson thanks the people of Springfield for that. It seems that in the 1940's when Mrs. Dana became infirm, her conservators had a yard sale to raise money to care for her. Tables and chairs and cabinets that go for hundreds of thousands of dollars each now sat with no takers.
''The people of Springfield thought the furniture was weird and refused to pay even 50 cents for a chair,'' Mr. Thompson said. ''The furniture had to be dragged back into the house. Thank goodness.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Illinois is lovingly guarding the architectural treasures created a century ago by Frank Lloyd Wright. Neighbors were dismayed last month when fire struck a Wright house in the Chicago suburb of Oak Park. (Scott Peterson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 OTHER BUSINESS SERVICES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: JAMES R THOMPSON INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ILLINOIS

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE GOVERNORS (90%); FIRES (86%); AUCTIONS (78%); HISTORIC SITES (77%); HISTORY (77%); RELIGION (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (69%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); 

PERSON: WRIGHT, FRANK LLOYD (1869-1959); WILKERSON, ISABEL FRANK LLOYD WRIGHT (97%); 



549 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Measure Urges Newspapers To Rely More on Recycling

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHABECOFF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 18

 BODY:
Calling used newspapers the nation's ''No. 1 solid waste problem,'' a Pennsylvania Congressman introduced legislation today to provide economic incentives for recycling newsprint.
The lawmaker, Representative Richard T. Schulze, a Republican, said that while many newspapers were doing a good job of printing on reused paper, others were doing little or nothing. Meanwhile, he said, newsprint is filling landfill space, which is already crowded, and causing ''the needless loss of millions of acres of forest lands.'' He added, ''Newsprint is the nation's No. 1 recycling problem.'' 
At a news conference, he made public the results of a survey conducted by his staff in August, on the amount of recycled paper used by the 100 newspapers in the country with the largest circulation. The newspapers with the best record were The Star Ledger in Newark and The Asbury Park (N.J.) Press, which print 100 percent of their newspapers on recycled newsprint.
The papers that recycled the least, the survey found, were The Wall Street Journal, which used 2.5 percent recycled paper and had a circulation of 1.8 million; USA Today, which used no recycled paper and had a circulation of 1.46 million, and The New York Times, which used 8 percent recycled paper and had a daily circulation of 1.1 million at the time of the survey.
 
'Relatively Low Supply'
William Adler, a spokesman for The Times, said the newspaper was a leader of Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's state study group on recycling and was committed to the goal of using recycled paper for 40 percent of its production by the end of this decade.
Mr. Adler said that the best way to achieve recycling goals was through cooperation within the industry and that legislation was not needed.
James A. Ambrosio, manager of investor relations for Dow Jones & Company, the parent company of The Wall Street Journal, said that Representative Schulze failed to realize that there was ''a relatively low supply of recycled newsprint out there.'' He continued, ''The Wall Street Journal fully intends to increase our use of recycled newsprint and we are working closely with our suppliers to increase our use.''
The president and chief executive officer of USA Today, Thomas Curley, said tonight that the survey's findings on his newspaper were ''totally false.'' He said the paper was currently using 10 to 12 percent recycled newsprint and was entering into long-term contracts to assure greater supplies of recycled newsprint.
''Gannett has said its goal is to reach close to half recycled newsprint by the middle of the decade,'' Mr. Curley said.
Mr. Curley said the survey also incorrectly stated the circulation of USA Today, which he put at 1.85 million.
A spokesman for the American Newspaper Publishers Association said the industry was taking steps to improve the availability of recycled newsprint. Joseph Lorfano, manager of public information for the association, said that of 65 mills producing paper for newspapers in this country and Canada, only 9 produced recycled newsprint.
 
Tax Penalties Proposed
But Mr. Lorfano added that there were 16 projects under way in the industry to build new plants for recycling newsprint, to expand existing plants or to increase capacity for taking ink out of used newsprint, a vital function in producing recycled paper.
The legislation proposed by Representative Schulze would provide a 10 percent tax credit to newspapers and other businesses that buy recycling equipment and machinery. It would also impose what he said would be ''stiff'' tax penalties on newspapers that did not print at least 50 percent of their circulation on recycled paper within the next 10 years.
He conceded that prospects for passage of the legislation before Congress adjourns in late October were not good but insisted he would continue to introduce his bill until it was adopted.
The Environmental Protection Agency has reported that 13.3 million tons of newsprint are produced in this country each year, and one-third is recycled. Newsprint accounts for 8 percent of the nation's total solid waste, the agency said. An agency spokeswoman said she did not know if newsprint was the largest single component of solid waste.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 22, 1990, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about legislation to provide incentives for recycling newspapers misstated the amount of recycled newsprint used by The Asbury Park (N.J.) Press and The Star Ledger in Newark. The Press uses recycled paper for about 33 percent of its production and The Star Ledger uses it for about 18 percent, said spokesmen for the newspapers. Incorrect data from a survey provided by the legislation's sponsor had said the newspapers printed 100 percent of their newspapers on recycled newsprint.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (56%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (83%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSPRINT; NEWSPAPERS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (94%); NEWSPRINT (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); PAPER & PACKAGING (89%); LANDFILLS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (73%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); PARENT COMPANIES (62%); 

PERSON: SCHULZE, RICHART T (REPR) WILLIAM F ADLER (54%); 



550 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: Alienation From Government Grows, Poll Finds

BYLINE: By MICHAEL ORESKES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 18

 BODY:
Americans express even greater alienation toward their government and politics today than they did three years ago, and virtually all of the increase has been among people from families earning less than $50,000 a year, a new study of public opinion shows.
The study, conducted by the Times Mirror Center for the People and the Press and released today, concluded that there is ''a growing socioeconomic schism within the country.''
The frustration and disillusionment is affecting both political parties and undermining the political system, the study suggested. ''Despite the personal popularity of President Bush,'' the study said, ''cynicism toward the political system in general is growing as the public in unprecedented numbers associates Republicans with wealth and greed, Democrats with fecklessness and incompetence.'' 
It is just these sorts of attitudes that politicians around the country say they are confronting as midterm elections draw near. The anger of voters was a central element in both Massachusetts and Oklahoma as they held primary voting today.
In Massachusetts, fury at the Democrats who have controlled the statehouse was a driving force in both Republican and Democratic gubenatorial primaries. In Oklahoma frustration with the Republican Governor and Democratic Legislature fueled support for a proposition to limit the terms of state lawmakers.
The alienation, both personal and political, has been increasing fastest among poor and middle-income whites, the study said. On some issues they express levels of despair almost as great as blacks, traditionally among the most alienated of Americans.
By contrast, higher-income Americans, those from families with incomes of more than $50,000 a year, have shown only a slight increases or no increase at all in negative attitudes, the study said.
The Times Mirror survey asked 3,004 Americans a series of questions to gauge attitudes of mistrust, disillusionment and helplessness toward politics and politicians.
Asked whether officials in Washington generally lose touch with the people pretty quickly, 34 percent of those from families with incomes of under $30,000 agreed completly, up from 25 percent in 1987. Among those with incomes of $30,000 to $50,000, those agreeing completly increased to 32 percent from 18 percent. But among those with family incomes of more than $50,000 the increase rose only to 18 percent from 14 percent.
 
Economics and Alienation
The Times Mirror study tied rising alienation directly to increasing economic pressures on the lower and middle-classes, a connection that seemed consistent with the economic troubles of both Oklahoma and Massachusetts.
The respondents were asked whether they agreed or disagreed with the proposition that hard work offers little guarantee of success. About 20 percent of the whites earning more than $50,000 agreed, statistically unchanged from the 21 percent that agreed with this statement in 1987. But among whites from families making under $50,000, the percent agreeing that hard work offers little guarantee of success rose to 38 percent from 28 percent.
Among blacks overall there was little change, with 43 percent agreeing now and 41 percent in 1987.
The Times Mirror Center, established by the publishing company that owns The Los Angeles Times, Newsday and other newspapers, has conducted a series of major surveys since 1987 to analyze public views in more depth than many public opinion surveys. The survey for the latest study was carried out in May by face-to-face interviews. Of the 3,004 respondents, 1,000 were re-interviewed by telephone in August to measure possible changes caused by reaction to the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait. The margin of sampling error for the entire survey is plus or minus two percentage points and for the reinterview it is plus or minus three percentage points.
While support for military spending edged back up and declining support for Israel was halted after the invasion, underlying political attitudes seemed unaffected, said Andrew Kohut, director of surveys for Times Mirror.
The $50,000 income line marked a divide in American political attitudes, said the study. About 15 percent of those surveyed were above that line and 85 percent below it, said Mr. Kohut, who also runs an independent polling firm, Princeton Survey Research Associates.
Mr. Kohut noted that even in the 1987 survey, substantial majorities expressed feelings of disconnection from government and politics. ''What we see in the current survey is an intensification of this unease,'' he said.
Both political parties suffered. Democrats held an advantage over Republicans as a plurality of Americans think of Democratic Party as the party more sympathetic to their concerns and more attuned to their position on issues of economics and social policy, like abortion.
 
Declining Faith in Competence
But among some of the party's traditionally loyal groups their is declining faith in the party's competence, the study found. For example, Times Mirror, in its polling, defined a group it called ''the partisan poor,'' composed of about 1 in 10 Americans of low income who look to the Democrats for social change.
''A large percentage of this group, which bears the brunt of the social ills of the nation, has become disillusioned with a Democratic Party that has not delivered,'' said the study. The percent of this group identifying themselves as Democrats fell to 57 percent from 89 percent, and those switiching to Independent rose to 39 percent from 11 percent.
But Republican can draw little comfort from this sort of shift, which was also visible among other Democratic groups in less degrees.
The percentage of all those surveyed who, without prompting, identified the Republicans with ''rich and monied interests'' rose to 51 percent from 18 percent in 1987.
About 28 percent described the Republicans as ''not being for the people,'' compared with 5 percent in 1987.
''This cynicism,'' said the study, ''Threatens to subvert traditional partisan politics or block the effective resolution of social and economic issues.''

GRAPHIC: Graph: Results from '87 and '90 polls on Americans feelings toward government and politics

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); OKLAHOMA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: THE TIMES MIRROR CENTER (89%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: TIMES MIRROR CENTER FOR THE PEOPLE AND THE PRESS

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS POLITICS (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); FAMILY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (75%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); 

PERSON: ORESKES, MICHAEL GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



551 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: ACCUSATIONS BEGIN IN BUDGET TALKS

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 18

 BODY:
Democrats and Republicans spent the day today blaming each other for a budget deadlock that has come down to a fight over which party's policies are fairer and have a better chance of averting a serious decline in the economy.
With members of Congress increasingly eager to get home to campaign, the argument is also about which side will be able to sell its version of the inevitable tax increase and spending cuts as least painful for taxpayers in the short run and most likely to produce prosperity in the long run.
President Bush and his Republican allies in Congress are insisting on a deficit-reducing plan that would include a lower capital gains tax and other measures that they say would stimulate the flagging economy.
Democrats are advocating a plan that would force the wealthy to bear more of the tax burden and the military more of the spending cuts. 
 
Agree Only to Meet Again
Ten days of talks in seclusion at Andrews Air Force Base in nearby Maryland broke up in disagreement Monday night. A smaller group of top Administration officials and senior Congressional leaders could decide nothing more today than to meet again on Wednesday.
If no agreement is reached, across-the-board spending cuts of more than 40 percent in most Government programs, including the military, would go into effect on Oct. 15, two weeks after the new fiscal year begins.
Politicians and economists in both parties argue that the nation's economy could collapse under the strain.
But the prevailing view in the Capitol was that an accord would be struck before the economy was endangered. ''We have no choice but to go back in and get an agreement,'' said Lloyd Bentsen, the Texas Democrat who heads the Senate Finance Committee.
Democrats said today that if Republicans would abandon their drive for a lower capital gains tax or agree to an offsetting tax on the wealthy, the rest of the agreement would quickly follow.
 
Unresolved Issues Cited
Republicans took issue with that view, contending that other issues also divided the budget negotiators. Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, the senior Republican on the Senate Budget Committee, cited military and domestic spending, energy taxes and cuts in retirement benefits as among the issues that had not been resolved.
Today John H. Sununu, the White House chief of staff; Richard G. Darman, the budget director, and Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady met for more than an hour in the Capitol with the five highest-ranking lawmakers.
Although nothing was resolved, another session was scheduled for Wednesday. The theory seemed to be that this group would have a chance of striking an agreement, since some of the most partisan participants in the Andrews talks would be excluded.
Among them is Representative Newt Gingrich of Georgia, the House Republican whip. Mr. Gingrich, freed of the restraints he felt at Andrews, called a news conference this afternoon to attack the Democrats for what he said was ''deliberate foot-dragging'' and ''deliberate misinformation.''
The Democratic oratory was equally strong. Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, who ranks fourth in the Democratic heirarchy, said at a news conference that the ''stalemate'' resulted from ''the insistence of Republican negotiators to maintain a benefit for the wealthy.''
An examination of the last plans placed on the table Monday night showed some justification for both views - the Democratic contention that the capital gains tax was the principal problem, and the Republican assertion that the two sides were far apart on many matters.
The latest figures calculated by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office and Joint Tax Committee showed that the Republican plan would lead to tax increases for taxpayers with incomes below $50,000 a year and tax cuts for those with incomes above that amount. It indicated that the Democratic plan would have the reverse effect, cutting taxes for those with incomes below $20,000 and increasing taxes for those with higher incomes.
Republicans contend, correctly, that the figures do not take into account the economic growth they say would result if capital gains were taxed at a lower rate than other income.
Beyond taxes, the two plans are closer to one another. Both would reduce the deficit by about $50 billion in the fiscal year 1991, which begins on Oct. 1, and $500 billion over the next five years.

GRAPHIC: Chart: Proposed tax changes

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ANDREWS AIR FORCE (60%); A BETTER CHANCE (84%); A BETTER CHANCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (76%); POLITICS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); RANKINGS (69%); ARMED FORCES (68%); AIR FORCES (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E PETE DOMENICI (59%); NEWT GINGRICH (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 



552 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 28, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Cutting Gains Taxes: The Real Risk

 BODY:
Budget negotiators are tied in knots over a Republican proposal to lower the tax on capital gains - the increase in the value of stocks, bonds and real estate from purchase to sale. Lowering that tax, the Bush Administration argues, will spur new investment. Until now, the Democrats have sensibly rejected the proposal because it would add to the deficit and primarily benefit rich families. 
Now there are ominous signs that the Democrats are willing to compromise. They are said to have proposed cutting the top capital gains tax from 33 percent to 23 percent in return for a surtax on people with annual incomes above $200,000. Any such compromise would be a bum deal. The Republican tax cut plan is not just unfair, it's economically destructive. The damage can't be stopped by soaking the rich, only by burying Mr. Bush's obsession once and for all.
Republican negotiators are reportedly backing a plan to lower the maximum capital gains tax from 33 to 15 percent. The Democrats charge that an overwhelming percentage of the benefit would go to families with incomes in excess of $100,000. That's true - and that's why the Democrats have proposed offsetting any such cut with a tax hike on the rich, and why the Administration would accomplish the same end by capping deductions.
But the real harm of the Republican plan lies not in its inequity. It would open up a wedge, closed in the 1986 tax reform law, between taxation of ordinary income and taxation of capital gains. That would direct investment toward projects that minimize taxes rather than projects that maximize output of valuable goods and services. With one stroke of the pen, Congress would re-create the wasteful business of tax shelters for rich investors that prospered before 1986.
The Republicans' proposal also reeks of hypocrisy. If they were interested in economic growth, rather than generating billions in excess profits for their friends, the proposal would have excluded capital gains on old investments. The notion that creating windfall profits on old investments could promote future investment is ludicrous.
Nor, if economic growth were the true purpose, would the Republican negotiators have proposed a capital gains cut for assets like real estate, which are already subsidized by the tax code and warrant no further advantage.
The Republicans have one important argument on their side. Increases in an asset's value that merely mirror inflation ought not to be taxed because they do not represent true profit. Correcting this problem is essential to long-term investment.
So here's a compromise worth forging. Index the tax so that only capital gains in excess of inflation are taxed. Then restrict indexing to new investment in stocks and bonds. This would give Mr. Bush and the Republicans much of what they seek and everything the economy deserves.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; TAXATION; EDITORIALS TAXES & TAXATION (95%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (92%); TAX LAW (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); TAX REFORM (75%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (75%); TAX INCREASES (73%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 



553 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 28, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 200 words

HEADLINE: We Need a Corps of Inner-City Youth Workers;
No Jobs, More Crime

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Massive walls and fortifications have never kept cities civilized for long. Your prescription for more jails and more police (editorial, Sept. 6), addresses only one of the causes of the epidemic of brutal and irrational crimes, namely the breakdown of effective deterrence and punishment. 
But unless the crisis of jobs in working-class neighborhoods is solved soon, no amount of deterrence will stem the tide of crime.
Nor can the problem be fixed by schools. The official culture of the high school was never taken seriously as a reflection of local reality by lower-class youth. The culture of the shop floor was. But a shrinking pool of blue-collar jobs in the New York metropolitan area has eroded the traditional structure of aspirations that served as a powerful counterweight to the temptations of crime and drugs.
In the absence of an economic renewal that can generate the kinds of jobs that can sustain households, we will surely have to brace ourselves for more casualties and the end of urban life as we have known it in this century.
 
THOMAS BELMONTE
 Brooklyn, Sept. 7, 1990
The writer is associate professor of anthropology at Hofstra University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (55%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (54%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; URBAN AREAS CITY LIFE (92%); CITIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: BELMONTE, THOMAS



554 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 29, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Textile Bill: Unfair and Unneeded

BYLINE: By Carla A. Hills; Carla A. Hills is the U.S. Trade Representative.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The only good thing to say about the textile bill that passed the House yesterday is that the margin of approval fell short of the two-thirds needed to override an almost certain Presidential veto.
In all other respects, the bill is a disaster. It would expand three decades of protectionism, not only raising already artificially high U.S. apparel prices but also undermining global trade negotiations, now nearing completion in Geneva.
The bill, which would apply quotas to new items and make existing protections permanent, would badly hurt consumers, particularly at lower income levels. During the next five years, textile and apparel protection would cost about $160 billion, taxing every family of four about $2,600 a year. 
What's more, the added protection is unnecessary. Economic indicators show that the U.S. textile and apparel industries are doing well.
Domestic shipments were up 7 percent and exports were up 27 percent in 1989. Factories are running at an all-time high; a higher rate, in fact, than the average for all U.S. manufacturers. Unemployment in the major textile producing states is generally lower than the national average.
Worst of all, the legislation violates our international commitments under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the Multi Fiber Arrangement and individual agreements with 38 of our trading partners.
Thus, at the very moment we are seeking to forge an historic alliance to confront Iraqi aggression, we are telling our allies that the U.S. is willing to ignore its international obligations. Indeed, the bill would violate recent agreements with Turkey and Egypt, two countries indispensable to our international efforts in the gulf.
Passing the bill also sends precisely the wrong message at a time when we are trying to convince other nations to dismantle their trade barriers. Approving such protectionist legislation after four years of negotiating to open world markets will be seen as the height of hypocrisy - in essence saying to the world ''Do as we say, not as we do.''
In Geneva, where negotiators are in the final stages of the Uruguay Round of talks on a new G.A.T.T. agreement, we are urging all nations to open their markets so that trade can expand. But on the verge of completing this agreement to open others' doors, we are closing our own.
If the bill were to become law, the Uruguay Round would collapse, with staggering economic costs. We would lose the $125 billion in increased U.S. output we expect to gain in the first year alone from greater access to foreign markets. The $60 billion that U.S. entrepreneurs lose annually from the theft and counterfeiting of their ideas would continue to grow out of control.
New markets would be lost for U.S. services firms, which export $90 billion annually and create 9-out-of-10 new jobs. We would lose the opportunity to get an agreement opening world markets to investment, which helps generate more than $240 billion annually, or two-thirds of total U.S. exports. And we would lose the chance to bring the developing world into the global trading system, which could increase U.S. exports by as much as 50 percent, or $200 billion, between now and the year 2000.
Beyond the economic tragedy of a failed Uruguay Round, we would squander a vital, proven framework of international collaboration. The collapse of the round would lead inevitably to increased protections and political instability.
Failure to come to an agreement also could destabilize poorer nations, including the emerging democracies. Without an agreement, these nations will continue to be drained by the costs of protections now imposed on them - costs that total two-and-a-half times the aid they receive.
How tragic it would be if the reform governments seeking to replace command economies with market-oriented systems were to fail because of restrictions erected by the world's trading nations, and were then replaced by authoritarian regimes.
The Uruguay Round presents 100 nations with the extraordinary opportunity to forge a new trading system that could trigger an economic renaissance. The 1990 textile bill risks all that. Those who are selling it to the American people are trying to pull the wool over their eyes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); TURKEY (79%); EGYPT (78%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (55%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (55%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TEXTILES; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; APPAREL; PRICES; LAW AND LEGISLATION TEXTILES (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (87%); TEXTILE MFG (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); VETO (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); SHIPMENTS (69%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (69%); COUNTERFEITING (65%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (60%); 

PERSON: HILLS, CARLA A (TRADE REPR)



555 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: Vote in Senate Alarms Exporters of Garbage

BYLINE: By ALLAN R. GOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 18

 BODY:
The Senate, in a move that alarmed New Jersey and New York, voted 68 to 31 today to permit states to ban imports of garbage.
The measure would allow states to bar out-of-state trash shipments or to impose higher landfill fees for imported garbage if the importing states demonstrate that they have a 20-year plan to manage their solid waste.
It was strongly opposed by New Jersey's Senators, Frank R. Lautenberg and Bill Bradley, whose state is the nation's leading garbage exporter. During the debate considerable rancor developed between the two Democrats and the provision's leading sponsor, Senator Dan Coats, an Indiana Republican, who was accused of insulting New Jersey residents and of engaging in political grandstanding. 
 
New Jersey Asks for Time
Responding to declining landfill space, New Jersey ships 55 percent of its garbage to other states. New York ships 11 percent.
In 1989 the two states accounted for 53 percent of the 15 million tons of trash that moved across state borders, the National Solid Wastes Management Association estimated.
In debate, Mr. Lautenberg and Mr. Bradley said New Jersey did not like shipping its garbage hundreds of miles but needed more time to develop trash disposal options.
After the vote, they expressed confidence that the provision could be killed in its next legislative forum, a House-Senate conference committee. The measure is attached to an unrelated broader bill that President Bush has promised to veto,the Senators said.
 
Running Out of Landfill
Senator Coats asserted that his state was running out of landfill space and resented being a trash can for New Jersey. He is running for re-election.
''Don't dump on us,'' said Mr. Coats, whose proposal clearly found a resonant chord in the Senate.
Indiana is not alone in receiving out-of-state trash. Every day hundreds of trucks also carry New Jersey and New York trash to landfills in Pennsylvania, Ohio and Kentucky. Ohio is the leading site for New York garbage.
Some importing states have tried to discourage trucks from bringing in trash. But courts have generally found that the Constitution precludes states from instituting curbs that interfere with interstate commerce. So Mr. Coats said Federal legislation was the only remaining avenue.
 
Florio Denounces Measure
Gov. Jim Florio of New Jersey assailed the Senate measure.
''It's bad environmental policy,'' he said in a statement. ''It has the effect of forcing states to choose incineration, and that's not good economically and certainly not good environmentally.''
A state commission appointed by Mr. Florio called for a goal of 60 percent recycling by 1995. A four-month moratorium on new incinerator permits ended Aug. 1. Mr. Florio has said he does not think the state needs an incinerator in each of its 21 counties.
New York City will lobby against the measure because it limits disposal options, Steven M. Polan, the city's Sanitation Commissioner, said through a spokesman. It has been estimated that private carters may be exporting as much as 10,000 tons of garbage day from the city, instead of dumping it at the Fresh Kills landfill on Staten Island.
The measure ''does not take into account that the regional problem sometimes can't be solved within the region,'' Commissioner Po/lan said.
 
Election Issue at Stake
Indiana exports only 2 percent of its waste, Senator Coats said. Two years ago Indiana received only a small amount of garbage from out of state, but now as much as 30 percent of all waste buried in landfills there is imported, the State Department of Environmental Management reported. The remaining landfill capacity is eight years, Mr. Coats said.
In addition to the substantive differences, personal feelings also roiled the debate. Mr. Coats is running for re-election and the garbage import ban plays well with Indiana voters. He was appointed to his Senate seat after its former occupant, Dan Quayle, was elected Vice President.
''I don't think there is a Hoosier anywhere in this state who disagrees that Indiana ought to be able to regulate'' garbage imports, said Tim Phillips, campaign manager for Mr. Coats's Democratic opponent, Baron P. Hill.
 
TV Commercial Assailed
A recent Coats campaign television commercial portrayed one garbage exporter to Indiana as an overweight, cigar-smoking man with a heavy accent associated with the New York metropolitan area. The man wore a Cape May, N.J., T-shirt and a Yankees cap.
Mr. Lautenberg and Mr. Bradley said they were offended by this characterization and suggested it had been prompted by Mr. Coats's re-election bid.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); OHIO, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SOLID WASTES MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY; INDIANA; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; INTERSTATE COMMERCE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LANDFILL IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); LANDFILLS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); VETO (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); COMMERCIAL LAW (65%); 

PERSON: GOLD, ALLAN R; COATS, DAN (SEN); LAUTENBERG, FRANK R (SEN); BRADLEY, BILL (SEN) DAN COATS (89%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



556 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: Youth Charged in Suspect's Killing Is Released

BYLINE: By KAREN DE WITT

 BODY:
Four days after he stabbed and killed a man who he apparently believed had mugged his mother, Victor Lopez returned to his South Bronx street yesterday as his neighbors expressed outrage that the young man, out on $2,500 bail, had been charged with manslaughter.
''I don't feel so good,'' Mr. Lopez said in his family's apartment in the Mott Haven section. ''I'm a little worried, a little scared. I don't know what is going to happen. I pray God that this works out all right.'' 
George Carabello, a security guard in the building across from where the Lopez family lives at 521 East 145th Street, summed up the mood of much of the neighborhood, a one-block stretch of public housing, old brownstones and glass-strewn, weed-choked lots.
''He did it for his mother,'' Mr. Carabello said. ''You love your mother; you're supposed to let her get mugged and do nothing? That other kid, the tourist, he tried to protect his mother and he died trying. Victor took the law into his own hands, but I would have done the same. It sure would have been worse if the guy had killed his mother.''
 
Possibility of Demonstrations
Mr. Carabello stood across from the Lopez apartment building, where many neighbors had gathered to show their support for Mr. Lopez. Some drew correlations between Mr. Lopez, 18 years old, and Brian Watkins, the young Utah tourist who was stabbed to death on Sept. 2 after defending his mother from subway muggers. They talked of drug dealers on nearby Brook Avenue, of drive-by shootings, of unstable crack addicts, of a lack of police patrols on their streets and of the possibility of demonstrations if Victor Lopez goes to jail for his actions.
''Everybody is against him going to jail,'' said Teresa Burroughs, 22, as she left the building where the Lopez family lives.
Alvin Rosario, 26, who also lives in the building, said: ''He did the right thing. The guy had followed his mother to the building. If Victor hadn't found him, maybe he would have followed her again.''
The incident began on Saturday morning, when Mr. Lopez's mother was returning home shaken after being mugged and molested on her way to work at Our Lady of Mercy Hospital. When she was almost to her building, Mrs. Lopez recognized one of her assailants and screamed for her children. Hearing his mother, Victor Lopez bolted barefoot from the family's apartment, followed by his brother, Ramon, 21. They then accosted the man, who swore he had not touched their mother. But he gave them the name and address of his companion, Lazara O'Farrill, 25, who lived two blocks away at 409 East 146th Street.
 
A Criminal Record
Ramon Lopez said that when he and his brother found Mr. O'Farrill, the man grabbed for something in his waistband, and that Victor Lopez then stabbed him in the right arm, right chest and right leg. Mr. O'Farrill ran away. He died at 1:20 P.M. at Lincoln Hospital.
Mr. O'Farrill had a criminal record beginning in 1989 that included robberies and grand larceny, the police said.
Yesterday, the Lopez apartment was filled with Guardian Angels, who were helping collect signatures for Victor's defense, and people from the neighborhood. One of them, Jose Davila, 27, an unemployed furniture mover, donated his savings of $700 to the family, At one point someone spotted a car outside carrying a relative of Mr. O'Farrill's. Within minutes the apartment was empty of Mr. Lopez's friends.
 
'I Don't Want You Downstairs'
''Chino, stay right where you are,'' screamed Mrs. Lopez, referring to Victor, who hesitated by the doorway. ''I don't want you downstairs.''
The young men confronted the relative, who they said was Mr. O'Farrill's sister, and a screaming and pushing match ensued before the woman and a friend drove off.
''I'm afraid for them all,'' said Mrs. Lopez, a 37-year-old mother of nine who got off welfare two years ago. Mrs. Lopez said she blamed herself for calling her children to her aid because she had struggled so long to keep them from the perils of the streets.
''I'm sorry for that dead boy, but I'm afraid now for my own children,'' she said. ''They are all in danger from revenge.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Victor Lopez, who was released on bail yesterday, watching from the window of his home on East 145th Street in the Bronx as his friends confronted a relative of his mother's suspected attacker. (Susan Harris for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; SOUTH BRONX (NYC)

SUBJECT: ROBBERIES AND THEFTS; MANSLAUGHTER JUVENILE CRIME (90%); FAMILY (89%); HOMICIDE (78%); MANSLAUGHTER (78%); DEATHS (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); SHOOTINGS (73%); BAIL (72%); CHILDREN (71%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (63%); COCAINE (63%); 

PERSON: O'FARRILL, LAZARA; LOPEZ, VICTOR; DE WITT, KAREN MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 



557 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 7, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: EDUCATION;
At U.S. Military Bases, Schools Help Children Deal With Gulf

BYLINE: By JON NORDHEIMER

 BODY:
For thousands of American children, school began in the midst of a family crisis few other Americans share.
Older elementary school pupils, acting more like kindergartners or first graders, balked at going back to school in the first days. Distraught children would blurt out in the middle of class, ''I want my daddy to come home.'' Or ''Where is Mommy? Is Mommy O.K.?'' 
These pupils are the children of American troops sent to the Persian Gulf, and they fear for their parents' safety.
At the military bases that deployed tens of thousands of troops in Operation Desert Shield, schools have moved quickly in the last few weeks to help the children express their fears and cope with them.
 
Guidance in Expression
At schools at Fort Bragg, N.C., home of the Army's 82d Airborne Division, and at other schools with large numbers of military dependents, coloring books were provided to children too young to articulate their worries fully so they could express them on paper. For older pupils, there was guidance in writing stories or letters to parents. Photographs of parents in uniform were posted on classroom bulletin boards.
At Fort Campbell, Ky., home of the 101st Airborne Division, each base school had set up a child support system under the supervision of a guidance counselor by the time school began. Personnel whose teaching experience went back to the Vietnam War were consulted on how military children reacted during that conflict.
''There are similarities but with one big difference,'' said Ray McMullen, Assistant Superintendent at Fort Campbell. ''The buildup in Vietnam took place over years; now it's taking only a few short weeks.''
 
Frightening TV Coverage
The television coverage of the troop buildup, along with the repeated showings of victims of Iraqi poison gas, is frightening for the children.
''We saw a lot of separation anxiety in fourth and fifth graders. which tells us they are worried,'' said Rob Richardson, assistant principal of an elementary school at Fort Bragg, noting that this is a condition usually observed in kindergartners or first graders, who are more likely to worry about being separated from their parents.
About half the 4,750 military dependents educated on the base have parents, mostly fathers, on duty in the Mideast, he said. Still more children of military personnel attend public schools off the base in the Cumberland County district, and administrators, counselors and teachers there have also moved with dispatch.
''In August we instructed our principals to discuss the issues with their teachers to understand some of the worry the kids would be dealing with,'' said Dr. Rick Hollings, the supervising psychologist.
''We were not only concerned with the military dependents but also with Arab kids in the schools who may be scapegoated, and children of working people in the community who will bear a severe economic blow if the deployment lasts long enough.''
Fort Bragg is also the home base of the Army Special Forces units and the Delta Force unit formed for quick deployment, all heavily involved in the Mideast operation. More than 12,000 of the 44,000 pupils in the Cumberland schools are military dependents, and many of the teachers are spouses of service members.
''We had a taste of this in the Panama and Grenada fighting but nothing as prolonged or as dangerous as this,'' said Dr. Joe Guiendon, Deputy Superintendent of Schools.
The military has no systematic crisis intervention program exclusively for children, said Maj. Doug Hart, a Pentagon spokesman. He said the Defense Department monitored each school to insure that children's needs were met, with administrators devising their own strategies based on established methods of relieving stress and emotional trauma.
 
Anxiety From First Day
Dr. McMullen, the Fort Campbell school official, said: ''We detected anxiety in the children from the first day of school. No doubt it reflected the anxiety felt in their home. They were withdrawing from other children, there was an increase in hyperactivity, and they brought up in class what they had seen the night before on television news.''
Mike Hoover, a Colorado pscyhologist, has helped schools on military bases set up crisis intervention programs patterned on those developed to deal with suicides, gang violence and multiple-death accidents at schools.
''Depression in schoolchildren tends to go unnoticed by parents and teachers because children act it out differently,'' Dr. Hoover said. ''When adults become depressed they are less energetic and may go without eating. Children do the exact opposite. They act out verbally and often get into fights.''
The Fort Campbell teaching staff got firsthand experience dealing with crisis intervention with children in 1985 when a chartered airliner carrying 101st Airborne troops home from Europe crashed at Gander, Newfoundland, killing 248 soldiers.
 
Both Parents Sent Away
In the Mideast deployment, some children have both mother and father shipped overseas, and many others are in single-parent military households. Finding family, friends or neighbors to care for them indefinitely has been a problem and has exacerbated the anxiety of the children.
''The chance for abuse exists and we are watching out for it,'' said Dr. Eleanor Herndon, supervisor of counseling in the Cumberland schools outside Fort Bragg. ''We also have a lot of wives under a lot of emotional and financial stress who are moving in with other families to cut expenses.
''If the Gulf crisis goes on for another month or so, I'm afraid we'll see these women pull their kids out of school and move back home to grandma. Some kids may lose a full year of school.''
School administrators shudder when they contemplate the possibility of Mideast combat and high American casualties. Dr. Richardson said the crisis intervention programs in the base schools were prepared to handle isolated incidents like a plane crash with 50 or 100 deaths. But he said they would be quickly overwhelmed ''with 2,000 to 3,000 killed in a day, which Saddam Hussein is telling us is going to happen.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: The new school year has been especially tense for children who have parents serving in the Middle East. At Jackson Elementary School in Fort Campbell, Ky., Leslie Dreaden, left, helped kindergarten and first-grade pupils put up pictures of parents in Saudi Arabia. (Dan Loftin for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ;EDUCATION PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); IRAQ (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (91%); GULF STATES (90%); KUWAIT (79%); VIET NAM (69%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: FAYETTEVILLE, NC, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; KUWAIT; SAUDI ARABIA; PERSIAN GULF

SUBJECT: MILITARY PERSONNEL; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; MIDDLE EAST-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ARMED FORCES (93%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); FAMILY LAW (78%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); ARMIES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); DESERT STORM (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); VIETNAM WAR (75%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (65%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (63%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (61%); 

PERSON: NORDHEIMER, JON



558 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 9, Column 1; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: WINE TALK

BYLINE: By Frank J. Prial

 BODY:
WHAT does a wine merchant have in common with a quarterback? They both look forward to autumn with a mixture of excitement and fear. If they don't make it in the next three and a half months, they don't make it.
Many retailers count on the pre-holiday and holiday season for 50 percent or more of their annual business. So far, this has not been a great year for the trade. Business has been slowing for several years, and merchants talk of a growing anti-alcohol movement, heightened consumer health concerns and tougher restrictions on drunken driving. 
Now they are also talking recession; sales in the first half of 1990 were off 20 percent for some merchants. And there is concern that a new oil crisis could set off inflation that could dampen sales even more. On top of that, the dollar remains weak against the currencies of the important wine-exporting nations, France, Italy and Spain. Some store owners are predicting an $8 price tag on Beaujolais nouveau, which arrives here in mid-November; last year it was $5 to $6.50. Still, this is the season when people buy most of their wine. And there are, and will continue to be, good buys in wine. In good times and bad, so much wine is produced around the world - far more than anyone can drink - that there will always be plenty of bottles at reasonable prices.
Some of the best buys these days are American wines. Many are old favorites that have been praised here before. A few are newcomers; all are worthy of your attention and your shrinking dollars.
Here are 10 California cabernet sauvignons, each at $10 or less, each as good as some wines at twice the price:
Beaulieu Vineyards Beau Tour 1987, $7; Beaulieu Vineyards Rutherford 1986, $8; Guenoc 1985, $9; Liberty School nonvintage, $6; Franciscan 1986, $10; Estancia 1987, $8; Rodney Strong 1986, $8; Fetzer Barrel Select 1986, $10; Konocti 1986, $8, and Pedroncelli 1985, $8. (Bear in mind that prices vary from shop to shop and region to region; these prices prevail in the competitive New York area.) Many of these same producers turn out good chardonnay in the same price range. As a rule, however, distinctive chardonnay is more expensive than distinctive cabernet. A few inexpensive chardonnays worth sampling are Bridgehampton (Long Island) 1988, $10; Liberty School nonvintage, $8; Clos du Bois Barrel Fermented 1988, $10; Stratford 1988, $8; Fetzer Sundial 1988, $7; Hawk Crest 1989, $7, and Franciscan 1988, $10.
Liberty School is the second label of Caymus Vineyards and Hawk Crest is the second label of Stag's Leap Wine Cellars, two of the Napa Valley's most prestigious wineries. Just slightly above the $10 cutoff but definitely worth including here is the 1988 Joli Val, about $11; this is the second label of Clos du Val, Bernard Portet's famous Napa Valley winery. Zinfandel, California's own red wine (even if it did come from Italy or Hungary long ago), has suffered in recent years from its association with white zinfandel. White zinfandel is slightly sweet and a bit fizzy. It's made mostly from zinfandel grapes, which are red but are crushed so as to avoid most contact between the skins and the juice. The skins have all the color; the juice is clear. Chenin blanc and other grapes are sometimes used in white zinfandel to add sweetness.
True zinfandel is a full-bodied red wine that has fallen into such eclipse that several producers now call it ''red zinfandel'' to distinguish it from white (which is really pink).
Sutter Home, the best-known maker of white zinfandel, started out making the traditional style and still makes some of the best reasonably priced ''zins,'' as Californians call them. Some shops have the regular Sutter Home zinfandel these days for around $4 a bottle. Others to look for include Ridge Vineyards Paso Robles 1987, $10; Ridge Howell Mountain 1987, $10; Ravenswood 1988, $8; Amador Foothills Fiddletown 1986, $7; Caymus Vineyards 1987, $8; Rafanelli 1988, $10; Gundlach-Bundschu 1988, $8, and Franciscan Oakville Estate 1988, $9. Pinot noir, the grape of Burgundy and Champagne, is fast finding favor in California, and especially in Oregon. It is hard to grow and often costs more than other red wines of similar quality. The best American pinot noirs, like Chalone and Calera and Kalin, are expensive, but a few decent ones can be found at reasonable prices. If you are expecting Gevrey-Chambertin, forget it, but for a true pinot noir taste in a relatively light-bodied wine, some of these should appeal to you:
Saintsbury Garnet 1989, $9; Carneros Creek Fleur de Carneros 1988, $10; Knudsen Erath (Oregon) 1987, $10; Edna Valley 1985, $12; Robert Mondavi 1987, $14.
A final note: While this column has largely been confined to California wines, it's worth noting that there is still plenty of good Beaujolais from the 1989 vintage, one of the best in recent years. Particularly in the ''cru'' Beaujolais, the 1989's will last for a couple of years. Laying in a few cases now could be an excellent hedge against higher prices to come - for wines that may not be as good.
The ''cru'' Beaujolais are the wines from the 10 famous towns and special vineyard areas like Morgon, Fleurie, Chiroubles, Julienas and Chenas. Some of the best 1989 Beaujolais climbed up as high as $14 a bottle, but there are still plenty of good wines for less. For example, all the wines in Georges Duboeuf's ''Flower Label'' series can be found for $11 or less, with the simple Beaujolais selling for about $6 and the Beaujolais-Villages for about $6.50. The lovely Chateau de la Chaize Fleurie 1989 is about $8.50.
 
TASTINGS
 
Lustau Reserva Light Fino Sherry, Solera Jarana; about $8.
In Jerez and elsewhere in Spain, fino sherry, the lightest, driest and most delicate of the various styles of sherry, is served ice cold and with fish. It is higher in alcohol than the white wines traditionally paired with seafood, but the tendency is to drink less of it. The nutty flavor and sharp bite of a good fino are a perfect accompaniment to a broiled fish. La Ina from Domecq and Gonzalez Byass's Tio Pepe are the best-known finos, but this one from Lustau deserves to be better known. These are not wines to age. They are at their best soon after they are bottled and should be drunk within a few years. Once opened, a bottle of fino begins to lose its freshness. It should be kept chilled and consumed within three or four days. But fino, like most sherries, is more often taken as an aperitif than with meals. Fino sherry is an excellent aperitif because it is so light. It cleanses the palate and will never impair the taste of the table wines to come.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS312130 WINERIES (51%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (75%); SPAIN (56%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

CITY: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CAYMUS VINEYARDS (51%); LIBERTY SCHOOL (67%); FRANCISCAN OAKVILLE ESTATE (67%); 

SUBJECT: WINES; PRICES RETAILERS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); WINERIES (89%); WINE (89%); BEVERAGE PRICES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); RECESSION (74%); US DOLLAR (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (72%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (70%); 

PERSON: PRIAL, FRANK J JOLI VAL (56%); 



559 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

 
 
Companies
Charles H. Keating Jr. was indicted on criminal fraud charges and led to jail after he was unable to post $5 million bail. The indictment, which also named three Keating associates, marks the first criminal charges from investigations of Lincoln Savings. [Page A1.] 
Next Inc. announced four new computers, as Steven P. Jobs hoped to rekindle a sense of anticipation.[D1.]
Blackstone Group is forming an alliance with the investment banking subsidiary of Banque Indosuez. [D1.]
Eastern Airlines cleared a critical hurdle in its attempt to reorganize under bankruptcy laws by reaching an agreement to have a Federal agency take over the payment of retirement benefits. [D1.]
Amdahl unveiled 10 new mainframes even though the computers will not be ready to ship for more than a year. [D5.]
The Manville trust fund asked a Federal judge to treat all asbestos-related personal injury lawsuits filed against it as a single class action. [D5.]
Many people now say UAL will not be sold, though the stock jumped on speculation about a bid. [D6.]
The mood of auto workers employed by G.M. was anything but bleak after a tentative contract. [A18.]
A disgruntled suitor in the recent auction for Ford Aerospace said it had agreed to buy BDM International Inc. [D5.]
 
 
 
The Economy
The Consumer Price Index jumped 0.8 percent in August, the biggest rise since the exceptional cold of January.[D1.]
A bill to restrict imports of apparel and shoes was passed by the House, but the vote was short of a two-thirds majority. [D2.]
The nation's trade deficit jumped in July to $9.33 billion, the second-highest monthly level this year.[D9.]
The Government would save only $2 billion to $3 billion if it tried to recoup some costs on the 96 expensive sales of failing institutions made at the end of 1988, a study shows. [D24.]
Democrats and Republicans spent the day blaming each other for a budget deadlock. [A26.]
 
Business Technology
Americans consume too much oil, and the addiction is hard to break. The biggest obstacle is that no other fuel holds so much energy in such a small, light package. [D11.]
Airline passengers will be able to make phone calls or send facsimiles from a plane flying virtually anywhere in the world in satellite-based systems being developed by several companies. [D11.]
 
 
 
Markets
Oil prices fell slightly after breaking a seven-year-old record on Monday. Crude fell 22 cents, to $33.41 a barrel. [D10.]
Stock prices fluctuated wildly in slow volume as investors watched for bargains. The Dow ranged between a 30-point decline and a 40-point advance, ending at 2,571.29, up 3.96. [D12.]
Prices of Treasury notes and bonds were little changed in slow but bumpy trading. [D18.]
The dollar rebounded on domestic markets after falling in response to a disappointing report on the trade deficit. Gold prices were mostly lower. [D19.] Copper futures prices fell sharply. [D19.]
Yields on C.D.'s and money market accounts were mixed for the week. [D21.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
Zealously enforced export controls in the U.S. have amounted to an ''industrial policy in reverse,'' one economist argues. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
Edison Brothers' stock has fallen along with other retailers, and one analyst sees a bargain. Market Place. [D12.]
The success of Paramount's ''Ghost'' suggests how valuable a highly targeted ad campaign can be. Advertising. [D24.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: NOC (NYSE) (67%); BX (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (67%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (67%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (67%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (67%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (67%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (67%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (67%); EASTERN AIR LINES INC (57%); BANQUE INDOSUEZ SA (57%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (57%); LORAL CORP (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INDICTMENTS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); AIRLINES (89%); BAIL (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CLASS ACTIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); BONDS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (75%); TOXIC TORTS (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); AUCTIONS (72%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (72%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (71%); INVESTMENT BANKING (71%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); IMPORT CONTROLS (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); IMPORT TRADE (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); PERSONAL INJURY (68%); ASBESTOS (68%); JUDGES (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); US DOLLAR (65%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (64%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (61%); 

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (56%); 



560 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Prices Jump By 0.8%

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 18

 BODY:
Spurred by the disruption in Persian Gulf oil supplies, the Consumer Price Index jumped eight-tenths of 1 percent in August, the biggest rise since the exceptional cold of January, the Labor Department reported today.
While the increase was no greater than generally expected, analysts nonetheless expressed concern that inflation, which was heading upward before Iraq invaded Kuwait on Aug. 2, would continue to worsen even as the economy stumbled into a recession.
Also today, the Commerce Department reported that the nation's trade deficit jumped in July to $9.3 billion, the second-highest monthly level this year. And despite word of an Iraqi troop buildup, crude oil prices slipped 22 cents, to $33.41 a barrel. [Pages D9 and D10.] 6.4 Percent for Three Months Excluding food and energy, which bounce around for reasons that often have little to do with underlying economic forces, prices at the consumer level rose five-tenths of 1 percent and have increased by 5.5 percent over the latest 12 months, compared with 5.6 percent for the broader index, and at a 6.4 percent annual pace for the three months ended in August. 
''We have a definite problem with the 'core' C.P.I.,'' said Michael L. Penzer, a senior economist at the Bank of America. He called services, as opposed to commodities, a particular worry, citing a second straight rise of nine-tenths of 1 percent last month in the cost of medical care.
The latest figures could have political repercussions. With Election Day just seven weeks off, consumer inflation has become especially sensitive and could, some think, impel the Bush Administration to tap the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to roll prices back. Gasoline is often called the most visible, and politically potent, price in the economy.
 
Full Effects Not Yet Felt
Moreover, the full effects on retail prices of this summer's doubling in the price of crude oil have yet to be felt. Today's report captured only those price increases that occurred before Aug. 24, and the statistical jolt for September, when the seasonal adjustment factor anticipates a decline, is likely to be similar to that for August, said Patrick C. Jackman, a Labor Department official.
The report offered little, if any, encouragement to policy makers at the Federal Reserve, who by all accounts would like to try to head off a recession by cutting interest rates but who cannot do so, at least without an agreement to reduce the budget deficit, for fear of making inflation worse. It is the core rate that the Fed watches most closely, making less of forces that could prove temporary.
The eight-tenths of 1 percent increase in the August Consumer Price Index, twice the July rise, was considerably less than the 1.3 percent August surge reported last week for the Producer Price Index for Finished Goods, which measures prices of domestically produced goods one step short of the consumer.
This reflects not only a quicker impact at the production stage but the fact that energy accounts for a somewhat bigger proportion of the producer index, which does not cover services, than of the consumer index. The energy component is 9.2 percent of the producer index and 7.4 percent of the consumer index.
 
Gasoline Rises by 7.6 Percent
Petroleum accounted for a bit over 40 percent of the advance in the Consumer Price Index. and almost 90 percent of the 1.8 percent surge in the price of transportation, the Labor Department report showed. Gasoline rose 7.6 percent, raising the increase so far this year to 16.1 percent.
The price of new motor vehicles was unchanged last month - and has risen just 1.9 percent since August 1989, while used cars rose modestly for the month but remain 1.7 percent below the level of a year before. Automobile finance charges fell 1 percent last month.
A 15.4 percent jump in the price of fuel oil, following six straight declines, contributed to an August rise of seven-tenths of 1 percent in the price of housing, which accounts for 42 percent of the entire Consumer Price Index. Cable television continued to surge, by an additional 1.1 percent, and telephone charges soared 1.9 percent, mainly because of higher prices for local service.
 
Fruits and Vegetables Down
Food prices rose three-tenths of 1 percent, less than in June or July, as a 1.4 percent drop for fruits and vegetables more than offset increases in the other four major grocery store food groups. A 1.3 percent rise for dairy products was the biggest since January.
Clothing prices edged up one-tenth of 1 percent, reflecting more restrained pricing of new fall lines than some specialists expected.
The latest in a seemingly never-ending series of rapid increases in the cost of medical care brought prices to a level 9.5 percent above those of August 1989, with hospital and related services rising 1.4 percent last month and professional services rising eight-tenths of 1 percent.
Over all, the index that covers all urban consumers has now climbed at an annual rate of 6.2 percent over the first eight months of 1990, up from 4.8 percent during the same period last year.
 
Commodities and Services Up
Commmodities, including fuel, rose eight-tenths of 1 percent in August, while services rose seven-tenths. They represent 45 percent and 55 percent, respectively, of the index.
Excluding energy, the index rose four-tenths of 1 percent in August compared with a five-tenths of 1 percent increase in July.
New York suffered the highest August inflation rate of the five metropolitan areas whose price indexes are published monthly. A 1.2 percent surge mainly reflected higher rents and other shelter costs, but the Labor Department was unwilling to state that the area's real estate market had stabilized. Prices rose nine-tenths of 1 percent in Chicago, seven-tenths in Philadelphia, six-tenths in San Francisco and five-tenths in Los Angeles.
Before rounding, the urban consumer index climbed 0.7662835 percent last month, a rate that if maintained and compounded over 12 months would produce annual inflation of 9.6 percent.
A companion inflation gauge, the index covering urban wage earners and clerical workers, also rose eight-tenths of 1 percent last month. This index, used for indexing Federal benefits and private contracts, now stands 5.4 percent above its August 1989 level.

GRAPHIC: Chart of the percent change of consumer prices, month to month. (source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. D8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (93%); KUWAIT (92%); GULF STATES (91%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (91%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (92%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); INFLATION (89%); RECESSION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%); INTEREST RATES (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (55%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR



561 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2622 words

HEADLINE: New York Developers Feel a Chill

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

 BODY:
There is little doubt that the deep slump in demand for offices and high-priced apartments has caught New York City real estate developers off guard, but different developers have been stung in different ways. While many are struggling with too much space and too few tenants, not all face the gargantuan financial pressures looming over Donald J. Trump.
The worst off, like David and Jean Solomon, young builders who invested heavily at the peak of the 1980's boom, put up large office towers without commitments from tenants to fill them. Among their troubled properties is a 35-story, 1.3-million-square-foot building at 1585 Broadway, between West 47th and 48th Streets.
Those less hurt by the slump, like Lewis Rudin, are members of long-established real estate families who approached the market conservatively. They tended to take on just one project at a time, sticking to proven commercial locations and obtaining traditional bank financing. The Rudin family's holdings are worth at least $1.5 billion, and include a 35-story office tower at the corner of Broadway and West 52d Street. 
 
Newcomers Hurt the Most
''Those who were newcomers to the process are taking the brunt of the downturn,'' said John R. White, the chairman emiritus of Landauer Associates, a real estate consulting firm. ''But I can't imagine there is a single well-known, long-term New York developer who won't survive this slump.''
One reason is that demand for new offices, although weak, is not dead and gone. Several large companies, including the Sony Corporation of America and the Bertelsmann Publishing Group, are known to be in the market for large blocks of Manhattan office space.
''There are going to be pockets of disaster and pockets of joy,'' said Maurice Solomon, manager of the midtown Manhattan office of Julien J. Studley, a commercial brokerage.
Most severely affected are investors who fueled the city's surge of conversions of rental housing to cooperative apartments in the early 1980's. Residential developers are also being squeezed, and are facing bank foreclosures on some projects.
Even so, some still thrive through luck or acute judgment. Here is how six city developers are faring.
 
Larry A. Silverstein
Showing Bruises, But Surviving
Larry A. Silverstein is a bruised combatant in the Manhattan real estate slump, but is a survivor so far. ''We are in a market that is generally faced with oversupply,'' the developer said, ''and the thirst for new product isn't there.''
Mr. Silverstein, the 59-year-old president of Silverstein Properties, made his biggest imprint on the skyline in late 1986, when his firm completed 7 World Trade Center, a 47-story, two-million-square-foot tower just north of the World Trade Center. The building immediately ran into trouble when Drexel Burnham Lambert Group, which had signed on to lease all of it, was rocked by an insider trading scandal and backed out.
Mr. Silverstein's problems worsened a year later, when the stock market crashed in October 1987. In November 1988, he was able to lease half of the space in the building to Salomon Brothers Inc. But even now, 20 percent of the space in 7 World Trade Center is vacant.
On other projects in the city, Mr. Silverstein worked with partners, and his developments mushroomed in the late 1980's. With two fellow developers, William Zeckendorf Jr. and Melvin Simon, he renovated the former Gimbels department store at Herald Square into A.& S. Plaza, a one-million-square-foot shopping mall. They also built Park Avenue Court, a condominium building that is nearing completion over the site of another former Gimbels store at 86th Street and Lexington Avenue.
With financing from the General Electric Pension Fund, he also built the Embassy Suites Hotel, a 460-room hotel at Broadway and 47th Street that is set to open next month.
In an interview, Mr. Silverstein denied rumors in New York real estate circles that he is pressed for cash and negotiating to turn over part of his equity in 7 World Trade Center and A.& S. Plaza to his lenders. He did say that he and the G.E. pension fund had recently tried to sell the Embassy Suites hotel to raise cash, but had not received an acceptable bid.
Mr. Silverstein began acquiring loft space in the 1950's, bought larger office buildings in the 1970's and now controls more than 10 million square feet in 13 buildings. Having decided not to invest in new projects until the city's economy recovers, he has dismissed 10 people from his staff of 110, including his head of development.
''I do not expect there will be any major new development activity for the next few years,'' he said.
 
David and Jean Solomon
Quick Successes, Then a Squeeze
David and Jean Solomon caught the crest of the New York real estate wave a decade ago and moved up from renovating lofts to building big office and condominium buildings. But the husband-and-wife team, both 38-year-old architects, are now struggling to fill huge blocks of space in the severely overbuilt office market in midtown Manhattan.
The Solomons, who own Solomon Equities Inc., began renovating Manhattan lofts in the mid-1970's and quickly moved on to bigger projects, scoring some resounding successes. One was Tower 49, an office building on 49th Street east of Fifth Avenue that they completed in 1984 and sold two years later to a Japanese company for a hefty $303 million, or $500 a square foot. That price sent waves of envy through their New York real estate competitors even at a time when values were surging all around.
They then joined several other developers who were moving aggressively into the western half of midtown Manhattan. Taking advantage of city zoning incentives that allowed them to construct bigger buildings than were allowed elsewhere, the developers turned the midtown side streets between the Avenue of the Americas and Eighth Avenue into a grid of noisy, dusty construction sites.
The Solomons built two office towers under the zoning program, one 35 stories with 580,000 square feet at 750 Seventh Avenue, between 49th and 50th Streets, and a larger 35-story, 1.3-million-square-foot building at 1585 Broadway, between 47th and 48th Streets. They also built one that did not qualify for zoning benefits, a 53 story, 545,000-square-foot building at 712 Fifth Avenue, at 56th Street.
Problems came long before the three buildings were completed this year, as the city's economy faltered amid continuing repercussions of the 1987 stock market collapse. The Solomons declined to comment, but a spokeswoman, Maureen Connoly, said none of the three buildings was more than 45 percent leased.
Real estate executives said that the Solomons were in a tightening financial squeeze because they took on only one partner in the the midtown development blitz, A. Alfred Taubman, the shopping mall builder, who helped to finance 712 Fifth Avenue. That leaves them with limited financial resources to rely on if their buildings do not attract more tenants soon.
 
Lewis and Jack Rudin
Old-Fashioned Empire Building
With a family real estate empire of 39 large Manhattan buildings, the Rudin Management Company appears to be weathering the slump better than most developers. ''We don't need marketing studies,'' said Lewis Rudin, who is 62 and runs the company with his brother, Jack, who is 66. ''When the time is right, we build.'' The Rudins' latest venture is 1675 Broadway, a 35-story office tower at 52d Street that was completed in September, as more than a dozen other new commercial towers were rising in that overbuilt part of midtown. But unlike most of the others, the Rudins' building has quickly filled with large tenants, including D'Arcy Masius Benton & Bowles Inc., the advertising firm, and Entertainment Weekly, the new Time Warner magazine.
The Broadway building is one of three office projects the Rudins have finished since 1980. The others, at 560 Lexington Avenue and 40 East 52d Street, are nearly fully leased.
Analysts say the Rudins' real estate holdings are worth at least $1.5 billion. They have been assembled over more than 60 years, beginning with acquisitions by Samuel Rudin, their father. Lewis Rudin said the family had maintained a consistent approach to development, putting up one building at a time, operating without partners and relying on conventional bank financing. The Rudin family has never sold a building.
Even they have not escaped the real estate downturn unscathed. One of their office buildings near Wall Street, at 55 Broad, was left nearly vacant last year by Drexel Burnham Lambert, which collapsed and filed for bankruptcy protection. Drexel had been the anchor tenant.
 
Harry Macklowe
Seeing Chances In a Dim Market
The roaring '80s brought a turning point in the career of Harry Macklowe, and it came long before the real estate market began to falter. The developer's public image took a dive in 1985 when several buildings he owned near Times Square were bulldozed overnight, without regard to safety precautions. The action was taken to beat a pending city moratorium on the demolition of single-room-occupancy hotels.
The legal problems stemming from the incident were resolved. In fact, Mr. Macklowe got back $3.2 million this year that he had paid the city in compensation for demolishing the buildings when a court ruled that the city law requiring the compensation was illegal. And his real estate company, the Macklowe Organization, has flourished.
''Opportunities in a down market are more problematic, but there are still opportunities,'' said Kent M. Swig, the developer's executive vice president and son-in-law. Mr. Macklowe, who is 52 years old, declined to be interviewed.
With several new buildings in Manhattan, the Macklowe Organization's biggest problem appears to be 125 West 55th Street, a 23-story, 550,000-square-foot office tower that was finished in September. Tenants have proved elusive. Mr. Swig said only 20 percent of the building was rented.
Mr. Macklowe, who began his carreer as a commercial real estate broker in the early 1960's, has had better success with residential projects. One is Metropolitan Tower, a 78-story condominium just east of Carnegie Hall on West 57th Street, completed in December 1986 at the height of Manhattan's apartment-buying frenzy. Mr. Swig said all Metropolitan Tower apartments, except for one penthouse, had been sold.
Mr. Macklowe's latest project is the Hotel Macklowe, a 52-story, 638-room hotel on West 44th Street off Broadway - the site cleared when the single-room-occupancy hotels were demolished in 1985. The hotel opened in June to the praise of architectual critics for its lobby and interior design. Industry analysts expect it to capture a lucrative niche in the crowded Manhattan tourism and convention market.
Mr. Macklowe has also diversified outside this area. He is building a 400,000-square-foot office building in downtown Los Angeles, where demand remains stronger than in New York, and plans a hotel on land he owns next door. In July, he acquired the residential management operations of M. J. Raynes and Company, which manages more than 11,000 New York City cooperatives and condominiums. The price was not disclosed.
 
Francis Greenburger
A Troubled Realm For 'Co-op King'
To thousands of New Yorkers, being an ''insider'' in the conversion of rental housing to cooperative apartments was a fast track to wealth in the 1980's. Now no one knows the painful consequences better than Francis Greenburger, owner of Time Equities Inc.
Mr. Greenburger, who is 41, converted more than 10,000 apartments in New York to cooperatives in the early 1980's, earning the nickname the ''King of Co-ops.'' Starting with a row of tenement buildings in Greenwich Village, he bought more than 100 rental buildings and offered their tenants, protected from eviction by New York's tough rent regulations, the chance to buy their apartments at prices that were hard to refuse in a giddy real estate boom.
Where tenants did not buy, Mr. Greenburger sold occupied apartments to outside investors. The approach worked well until changes in the Federal tax law in 1986 eliminated many of the tax incentives that had attracted investors to rental housing.
That did not stop Mr. Greenburger. By using the rental apartments in his cooperatives as collateral for bank loans, he covered a large swath of the New York housing landscape with the Time Equities name, from a large complex in the middle-income Clinton Hill section of Brooklyn to the huge Tudor City complex next to the United Nations on the East Side of Manhattan.
More recently, in financial disclosures required by the State of New York, Mr. Greenburger said he was behind on bank loans or other obligations involving 88 of his buildings. In later filings, he said the delinquencies had spread to 102 buildings.
His problems are creating difficult choices for his lenders, which want some assurance of payment but are not eager to foreclose on occupied apartments and become landlords. But in the case of Time Equities, many have done just that. In an interview, Mr. Greenburger said half of the apartments he had put up as collateral had been taken over by his lenders, and that the lenders had made up any payments past due to the buildings for maintenance, reserve funds and other obligations.
''Where we haven't reached work-out situations with banks, we hope to do so,'' he said.
 
Martin J. Raynes
Greener Pastures Across the River
Martin J. Raynes brought mega-deals to the business of cooperative conversions. Now, to avoid financial collapse, he has given up a vast portfolio of real estate holdings.
Mr. Raynes, who is 44, the president of M. J. Raynes & Company, converted more than 20,000 rental apartments to co-operatives in the 1970's and 1980's, along the way building an apartment management and brokerage company that employed more than 400.
His biggest investment came in 1985 when he purchased 6,200 apartments, including the eight-building Lincoln Towers complex near Lincoln Center, from the MacArthur Foundation for $500 million. He made the deal as a partner with the Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States and a fellow investor, Bernard Mendik.
But like other co-op converters, Mr. Raynes ran into trouble when tax changes in 1986 discouraged people from investing in occupied rental apartments. His problems grew worse as the entire co-op market sank in the last two years.
In June, he sold the management company he had formed, which had 11,300 apartments under management, to the Macklowe Organization.
And in July, unable to honor a $5.5 million personal loan guarantee, Mr. Raynes negotiated new terms with Mr. Mendik and Equitable that made him a limited partner in the MacArthur Foundation properties. The partners also refinanced a $170 million loan from the Chase Manhattan Bank, which had been extended with rental apartments in the buildings used as collateral.
Having all but left the co-op conversion business, Mr. Raynes has now joined a development team that includes William Zeckendorf Jr. and several investors in a large plan to develop a new waterfront community along the East River in the Hunters Point section of Queens.
In an interview, Mr. Raynes said he was also planning to build office parks for the University of Virginia in Charlottesville and for the University of Missouri branch in Kansas City. He also said he was forming a partnership with an investment banking firm and a residential real estate brokerage to invest in distressed properties taken over by banks and savings and loan companies in the Northeast. He declined to name his partners in the venture.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Francis Greenburger, Owner of Times Equities (The New York Times, 1986); Larry A. Silverstein, President of Silverstein Properties (The New York Times, 1985); Lewis Rudin, Owner of Rudin Management Company (The New York Times) (pg. D1); Martin J. Raynes, president of M. J. Raynes & Company, who has given up a large portfolio of real estate holdings in an attempt to avoid financial collapse. (The New York Times, 1985); David Solomon, one of the owners of Solomon Equities Inc., which did well in the real estate market of a decade ago but is now in a financial squeeze because of limited financial resources. (The New York Times, 1986); Harry Macklowe, a developer who has diversified outside the New York real estate market with the acquisition of a 400,000-square-foot office buildi

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SON (LSE) (66%); SNE (NYSE) (66%); 6758 (TSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (53%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: SONY CORP OF AMERICA (53%); NEW YORK (74%); WORLD TRADE CENTER (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); FORECLOSURE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); FAMILY (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); PUBLISHING (63%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J; SILVERSTEIN, LARRY A; SOLOMON, DAVID S; SOLOMON, JEAN; RUDIN, LEWIS; RUDIN, JACK; MACKLOWE, HARRY; GREENBURGER, FRANCIS; RAYNES, MARTIN L DONALD TRUMP (79%); 



562 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
The Cold War On U.S. Exports

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
LIKE the Berlin wall, barriers to trade in high technology are falling to the riptides of political change in Eastern Europe. And not a moment too soon, says Robert Kuttner, an economist and journalist, whose study condemning cold war export restrictions was released yesterday by the Economic Policy Institute in Washington. Zealously enforced export controls in the United States, Mr. Kuttner argues, have amounted to an ''industrial policy in reverse.''
The restrictions have not been particularly effective in preventing the transfer of militarily useful technology to the Soviet Union, he believes. But they have managed to undermine America's export advantage as the leader in high technology. 
The Export Control Act of 1949 gave the White House sweeping powers to limit the transfer of civilian technology that would improve the Warsaw Pact's military capability. The other anti-Soviet industrial powers - Japan, Western Europe, Australia - were pressed to adopt parallel controls on such ''dual use'' technologies. And the Coordinating Committee on Multilateral Export Controls (Cocom for short) was created to keep the allies pulling in harness.
Dual-use controls were needed to slow the big Red machine, Mr. Kuttner concedes. But they have become ever harder to administer as the number of high-technology products proliferated and America's postwar monopoly on sophisticated technology eroded.
The Commerce Department's list of dual-use products, covering everything from chemicals to memory chips, now runs to 128 pages. Roughly 40 percent of American industrial exports fit into the category, and some 200,000 applications for individual export licenses must be processed each year.
According to a 1987 study by the National Academy of Sciences, most export applications were processed within two months and fewer than 2 percent were ultimately denied. But the system is complicated enough, Mr. Kuttner points out, to discourage smaller companies that balk at hiring $200-an-hour lawyers to grease the wheels of commerce. Speedier processing, moreover, gives foreign competitors an edge: the Japanese turn around an application in an average of three days.
Then, too, Mr. Kuttner argues, American regulators have been far less inclined than the allies to give exporters the benefit of a doubt. For example, in 1989, Siemens, the German electronics giant, sauntered away with a $1 billion order for personal computers from the Soviet Union after American regulators discouraged the Atari Corporation from competing. And the diffusion of technology to countries outside Cocom has compounded the problems of American exporters: If a comparable gadget could be purchased from Taiwan or Brazil at a comparable price, why fight American red tape?
The National Academy of Sciences put the cost of the restrictions at about $9 billion a year. Representative Sam Gejdenson, a Connecticut Democrat who is the chairman of a House subcommittee on international economic policy, says that American companies lose up to $50 billion a year in revenues. He may be inclined to hyperbole, but there is little doubt that American companies are hurting.
Under pressure from Congress and the allies -not to mention Mikhail Gorbachev - the Bush Administration decided this year to worry less and sell more. In June Cocom agreed to ease restrictions on exports to the Soviets and phase out all controls on sales to Eastern Europe. The same month the House passed a bill liberalizing United States controls. And just last week the Senate weighed in with its own liberalization plan.
Mr. Kuttner is encouraged, but is not about to break out the (California) champagne. While the new policy of building higher fences around fewer products makes sense, he believes that hard-liners in the Pentagon will still manage a rear-guard campaign against major changes.
Worse yet, Mr. Kuttner points out, the debate over which dual-use technologies can be exported to which of our former enemies will distract from a more urgent problem: preventing the diffusion of deadly technology through the non-industrial world. Cocom's 17 members compose elaborate lists of products that cannot be sold to the Soviet Union, but each nation is free to make its own export rules for Iraq, Libya and Iran.
Like almost everyone else, Mr. Kuttner believes it is important to keep weapons of mass destruction out of the hands of megalomaniacs. But that is easier said than done. Indeed, the problematic history of cold war restrictions on dual-use technologies suggests that it may not be doable. Saddam Hussein may not be able to nuke Riyadh (or New York), but give it time.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (58%); SIE (LSE) (58%); SIE (FRA) (58%); SIE (BIT) (58%); SI (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (62%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (91%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); JAPAN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (91%); 

COMPANY: ATARI INC (62%); SIEMENS AG (58%); WASSENAAR ARRANGEMENT (82%); WASSENAAR ARRANGEMENT (82%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (58%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET EXPORT TRADE (94%); EXPORT CONTROLS (91%); COLD WAR (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); COMPUTER CHIPS (64%); LICENSES & PERMITS (64%); MEMORY CHIPS (50%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (50%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; KUTTNER, ROBERT ROBERT KUTTNER (94%); JUNE COCOM (72%); 



563 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
Successor to Chief Picked at Fannie Mae

BYLINE: By DANIEL F. CUFF

 BODY:
The Federal National Mortgage Association said yesterday that its chairman and chief executive, David O. Maxwell, will retire Jan. 31 and that James A. Johnson, currently vice chairman, will take his place.
Mr. Johnson, 46 years old, who has had a varied career on Wall Street and in Washington, joined Fannie Mae, as the association is known, in January as vice chairman. He had been an adviser to the company for five years. 
Mr. Maxwell, 60, said he had accomplished what he set out to do and was making way for fresh leadership after 10 years in the job. At a news conference in Washington, he said that Fannie Mae faced a big challenge in a changing economic and social setting and would be under increasing pressure because of the savings and loan crisis and the downturn in the real estate market. The Congressionally chartered, shareholder-owned company is the nation's largest investor in home mortgages.
So far it has done well, and Mr. Maxwell said that the condition of the company had never been stronger. At the end of the second quarter, Fannie Mae completed 10 consecutive quarters of record earnings and added $1.8 billion to capital and reserves, bringing the total to more than $4 billion.
Mr. Johnson said yesterday that despite problems in the economy, Fannie Mae ''has been more and more successful in making a contribution to housing in America and we feel extraordinarily well positioned for the future.''
Before joining Fannie Mae, Mr. Johnson was a managing director of Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. for five years. Before that, he was president of Public Strategies, a Washington consulting firm, and served as an executive assistant to a fellow Minnesotan, Vice President Walter F. Mondale. Mr. Johnson grew up in a political household - his father was Speaker of the Minnesota House -and Mr. Mondale was a family friend. Mr. Johnson was chairman of Mr. Mondale's Presidential campaign.
Mr. Johnson holds a degree in political science from the University of Minnesota and a master's degree in public affairs from the Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton University.
Earlier in his career, Mr. Johnson worked for the Dayton Hudson Corporation, a Minneapolis-based department store chain; as a staff member in the Senate, and on the faculty of the Wilson School at Princeton, where he was also assistant director of the graduate program.

GRAPHIC: Photo: James A. Johnson, The Federal National Mortgage Association (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (81%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (81%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (94%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%); TARGET CORP (81%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSN (FNMA)

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (74%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); POLITICS (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); COMPANY EARNINGS (66%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (63%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (63%); RETAILERS (60%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (54%); 

PERSON: CUFF, DANIEL F; MAXWELL, DAVID O (CHMN); JOHNSON, JAMES A JAMES A JOHNSON (94%); 



564 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
A Top Position Is Filled By Alaska Airlines

BYLINE: By DANIEL F. CUFF

 BODY:
Alaska Airlines yesterday named Raymond J. Vecci, its chief operating officer, as its president and chief executive.
Mr. Vecci, 47, takes over the posts from Bruce R. Kennedy, who remains chairman. Mr. Kennedy is also president and chief executive of Alaska Air Group Inc., the holding company for the airline.
Mr. Vecci, who has been chief operating officer since 1986, comes from the Bronx and is a graduate of the City College of New York and New York University, where he received his master's degree in finance and economics. 
While going to school in New York, Mr. Vecci landed a part-time job with the International Air Transport Association. ''It was an accident that I got into the industry,'' he said. ''I just happened to hit on that job and I began to like it.''
After he finished school he took a job with United Airlines in Chicago and remained there for seven years before switching to Seattle-based Alaska Airlines in 1971.
Mr. Vecci began at the airline as assistant vice president for planning, and as chief operating officer, he was responsible for flight operations, maintenance, customer service planning, marketing and just about everything else. Mr. Vecci said the airline was looking for someone to fill the post he is vacating.
For years, the airline provided the air link between Seattle and Alaska and still does. But in the last 10 years, it has expanded as a north-south carrier, with many flights that go nowhere near Alaska. The airline, which flies to California points and four Mexican cities, is expanding its service to Mexico with new routes.
Next month, Mr. Vecci said, there will be Alaska Airlines flights from Los Angeles to Mexico. ''We think we can continue to grow on the West Coast,'' he said.
The other expansion is between Alaska and the Soviet Union, for which the airline has preliminary approval. If all goes well, it will start service next June from Anchorage to Magadan and Khabarovsk in the eastern part of the Soviet Union and operate through the summer initially.
''This is a virgin market,'' Mr. Vecci said. ''It's hard to tell how much business it will attract. We think we can generate an interest by tourists and Alaskan businessmen. But we'll have to wait and see.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: ALK (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (72%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (93%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: ALASKA AIR GROUP INC (72%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%); INTERNATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ALASKA AIRLINES INC

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES EXECUTIVES (93%); AIRLINES (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); 

PERSON: CUFF, DANIEL F; VECCI, RAYMOND J; KENNEDY, BRUCE R RAYMOND J VECCI (94%); 



565 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Long Takeover Battle for UAL Raises Doubts Over Sale

BYLINE: By ERIC N. BERG, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Sept. 18

 BODY:
A growing number of people following the takeover battle at the UAL Corporation are concluding that the parent of United Airlines will not be sold.
Analysts, stock traders and airline industry consultants agree that a sale of UAL is still possible. Indeed, UAL's stock surged by $7.625 today, to $105 a share, on the New York Stock Exchange after The Wall Street Journal reported that a $175-a-share bid was likely. One view is that UAL's board would at least listen to an offer below $201 a share, which an employee-led group offered earlier this year. 
''They won't necessarily dismiss such an offer out of hand,'' said Thomas Longman, an analyst at Bear, Stearns & Company. ''Given the current sluggish economic conditions and the higher fuel costs, the directors will have to consider those factors in light of any new offer that comes out.''
 
Reasons to Spurn Lower Bid
Rumors of a lower bid have been circulating in recent days, but the view is that the directors would reject such a bid. If the employee group lowers its bid to around $175, several reasons for rejecting it can be cited.
For one thing, at a meeting of the UAL board in early August, the employee-led group assured board members that financing for a $201-a-share offer could be obtained if the group was given extra time to line up the money. The board granted an extension, to Oct. 9.
Thus, if the employees came back with a new, lower offer, the board could view such a move as duplicitous. It could also conclude that the buyout group does not have a solid understanding of UAL's prospects.
Second, no compelling reason exists to sell UAL. Unlike in the past, when large institutional investors like Marvin Davis, the California financier, and Coniston Partners L.P., the New York-based group, were acquiring large blocks, there is no sign of anyone resembling a raider.
The company is not short of cash, and UAL's stock has traded well above $201 a share, suggesting that the company's directors, if they were sued by disgruntled shareholders, could justify having held out for a higher price.
''If the company is not sold, it will just go on operating as it has been,'' said Sharon J. Kalin, a stock trader who has followed the UAL situation since 1987, the year the first of five bids for the company was made.
 
Successful Asian Flights
Finally, United is doing well these days - better than most of its competitors and better than in recent years. This is partly a result of United's Chicago-to-Europe flights, which have been expanded recently. But the real key is United's East Asian flights, which are packed and which offer the carrier higher profits than the domestic runs.
With UAL's Asian business booming and prospects bright, the directors could conclude that they would be selling the company on the cheap if they accepted less than $201 a share. That offer is a third below the $300-a-share bid that a management-led group offered before it found itself unable to secure financing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (93%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (93%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (93%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (70%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UAL CORP; UNITED AIRLINES INC

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES AIRLINES (91%); TAKEOVERS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); 

PERSON: BERG, ERIC N



566 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 9, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: Trade Deficit Climbs to $9.33 Billion

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
The nation's trade deficit jumped in July to $9.33 billion, the second-highest monthly level this year, the Commerce Department reported yesterday. And the rising cost of imported oil suggests that for the rest of this year the deficit might remain stuck at $8 billion to $9 billion a month.
Still, exports remained strong enough in July, at $32.03 billion, to continue to serve as a big prop for the United States economy, which is in danger of moving into a recession. The concern among economists centered on imports, which rose to $41.36 billion in July, although the sluggish American economy should reduce the demand for foreign goods. 
Both the export and import numbers were roughly in line with the monthly averages in 1990 - $32.5 billion for exports and $40.4 billion for imports. June produced the year's only big departure from the norm; a surge in exports brought a record $34.2 billion in sales abroad, and the trade deficit declined to $5.3 billion, well below the $8.2 billion monthly average for the first five months of 1990. The high for the year was January's $10,2 billion deficit.
 
Closer to the Norm
Most economists view June's surge in exports as an aberration, while July's $32.03 billion in sales abroad is considered closer to the norm. Surveys of manufacturers, especially one by the National Association of Purchasing Management, show that exports are no longer growing at the robust pace that brought them from the level of $30 billion a month in 1989.
''Even with a weak dollar, which should give our exports a boost, we seem unable to push them up any further and keep the deficit shrinking,'' said Lawrence Chimerine, an economics consultant.
Until now, the deficit had declined steadily from $160 billion in 1987 and $118 billion in 1989. But with export growth subsiding and the rising cost of oil beginning to add billions to the nation's import bill, the deficit is likely to stick for a while at its current annual level of $95 billion, Mr. Chimerine and other economists said.
Two products accounted for nearly half of the $2.2 billion decline in exports from June through July. One was a $600 million drop in the overseas sale of soybeans, corn and other agricultural goods; the other a $490 million decline in the sale of commercial aircraft abroad.
Bumper crops elsewhere in the world helps to explain the drop in agricultural exports, economists said. Aircraft sales bounce around from month to month, and seem likely to recover in August, given the order backlog from foreign airlines for Boeing aircraft.
Imports rose by $1.8 billion from June to July, and robust purchases of foreign-made consumer goods accounted for nearly $700 million of this total, the Commerce Department reported. Most of these imports were clothing, jewelry and toys, items not likely to remain in great demand in a sluggish economy. ''With retail sales weak, such imports probably went into inventory, unsold,'' said Peter L. Bernstein, an economics consultant.
 
More Oil Imported
Although oil prices had fallen in July, the nation's oil imports rose in value by nearly $300 million, mostly because more oil was imported. Most economists expect the value of oil imports to rise much more sharply in August and September, reflecting the huge increase in oil prices since the Iraq invasion of Kuwait on Aug. 2.
Capital goods imports also rose strongly in July, reflecting the dependence of American companies on machinery, semiconductors and electronic equipment purchased abroad. East Asia is a big source of these goods, and imports from Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan and South Korea have risen all year, taking a particularly sharp jump in July. The nation's deficit with these newly industrialized countries rose to $2.45 billion from $1.34 billion in June.

GRAPHIC: Chart showing the balance of trade. (source: Commerce Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (51%); BAB (BRU) (51%); BA (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); IMPORT PRICES (89%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (89%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); NUT & LEGUME EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); US DOLLAR (75%); AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (72%); AGRICULTURE (64%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (63%); AIRLINES (60%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS LAWRENCE CHIMERINE (59%); 



567 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 10, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: October Oil Contract Falls Slightly

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Oil for October delivery fell slightly in the futures market yesterday, after breaking a seven-year-old record on Monday.
The October contract fell 22 cents, to $33.41 a barrel, which was still the second-highest level since Iraq invaded Kuwait on Aug. 2, when the price of oil began to rise from about $23 a barrel.
The decline came despite word from the Pentagon that Baghdad has sharply increased the number of its troops and tanks in Kuwait and southern Iraq over the past week to 10 days. Traders attributed the decline to profit-taking after the rise in price the day before. 
Crude oil contracts for the next three delivery months were up slightly, reflecting the market's attempt to narrow the range of prices for oil delivered in the near term.
''It was sort of a day of consolidation,'' said Ed Kevelson, a trader with Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.
On Monday, crude oil jumped $1.87 a barrel, to $33.63, the highest level since the New York Mercantile Exchange began the trading of oil futures contracts on March 30, 1983. The previous record was $32.20 a barrel, set in August 1983. But adjusted for inflation, the peak price in August 1983 would correspond to a price of nearly $44 a barrel now.
Among other petroleum products, home heating oil continued to outpace unleaded gasoline because of seasonal fluctuations.
Heating oil was up 1.12 cents, to 86.43 cents a gallon, on October contracts, with other months also higher.
Unleaded gasoline fell 0.06 cent, to 91.61 cents a gallon, for October contracts, with November contracts down slightly and later contracts higher.
Natural gas rose to $1.560 cents per 1,000 cubic feet on October contracts, up from $1.537 on Monday.
After the market closed yesterday, the American Petroleum Institute released weekly inventory figures that indicated the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait on Aug. 2 and the resulting embargo were apparently beginning to have a physical effect in this country, with imports dropping to 6 million barrels a day for the week ended Sept. 14. Last week the figure was unusually high, 6.9 million barrels a day; a year ago, it was 6.4 million, according to the institute, the industry's main trade association.
As a result, stocks were down, to 369.8 million barrels, from 374.3 million in the previous week, but were still far ahead of last year, when they were 329 million barrels.
The institute also released figures that in more settled times would push gasoline and heating oil prices lower. Gasoline stocks reached 217.0 million barrels, up from 211.1 a week earlier and near the 218.6 million at this time last year; gasoline production was up to 7.4 million barrels a day, from 7.3 million in the previous week and 7.1 million in the previous year. Imports were up slightly, to 282,000 barrels a day, from 261,000 barrels a day in the previous week and 355,000 barrels a day in the same week last year.
Stocks of distillate, which is used as heating oil and diesel fuel, rose to 133.3 million barrels, up from 131.7 million in the previous week and well ahead of the 121.4 million barrels in the coresponding week last year.
Imports rose to 394,000 barrels a day, from 242,000 barrels a day in the previous week and 236,000 a year ago.

GRAPHIC: Chart of the price for a barrel of crude oil for October delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange (source: Knight-Ridder Tradecenter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: KUWAIT (94%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%); 

COMPANY: DEAN WITTER REYNOLDS INC (69%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (82%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (82%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; FUTURES TRADING; PRICES FUTURES (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); HEATING OIL (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); HEATING OIL PRICES (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); NATURAL GAS (79%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (74%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (70%); INVENTORIES (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (65%); 



568 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 11, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1366 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY;
Curbing U.S. Oil Appetite: Why It's So Hard

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
Oil, like ice cream or french fries, is something Americans enjoy but would be better off consuming less of. But it is also very hard to get away from, for engineering reasons as well as historical and economic ones.
The biggest obstacle is that no other fuel holds so much energy in such a small, light package, least of all the readily available substitutes of coal or electricity. What is more, 80 years into the automobile era, everything is built around gasoline, an investment of billions in refineries, tanker trucks and gasoline stations.
And even at the modestly elevated price now, few of the alternatives approach being economically competitive with oil. That is particularly important because many Americans have come to feel almost as if they have a constitutional right to low-priced gasoline and do not see much point in paying higher taxes or higher prices for substitutes. 
The addiction to oil is worse for the United States than for any other country. The American economy is the biggest and its thirst for oil the greatest. And per capita oil consumption in the United States is more than double that of France, Britain and Japan.
The main reason for the difference is the automobile. Of the 17.3 million barrels of oil used each day last year, 10.9 million, or 62.7 percent, went into transportation, most of it for gasoline. In a recent study, Lee Schipper, an energy analyst at Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory, calculated that Americans used about 350 gallons of gasoline per person in 1987, compared with 150 gallons in West Germany.
Higher fuel efficiency would help; if the average American car were as fuel-efficient as the average German car, American consumption would have been about 75 gallons lower, he calculated. But about another 75 gallons of difference resulted because Americans travel more miles. Still another reason for greater gasoline use is that this country has more cars per 1,000 population. Americans traveled more than 11,000 miles by car that year, on average, while West Germans drove 5,000 miles. Americans, in a bigger country, tend to drive farther to work and play.
 
Drawbacks of Other Fuels
Candidates for a new transportation fuel abound, but they all have strong disadvantages.
Foremost are the technical reasons. No fuel, natural or synthetic, carries so much energy around in such a small package. A gallon of gasoline, which weighs about 7 pounds, has as much energy as 11 pounds of coal, and coal, as a solid, is more difficult to handle. Coal can yield a liquid fuel, methanol, but that has only about half the energy of gasoline per gallon. (Also working against this solution is that more than conventional gasoline, methanol from coal introduces gases that are thought to promote climate change. Also, burning methanol from any source produces formaldehyde and other pollutants.) A pound of natural gas will take a car about as far as a pound of gasoline, but the natural gas takes up much more space: The energy in one gallon of gasoline would require, at atmospheric pressure, a container of gas in a cube nearly 5 feet on each side. The natural gas can be squeezed into a far smaller volume, but that requires a very heavy tank.
And the amount of natural gas needed would be vast. For households that heat the structure, cook and heat water with natural gas, for example, converting the family car to natural gas would more than double their energy demand. If millions of vehicles were converted, more wells would have to be drilled and many more transmission pipelines built.
As for electricity, it is abundant because it can be made from coal, but the space problem is even worse than for natural gas. If the amount of energy stored in 12 gallons of gasoline were instead stored in lead-acid batteries like the ones typically used for cranking and ignition in cars, the battery would weigh nearly a ton and a half, about as much as a small car.
 
Historical Momentum
Providing nearly 100 billion gallons of gasoline a year has created a momentum that would be difficult for any competing fuel to overcome. ''It takes mucho, mucho billions, not only to develop and produce a fuel, but to produce an infrastructure,'' said Daniel Yergin, president of Cambridge Energy Research Associates of Cambridge, Mass. ''Gasoline won the struggle for automotive fuel at the turn of the century, and everything has been invested in that ever since.'' Mr. Yergin said that gasoline was once viewed as a useless byproduct of kerosene, which was used for home heating, and was therefore readily available when cars first appeared.
Cars at the turn of the century ran on everything from electricity to ''town gas,'' which was produced by heating coal at central stations, mostly for lighting streets and homes and for cooking. A variety of petroleum products including naphtha were also tried. Some Stanley Steamers ran on kerosene.
''At the very beginning of the auto industry, they didn't know what cars were going to run on,'' said James A. Wren, the chairman of the Society of Automotive Engineers history group. Alcohol was so popular, he said, that in France grape growers feared there would be nothing left for drinking.
Mr. Wren traces the dominance of gasoline to nearly simultaneous developments: the Spindletop gusher, the large oil find in Texas that pushed oil prices below 5 cents a barrel, and Oldsmobile's open two-seater runabouts, called the Curved Dash Olds, which ran on gasoline. At that point, in 1901, ''you had a mass-produced car and a cheap fuel.''
The range of options is larger now in a technological sense but not in an economic sense. Theodore Eck, the chief economist at Amoco, estimated that liquid vehicle fuel made from this country's most abundant hydrocarbon, coal, would not compete until oil prices reached $40 to $50 a barrel.
 
Turning to Unconventional Oil
Another possibility is ordinary gasoline made from abundant but unconventional oil, as from tar sands or shale, which generally requires mining rock and cooking it to make the oil come out. Chevron this spring estimated that such oils would be competitive with a world price of $25 to $40 a barrel in 1990 dollars. But while oil has jumped past $30 a barrel in recent weeks, oil executives say that because of the long lead times and heavy capital investments, it must be obvious to investors that the price will stay there. Today, that is like betting on Saddam Hussein's job tenure.
Some fuels are available today at a price lower than gasoline's, but they entail other costs. A kilowatt-hour of electricity, for example, will propel a van about two miles, and the national average cost is about 8 cents, which is equivalent to gasoline at 80 cents a gallon in a 20-mile-per-gallon vehicle. And utilities say they could sell power for much less in off-peak hours, for drivers who charged their batteries at night. But because of the current state of battery technology, the vehicle itself would be uncompetitive.
 
Other Costs Involved
Some utilities will sell natural gas for vehicle use at a price equivalent to 70 cents a gallon of gasoline. But switching fuels means developing a vehicle engine that runs on something else, which could cost hundreds of millions of dollars, and providing a network of fueling stations.
Amoco, which recently began selling natural gas at two stations as an experiment, puts the cost of adding a natural gas pump at about $250,000 per station. With environmental regulations governing underground storage tanks, costs for other kinds of fuels would also be high. And the United States has about 200,000 places that sell gasoline; a substantial fraction of them would have to offer a different kind of fuel before most Americans would buy it.
Mr. Eck at Amoco said that if Detroit would build cars that could switch from gasoline to natural gas, ''we could build the fueling stations a lot faster than they could build the cars.'' Sold in volume, he said, a car equipped to burn natural gas as well as gasoline would cost as little as $300 extra.
But the auto makers show little enthusiasm for heavy new investments for a product for which the public is not clamoring.

GRAPHIC: Chart of petroleum consumption as a percentage of energy consumption. (source: Energy Information Administration)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY PAGE (NYT)

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (90%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (78%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE ENGINEERING (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ALCOHOLS (89%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (79%); OIL & GAS PRICES (79%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (79%); NATURAL GAS (79%); BULK SHIPPING (79%); GAS STATIONS (79%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (79%); CONSUMPTION (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); ALDEHYDES (60%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (57%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L



569 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 18, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Prices Little Changed in Slow Day

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury notes and bonds were little changed in slow but bumpy trading yesterday.
Reports on the merchandise trade deficit and consumer prices, which showed that the nation's trade deficit widened sharply in July and that consumer prices last month shot up by the largest amount since January, depressed the prices of fixed-income securities early in the day.
But a drop in oil prices and a softening in the overnight rate for bank loans in the Federal funds market later forced traders to buy securities.
The funds rate, which traded at 7 3/4 percent to 7 7/8 percent early in the day, tumbled to under 7 percent early in the afternoon. 
 
No More Reserves Added
Although some market participants said the weakness in the funds rate might be indicative of an easing in Federal Reserve policy, most analysts attributed the decline to the amount of reserves in the banking system. The Fed, which added reserves to the banking system on Monday, did not add any more yesterday.
At this time of year, reserves are usually drawn because corporations and individuals make quarterly income tax payments.
''At the time the Fed would normally come in to the market, funds were trading at around 8 percent,'' said Darwin L. Beck, an economist at the First Boston Corporation. ''If the Fed had wanted to signal a policy change, that would have been a perfect time to do it. In my view, what happened was a temporary glitch in terms of reserve needs, and it means nothing in terms of a change in Fed policy.''
The Fed's target, or equilibrium, level for the funds rate has been at 8 percent since mid-July, analysts say.
 
Budget Talks Continue
Budget developments in Washington were not reflected in the credit markets yesterday. With the talks apparently at an impasse, some market participants said the chances were growing that on Oct. 1, the start of the 1991 fiscal year, $100 billion in cuts would be made under the terms of the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings legislation for balancing the budget.
''Sequestration is a distinct possibility,'' said Peter Bass, a managing director at S. G. Warburg Securities Inc., referring to the across-the-board budget cuts that will take effect on Oct. 1 under the legislation unless a budget agreement is reached. ''I don't think it is as much of a long shot as it seemed two weeks ago.''
Mr. Bass and other participants said that while cuts of that magnitude would be very positive for the credit markets, the economic implications would be clearly negative.
In the secondary market for Treasury securities, the Treasury's 8 3/4 percent 30-year bonds of 2020 were offered at a price of 96 27/32 late yesterday, to yield 9.05 percent, unchanged from late on Monday.
After the release of the trade and inflation statistics, the yields on the benchmark issue rose as high as 9.09 percent. 10-Year Notes Down to 8.89% Among note issues, the 8 3/4 percent 10-year notes were offered at 99 1/32 in late trading, down by 1/32, to yield 8.89 percent. Meanwhile, the 8 1/8 percent two-year notes were unchanged, at a late-offered price of 100 6/32, to yield 8.01 percent.
By late in the day, three-month Treasury bills were offered at a discount rate of 7.36 percent, down by a basis point, or hundredth of a percentage point. Six-month bill rates fell by a similar amount, to a late-offered rate of 7.27 percent.
In the corporate bond market, the Security Pacific Corporation offered $150 million in three-year floating-rate notes through an underwriting syndicate led by the First Boston Corporation.
The notes, which have a final maturity of Sept. 30, 1993, were priced at $100, or par. Interest rates on the securities will be set at 25 basis points above the prevailing three-month London interbank offered rate on Friday. The rates on the notes will be reset quarterly.
The securities are rated A-1 by Moody's Investors Service Inc. and AA-minus by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
 
Dormitory Authority Bonds
In the tax-exempt municipal bond market, Dillon, Read & Company acted as lead manager for two negotiated offerings.
The Dormitory Authority of New York offered $314 million in serial and term bonds.
The yields on the serial bonds range from 6.40 percent on securities maturing in 1992 to 7.90 percent on bonds that mature in 2003.
The issue included an uninsured 7 7/8 percent term bond maturing in 2017. It was priced to yield 8.10 percent. In addition, a 7.50 percent term bond due in 2020 insured by the Financial Guaranty Insurance Company was priced to yield 7.65 percent.
The uninsured securities are rated A by Moody's and BBB by Standard & Poor's. The insured bonds are rated AAA by both agencies.
 
Offering by Connecticut
In addition, Connecticut offered $200 million in general obligation bonds.
The yields on the issue, which is made up entirely of serial bonds, range from 6 percent in 1991 to 6.40 percent on bonds maturing in 1995, 6.90 percent on securities due in 2000 and 7.25 percent on bonds that mature in 2010.
The issue is rated AA by Moody's and Standard & Poor's.
Participants in the secondary market for investment-grade corporate bonds said prices of most issues were unchanged yesterday.
In the tax-exempt municipal bond market, traders said prices of most widely quoted issues dipped by a quarter to three-eighths point.

GRAPHIC: Graph: Treasury Yield Curve (source: Technical Data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: PRICES OF TREASURY (59%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS AND BONDS BONDS (91%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BUDGETS (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (79%); SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); BUDGET CUTS (68%); INCOME TAX (52%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N



570 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 21, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: C.D. and Bank Yields Mixed During Week

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Yields on certificates of deposit and money market accounts were mixed for the week ended yesterday as interest rates continued to drift in the wake of the unresolved Middle East crisis and the budget talks in Washington, which are currently stalled.
At the Treasury Department's closely watched bill auction held each Monday, interest rates on the new three-month and six-month Treasury bills were down slightly. It is a widely believed that the results of these bill auctions have an influence over what many banks may eventually pay on money market accounts and certificates of deposit. 
The average discount rate for a new three-month bill fell by 2 basis points, to 7.39 percent, while the six-month bill rate fell by 4 basis points, to 7.30 percent. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
 
Steady in New York Area
In the weekly survey of New York area banks and savings institutions done by The Bank Rate Monitor, the average yields were nearly unchanged from the previous week. Commercial banks displayed most of the strength this week, as the average money market account held at 6.21 percent, while three-month certificates rose 3 basis points, to 7.63 percent, and six-month certificates rose 2 basis points, to 7.71 percent.
Yields at savings institutions, still higher than those offered by commercial banks but with the spread narrowing, were down. The average money market account increased by 3 basis points, to 6.42 percent, while a three-month certificate fell 4 basis points, to 7.88 percent. The yield on a six-month certificate fell 2 basis points, to 7.94 percent.
Outside the New York market and among 20 large banks nationwide, the average yield for a money market account was unchanged at 6.25 percent, while the average yield on a six-month certificate was down a basis point, to 7.52 percent.
 
Little Change at Credit Unions
Among some of the country's large credit unions, the yield picture was similar to that of a week ago. The average yield on a money market account was unchanged at 6.54 percent, while the average yields of a six-month certificate and a one-year certificate were down by a basis point, to 7.86 percent and 8.03 percent, respectively.
For the longer two-and-a-half-year certificate, the yield was unchanged at 8.17 percent and the five-year certificate was up again by a basis point, to 8.31 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); MIDDLE EAST (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT (68%); NEW YORK (67%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (92%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); CREDIT UNIONS (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); AUCTIONS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (72%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT



571 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 28, Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Collusion Interest Charge May Add to Owner Costs

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
Arbitrators' awards of $113 million for lost players' salaries in baseball's ongoing collusion case could jump by nearly 40 percent, to the $156 million area, if the arbitrators grant the union's request for interest.
''We have claimed interest in these cases, and we're confident the arbitrators will award the players interest on the damage amounts,'' Donald Fehr, the players' labor leader, said at a news conference yesterday in Manhattan.
Fehr said that union mathematicians had not computed the possible amount of the interest, but using the interest rates called for in the labor agreement between the players and the owners, an independent computation determined that the interest could total $43 million. $250 Million Is Possible That staggering amount indicates that the eventual total the owners will owe the players could exceed $250 million. 
If George Nicolau, the arbitrator who on Monday awarded the players $102.5 million for lost salary in the 1987 and 1988 seasons, awards a similar amount for lost salary last year and this year and interest is then added, the overall total would be around $266 million, or more than $10 million a club.
Asked about a total in the $250 million area, Fehr said, ''Sure, it's in the realm of possibility, but I'm not going to speculate beyond that.''
The question of punitive damages and payment of the union's costs in the case also arose yesterday. Fehr said the union would very likely ask that the clubs pay the costs of its lawyers and economic experts. Furthermore, he said, union officials have discussed the possibility of asking for punitive damages but added, ''No such claim has yet been made.''
Charles O'Connor, the owners' chief labor official, said that punitive damages were beyond the scope of the arbitrator's authority.
Under the new labor agreement, any future collusion would cost the owners treble damages. That provision, if it had been in effect previously, would turn the $113 million in damages into $339, not including interest.
 
Owners Oppose Payment
The owners have opposed the payment of interest. Given the figures, it's easy to understand why. ''Our lawyers have opposed interest consistently from the beginning,'' O'Connor said.
But the players contend that if they do not get interest, the owners would have profited from their collusive actions that two arbitrators said hindered players' movement and bargaining power as free agents after the 1985, 1986 and 1987 seasons.
The labor agreement stipulates that when interest is called for, the rate should be 1 percent over the prime interest rate in effect at Chemical Bank of New York on the previous Nov. 1, with the number rounded to the nearest percentage point.
In the period in question, the Chemical prime rate ranged from 7.5 percent to 10.5 percent.
In making his $102.5 million award to the players, Nicolau designated $38 million for lost 1987 salary and $64.5 million for lost 1988 salary. In arguments before Nicolau, the clubs had proposed damages for the two years totaling $55 million to $60 million while the union had put the figure at around $125 million.
Using complex mathematical formulas, Nicolau said the salary shortfall for players with six or more years of major league service was $25 million in 1987 and $39 million in 1988. The shortfall for players with three to five years of service, he said, was $13 million in 1987 and $25.5 million in 1988.
The arbitrator will hold additional hearings beginning late next month to determine damages arising from the 1989 and 1990 seasons.
O'Connor said he thought the entire collusion matter could be wrapped up before the end of the year. He said the clubs were prepared to put the damage amount into an escrow account.
The arbitrators, Fehr said, will have the final say on ''how many dollars go to which players.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (57%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: CHEMICAL BANK (50%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; ARBITRATION, CONCILIATION AND MEDIATION; MAJOR LEAGUES; FREE AGENTS (SPORTS); ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); BASEBALL (90%); DAMAGES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (89%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (79%); LAWYERS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); PRIME RATES (77%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (56%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); 



572 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 27, Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES;
U.S. Becomes TV Studio For World

BYLINE: By George Vecsey

 BODY:
People keep saying the United States is into a recession, and the dollar is down, and we can't manufacture automobiles anymore.
But the United States must have some economic clout because the biggest sports events in the world keep being assigned to Uncle Sam, or Uncle Sixth Avenue, which is more to the point.
The latest example of American buying power is the International Olympic Committee's assigning the 1996 Summer Games to Atlanta, an American city in the state of Georgia, not to be confused with the Soviet republic of Georgia. American cities are in; other world cities are not so in. 
The 1996 Summer Games will be the seventh set of Olympic Games to be held in the United States. No other nation will have held more than four.
The United States will also be host to the 1992 America's Cup in San Diego and the 1994 World Cup of soccer, coming to a city near you. Both decisions are examples of how Prime Time Television has overpowered the First World, the Communist World and the Third World.
All three major television networks are within a short walk (except that the heavy hitters take stretch limousines) of each other near the street New Yorkers call Sixth Avenue and some misguided city official once renamed the Avenue of the Americas.
The three networks pay top dollar for the biggest sports events, $401 million for the 1992 Summer Games in Barcelona and clearly, despite budget cuts in news operations, heading for the moon. And then, of course, there is cable money.
The influence of television is not to be minimized. This Olympic decision is remindful of the old Peter Arno cartoon of a blonde unwrapping her new pearl necklace, and her sugar daddy leaning forward and saying something like, ''And now, Miss Evans, if I could ask just one small favor.''
In this case, the one small favor is Carl Lewis and Ben Johnson going off the blocks at, oh, roughly, 10 P.M. Eastern time, not too late for consumers in New York, and after drive time in Los Angeles.
Atlanta has many advantages, including modern airports, hotel rooms, telephone lines and arenas, plus roads convenient to everybody except Pascual Perez. The former Braves pitcher once tried to drive to the ball park and, unless I have my facts confused, ended up being the subject of a song by the Kingston Trio called ''The Man Who Never Returned.''
One drawback in Atlanta is that every street is named Peachtree. I know an Ethiopian sports official who lives in Paris who once tried to visit the Atlanta organizing committee and blew half his budget trying to get by cab to Peachtree Street, Drive, Place, whatever.
Atlanta has the extremely important asset of being a city with something to prove. It has gone from being razed by William Tecumseh Sherman to being recognized as the home of Coca-Cola, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King and Ted Turner. It has gone from being a sleepy, muggy hill town to being yet another sleek American city, the capital of the New South, albeit still muggy.
The city also has a huge supply of churchgoing, club-member citizens who will volunteer time and expertise to make 1996 Games work. It is also very positive that one of the major cities with black leadership will show America's complex face to the world. From a domestic point of view, the choice of Atlanta is very nice, but on another level it is too bad that television money and modern American technology and good will can so completely engulf the world's sporting events.
Yachting being basically about rich people who congregate in luxurious harbors, it should have been no surprise that the 1992 America's Cup, and its estimated $1 billion windfall, was given to San Diego and not Alma-Ata or Kampala.
It was considerably more chilling when Colombia had to turn back the 1986 World Cup because it could not afford it, and Brazil could not take it over, so the cup event went to Mexican television interests. Now the 1994 World Cup has been handed over to a country that does not have a major league.
As sports events demand modern facilities, fewer nations can expect to be host. Athens was the so-called traditional favorite for the 100th anniversary of the modern Games, but tradition is slightly less important than telephone lines and security.
Atlanta will be a gracious host, but there is a danger of the Games' becoming too much a celebration of being American.
Even though perched on the edge of the United States, Toronto would have provided a somewhat different world view than Atlanta. And through its proximity to Asia, Melbourne would have been a reaffirmation of the I in I.O.C.
Perhaps Melbourne suffered from having been the host in 1956. It surely suffered from being too far away from the most important time zone of all, the time zone of Sixth Avenue.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); FRANCE (78%); GEORGIA (57%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PRIME TIME FREEWARE (55%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (57%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ATLANTA (GA)

SUBJECT: OLYMPIC GAMES (1996); SUMMER GAMES (OLYMPICS) SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (92%); SPORTS (91%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (91%); OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); CITIES (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (71%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (71%); SOCCER (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (67%); BUDGET CUTS (64%); 

PERSON: VECSEY, GEORGE



573 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 27, Column 2; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: OLYMPICS;
Jubilant Atlanta Basking in Its Olympic Feat

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Sept. 18

 BODY:
This city, which exudes a gleeful optimism and exhibits a propensity for unabashed self-promotion, proved yet again today that it was the little city that could when it came from nowhere to be designated as the host city for the 1996 Summer Olympics.
More than 2,000 people gathered in the predawn darkness on the plaza of the downtown Underground Atlanta tourist and retail complex to watch the vote by the International Olympic Committee in Tokyo on huge closed-circuit television screens. The party was arranged by the three-and-a-half-year-old Atlanta Organizing Committee, which had conducted the city's $7 million effort to attract the Games.
They chanted ''We want the Games'' as the broadcast from Tokyo built toward the final decision. With the announcement, the plaza reverberated with cheers, flashed with fireworks and rocked to the music of marching bands. By then the crowd was exuberantly shouting, ''We won the Games''. 
 
New Stadium Is Planned
With the city's designation secured, the effort to put on the Games now begins. That effort will require the investment of an estimated $1.2 billion to build the necessary facilities, which will include a new stadium and dormitories for the athletes, according to Robert M. Brennan, the spokesman for the local organizing committee. It is estimated by local officials that the Games will generate more than $3.4 billion in spending in the city over their 16 days.
''It's fabulous,'' Bud Lawlor, a banker clutching his briefcase and his eyes beginning to water with a hint of tears of joy, said as the vote was announced this morning at about 8 o'clock Eastern time.
''It's a dream come true,'' cheered Judy Baker, ''and this is going to put us on the map.''
''Now everybody will know that Atlanta is a great city,'' said Ropeka Gunn, an 18-year-old Georgia Tech freshman.
There was a brash, ''I-knew-it'' tone of vindication in the words of many who gathered in the plaza. The selection, some said, was just icing on the cake after the city's success two years ago in attracting the 1992 Democratic National Convention and its more recent success in being selected as the site of the 1994 Super Bowl, which will be played in a domed stadium now under construction.
At the very least it has all helped reinforce the city's claim to being an international city and its sense of itself as the progressive and bustling center of the American South, a region in which economic growth and racial harmony go hand-in-hand.
But others conceded that there was nothing short of miraculous in the city's attracting the Summer Games of the XXVI Olympiad when it seemed that the odds were against Atlanta.
 
A Winner on First Attempt
For one thing, it had been Atlanta's first attempt to attract the Games and traditionally no city had been awarded the Games on its first attempt. And it was the centennial of the modern Olympic Games, which were held in 1896 in Athens, which was among the six cities that were finalists and had built its campaign on the logic and sentimental value of being the host for the 1996 Games.
Most attributed the city's success to the ''one to one, personal salesmanship'' approach devised by William P. Payne, the head of the Atlanta Organizing Committee. In the last two years, 71 of the 91 members of the I.O.C. who would vote on the host city had visited the city and had been wined, dined and escorted by a host of local volunteers, political figures and business people. Likewise, delegations of Atlantans have traveled regularly to meetings of the international committee and other gatherings of international sports groups to promote the city.
The city also had Andrew Young, its former mayor, a civil rights figure and former United Nations Ambassador who is well known and respected throughout the world. Young was featured in much of the city's literature aimed at committee members. The facts that Atlanta was the birthplace of Dr. Martin Luther King and the center of the civil rights movement were also promoted.
''Andy Young was our not-so-secret weapon,'' said Lew Whiting, an Atlantan who competed in the pentathlon in the 1972 Olympics and was a former official of the United States Olympic Committee. ''He just had so much respect in the international community and he knew so many of the diplomats.'' Brennan said that the city in its proposals stressed its advantages in the areas of public transportation, its international airport, extensive highway system and facilities as a convention city with more than 88,000 hotel rooms in the downtown and outlying areas.
The city proposal called for establishing nine locations for 19 of the sports within a three-mile area of downtown Atlanta. Suburban locations would be used for tennis, archery, canoeing and equestrian events while yachting events would be held in Savannah, 240 miles east, and rafting events would be held on the Ocoee River in Tennessee, 125 miles to the north. $587 Million Fund Needed An estimated $587 million in operating funds will be required for the Games as well as $418 million in new construction that includes $145 million for a 85,000-seat downtown stadium adjoining the Fulton County Stadium, where the Braves and the Falcons now play, and $59 million for an Olympic village to be situated on the campus of Georgia Tech. After the Games, the new Olympic stadium will be used by the Braves, while the domed stadium already under construction will be the home of the Falcons. Current projections indicate that more than 84,000 full-time jobs will be created.
''This has really pulled Atlanta's iron out of the fire economically,'' said Jeffrey A. Rosensweig, a professor of international finance at Emory University in Atlanta. ''Employment was dropping and there was nothing on the horizon to keep the economy growing at the pace it had grown during the 1980's.''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 20, 1990, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the choice of Atlanta for the 1996 Olympic Games misstated the date of the Democratic National Convention there. It was 1988.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Maynard Jackson signaling his satisfaction yesterday in Tokyo after Atlanta was selected as the site of the 1996 Summer Olympics. At left was Robert Helmick, president of the United States Olympic Committee. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (88%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (51%); UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (59%); UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (59%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (57%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ATLANTA (GA)

SUBJECT: OLYMPIC GAMES (1996); SUMMER GAMES (OLYMPICS) OLYMPICS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (72%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (72%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (50%); RACE & RACISM (50%); 

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD CHRISTIE HEFNER (50%); 



574 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1378 words

HEADLINE: THE 1990 CAMPAIGN: Electoral Powder Keg;
In Messages of Dissatisfaction by Voters, Politicians Sense Danger of an Explosion

BYLINE: By MICHAEL ORESKES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
Voters sent an unmistakable message of dissatisfaction to their political leaders Tuesday in two quite different states, Massachusetts and Oklahoma, as a widespread mood of discontent with government and politics began to boil over at the ballot box.
In primaries for governor in both states, voters rejected established politicians and turned to candidates who had never held elective office and had campaigned against ''professional politicians'' and the statehouse gang.
These campaigns tapped feelings of frustration that politicians have been watching for months in their polling and their travels around the country.
''It's like walking on gunpowder out there,'' R. Marc Nuttle, executive director of the National Republican Congressional Committee, said this week after a trip to important Congressional districts. ''You can feel the crackling under your feet. You can smell it in the air.'' 
 
Incumbents Ousted
In Massachusetts, where Democrats in general and Gov. Michael S. Dukakis in particular are reviled for letting the Massachusetts Miracle slide into a fiscal morass, voters searched down the ballot for incumbents and old-line Democrats to vote against.
''There was a tidal wave coming and we happened to be standing on the beach when it hit,'' the Massachusetts Attorney General, James Shannon, said after losing his bid for renomination for no apparent reason other than that he was in office. He was one of several well-known incumbents ousted from state or local contests.
For the Democratic nomination for governor the voters rejected Francis X. Bellotti, the former Attorney General and a longtime figure in Democratic politics, in favor of Dr. John R. Silber, the president of Boston University, who contends that government is causing more problems than it is solving. In the Republican race, they turned down the minority leader of the State House of Representatives, Steven Pierce, in favor of William Weld, a former United States attorney, who in the closing days of the campaign ran television advertising emphasizing his prosecution of corruption in Boston's City Hall.
 
Oklahomans Limit Tenure
In Oklahoma, the voters were angry over two big tax increases and a state government deadlocked between a Republican governor and a Democratic legislature, and they vented their frustration by imposing a 12-year limit on the tenure of legislators, the first state ever to do so, but quite probably not the last. California and Colorado have similiar measures on their ballots this November.
''They stay in there so long and they get too much politics and too much graft goes on,'' said Wanda Bayless of Tulsa, explaining why she and her husband voted for the term limit. ''We backed it so we wouldn't have career politicians as opposed to politicians who want to serve their country and have something else to go on to.''
Tuesday's voting was the loudest statement by voters this year of the sort of disillusionment expressed by Mrs. Bayless, but it was not the first. Just the week before, voters here in Washington, battered by the scandal of a mayor caught using drugs, rejected two prominent office holders, one from the city council and the other from the House of Representatives, and instead nominated to be their next mayor a woman lawyer who campaigned by waving a shovel and promising to ''clean house'' at City Hall.
On the same day in neighboring Montgomery County, Md., which is like much of suburban America, the county executive was rejected at the polls in favor of a candidate who promised to block growth and tax real estate developers.
With just seven weeks until the elections and virtually all the primaries out of the way now, politicians are preoccupied with how and whether voters would express their anger in general elections.
But there are differences between general and primary elections. Voters have sometimes used primaries to send messages stronger than they would want to live with for a full four years.
In Massachusetts, for example, there were some independents who said that they voted for Dr. Silber on Tuesday to shake up the Democrats and that they would vote for Mr. Weld in November.
 
Complicating Factors
There are also limits to the options voters have for expressing their dissatisfaction in general elections. In many places there is little competition for the Congressional seats that are up for re-election, in both House and Senate races. Also, the crisis in the Persian Gulf has clouded an already complicated situation, making it harder for challengers to get press attention and leaving some voters torn between frustration with the status quo and a traditional tendency to not want to rock the boat in a time of foreign crisis.
But politicians recognize the developing mood nevertheless and are adjusting. Gov. Richard F. Celeste of Ohio, who is chairman of the Democratic Governor's Conference, said recently that his party's only hope for recapturing the White House was to nominate ''an outsider'' who could run against Washington's role in the savings and loan scandal, tax increases and the Federal budget deficit.
President Bush has so far succeeded in staying above the angry mood. ''He keeps confronting people who once would have played great villians on 'Mission Impossible,' '' said Andy Kohut the former president of the Gallup organzation who now runs his own polling concern. ''He had Noriega as a villian. He took a firm stand. Then he began to dip in the polls in July and up came Mr. Hussein, a very able replacement for Manuel Noriega.''
Mr. Kohut also noted that Mr. Bush will become increasingly vulnerable as the economy deteriorates.
While a resistance to taxes, or at least to wasteful spending of taxes, is a common thread in the voter discontent, the antagonism seems to have far less to do with ideology, or even policies, than with a more visceral frustration over the status quo.
''I am against the political machine in Massachusetts,'' said Dawn M. Dudash, a 38-year-old resident of Cape Cod. ''Silber may bring some change; not necessarily good change, but at least some change. There wasn't any viable alternative.''
 
Resentment of Privileges
Politicians are resented as a class apart, with privileges not enjoyed by the people who elected them. Bill Wynor, 37, a window cleaner at the Oklahoma State Capitol, said: ''A good example of what people are mad about in Oklahoma is that most senators and representatives have two secretaries. One does all the work and the other just bubbles. She just sits out front and looks good. These guys have simply gotten too fat in office.''
In some states, Republicans can be in as much trouble as Democrats are in Massachussets. Gov. Henry Bellmon in Oklahoma and William P. Clements Jr. in Texas, both Republicns, are extremely unpopular and probably would have been defeated had they not stepped aside. In Maine, which is suffering through the same New England recession as Massachusetts, Gov. John R. McKernan Jr. is facing a stiff challenge in November.
Robert Squier, a consultant to Dr. Silber, said it was wrong to describe the national mood as simply anti-incumbent. He said it is much more a search by voters for politicians who identify with citizens instead of with special interests, and are ready to make changes. It is far easier for candidates who are not part of the system to convince voters they will do that. The losers in the Democratic races for governor in both Massachusetts and Oklahoma were well-known political figures and were represented by the same consultant, Raymond Strother. Mr. Strother, sensing what was coming, tried to position both Mr. Bellotti in Massachusetts and Representative Wes Watkins in Oklahoma as candidates who understood the voters' frustration.
But given the longstanding ties of both candidates to the establishment, voters rejected them in favor of newcomers: Dr. Silber, whose outspoken comments seemed like gaffes to insiders and refreshing candor to many voters, and David Walters, an Oklahoma real estate man who tied his campaign to the limit on legislative terms.
The Oklahoma Republican primary was won by Bill Price, a former U.S. Attorney who made his reputation prosecuting corruption among county officials.

GRAPHIC: Photos: John R. Silber, William Weld, James Rappaport, David Walters, Bill Price; graphic: Highlights from Tuesday's Primaries (pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); OKLAHOMA, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); TULSA, OK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE HOUSE PRESS (53%); NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; MASSACHUSETTS; OKLAHOMA

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTION ISSUES; ETHICS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LAWYERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (79%); EXECUTIVES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TERM LIMITS (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); TAX LAW (69%); BEACHES (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (63%); CORRUPTION (61%); ETHICS (61%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: ORESKES, MICHAEL



575 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: New York Census Missed 254,534 Dwellings

BYLINE: By RICHARD LEVINE

 BODY:
New York City officials said yesterday that they had found 254,534 housing units that were not counted by the Census Bureau. They said their finding bolstered their claim that almost one million New Yorkers were not counted.
In a formal challenge to the Federal agency's 1990 population count, the officials, relying on records of city agencies, aerial photographs and information from utility companies, said the Census Bureau had missed five or more residences on nearly 12,000 of the more than 28,000 residential blocks in the city.
''The Census Bureau has sabotaged the accuracy of New York City's population count,'' Mayor David N. Dinkins said in announcing the findings of the city's analysis yesterday. ''If the paltry results of the Bureau's poor work are not challenged, New Yorkers will lose representation in Congress as well as hundreds of millions of dollars in Federal aid over the next decade.'' 
 
Loss of 38,000 People
New York City began work on its challenge after the Census Bureau released a preliminary estimate that put the city's population at 7,033,179. That meant New York had lost 38,000 people during the 1980's, a decade in which the city experienced its greatest economic boom since World War II and, city officials and outside experts believed, had grown by about a million people.
City officials provided examples yesterday of what they considered typical errors. One was a building that belongs to the city housing authority that it said the Census Bureau missed altogether.
But the difficulties of counting and checking the count of a city as complex as New York were apparent even as officials were putting their case forward. At one location on the list of blocks that the city said were undercounted - an apartment building in Sunnyside, Queens - the superintendent and some residents said yesterday that Census Bureau enumerators had repeatedly visited the building and interviewed tenants. [Page B2.] City officials said they were worried that the Census Bureau, which must provide President Bush with final population figures by Dec. 31, would not have enough time to check all the blocks the city officials cited and count all the people they believe were missed.
Dierdre Blackwood, a spokeswoman for the Census Bureau, said the agency had set a target date of Oct. 9 for reviewing challenges. But she added, ''Obviously, if we have serious challenges, we will continue to recanvass.''
''We're going to review all document challenges and recanvass where it's necessary,'' she said. ''We have some enumerators on standby.''
On Monday, the Census Bureau had received responses from slightly more than 7,000 of the nearly 40,000 localities across the country it had counted this year. About 1,700 had accepted the bureau's population estimates, Ms. Blackwood said, while 5,400 had filed challenges. The localities have different filing deadlines, the last of which is Sept. 24.
Los Angeles, Philadelphia, Chicago and other cities either have filed or are expected to file challenges to Census Bureau population estimates. Bureau officials have repeatedly said that they expect the estimates to rise as a result.
In an appearance before a Congressional subcommittee last week, the director of the Census Bureau, Barbara Everitt Bryant, said the agency was ready to recheck dwellings in 500,000 census blocks. Other officials said the bureau had set aside money to recheck up to 2.1 million housing units.
The Census Bureau did not provide a breakdown of its population estimate by borough or by census block, city officials said, but it did tell the city how many residences it found on each block.
 
Analysis of Real-Estate Maps
The city based its challenge on a Planning Department analysis of records from the Departments of Buildings, Finance and Housing, the Housing Authority, Consolidated Edison and the New York Telephone Company as well as on real-estate maps and aerial photographs.
That analysis determined that 254,534 housing units had been missed, ranging from 80,039 in Queens to 12,451 on Staten Island.
The Census Bureau's preliminary figures showed 2,933,053 housing units in New York City. City planners now say there are 3,187,587.
Many of the missing units cited by the city are in two bands, one that stretches across northern Manhattan and the South Bronx and another across the southern part of Brooklyn and Queens. Both are areas where substantial numbers of immigrants and members of minorities live.
The city has long contended that the Census Bureau has difficulty counting urban neighborhoods accurately, especially those in which many residents do not speak English, move frequently or fear the Government because they are undocumented aliens or illegally doubled up in public housing.
 
Exact Addresses Unknown
City officials also said that in some instances the city had found fewer residences on a block than the Census Bureau had. In one instance, they said, the bureau listed 185 housing units in Central Park, perhaps underscoring the difficulties of counting and checking counts of the city's population.
For the most part, city officials noted, they had no way of knowing the exact addresses of missing residences, since they did not know the addresses of the residences that the bureau had counted, only the number of housing units in a block.
Moreover, city officials acknowledged that 40,000 to 50,000 of the units that the city had said were missed might be vacant.
Even so, given the citywide occupancy rate of approximately 2.5 people a unit in a recent city housing survey, 200,000 uncounted units would result in about 500,000 uncounted residents.
City officials say they believe more residents were missed in housing units that the Census Bureau did count. They also said the agency's finding of more than 150,000 vacant dwellings in city was too high, leading to others being missed.
Hundreds of the blocks included in yesterday's challenge were also challenged by the city in a pre-census review in January, a circumstance Mr. Dinkins noted in a letter to Sheila Grimm, the bureau's regional director in New York.
 
Homeless Shelters Missed
In the letter, Mr. Dinkins also said city records showed that 29,329 persons in prisons, college dormitories, homeless shelters and other institutions had been missed.
Yesterday's challenge constituted the latest chapter in the contentious relationship between the Census Bureau and the city.
In 1980, the Bureau put the city's population at 7,071,639, though the agency acknowledged that it might not have counted as many as 450,000 residents. New York challenged the count but lost.
Two years ago, the city, joined by several other cities and states and civic and civil rights groups, filed another lawsuit against the Commerce Department, the Census Bureau's parent, seeking to force the bureau to conduct an additional population survey after the 1990 national headcount that could be used to compensate for another undercount.
In July 1989, on the eve of the trial, the Commerce Department, agreed that it would conduct a post-count survey and publish guidelines setting forth how it would decide whether to use the survey to adjust its count. But in December, the department released preliminary guidelines that were immediately attacked by the city as ''outrageous.'' Among other things, they allowed the department to take into account whether an adjustment would cause ''political disruption.''
Still, a lawyer representing the city in the case indicated in an interview this week that the post-count survey was ''the only safety net'' the bureau had.
''I do not think they are up to the job of catching the undercount in any systematic way,'' said the lawyer, Robert S. Rifkind.

GRAPHIC: Photo: New York City contends that census takers missed 254,534 housing units, including the 130 in this building on Greenpoint Avenue in Sunnyside, Queens. But some residents there said yesterday that census enumerators had repeatedly visited it. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times); chart of the housing units in New York City and the percentage difference between the two counts. (source: City Planning Commission)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TELEPHONE CO (72%); US CENSUS BUREAU (94%); US CENSUS BUREAU (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: POPULATION; CENSUS CENSUS (97%); CITIES (94%); CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (91%); POPULATION SIZE (91%); CITY LIFE (90%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: LEVINE, RICHARD; BLACKWOOD, DIERDRE GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 



576 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: Rinfret, Out of Money, Threatens To Abandon Race for Governor

BYLINE: By FRANK LYNN

 BODY:
Pierre A. Rinfret lost a campaign manager and a finance chairman today and disclosed that his campaign for governor of New York State was broke. He threatened to end the campaign unless Republican leaders started supporting him financially and politically.
In an unusual move in an erratic campaign, Mr. Rinfret told the leaders that he had no money for campaigning and that he was ''probably going to have to shut down our operations on Friday.''
At the same time, his manager, Assemblyman John J. Faso of Kinderhook, left the campaign, saying he disagreed with the strategy of threatening Republican leaders. 
 
Promises Statement Tomorrow
William E. Simon, the former Secretary of the Treasury and the campaign's finance chairman, also quit, saying he would not raise money for Mr. Rinfret, an economist who was virtually unknown in state politics before his nomination. ''I told him I'm not a fund-raiser, that's it,'' Mr. Simon said in a telephone interview. ''I wish him well.''
He said that starting next week, he would be in the Far East until after the election. He spent most of the summer on his yacht in Europe.
The candidate and his aides did not answer telephone calls today, but a person close to Mr. Rinfret expressed doubt that he would actually quit the campaign. The associate acknowledged that Mr. Rinfret's threat has ''shaken up a lot of people.'' He said that the candidate would be unavailable to reporters, but not to politicians, until tomorrow, when he would issue a statement. Mr. Rinfret's name will be on the ballot in any event.
The developments came two days after the release of a Marist Institute poll of 821 voters. Only 14.5 percent said they would vote for Mr. Rinfret, the lowest rating any politician could recall for a major party candidate. The margin of error was plus or minus four percentage points.
 
Senate Control Threatened
Mr. Rinfret's poor showing so far and the latest developments in his stumbling campaign raised the possibility of an electoral disaster that could cost the Republicans the State Senate, which they now control by a 32-to-26 margin with three seats vacant. It could also cost the party the second line on future ballots and any chance of controlling the Legislature for 10 years.
Republican leaders, who have been distancing themselves from what they consider an electoral debacle, said they were shocked and unable to contact Mr. Rinfret. State Senator Guy J. Velella, the Bronx Republican leader and chairman of the State Senate Republican Campaign Committee, speculated that Mr. Rinfret was ''trying to scare people.'' Mr. Velella had refused a Rinfret request for Senate Republican campaign funds.
Mr. Rinfret said in a television interview on Sunday that he had raised $1.25 million. In his last financial report, in mid-July, he reported raising $869,632, including $540,000 of his own money, with $709,225 unspent at that time. The next report is due on Oct. 5.
 
Conservatives Seek to Capitalize
Seeking to capitalize on the Republican troubles, Michael Long, the Conservative Party state chairman, called on Republicans to unite behind the Conservative gubernatorial candidate, Herbert London.
Democrats are making their strongest effort in years to win the State Senate. Gaining a majority in that chamber, coupled with their control of the governorhip and the Assembly, would allow them to completely dominate the redrawing of Congressional and legislative district lines. They would have a golden opportunity if there was any sizable drop in the Republican statewide vote because of dissatisfaction with Mr. Rinfret.
''If people stay home, you are about to see the biggest blowout in history,'' Mr. Long said. His Republican counterpart, J. Patrick Barrett, who has not been active in the Rinfret campaign, did not return telephone calls.
Mr. Long said a shift of voters from Mr. Rinfret to Mr. London might cost the Republicans the second line on the ballot for the next four years. But he added that that would be ''temporary'' compared with a loss of the State Senate to Democrats, who would then control the reapportionment process that decides district lines for the next 10 years.
If the Republican gubernatorial candidate ran third behind Mr. London, the 28-year-old Conservative Party would become the state's second-ranking party, behind the Democrats, and share with them the naming of members of boards of elections from the state level on down to neighborhood election districts. It would be the first time since the founding of the Republican Party in the Civil War era that the Democratic-Republican monopoly in the state was broken.
 
Breaking With Inner Circle
Mr. Rinfret has broken with several members of his initial inner circle, including State Senator Roy M. Goodman, the Manhattan Republican leader who recruited him to be the gubernatorial candidate, and Larry Kudlow, a Bear Stearns partner, a vice chairman of the Republican state committee and an early Rinfret adviser.
Mr. Goodman said he had not been asked to be a Rinfret adviser.
The businessman who recommended Mr. Rinfret as a possible candidate to Senator Goodman, Lawrence C. Leeds Jr., said last night that he knew nothing of the day's events. ''I think Pierre has a lot of good attributes in terms of being able to run this state,'' Mr. Leeds said. ''Hopefully, as the public gets to know him a little better, he can get a lot of votes.''
Vice President Dan Quayle was the main attraction at a Rinfret fund-raiser on Tuesday at the Sky Club, but the event netted at most $15,000, Mr. Faso said. He said he was leaving by mutual agreement because he disagreed with ''the direction of the campaign.'' Mr. Faso has been criticized by Republican leaders for what several said was his unswerving loyalty to the candidate even when he was criticizing fellow Republicans like Jack F. Kemp, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
Mr. Rinfret did not appear at two Quayle ''photo opportunities'' before and after the fund-raiser. He also canceled campaign events over the weekend, angering Republican leaders.
One, Comptroller Peter T. King of Nassau County, publicly echoed what many Republicans have said privately. ''Rank-and-file Republicans are going to start looking to Herb London as a rational alternative to Mario Cuomo,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Pierre A. Rinfret (The New York Times) (pg. A1); Pierre A. Rinfret, the Repubican candidate for governor, said that his campaign was broke and that he was ''probably going to have to shut down our operations on Friday.'' In July, Mr. Rinfret, right, talked with Assemblyman John J. Faso, who quit as campaign manager. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times) (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FAR EAST MOTORS (55%); STATE SENATE REPUBLICAN CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (81%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY; MARIST INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC OPINION MARIST INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC OPINION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); FINANCES; PUBLIC OPINION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); FUNDRAISING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); BALLOTS (73%); 

PERSON: LYNN, FRANK; RINFRET, PIERRE A; FASO, JOHN J (ASSEMBLYMAN); SIMON, WILLIAM E WILLIAM EDWARD 'WILLIAM E' SIMON (71%); 



577 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-13

 
An air embargo of Iraq and Kuwait may soon be carried out. The U.S., the Soviet Union and the other three permanent members of the U.N. Security Council were reported close to an agreement on a resolution calling for such an embargo. Page A1

 
The Administration's gulf policy is receiving more criticism from Congress. Nonexistent in the first days after Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, the criticism is growing louder as lawmakers openly attack the President on several key points. A10 
 
 
President Bush was explicit about the possibility of war in the Persian Gulf. He said he is ''prepared to take additional steps'' if diplomacy fails to resolve the crisis peacefully. A10

 
Iraqi tankers' loading oil in gulf may signal Iranian help A10

 
Israel said to fault U.S. arms sales A12

 
U.S. officials satisfied with Soviets' gulf role A11

 
Jordan made a strong public plea for international financial aid, warning that unless it is compensated for enforcing the international embargo against Iraq, the nation's economy may collapse. A11
 
Turks, on West's side, regain voice A11

 
French magazine says Saudi radar can spot stealth fighters A12

 
East Germany's economy is a mess. With the union of the Germanys weeks away, the magnitude of East Germany's troubles is becoming clearer; Western companies have balked at investing in outdated industries, and unemployment is soaring. A1

 
Poland's President will step down soon. Wojciech Jaruzelski notified Parliament of his decision, which paves the way for general elections to choose his successor. A1

 
The Prime Minister of India, V. P. Singh, told a reporter about the frustrations he has encountered in seeking new sources of investments abroad to hasten development. A3

 
Vietnamese pay a high-level visit to China A9

 
De Klerk acts to stop violence among blacks A13

 
I.R.A. raid wounds ex-Gibraltar Governor A6

 
Guatemala is told to solve slaying A7

 
Managua Journal: The vice president won't shut up A4

 
National A14-18, B4-6

 
News analysis: A clear message of dissatisfaction was sent by voters to their political leaders Tuesday in Massachusetts and Oklahoma, as a widespread mood of discontent with government and politics began to boil over at the ballot box. A1

 
Stunning primary in Massachusetts A16

 
Man in the news: John R. Silber, gubernatorial candidate A16

 
A type of cancer has been prevented by giving people a form of a vitamin, researchers say. High doses of a derivative of vitamin A prevent lung, throat and mouth cancers in people who are at high risk of developing them, a study found. A1

 
The National Cancer Institute said that a nationwide study has found no increased risk of death from cancer for people living near nuclear plants or other nuclear installations. B6

 
The Oakland Police Department has reopened 203 rape cases, many involving prostitutes or women who abuse drugs, after admitting that the cases were dropped without even minimal investigation. A14

 
Drug treatment programs in the U.S. have been neglected, eroding steadily for more than a decade, and should be greatly expanded, according to a two-year study by a panel of medical and drug treatment experts. B5
 
The Senate Judiciary Committee ended its hearings on the nomination of Judge David H. Souter to the Supreme Court, and minutes later several Senators announced that they would vote to confirm him. A14

 
Seven hours of talks, no budget accord B4

 
Eleven Hispanic F.B.I. agents who joined in a landmark discrimination lawsuit against the bureau have been promoted by the Director, William S. Sessions. B4

 
Newspaper faults columnist for remarks on Jews A18

 
Puerto Rico Journal: A drive to make Spanish No. 1 voice A14

 
Regional B1-3

 
As many as one million New Yorkers were not counted by the Census Bureau, city officials said. They contended that census counters missed more than 250,000 apartments and houses in the five boroughs. A1

 
Confusion over the count in one Queens building B2

 
Pierre A. Rinfret is out of money. The Republican candidate for governor of New York also lost a campaign manager and a finance chairman. He threatened Republican leaders that he would end the campaign unless they started supporting him. A1

 
The recent concern over violence in New York City may have been prompted, in part, by well-publicized incidents and attacks outside the poor minority neighborhoods where crime is endemic, Mayor Dinkins suggested in a radio interview. B1

 
Five protesters arrested outside stores being boycotted B3

 
Tropical gardens in New York City? In corners of the city that are better known for growing despair, some Puerto Ricans have made tiny tropical worlds out of the detritus of abandoned houses and vacant lots. B1

 
The leased-access cable TV channels that serve Manhattan are to disappear on Oct. 1, and some people fear that a vital link to New York's uncountably diverse populations will be lost. B1

 
The New York Post's news staff was hit by a wave of resignations. Roughly a third of the staff quit by yesterday's 5 P.M. deadline, established by the paper's owner for receiving a severance bonus of eight weeks pay. B1

 
Teaneck inquiry under criticism by police chiefs B2

 
Court prohibits sex bias in choosing trial juries B3

 
Business Digest D1

 
The Home Section

 
Among hummel fans, details mean so much C1

 
On shrunken lots, full-sized houses C1

 
The new discount frontier: home C1

 
Close to Home C2

 
Currents C3

 
Home Improvement C4

 
Using tobacco to stain raw pine C5

 
What should parents worry about? C7

 
Parent & Child C8

 
A Gardener's World C10

 
Arts/Entertainment

 
Furor over Puccini inheritance C13

 
Film directors switch to TV C13

 
Church and troupe clash C14

 
Music: Grateful Dead C15

 
Dance: Martha Graham troupe at Lyons Biennial C13

 
Butoh confronts the egg C17

 
Word and Image: PBS stations oppose streamlining C18

 
''The Book of J'' C18

 
''The Flash'' C20

 
Obituaries D22

 
Dr. Arnold Friedman, authority on migraine headaches
 
Thomas L. Raleigh Jr., a senior executive at Price Waterhouse
 
Sports

 
Baseball: Pirates defeat Cubs
 B11

 
Blue Jays move into first B11

 
Mets play two today B12

 
Red Sox fall to second B12

 
Column: Moran on Minnie Minoso B11

 
Football: Giants' Collins out four weeks B13

 
Bills in turmoil B13

 
Olympics: Atlanta's public authority takes over B11

 
Road Racing: Outstanding field in Fifth Avenue Mile B13

 
Health Page B8

 
Personal Health
 
Study links emotions to second heart attacks
 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed

 
Editorials A20

 
Second-best way to save gas
 
Guatemalan democracy
 
The politics of slash and burn
 
Leslie H. Gelb: Numbers
 
Letters A20

 
Anna Quindlen: Suicide solution A21

 
William Safire: Games Asians play A21

 
Charles Lockwood: Gangs, crime, smut, violence A21

 
Alfred A. DelliBovi: Why H.U.D. ran from Grace A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (95%); KUWAIT (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); ISRAEL (79%); TURKEY (79%); INDIA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); CHINA (79%); GULF STATES (79%); POLAND (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); CANCER (86%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ARMS TRADE (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); POLITICS (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); GOVERNORS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); RESEARCH REPORTS (65%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (62%); ORAL CANCER (60%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



578 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 7, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: GUATEMALA IS TOLD TO SOLVE SLAYING

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
The Bush Administration has told President Vinicio Cerezo of Guatemala that it will cut military aid if the recent killing of an American innkeeper is not fully investigated and the suspects are not prosecuted, State Department officials say.
The body of the innkeeper, Michael DeVine, 49 years old, originally a resident of Belleville, Ill., who lived in Guatemala for almost 20 years, was found on June 9 on the side of a road, his head partly severed and his hands tied behind his back. Since then, a private investigator employed by his widow, Carole, has uncovered evidence that points to the involvement of a local Guatemalan Army unit based in the northeastern town of Flores.
While no motive for the crime has been firmly established, a senior Senate aide who is monitoring the case said the seeming involvement of an army intelligence unit suggested a linkage to drugs or other contraband. 
The Senate aide, who spoke on condition that he not be identified, said that there was no indication Mr. DeVine was involved in drugs himself, but that he might have accidentally come across evidence of army involvement in the growing of poppies for heroin production.
 
Washington Cuts Aid
The DeVine case comes when relations between the Bush Administration and the Cerezo Government are strained. The Administration recalled Ambassador Thomas F. Stroock for a week in March, protesting rising human rights abuses and Mr. Cerezo's inability or unwillingness to assert civilian control over the Guatemalan Army.
Between 1989 and 1990, Washington cut economic aid to Guatemala from $141.3 million to $113.4 million and military aid from from $7 million to $3.3 million. The State Department this month placed Guatemala on its list of major drug-trafficking countries because of its growing poppy crop.
Ambassador Stroock warned Mr. Cerezo in at least two meetings in the last four weeks that the Administration would cancel much if not all of the remaining military aid next year unless the DeVine case was resolved, State Department officials said.
Mr. Cerezo, in a letter to Mr. Stroock dated Sept. 6, pledged that the national police and Attorney General's office would investigate the killing.
''People linked to the security forces could be responsible for the death,'' Mr. Cerezo acknowledged. ''It is our aim to pursue every investigation to determine such responsibility, and if that's the case, find those responsible for the act and apply the sanctions the law establishes.''
 
Unkept Commitments Noted
The State Department was gratified that Mr. Cerezo stated his commitment to solving the DeVine case, but United States officials privately expressed skepticism that the Guatemalan Government and army would prosecute army officers. They noted that Guatemalan officers are rarely punished for human rights abuses.
''We've been disappointed before on unkept commitments,'' a State Department official said, ''but we're willing to give the Government the benefit of the doubt for a few weeks.'' The official said there were a number of suspects in the case, whom the Government had pledged to question.
Mr. DeVine, who adopted two Mayan Indian children with his wife, was a popular member of the American community in Guatemala. He held an interest in a restaurant in the resort town of Antigua and owned a ranch in the jungle province of Peten that he converted into a inn that offered tourists horseback riding, fishing and hiking. ''He was a clean-cut kind of guy,'' said the Senate aide monitoring the case.
According to evidence compiled by a private investigator and confirmed by the United States Embassy, the white Toyota pickup truck used by Mr. DeVine's assailants is currently assigned to the Guatemalan Army base in Flores. The truck, which the army used to accompany local gasoline trucks to protect them from guerrilla attack, has since been repainted red.
 
Public Protests Avoided
While the Administration has strongly pressed the DeVine case privately with Mr. Cerezo and top Defense Ministry officers, officials said the State Department was moving cautiously in public. They said the Administration feared that public protests could make the case an issue in the current presidential election campaign, one that could be used by the ruling Christian Democrats to prove their nationalism.
Mr. Cerezo is ineligible to run for re-election this November, but his hand-picked candidate, former Foreign Minister Alfonso Cabrera Hidalgo, is the Christian Democratic standard-bearer. Mr. Cabrera, who has been repeatedly linked to drug traffickers by Western diplomats, has used the private helicopter of a reputed narcotics smuggler on campaign trips.
While the Bush Administration has not taken a public position on the election, United States officials have made it known that they do not want Mr. Cabrera to win.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GUATEMALA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (92%); STATE DEPARTMENT (88%); GUATEMALAN ARMY (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GUATEMALA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ASSASSINATIONS AND ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; AMERICANS ABROAD ; GUATEMALA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); ARMIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (88%); ASSASSINATION (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); INVESTIGATIVE SERVICES (77%); SMUGGLING (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (73%); OPIUM (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (68%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%); HEROIN (68%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); DEVINE, MICHAEL; CEREZO, VINICIO (PRES) MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 



579 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: CONFRONTATION IN THE GULF;
Bush Seems to Toughen His Approach to War

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Sept. 19

 BODY:
President Bush said today that he was ''prepared to take additional steps'' if diplomacy failed to resolve the Persian Gulf crisis peacefully.
Mr. Bush, who made his comments at a political luncheon here, was explicit for the first time in saying that there were actions he was prepared to take against Iraq beyond diplomacy and economic sanctions.
He seemed to be toughening his language in a measured way, inching ever closer to open discussion of the possibility of war. But the White House tried to knock down speculation that this was a calculated move. 
 
Implicit Threat of War
The threat of military action against President Saddam Hussein of Iraq has been implicit in the President's words and actions since he first sent American troops to Saudi Arabia on Aug. 7, five days after the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait.
Mr. Bush has pointedly refused to rule out the possibility of war in his public statements, and his speech to Congress last week left little doubt that he was prepared to take military action if economic sanctions fail. But the White House has tied its talk of ''options'' to the idea of expanding the current sanctions.
Today Mr. Bush repeated the United Nations' demands that Iraq withdraw from Kuwait, restore the previous Government to power and free all the hostages it is holding in Iraq and Kuwait. Then he added: ''If Iraq does not meet these nonnegotiable conditions, then its isolation will not end. We are, as I have said before, prepared to take additional steps if sanctions and the quest for a political resolution do not work.''
Mr. Bush inserted the phrase ''as I have said before'' after an advance text of his remarks circulated among reporters and White House aides were besieged by questions about the phrasing.
 
Vagueness in Helsinki
Even before he spoke, the aides tried to soften the impact of his words, saying they were a ''nuance'' and not a change in policy, because the Administration has been prepared for the possibility of war for weeks. Speaking on condition of anonymity, the aides also said Mr. Bush did not mean for his speech to toughen the tone of the oratory directed at Mr. Hussein.
Before Mr. Bush met in Helsinki with President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union on Sept. 9, the White House said he would ''review options'' if the current sanctions against Iraq failed in their purpose of strangling Iraq's economy. But White House officials said they were referring primarily to additional economic measures.
In Helsinki, Mr. Bush and Mr. Gorbachev issued a joint statement saying that if ''current steps'' failed to drive Iraq from Kuwait, ''we are prepared to consider additional ones consistent with the U.N. Charter.'' Administration officials, including Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d, said that left open the possibility of military action, but the wording was kept deliberately vague because Mr. Gorbachev refused to agree to a more explicit endorsement of military force.
In his speech to Congress last week, Mr. Bush went a step further. ''Sanctions will take time to have their full intended effect,'' he said. ''We will continue to review all options with our allies, but let it be clear: we will not let this aggression stand.''
In his speech today, Mr. Bush reiterated his commitment to pursuing a diplomatic solution to the gulf crisis. And he repeated his support for humanitarian shipments of food and medicine to Iraq and Kuwait to aid ''innocent children, mothers, the sick and the elderly.''
 
'Strict Supervision'
But he said this must be done under ''strict supervision.'' In Denver on Tuesday, at another political event, Mr. Bush said, ''We cannot allow Saddam Hussein to divert needed humanitarian aid in order to sustain his army of occupation.''
During his two-day swing through California to aid Senator Pete Wilson in his gubernatorial campaign, Mr. Bush has drawn an increasingly direct political connection between the gulf crisis and the election campaigns around the country.
Mr. Bush said the American forces in the gulf were ''striving to defend'' American freedoms. ''One of these freedoms is the right to vote, to choose our form of government,'' he said. ''Fellow Republicans, I can't think of anything that would better honor these heroes than to exercise that privilege. As we do we'll stand up for America. We'll show Saddam Hussein what this great nation is all about.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (95%); KUWAIT (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); GULF STATES (90%); FINLAND (86%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (90%); 

CITY: HELSINKI, FINLAND (86%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; KUWAIT; SAUDI ARABIA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); HOSTAGE TAKING (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (89%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); 



580 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: CONFRONTATION IN THE GULF;
Iraqi Tankers' Loading Oil in Gulf May Signal Iranian Help in Breaking Embargo

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
Three Iraqi tankers have recently docked and taken on oil at an Iraqi pipeline terminal in the Persian Gulf, American officials said today, a move that may signal new efforts by President Saddam Hussein to export oil and to enlist Iran into breaking the global trade embargo against his Government.
The development comes as the Director of Central Intelligence, William H. Webster, said that Mr. Hussein has managed to smuggle up to three million barrels of oil out of his country, either by truck or by ship, since Iraq's invasion of Kuwait on Aug. 2.
 
No Sizable Leak Seen
Mr. Webster, in an appearance in Manhattan on Tuesday evening, said the smuggled oil totals only 2 or 3 percent of Iraq's potential production during that period and does not represent a significant leak in the United Nations embargo.
Before the economic sanctions against Iraq were imposed by the United Nations, Iraq and Kuwait were authorized by OPEC cartel agreements to ship a total of 4.6 million barrels of oil daily, but production for export has virtually ceased since the trade embargo began on Aug. 6. 
 
Fear Iran Transshipment
The movement of the Iraqi tankers has raised concerns among Government analysts that the oil they take on is destined for Iran, where it could be moved onto Iranian tankers for sale on the world market.
United States intelligence officials say they have recently detected a new push by Mr. Hussein to win Iran's help in breaking the embargo, said the officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
They said that Iran recently had discussed with Iraqi officials the possibility of linking the two nations' pipeline networks, a project the Central Intelligence Agency believes could be completed in about a month. Such a link could move up to 500,000 barrels of Iraqi oil into the Iranian system each day, C.I.A. analysts are said to believe.
Iraq and Iran also have discussed an arrangement under which Iran would sell Iraq's oil on the world market in exchange for a share of the profits, one Administration official said today.
 
Unloading at Kharg
Officials say that the three oil-laden Iraqi tankers now anchored in the Persian Gulf could easily sail for Iran's main oil terminal, at nearby Kharg Island, where they would unload their oil for export through Iran's tanker facilities there.
Those concerns are heightened by the fact that all four Iraqi tankers now off the Fao peninsula arrived there by a circuitous route, hugging the Iranian coast and avoiding international waters where they might be stopped and inspected by foreign warships.
The United Nations resolution that authorizes military action to enforce the embargo, passed on Aug. 25, does not specify whether that authorization is limited to international waters, but instead ''invites'' member states to cooperate to insure compliance.
A State Department official said tonight that the United States would not enter another nation's waters to enforce the embargo without first asking permission. It is not known whether Washington did so in the case of the Iraqi tankers.
The route apparently was approved in advance by Iran. It worked for most of the tankers, but the last of the four, called Al Fao, was stopped by an American warship and inspected before it reached Iranian waters, a senior Pentagon official said today. The inspection found no contraband and the tanker was allowed to proceed.
 
A Matter of Sanctuary
That official and other Government experts said today that the coast-hugging gambit raises questions of whether Iran intends to help Iraq slip the naval blockade by giving its tankers sanctuary while they shuttle between Iraqi pipeline terminals and Iran's Kharg Island terminal.
The tankers all anchored off Iraq's southern coast in the last three weeks. They are the first to load Iraqi crude oil since the invasion and the blockade that followed it. Al Fao tied up in the same area this week, but has yet to take on oil, United States officials said.
On Tuesday, after an address to a private group in New York, Mr. Webster said that C.I.A. experts believe that the embargo has stopped 97 to 98 percent of the oil that left Iraq before the invasion. Iraq had been exporting 3.14 million barrels of oil daily.
 
Most Going to Jordan
Mr. Webster said the vast majority of the oil that has escaped the embargo has gone to Jordan in exchange for forgiveness of Jordanian debts to Iraq. Other Government officials said today that Jordan is receiving up to 45,000 barrels of oil a day from Iraq, all by truck - the same amount it received before the embargo.
Jordan has told the United States that none of the oil is being re-exported, one official said today.
By accepting the oil, Jordan is technically violating the United Nations trade ban, which orders member states to bar the import ''of all commodities and products originating in Iraq.''
The rest of the oil that is known to have escaped the embargo was shipped to Yemen shortly after the invasion and is sitting in the Iraqi tankers anchored off the Fao peninsula, officials said.
 
U.S. Sharing Intelligence
In a related matter, Mr. Webster said Tuesday that American intelligence agencies are distributing some of their reporting on the Kuwait crisis to allies around the world, but that they were not exchanging intelligence with the Soviet Union.
He said the United States ''would be very happy if they'd share some things about their weapons and equipment'' sold to Iraq's military, but that the Soviets appeared unwilling to provide that sort of data.
Today, Vladimir Kryuchkov, head of the Soviet intelligence service, the K.G.B., told The Associated Press in an interview that his agency would welcome an exchange of intelligence on Iraq.
The C.I.A.'s spokesman, Mark Mansfield, said today that the agency does not comment on intelligence relationships with other nations.
Mr. Webster has often said that the United States would not deal directly with the K.G.B. until the Soviet Union is proven to have abandoned its support of terrorism and instituted democratic reforms.

GRAPHIC: Maps of Kuwait showing locations of Fao Peninsula and Kharg Island.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); GULF STATES (93%); KUWAIT (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; IRAN

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PIPELINES; TANKERS EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); MARINE TANKERS (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); OIL & GAS STORAGE FACILITIES (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); SMUGGLING (76%); MILITARY VESSELS (75%); NAVAL VESSELS (75%); CARTELS (67%); 

PERSON: HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (91%); 



581 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: CONFRONTATION IN THE GULF;
Turks, on West's Side, Regain Voice

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ANKARA, Turkey, Sept. 19

 BODY:
Although the Persian Gulf crisis is adding to this country's already considerable burdens, it has also handed Turks an unexpected gift of reborn confidence. Turkey's troubles are plain enough. It stands to lose billions of dollars a year in trade and investment because of the embargo against Iraq, and prices in the last few weeks have skyrocketed for basics like gasoline and bread. From senior officials to store clerks, Turks say they dread being dragged into an unwanted war in neighboring Arab lands that once were part of the Ottoman Empire.
There is, some of them point out, an old saying here born of painful experience: ''Don't get mixed up in Arabs' business.'' 
Yet the country's leadership, exuding self-assurance, argues that its tough, unhesitating stand against Iraq and alongside the West must reap long-term benefits. However the crisis may end, officials insist, the United States and Europe will have to recognize Turkey as a powerful voice in the region.
 
'Turkey Will Be Present'
''If there are profound changes in the Middle East map, Turkey will be present at the discussions,'' said Kamran Inan, a Cabinet minister. ''Naturally, this cannot be done behind our back.''
Ercan Vuralhan, a former Defense Minister and a member of Parliament from the ruling Motherland Party, added, ''Without Turkey, you cannot establish a successful Western position in the Middle East.''
Some right-wing Turks go so far as to demand that they win back Iraq's northern provinces of Kirkuk and Mosul, rich in oil, which they regard as having been unfairly lost in the reparceling of former Ottoman lands in the 1920's. This, however, is not a position that anyone in the center-right Government has taken publicly, and opposition leaders on the left warn against dreams of territorial expansion.
More modestly, Turkey wants to reap immediate economic benefits from its anti-Iraq line. President Turgut Ozal, the chief architect of Turkish policy and the only politician here with real power, is expected to bring along a shopping list when he goes to Washington next week to meet President Bush.
Even more than financial help to offset embargo-related losses, the Turks want Washington to increase its quotas for their textile imports.
 
More Military Assistance
Turkey also wants more than the $500 million a year it now gets from the United States in military assistance, to help modernize an army that is hobbled by outmoded equipment. According to Mr. Vuralhan, this may include a specific request that Washington modify its requirement that for every $10 in military aid that goes to Turkey, archrival Greece gets $7.
The Turks regard the formula as unfair capitulation to the Greek lobby, given the fact that Turkey's population of 57 million is about six times that of Greece and its armed forces of 800,000 is the largest in North Atlantic Treaty Organization except for the United States.
Now, Turks like to think they may be able to apply pressure of their own, something that was close to unimaginable until Iraq invaded Kuwait last month.
As recently as the beginning of August, many here were convinced that they had been exiled to the margins of the world's strategic map through a logic that to them seemed irrefutable:
The sudden end of the cold war meant NATO's decline as a military force, and with it Turkey's importance as the alliance's southern bulwark. By extension, the argument ran, Turkey would lose its trump card in its fierce campaign for eventual membership in the European Community - a mission already difficult enough for a large, poor, Muslim nation that lies almost entirely in Asia.
 
Neutrality Quickly Abandoned
But President Saddam Hussein of Iraq changed those perceptions in a single day by invading Kuwait. It reminded everyone, including the United States and Europe, that Turkey remained a pivotal component of Western strategy. Mr. Ozal, who much to his opponents' dismay has turned the largely ceremonial Turkish presidency into a powerful position, reinforced the new image by abandoning this country's traditional neutrality in Middle Eastern disputes and retaliating swiftly against Iraq.
Most significantly, in the opinion of Western diplomats, Turkey moved in the first days of the crisis to shut twin pipelines across its southern territory that had carried more than half of Iraq's oil exports. Mr. Ozal has since been as ardent a preacher as any for the need to maintain sanctions.
The Turks have also let the United States keep 14 F-111 bombers at the Incirlik air base near the southern city of Adana, and may also allow 24 F-16 fighters to stay on after a long-planned military exercise is completed.
Officials say Turkish forces have been beefed up considerably along the border with Iraq to nearly 100,000 men, pinning down a comparable force said to have been amassed on the Iraqi side.
 
No Troops to Gulf
Thus far, Turkey has sent no troops or ships to the Persian Gulf. But on Sept. 5 Mr. Ozal increased his powers on this score as well when Parliament, completely in his ruling party's control, handed over to the Government what normally is the legislature's prerogative to send troops abroad and to let foreign soldiers be stationed here.
Opinion polls strongly suggest that Turks want no part of a shooting war, and so Turkish soldiers presumably would be shipped overseas only as a last resort. Still, most newspapers and virtually all opposition politicians are skittish about the steps already taken.
Even among strongly anti-Hussein officials in the Government, there is a wide streak of skepticism that the crisis will suddenly melt overseas hostility to Turkey or Western Europe's reluctance to let the Turks join its economic union. In the end, they suspect, all they may reap for their troubles is one more report attacking their human-rights policies.
''When this thing is over, we will be put in our place,'' a senior official said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); TURKEY (94%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); GREECE (92%); GULF STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (90%); 

CITY: ANKARA, TURKEY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; TURKEY; IRAQ

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (84%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (77%); ARMIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); LOBBYING (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (70%); POLITICS (70%); TEXTILES (50%); 

PERSON: HABERMAN, CLYDE GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 



582 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: CONFRONTATION IN THE GULF;
AMMAN ASKS FUNDS TO HELP IN CRISIS

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: AMMAN, Jordan, Sept. 19

 BODY:
The Jordanian Government made a strong public plea for international financial aid today, warning that unless it is compensated for enforcing the international embargo against Iraq, the nation's economy may collapse.
Private economists and foreign diplomats, noting that more than half the nation's exports had been sold to Iraq and Kuwait, said the Government's warning appeared to be valid.
Foreign diplomats also said they feared mass unemployment and food shortages if the downward economic spiral caused by the gulf crisis was not stopped, though the Jordanians themselves did not issue such dire warnings. 
Still, the Finance Ministry did say that, with hundreds of thousands of unemployed Jordanian workers pouring back into the country from Iraq and Kuwait, the nation's unemployment rate, which already stands at 15 percent, may rise to 35 percent or higher.
 
'Keep Our Options Open'
As to the concern that Jordan's support for Iraq may discourage other countries from offering assistance, Finance Minister Basel Jardeneh contended at a news conference that ''Jordan certainly is not a part of this conflict - it has nothing to do with the invasion of Kuwait.''
Information Minister Ibrahim Izziddin said: ''We decided the best thing was to keep our options open to all parts of the conflict. If there is going to be a peaceful settlement, someone should be able to talk to Iraq.''
Although the United Nations sanctions committee and several individual countries have said they agreed there was a need to provide compensatory aid, Jordanian officials say they do not know when the money will be received or how much it may be.
West Germany and Japan have together offered several billion dollars in aid to the countries most affected by the crisis, but the offers are imprecise.
Japan, for example, said last week that it was ''considering'' giving $2 billion to Jordan, Egypt and Turkey, but Jordanian officials say they don't know how much of that would be intended for this country.
Saudi Arabia and other gulf nations that have offered large sums in aid to the United States and other countries in the crisis have conspicuously declined to offer anything to Jordan. The gulf countries are openly angry at Jordan's support for Iraq.
But while Jordanian officials say they are grateful for the pledges of aid, the offers have not been received with unequivocal enthusiasm.
The Finance Ministry has told that United Nations that if the gulf crisis continues for a year, the problem will cost $2 billion, which is equivalent to two-thirds of the nation's gross national product.
Jordan's economic relationship with Iraq and Kuwait has been ''very intimate, very deep, very close,'' Mr. Jardeneh said. ''The economy is facing very strong dislocation - I mean, people who are producing mainly for Iraq won't find it easy to find new markets.
A Finance Ministry report showed, as examples, that the virtual closure of the port of Aqaba would cost Jordan $250 million in lost port charges and overland transportation fees over a year.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Filipinos who fled to Jordan after the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait boarding a Japan Air Lines jet in Amman. The jetliner was chartered by Japan. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: JORDAN (99%); IRAQ (95%); JAPAN (94%); KUWAIT (94%); GULF STATES (92%); EGYPT (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TURKEY (79%); 

CITY: AMMAN, JORDAN (91%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; JORDAN; IRAQ; KUWAIT

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); FOOD CHARITIES (73%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); 

PERSON: BRINKLEY, JOEL



583 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: CONFRONTATION IN THE GULF;
U.S. Officials Satisfied With Soviets' Gulf Role

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
Ten days after the summit meeting in Helsinki, Bush Administration officials say they are satisfied with Soviet cooperation in isolating Iraq.
Senior Administration officials said that whatever differences emerged in Helsinki between President Bush and President Mikhail S. Gorbachev over the use of military force to resolve the crisis have been overshadowed by the diplomatic coordination that has emerged since the meeting.
They noted with particular enthusiasm the recent warming in Moscow's relationships with Israel and Saudi Arabia, and Soviet support of United Nations Security Council efforts to expand the blockade on Iraq to include restrictions on air traffic.
''We've been exceptionally pleased with the Soviet role,'' said a senior State Department official, who insisted on not being identified. ''Without the current Soviet position, the whole color of the gulf problem would be totally different.'' 
 
Soviet Visit to Teheran
The official said the Helsinki meeting was crucial in demonstrating to Iraq that the two countries were working in concert for the removal of Iraqi military forces from Kuwait. The meeting was also useful, he said, because ''the two guys could condition each other for the future, for what they would do next.''
Officials said they were not concerned by a visit by a Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister, Aleksandr M. Belonogov, to Teheran this week to discuss the gulf crisis with Iranian leaders. Although detailed information was not available on his trip, the officials expressed confidence that his visit would not undermine efforts to isolate Iraq.
''There are no signs that the Soviets are doing anything other than urging the Iranians to comply with the sanctions,'' said another senior State Department official. He and others in the Administration said the Soviet Union was in a better position than the United States to ''steady Iran'' in support of the embargo.
American officials applauded Mr. Gorbachev's meeting last weekend in Moscow with two Israeli officials, Finance Minister Yitzhak Modai and Science and Energy Minister Yuval Neeman, as a step toward eventual Soviet diplomatic recognition of Israel.
 
Saudi-Soviet Ties Applauded
Though Mr. Gorbachev told the ministers that he would recognize Israel only after it dropped its opposition to an international conference on the Middle East, American officials suggested that Moscow would not allow its long-held demand for such a meeting to hinder its efforts to expand its diplomatic role in the Middle East.
They also noted with approval the visit to Moscow by the Israeli Housing Minister, Ariel Sharon, for several days last week to discuss resettlement of Soviet Jews to Israel.
United States officials pointed to the restoration of relations between the Soviet Union and Saudi Arabia earlier this week as another positive diplomatic development.
Administration officials have not yet begun to characterize the Soviets as allies. Indeed, they expressed some disappointment that Moscow had done no more than contribute two small warships to the international gulf force -vessels that are being deployed only in defense of Soviet shipping and citizens. They also said they wished the Soviets would withdraw from Iraq the 150 military specialists still stationed there.
 
Military Role Criticized
But even on those points, Administration officials said they understood how difficult it was for the Soviets to alter overnight an alliance with Iraq built up over more than two decades.
''Throughout this process, they've had to be brought along,'' said a senior State Department official. ''They're really making major adjustments in relationships. We have to respect that.''
Some observers outside the Administration have expressed less appreciation of the Soviet role in the gulf.
Representative Lee H. Hamilton of Indiana, a leading Democratic member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said Soviet reluctance to do more militarily to isolate Iraq ''is a disappointment,'' adding: ''The Soviets clearly have a reluctance about the use of military force. That could be a problem down the road.''
Michael Mandelbaum, director of East-West studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, said the Soviet Union had not done much since the summit meeting besides restore relations with Saudi Arabia.
''The most important contribution the Soviets have made,'' he said, ''is to have made it possible to end the cold war, which means that for the first time in 40 years we can conduct military operations in the Middle East without worrying about triggering World War III.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); ISRAEL (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); IRAQ (94%); FINLAND (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); IRAN (90%); KUWAIT (79%); 

CITY: HELSINKI, FINLAND (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) ; SECURITY COUNCIL (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); SAUDI ARABIA ; IRAQ

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; EMBARGOES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) ; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; SAUDI ARABIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); MILITARY VESSELS (72%); NAVAL VESSELS (72%); JEWS & JUDAISM (71%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S ; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (86%); 



584 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Puerto Rico Journal;
A Drive To Make Spanish No. 1 Voice

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN JUAN, P.R.

 BODY:
Some legislators in this United States commonwealth of 3.6 million people are seeking to demote the English language and enshrine Spanish as the official tongue of Puerto Rico.
A bill now being considered by the island's House of Representatives would repeal a 1902 law that gave Spanish and English equal status. Backers of the measure say they want to do away with an anachronistic law, a vestige of the days after Spain lost the Spanish-American War in 1898 and ceded Puerto Rico to the United States.
''We want to reconcile the law with the linguistic and cultural reality of our people,'' said Representative Hector Lopez Galarza, a former professor of Spanish and Hispanic studies, who sponsored the bill. 
Opponents say the bill is unnecessary and contend that the issue was intended to embarrass those who favor statehood for the island.
A vote in the House and Senate may come as early as next month, and, if the bill is approved, Mr. Lopez Galarza said, he plans to go further and push for an amendment to Puerto Rico's constitution that would make Spanish the only official language. Such an amendment would be more durable than a mere law, he explained, especially at a time when Puerto Rico's very status as a commonwealth is in question.
The bill, which mandates that government business be conducted in Spanish, is largely symbolic, as are most of the ''English only'' laws in effect in 16 states. Proponents say they are willing to install a sizable loophole allowing transactions and documentation to continue to be in English when necessary.
And regardless of what the current law says, Spanish is clearly the primary language of Puerto Rico. Instruction in Puerto Rico's 1,700 public schools is already given in Spanish, for example, with English as a mandatory course.
Similar legislation to restore the ascendancy of Spanish has languished in the past, and many here say its reappearance is a political maneuver in the larger fight over Puerto Rico's status, long the dominant issue on the island.
The United States Congress is now looking at bills that would enable Puerto Rico to vote on its future status: whether it would be the 51st state, an independent nation or a United States commonwealth, as it is now.
Some of Mr. Lopez Galarza's opponents contend that his Popular Democratic Party, which favors commonwealth status, is bringing up the Spanish language bill as a way of embarrassing the pro-statehood New Progressive Party. These critics say the statehood forces would find it much harder to convince Congress that Puerto Rico wants to be the 51st state if the island's own legislature has just voted to repudiate English.
The language bill's chances are uncertain. In addition to the New Progressive Party, its opponents include the largest teachers' organization and some business groups, which deem it unnecessary. The Popular Democratic Party, which dominates both houses of the legislature, is itself divided.
The language debate has stirred deep-felt emotions here about cultural identity and nationalism, which sometimes conflict with residents' sense of practical reality. Many Puerto Ricans say they love Spanish, but they need English.
''From a professional point of view I'm against the bill because English is the language of business,'' said Tomas Sanabria, 32 years old, whose job with Puerto Rico's quasi-public Industrial Development Company consists of luring United States companies to the island.
With the United States accounting for most of the Island's commerce and tourism, hundreds of high-paying jobs are available only to bilingual applicants, many Puerto Ricans say.
The economic need to learn English galls some.
''You go to the states and you're forced to speak English; they come here and you have to speak English to them,'' said Carmelo A. Paris, a 26-year-old from San Juan, who said he was unemployed. ''Spanish should be the official language. It's tradition.''
But nearly a century of political and economic association with the United States has heavily influenced Puerto Rico's speech.
Even one of the bill's staunchest supporters, Representative Juan Lopez Hernandez, caught himself speaking about ''el floor'' of the House during the bill's hearings last week. ''Hemiciclo!'' a colleague whispered, correcting him, to the smiles of the audience.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PUERTO RICO

SUBJECT: SPANISH LANGUAGE; ENGLISH LANGUAGE; STATEHOOD (US) LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LINGUISTICS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (69%); 

PERSON: NAVARRO, MIREYA



585 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 225 words

HEADLINE: Racial Harm Is Found in School 'Tracking'

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: SANTA MONICA, Calif., Sept. 19

 BODY:
Black and Hispanic students are falling behind in math and science partly because they are more likely than other students to be put into classes for those with lower abilities, according to a Rand Corporation study released yesterday.
Furthermore, students in those classes tend to have less-qualified teachers and lower-quality equipment and curriculum materials, the nationwide study concluded. It cited the ''nearly universal practice'' of schools' placing their least-qualified teachers in classes of students with the least ability and best-qualified teachers in classes of brighter students.
While this ''tracking'' is supposed to sort students based only on academic ability, the Rand researchers said ethnic background too often played a role, even at the primary school level.
For example, at elementary schools where minority students make up most or all of the population, 28 percent of the curriculum consisted of low-ability math and science courses, the report said. At schools with 90 percent to 100 percent non-minority students, only 7 percent of the classes were on the slow track.
The study of 1,200 public and private schools nationwide was financed by the National Science Foundation.
The Rand Corporation, of Santa Monica, Calif., specializes in research and analysis on national security and domestic welfare issues.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (93%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (55%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: RAND CORP

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; RESEARCH; BLACKS (IN US); SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US) STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); CURRICULA (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCIENCE FUNDING (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); ETHNICITY (74%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (73%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (65%); 



586 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: THE 1990 CAMPAIGN;
STUNNING PRIMARY IN MASSACHUSETTS

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOSTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
The people of Massachusetts launched a political revolt Tuesday, giving smashing victories to Dr. John R. Silber as the Democratic candidate for governor and William F. Weld as the Republican contender.
The result sets up a November election that is too wildly unpredictable to forecast, citizens and political experts here said today, because outrage remains the public mood, and the candidates do not fit the normal political labels. Dr. Silber, in fact, the acerbic president of Boston University, is widely seen as a Republican running as a Democrat, and Mr. Weld, a patrician former United States Attorney, is often viewed as a moderate Republican.
''This wasn't an election, it was a revolution,'' said Cathy Walsh, a bank teller in Boston. Ms. Walsh, a lifelong Democrat, said she had voted for Dr. Silber ''because he tells the truth and is not afraid to take action.'' But she said she may vote for Mr. Weld in November ''because I really want to send a message to the politicians. Things are so bad, let's fire everybody and start over again.'' 
 
Virtual Clean Sweep
Indeed, Tuesday's primary election resulted in a virtual clean sweep for candidates who ran against incumbents or established politicians. Not only did Dr. Silber defeat Francis X. Bellotti, a former state Attorney General, and Mr. Weld beat Steven Pierce, the minority leader in the state House of Representatives, but the incumbent Democratic Attorney General, James Shannon, was defeated, as was the Democratic Speaker of the House, George Keverian. Mr. Keverian was running for state Treasurer.
The turnout of 1.41 million was a record for a primary election in Massachusetts, surpassing the previous high of 1.40 million set in 1982 when Michael S. Dukakis defeated the incumbent governor, Edward J. King, in a bitterly fought Democratic primary.
Dr. Silber and Mr. Weld defied public opinion polls with their victories. Dr. Silber had been behind Mr. Bellotti, 54 to 31 percent as recently as last Thursday, according to the Boston Globe. Mr. Weld had been down by more than 20 percentage points on Labor Day to his adversary, Mr. Pierce.
But in Tuesday's primary, with 98 percent of the ballots counted, Dr. Silber won 53 to 44 percent, picking up 545,447 votes to 446,265 for Mr. Bellotti. Mr. Weld defeated Mr. Pierce 60 to 40 percent, winning 26l,150 votes to 173,146 votes.
 
Year for Outsiders
The most important explanation for both men's triumphs was that they were perceived as the outsiders in a year of discontent over the biggest tax hike in Massachusetts' history and an economy that has fallen into recession.
In a talk today to a unity meeting of Democrats at the Boston Sheraton Hotel, Dr. Silber said: ''I'm the one who understood what was going on. I listened more carefully. I understood the outrage.''
Dr. Silber is not easy to label politically. He is conservative on some issues, favoring tough budget cuts, but liberal on others, opposing the death penalty and backing programs for child nutrition and early childhood schooling.
Polling experts said they believed the opinion polls had been misleading because a large group of voters did not want to tell pollsters how they really felt, perhaps because Dr. Silber had been criticized in the press and by Mr. Bellotti for remarks about the elderly, blacks and women that were construed as insensitive.
While some political analysts had laughed at Dr. Silber's comments as political suicide, the remarks nevertheless seem to have struck a chord with many voters.
Frank Tamanini, a 34 year-old Boston firefighter, said he liked Dr. Silber's toughness. ''He told it the way it is,'' he said. ''This city is all screwed up with drugs and crime.''
Dan Hart, Dr. Silber's director of operations, said that based on exit polls, Dr. Silber had run most strongly among independent white male voters older than 35, winning them by a two-to-one ratio.
Mr. Hart said the candidate fared worst among blacks and female Democrats, losing among women by about 54 to 47 percent.
Dr. Silber's weakness among women and blacks, two important voter blocks for Democrats, could hurt him in the November election.
But Mr. Weld faces a large numerical problem of his own. Republicans make up only about 13.4 percent of registered voters in Massachusetts, compared with 42.9 percent for Democrats and 43.8 percent for independents.
Mr. Weld is a strong supporter of abortion rights, while the other Republican candidate, Mr. Pierce, is a strong opponent of them. It was widely believed here today that Mr. Weld's abortion stand helped him in a state that is generally supportive of abortion rights.
 
Role of Tax Petition
One key to the November election is how voters now gauge an petition sponsored by the Citizens for Limited Taxation that would roll back state taxes and fees to their 1988 levels, forcing the next governor to cut $2 billion next year out of Massachusetts' $13 billion budget. Mr. Weld has backed the petition, which polls show winning a popular majority. Dr. Silber has called it too drastic.
Nevertheless, Dr. Silber's aides say he will try to convince voters that a vote for him will serve the same purpose as the petition, bringing fiscal responsibility to state government, without the drastic consequences of the ballot measure. But if the public remains in its anti-government mood, Mr. Weld's support for the tax-cutting petition could benefit him.
Whatever the outcome in November, many residents expressed jubilation.
Carol Obernesser, a pharmaceutical representative who lives in suburban Hingham, said: ''I think it's great. It shows that the people of Massachusetts are fed up and that this election will mean change.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: John R. Silber, left, the Democratic candidate for governor of Massachusetts, at a reconciliation luncheon yesterday in Boston with Francis X. Bellotti, who had opposed him in the primary. Elsewhere in the city, William F. Weld, right, the Republican candidate, greeted commuters. (Photographs by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON GLOBE (52%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (91%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MASSACHUSETTS

SUBJECT: PRIMARIES; GOVERNORS (US); PUBLIC OPINION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); US LABOR DAY (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); TAX INCREASES (50%); 

PERSON: BUTTERFIELD, FOX; SILBER, JOHN R; WELD, WILLIAM F JOHN R SILBER (95%); WILLIAM F WELD (92%); FRANCIS X BELLOTTI (67%); 



587 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: The Second-Best Way to Save Gas

 BODY:
There's a potent prescription that at a single stroke would slash America's dependence on foreign oil, trim the trade deficit, roll back smog and avert global warming. It's to mandate that auto manufacturers produce more fuel-efficient cars. The Senate is considering a bill by Senator Richard Bryan of Nevada to raise the fuel efficiency of new cars 20 percent by 1995 and 40 percent by the year 2001. That's not the best way of improving fuel efficiency, but it's a lot better than doing nothing. 
The most efficient way of making the national auto fleet guzzle less fuel would be to slap a stiff tax on gasoline. Fuel efficiency standards mandated by Congress are in effect a hidden tax that bites by raising the price of cars. The standards are less effective than a gas tax would be because they hit only new-car owners. Owners of old cars will hang on to their gas guzzlers longer, as the efficient cars will cost more. And even new owners, if tempted to drive more, may use nearly as much fuel as before.
A gas tax would impinge on everyone equally; in addition, each cent per gallon would raise $1 billion in revenue. But half of Washington refuses to raise new taxes, and the other half lacks the courage to explain to voters why a gas tax is necessary. In this Sahara of leadership, the Bryan bill is a beckoning oasis.
Under a law passed after the 1973 oil crisis, the average fuel economy of new cars has nearly doubled, from 14 miles per gallon to 27. Each mile-per-gallon increase saves 420,000 barrels of oil a day. The Reagan Administration opposed these standards on ideological grounds, and in 1986 the Task Force on Regulatory Relief, under its chairman, Vice President Bush, proposed abolishing them altogether. Yet without the standards, the United States would be even more dangerously dependent on foreign oil than it already is.
Further gains in efficiency are certainly possible as existing technologies spread to all new models. The Bryan bill won't be cheap; manufacturers will bear heavy retooling costs to meet this and other legislated requirements. And the feasible gains may not be as great as Senator Bryan avers. But the auto manufacturers' contention that his standards will make all cars Pinto-sized is hard to swallow whole. Detroit cries wolf so reflexively when asked for cleaner, safer or more efficient cars that its credibility runs short.
Senator Bryan may also be overly optimistic in saying his standards can be met without forcing manufacturers to offer smaller and lighter-weight cars. Reducing weight is such an obvious route to fuel efficiency that the average car is almost certain to get smaller. Smaller cars, besides their other less convenient features, are also less crush-proof in accidents. But a rise in traffic deaths need not be inevitable if the lighter cars embody improved safety features.
The Bryan bill isn't the best way to make cars fuel-efficient. But it deserves the vote of every senator who dares not demand a higher tax on gasoline.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; EDITORIALS; FUEL EFFICIENCY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; TAXATION; GASOLINE; SMOG; AIR POLLUTION ; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY FUEL TAX (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); SMOG (91%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); GASOLINE (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (60%); 

PERSON: BRYAN, RICHARD H (SEN) RICHARD H BRYAN (73%); 



588 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Notebook;
Magic Numbers in Government

BYLINE: By LESLIE H. GELB

 BODY:
New York politicians are at war over a number - 5,000 new police officers for New York City. Each politician offers powerful arguments for or against the 5,000. But all are engaged in the venerable and honorable game of setting the ''magic number.'' 
The game is the same, whether the issue is the police, budget deficits, arms control cuts or minimum wage levels. And the fact is, you can't run a government without pulling numbers out of the air, within bounds of political reason. Take the following typical examples: Today, legislators and White House officials are battling over how much to reduce the budget deficit. Some argue that a $50 billion slice would be too high, sending the economy into recession. Others insist that $30 billion is too low, and would leave interest rates too high. Neither possesses anything resembling ''proof.'' The goal for both is to set the tempo of cuts. Last year, President Bush vetoed a bill that would have raised the minimum wage to $4.55 an hour from $3.35. He and Congress then settled at $4.25. Did that 30 cents spell the difference between survival and ruin for businesses and workers? Not a chance. Each side was simply making the good fight for the benefit of its own constituents. In 1985, President Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachev agreed to cut nuclear arms by 50 percent. Where did they get that number? Not from any study of what each would need to maintain deterrence. It was small enough for each side to keep thousands of nuclear weapons, and big enough to sound consequential and dramatic.
All of which sheds some light on the police matter in New York City. Politicians, like Gov. Mario Cuomo, who want to get out front on the issue of crime, rally behind putting 5,000 new police officers on the streets, and fast. Their rivals, like Mayor David Dinkins, who don't want to move so far so quickly, dismiss the proposal as a ''magic number.''
City Hall says the champions of the 5,000 haven't made their case, and that the only rationale for the number is that it happens to represent the difference between the present force and its all-time high of 31,000 in 1971. Mayor Dinkins says he needs time to study the matter.
Well, he can study from now to next month or the end of his term and still won't be able to produce an analysis that proves 3,000 would be more cost-effective than 10,000 or 5,000. At some point, he's going to have to make a decision and pick his own magic number. That's the only proven way to focus on the size of the bill and who will pay it, and the only practical way to start the process of putting more officers on the pavements of New York.
LESLIE H. GELB

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: POLICE POLITICS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CITIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); MINIMUM WAGE (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); VETO (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); INTEREST RATES (53%); 

PERSON: GELB, LESLIE H; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



589 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: Why H.U.D. Ran From Grace

BYLINE: By Alfred A. DelliBovi; Alfred A. DelliBovi is Under Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Of all the reports produced in the last decade, one stands alone in its potential to make the Government more effective and efficient.
That is the President's Private Sector Survey on Cost Control, commonly known as the Grace commission report of 1983. Its chairman, Peter Grace, and his panel pointed the way for the Federal Government to reach twin objectives: save money and deliver better service to people who need government's help.
At many Federal agencies in the Reagan Administration, such as the Department of Transportation, the Grace commission report was taken seriously. At the Urban Mass Transportation Administration, where I served as administrator, the report's recommendations were crucial in efforts to transform the agency from a weak, ineffective player to a strong, achievement-oriented agency that defined transit's leading edge. 
Unfortunately, the same was not true at the Department of Housing and Urban Development, where failure to deal with problems identified by the Grace commission report created the fertile field in which scandals have grown.
At the U.M.T.A., weaknesses identified in the Grace commission report were tackled head on. The agency consolidated regional offices to save the costs of both personnel and office space. It installed a computerized and highly efficient grants management process to monitor and control ongoing mass transportation projects valued at more than $33.2 billion. It implemented new processes to correct inefficient grant disbursement procedures. As an agency of the Department of Transportation, the U.M.T.A. also participated in the consolidation of department-wide safety-related functions.
The story at H.U.D. was far different, and helps explain why mismanagement and weakness in virtually every area identified by the Grace commission eventually exploded into the H.U.D. scandals. I will mention just two examples.
The Grace commission reported to H.U.D. on Aug. 31, 1983, that many of the department's property disposition staff were unqualified and untrained. This staff was responsible for overseeing huge amounts of money and real estate agents who sold H.U.D.-owned properties and collected fees. These agents were supposed to turn over the proceeds of the sales to H.U.D.
But the recommendations fell on deaf ears at H.U.D. As a result, a Maryland real estate agent named Marilyn Harrell walked away with about $5 million in taxpayer money she should have turned over to H.U.D.
The Grace commission also reported in 1983 that a lack of procedural documentation in multi-family management was preventing managers from evaluating breakdowns and resolving problems. The commission also cited H.U.D.'s failure to force program participants to comply with rules and regulations.
In short, recommendations were ignored. As a result, developers and their consultants prostituted H.U.D.'s moderate rehabilitation program for tremendous personal gain.
In examples too numerous to mention - from cash management and debt collection, to H.U.D.'s giant, complex organization, to the incredible lack of modern accounting and financial management systems, to an almost total breakdown in management planning and evaluation, to the absence of managerial accountability - the Grace commission had H.U.D. pretty well pegged.
The real tragedy is that when the commission made its report, H.U.D. wasn't listening. Another failure. Nothing was done to implement the commission's recommendations, and many of America's top business leaders who volunteered their time on the commission were disenchanted.
As the report passes its seventh anniversary, my message to the public servants who prepared it is, Don't be discouraged. Aggressive efforts are now under way to restore strength and credibility to H.U.D. and its programs.
The Grace commission report can't just die or fade away. Under the guiding hand of real management professionals who are now being put in place at H.U.D., it lives to fight another day.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT (HUD)

SUBJECT: ETHICS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); CITIES (75%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); ETHICS (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (71%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: DELLIBOVI, ALFRED A (UNDER SEC) J PETER GRACE (93%); 



590 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: 7 Hours of Talks, No Budget Accord

BYLINE: By SUSAN F. RASKY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
Congressional leaders and Bush Administration officials met for seven hours today in an effort to break the impasse on a deficit-cutting package and to avoid broad automatic spending cuts that will take effect on Oct. 1 if no agreement is reached.
The small group of negotiators, who are meeting in private and without staff, refused to comment on their deliberations other than to say they had scheduled another session for Thursday. Even as they huddled, senior lawmakers in both parties began maneuvering to put together their own budget packages.
Privately, some Republicans are signaling their interest in removing President Bush's plan to reduce the capital gains tax, a main dispute in the talks. 
Without a compromise by Oct. 1, the start of the 1991 fiscal year, Congress will have to approve some sort of stopgap spending legislation to pay for the Government's operations. And to block the automatic spending cuts, the legislation would have to roll back the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings budget-balancing law. It sets a deficit limit of $64 billion for the fiscal year 1991, well below the level contemplated in any of the budget packages now under consideration.
 
Moderates Fear a Backfire
The President has said he will veto any temporary spending bill and allow the automatic cuts to begin. Although that strategy is intended to put pressure on negotiators to reach an agreement, some moderate Republicans on Capitol Hill are privately beginning to express concerns that it could backfire.
''We seem to need some event to push the parties together,'' said Representative Bill Frenzel of Minnesota, the senior Republican on the House Budget Committee. ''We have to declare a last-minute, some kind of drop-dead date.''
Automatic spending cuts have been imposed three times before, at the start of the fiscal years 1986, 1988 and 1990. But the 1988 order was rescinded before the cuts ever took effect, and in the two other instances the cuts were relatively small and of short duration.
This year, cuts initially totaling $85.4 billion would be required. The reductions would be split equally between military programs and a variety of domestic programs. Under guidelines sent out by the Office of Management and Budget, hundreds of thousands of Federal workers, including meat and poultry inspectors and air traffic controllers, will be ordered to take furloughs beginning Oct. 1.
 
Democratic Plan Pushed
Representative Leon E. Panetta, the California Democrat who heads the House budget panel, said the best hope may lie in the last budget offer Democrats made to Republicans during 10 days of discussions by a larger negotiating group at Andrews Air Force Base in nearby Maryland. Democrats proposed scrapping most of their demands for new domestic spending and suggested that Republicans drop their demands for any revenue-losing measures, including the cut in the capital gains tax.
Mr. Panetta said that if the current negotiations failed to produce an agreement, Democrats would prepare a budget that closely tracks their previous offer. They are sure that some of the more moderate Republicans who have been involved in the budget negotiations, including Senator Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, the senior Republican on the Senate Budget Commitee, would be willing to sever the capital gains tax cut from the budget package if they could be guaranteed a separate vote on the tax cut.
But Democrats would require that such a measure include an offsetting tax increase for the wealthy.
Neither Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the Senate minority leader, nor Senator Domenici has given any public indication that they would accept such a proposition. When he was asked about it, Mr. Domenici said through a spokesman that he does not favor that approach.
 
Revenue-Raising Measures
In their 10 days of bargaining at Andrews, the budget negotiators tentatively agreed to some $59 billion in revenue-raising measures over five years, including increased excise taxes on beer, wine and alcohol, a new luxury tax on expensive cars, boats, jewels and furs, and tighter tax rules for American subsidiaries of foreign-owned companies.
They also narrowed differences on the amount of money to be cut from programs like Medicare, Medicaid and farm subsidies and from military spending. But they could not settle on any new system for enforcing the spending cuts and found themselves at loggerheads over the capital gains issue.
Republicans maintain that the captial gains tax is the one element in the deficit package that promises to stimulate the economy, while Democrats contend that the cut amounts to a giveway for the rich. They insist that the revenue loss and the direct benefit that the gains cut would give to the wealthy be offset with increases in taxes for upper-income Americans, but Republicans have opposed any increase in income tax rates.
Even if the capital gains tax cut were to be dropped from Republican proposals, Democrats have said tax increases for the wealthy would still be needed to offset the impact of the increased excise taxes and an anticipated energy tax on lower- and middle-income Americans.

GRAPHIC: Chart: Automatic spending cuts if budget agreement is not reached

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); VETO (79%); APPROPRIATIONS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (74%); APPROVALS (73%); AIR FORCES (71%); CIVIL SERVICES (68%); ARMED FORCES (60%); POULTRY (60%); POULTRY & EGG INSPECTION (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); RASKY, SUSAN F GEORGE W BUSH (79%); LEON E PANETTA (59%); 



591 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 11, Column 2; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: Now Atlanta Gets Down to Brass Tacks

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS; Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Sept. 19

 BODY:
With the designation of Atlanta as the site of the 1996 Summer Olympics, the boosterism and promotion of the Atlanta Organizing Committee, which led the effort to land the Games, will now give way to the quasipublic Metropolitan Atlanta Olympic Games Authority, which will be the operating authority to raise funds and oversee construction for the Games.
The authority, created by the State Legislature in 1989, will oversee the raising of about $1.2 billion. Of that sum, $418 million will go for the construction of new facilities; nearly $600 million for operating funds and $157 million as a ''surplus.
Andrew Young, the city's former mayor and the chairman of the organizing committee said in a telephone interview from Tokyo that much of what has to be done is ''pretty simple'' since the city entered the effort to attract the Games equipped with the necessary infrastructure. 
 
'Clean, Pleasant' Urban Area
''One of the things that always surprised visitors from the International Olympics Committee,'' said Robert M. Brennan, spokesman for the organizing committee ''was that there was even a city like ours here in the South, a clean, pleasant progressive urban area. That became part of our thrust, that we had something to offer as an undiscovered part of the world.''
Still, the Atlanta metropolitan area with its population of 2.6 million will have to build a number of facilities to meet the needs of the Games. With the creation of the authority by the state and with its ability to issue tax-exempt bonds, Atlanta has welded a public sector and private sector partnership for the Games. This approach contrasts sharply with the approach of Los Angeles to the 1984 Summer Games. Then a private group was given the authority to operate the Games on the condition that it not use tax revenues at all.
Whether the Atlanta group will have to use its bonding authority was unclear. Private businesses as well as public officials and the heads of area educational facilities were well represented in the Atlanta effort, said Wayne Gantt, an economist in Atlanta. 85,000-Seat Stadium Planned The major facilities that the organizing committee proposes to build include a 85,000-seat stadium for track and field, pool facilities for swimming, diving and water polo competitions, an Olympic village to house the athletes, a velodrome for the cycling events and indoor facilities for shooting and archery events.
Among the city's existing or soon-to-be completed facilities are the 71,000-seat Atlanta-Fulton County Stadium, the home of the baseball Braves and the football Falcons; a $210 million domed stadium on which construction began last year that will be the site of the 1994 Super Bowl and the home of the Falcons; the Omni indoor coliseum, where the Atlanta Hawks of the National Basketball Association play, and the Georgia World Congress Center convention center. To these will be added the new Olympic Stadium, which will later become the Braves' new home.
Most of the existing and planned facilities are contained in a three-square mile downtown area where the organizing committee plans to hold as many as 19 of the most popular events of the Games.
 
Stadium Cost at $145 Million
The price tag on the proposed Olympic Stadium has been put at $145 million by the Atlanta committee. The stadium is to be built next to the Atlanta-Fulton County Stadium and will be site of the opening and closing ceremonies of the Games as well as the track and field events, soccer and show-jumping finals. The Olympic baseball com-petition will be held in the existing stadium.
In addition to the new stadium the Games authority will finance the construction of the Olympic Village dormitories on the downtown campus of Georgia Tech. The estimated $59 million dormitories are envisioned as twin towers flanking a major downtown artery and connected by an enclosed pedestrian bridge. Committee officials have said that after the Games the buildings, with their 15,500 units, will be given to the university as student housing.
The domed stadium now under construction will have 72,000 seats and will be divided into two 36,000-seat arenas for basketball and gymnastics competitions.
Adjacent to the domed stadium is the World Congress Center, a two-building complex of flexible space that will be configured as small arenas for sports such as badminton, fencing, judo, table tennis and wrestling.
Also connected to this complex is the Omni, the 17,000-seat coliseum that will be used for the volleyball tournament.
 
Georgia Tech to Be Used
Additional downtown facilities will include the Georgia Tech Coliseum, which will house boxing competitions, and the existing Atlanta Civic Center, where weight-ifting events will be held. There are also plans for a 15,000- seat natatorium for swimming and diving events, which will be built by extending and reshaping facilities on the Georgia Tech campus.
A new water polo stadium is to be built at the Atlanta University complex, the home of the city's historically black colleges, Morehouse, Spellman, Clark and Morris Brown. Stadiums there will also be expanded to accommodate the Olympic field hockey events.
Just north of city and outside of the downtown ring is Blackburn Park, the city's tennis center and home of the Atlanta Lawn Tennis Association. The association has 55,000 members and is believed to be the largest active tennis association in the country. The center has 31 courts, which the organizing committee said could be enlarged and equipped with more seating to accommodate the tennis events.
East of the city at Stone Mountain Park, the authority is scheduled to build an open-air velodrome for the cycling events. The Olympic Park at the 3,200-acre state park will be outfitted as well for pentathlon, rowing, shooting, equestrian, archery and canoeing events.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Andrew Young, Atlanta's former Mayor and head of organizing committee. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC3644 NONCURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OMNI (HARAHAN LA) (50%); OMNI (SAN JOSE CA) (50%); OMNI (HARAHAN LA) (50%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPICS COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN ATLANTA OLYMPIC GAMES AUTHORITY; ATLANTA ORGANIZING COMMITTEE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ATLANTA (GA)

SUBJECT: OLYMPIC GAMES (1996); FINANCES; SUMMER GAMES (OLYMPICS) OLYMPICS (93%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (91%); CITIES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); WATER SPORTS (84%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); BASKETBALL (77%); MAYORS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (73%); ARCHERY (73%); TRACK & FIELD (73%); CYCLING (73%); BASEBALL (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); TAX LAW (64%); WATER POLO (64%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (64%); 

PERSON: YOUNG, ANDREW; SMOTHERS, RONALD



592 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 3; Home Desk

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: New Discount Frontier: Home

BYLINE: By ELAINE LOUIE

 BODY:
THEY live for Loehmann's; a hangtag quickens their pulse. This fall, New York's more ferocious bargain hunters have a new frontier: the home.
Juicers by Philippe Starck, tea kettles by Michael Graves and sheets by Mario Buatta are turning up in new places, at discounts that can be substantial. Those who are less name-conscious can also find good buys on silk comforters for cold winter nights and towels to last a college-age child for at least the next four years. 
In general, go south and don't stop: it is in Lower Manhattan where a bargain hunter can have fun.
Head first toward the Battery and the sparkling new Century 21 at 22 Cortlandt Street. For 30 years, it was a no-frills store on Cortlandt Street frequented by the chic and the not-so-chic, united in their dedication to the fashion bargain. No longer. Last month, Century 21 opened a three-story, 100,000-square-foot store down the block, and there has been an apparent feeding frenzy ever since, as if every day is three days before Christmas. Mobbed or not, though, service tends to be surprisingly swift.
The street level glistens with marble, mirror and mahogany; if you squint, it looks vaguely like Macy's Herald Square. Housewares are on the lower level, a bright, well-organized place to shop.
The management is not saying what is behind the upgrading of Century 21 at a time of retailing troubles and a sluggish local economy. But the timing seems right for off-price decorator totems. Some price cuts are deep, but just as often, the mere suggestion of a bargain - perhaps 15 percent off - seems enough to inspire the shopper.
One recent lunch hour, Deborah Leitner, a 34-year-old paralegal in Manhattan, was standing in the nerve center of the floor - the linen section - clutching a set of blue sheets made by Wamsutta and black-and-white cotton place mats. ''I like the quality, their reasonable prices,'' she said. ''Unlike a lot of discount stores which sell a lot of junk - seconds and irregulars - these are first quality.''
On that day, sheets introduced as recently as this spring were already discounted. There was Mario Buatta's flower-strewn Marissa pattern for Revman, which has a dark forest-green border. A twin flat sheet was selling for $13.97; its list price is $18-$19, according to the manufacturer.
Liberty of London's Prince Edward pattern, featuring a ruby red and deep blue paisley design, was also on the shelves. A twin flat sheet was marked $19.97, down from $22, according to Martex, the manufacturer.
Marimekko's vinyl place mats with red, blue and white stripes or a yellow pear on a pink ground, were two for $1; this spring they were $3 each. Also available were towels, pillows, comforters, blankets, shower curtains, window shades and blinds, a selection as dazzling as it was deep.
When Michael Graves, the architect, designed his whistling tea kettle with the little red bird for Alessi in 1985, it quickly became a status symbol at $145. At Century 21, the kettle is $119, but the status police need not know. Philippe Starck's futuristic juicer with a spidery body and long, tapered legs, for Alessi, sells for $64.97 here; its list price is $75.
In adjacent cabinets, there are crystal by Baccarat, Lalique and Orrefors, and china by Lenox. Nearby are luggage by Perry Ellis and Yves St. Laurent, Black & Decker Dustbusters and Sanyo rice cookers. The only thing missing is furniture. Although Grand Street is the traditional heartland of linens in Manhattan, Conway on Broad Street in the Financial District is worth a visit. Of all the city's Conway stores, this may be the nicest. The lower level is devoted to pillows and towels, which came in a full spectrum of colors from white to peach to bottle green. Bath towels ranged from $5.99 to $7.99. Matching hand and face towels were also available.
Syms on Trinity Place sells primarily clothes, but the 1 percent of the store devoted to the home can be interesting. Recently, on the fourth floor, there were dozens of white cotton hand towels for $1 each. There are also plenty of stylish odds and ends - the random piece of luggage, the occasional comforter.
The corner of Church and Warren Streets, with its various odd-lot stores, can be a treasure trove, depending on the day. Towels by Andree Putman were among the spoils recently at Weber's Job Lot; but there were also 25 sponges, each a slightly different thickness, for a scant 99 cents.
Across the street at Job Lot Trading Corporation, 49 cents bought a package of three sponges shaped like chickens, fish and bears. The American country look was there, too, in antiqued painted wood mirrors and picture frames. A five-by-eight-inch mirror, framed in either blue, gray, white or celadon, was $2.98.
Chinatown has accessories for the home that go far beyond chopsticks. On the second floor at Pearl River Emporium on Canal Street, a 70-by-88-inch pure silk comforter, deep red with red flowers on a red background, sells for $155. A hot pink style, 70 by 90 inches, was $195.
A parakeet might find happiness in Pearl River's bamboo birdcages: single tier ($9.50), double ($13.50) or triple ($17.50). A shaving brush with a natural wood handle, the sort you might see in a Ralph Lauren still life, is $1.25; and sandalwood, jasmine and rose soaps are three for $1.
On the third floor are dishes. A shallow seven-inch enameled tin bowl, in white with a red rose in the center, sells for $1.95. White china dishes, each hand-painted with a different species of fish, sell for $2.95.
At Kam Man on Canal Street, the specialty is food, but downstairs, there are also traditional glazed ceramic garden seats. A hexagonal seat - deep blue on the top, with mustard-colored sides depicted leaping stags - is $42.50. A clay casserole in a wire basket (the metal conducts the heat) sells for $9.50. Straw trivets in natural, dark green and pink are 79 cents.
The south side of 14th Street, between Seventh Avenue and Broadway, has dozens of stores selling clothing and home furnishings. Guards perch on ladders in front of them, on the lookout for thefts; wind-up toys scurry along the pavement, and then there are the bargains.
Grand Discount House sported a cotton bath towel ($2.99) depicting the faces of the New Kids on the Block. For another sensibility, Paterson Silks was selling beige linen, a fabric that decorators often use for upholstery and slipcovers, for $14.95 a yard. The salesman was quick to point out the list price of $22.
CENTURY 21, 22 Cortlandt Street, near Church Street; (212) 227-9092.
CONWAY, 41 Broad Street, near Beaver Street; (212) 943-8900.
GRAND DISCOUNT HOUSE, 32 East 14th Street, near University Place; (212) 989-9012.
JOB LOT TRADING CORPORATION, 140 Church Street, at Warren Street; (212) 962-4142.
KAM MAN, 200 Canal Street, near Mott Street; (212) 571-0330.
PATERSON SILKS, 36 East 14th Street, at University Place; (212) 929-7861.
PEARL RIVER EMPORIUM, 277 Canal Street, at Broadway; (212) 219-8107.
SYMS, 42 Trinity Place, near Rector Street; (212) 797-1199.
WEBER'S JOB LOT, 138 Church Street, at Warren Street; (212) 571-3283.
P228.8>

CORRECTION-DATE: September 22, 1990, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article in The Home Section on Thursday about discount sources for home furnishings in Lower Manhattan misstated the telephone number for Pearl River Emporium. The number is (212) 431-4770.

GRAPHIC: Photos: White hand-painted china dishes depicting fish sell for $2.95 each at Pearl River Emporium.; Mario Buatta's Marissa pattern for Revman was at Century 21. A twin flat sheet sells for $13.97; its list price is $18 to $19.; Liberty of London's Prince Edward sheet design for Martex is priced at $19.97 for the twin size at Century 21. The list price is $22.; ''New Kids on the Block'' cotton bath towel is $2.99 at Grand Discount House on 14th Street.; The French designer Philippe Starck's spidery new stainless-steel juicer for Alessi is $64.97 at Century 21. The list price is $75.; For Alessi, Michael Graves designed a whistling tea kettle. The list price is $145; at Century 21, it costs $119.; A package of three brightly colored sponges shaped like fish, chickens and bears is 49 ce

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: JOB LOT TRADING CORP (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MANHATTAN (NYC); NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: HOME FURNISHINGS; DISCOUNT SELLING HOUSEHOLD LINEN MILLS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (73%); CHRISTMAS (71%); 

PERSON: LOUIE, ELAINE MARIO BUATTA (60%); MICHAEL GRAVES (60%); PHILIPPE STARCK (60%); 



593 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 8, Column 3; Home Desk

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: Parent & Child

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE KUTNER

 BODY:
THE Iraqi invasion of Kuwait has affected many families in ways other than having to pay more for gasoline. Psychologists and psychiatrists are beginning to see changes in children's play and artwork, which are usually good reflections of their unspoken hopes and fears. Most children first show their concerns through changes in their behavior. Their words come later.
Dr. Barry Garfinkel, the chief of child and adolescent psychiatry at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis, and many of his colleagues are beginning to see not only children who have parents, older siblings and other relatives in the military, but also the children of reservists who may be called to active duty. 
''Even mild-mannered children are becoming more aggressive in their play,'' Dr. Garfinkel said. ''It's a way for them to get a handle on their angry feelings.''
One psychologist described how a 9-year-old girl drew a picture of her father, who is in the medical corps of the Naval Reserve, standing alone on the deck of a ship and firing a gun. It was her way of bringing her fears, both legitimate and unrealistic, out in the open. Her father might soon be away, alone and in danger.
''Children's imaginations can run wild with this situation, especially if they have a parent involved,'' Dr. Garfinkel said. ''The children I've talked to are imagining that their parents are in situations worthy of Indiana Jones. They talk about booby traps and terribly complex predicaments.''
Although most American preschoolers will pay little attention to what is happening in the Middle East, those who have parents or other close relatives involved in the military action may distort events in ways that fit their limited knowledge of the world. They may envision Saudi Arabia as only a few blocks or a few miles away, and imagine war spreading to their neighborhood. They may be especially frightened if they are being raised by a single parent who is in the military or if the parents are married and the mother is in the reserves or on active duty.
''You can expect young children to ask questions that adults would never ask,'' said Dr. Gerald P. Koocher, the chief psychologist at Children's Hospital in Boston. ''If their father's overseas they'll want to know: 'Will my dad come home to visit this weekend? Can we go see him?' ''
Children sometimes ascribe mystical powers to their thoughts and wishes. Because of this, young children may feel an inordinate amount of responsibility for their family's health and safety.
For example, a psychologist who studies how children respond to the threat of nuclear war recalled a 9-year-old boy who cried himself to sleep at night.
''He was afraid that he and his family were going to be killed by an atomic bomb, but he didn't want to talk about it for fear that talking might make it happen,'' said the psychologist, Dr. Milton Schwebel, a professor emeritus in the graduate school of applied and professional psychology at Rutgers University in New Jersey.
Dr. Antoinette Saunders, a clinical psychologist and the director of the Capable Kid Center, a child guidance clinic in Evanston, Ill., said: ''Children below the age of 11 may become clingy and may not want to leave home. They may become more moody or withdrawn.''
They may also withdraw because they are overwhelmed by their fears about what is happening. Just as their limited knowledge of geography will make some children worry that their homes may soon be bombed, their views of the day-to-day life of a soldier may be very distorted.
''Imagination is much worse than reality for children,'' Dr. Garfinkel said. ''The children I've seen are already talking about poison gas and chemical warfare, but they're not thinking about the heat and the boredom.''
 
'Will Daddy Be Coming Home?'
PARENTS can do several things to help their children handle their concerns about events in Iraq and Saudi Arabia:
Encourage your children to talk about their fears.
The simplest way to do that is to start the conversations yourself. ''If you don't talk about these issues, you may be giving your children the message that they're not allowed to talk about them,'' said Dr. Milton Schwebel, a professor emeritus in the graduate school of applied and professional psychology at Rutgers University.
Children may not ask the questions that are bothering them the most: Are they safe? Will they be abandoned or separated from their family? Are they powerless? It is important to answer those questions even if they are never asked.
Use analogies and measures that a child can understand.
With young children, use terms from their everyday lives in discussions of geography or the subtleties of world economics and international politics. The idea that a relative in the military is 7,000 miles away may make more sense to children if you describe it as 10 times the distance to their grandmother's house.
''Ask your child what she might do if a child next door took something of hers,'' said Dr. Gerald P. Koocher, the chief psychologist at Children's Hospital in Boston. That will allow you to discuss how there can be different solutions to a problem. While a 30 percent increase in the price of gasoline will not mean anything to young children, they may understand it better if you say that filling the tank on the family car has increased by the price of 10 candy bars.
Remember that the primary concern of younger children is being separated from their parents.
If their father has been shipped overseas, for example, it is important to reassure them repeatedly that he will be coming home.
''They need to know that even though Daddy is going away, we'll write letters to him and he'll return,'' Dr. Schwebel said. He also strongly recommended that parents join a support group of families who have someone in the Persian Gulf.
If one parent is away, expect your children to withdraw for a while.
There is nothing unusual about this. It is simply their way of coming to terms with what is happening. The next stage is what many parents find confusing.
''Two or three months later, that withdrawal can turn to indifference and emotional numbing,'' said Dr. Barry Garfinkel, the chief of child and adolescent psychiatry at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis. ''Children may react very negatively when the missing parent's name is brought up.'' That anger is usually more in response to their feelings of abandonment than to anything specific in the parent. Again, it is important to encourage the children to talk about their feelings, even if those feelings make them feel uncomfortable.
When the parent comes back home, do not expect everything to return to normal immediately.
Even those children who have been very excited about their parent's return may suddenly act as if the returning parent was not important. ''The children may need some time to discharge the pent-up anger they've felt, so that they can respond with less ambivalence,'' Dr. Garfinkel said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); KUWAIT (91%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (67%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH; MILITARY PERSONNEL; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS CHILDREN (92%); ARMED FORCES (90%); PSYCHIATRY (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); FAMILY (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); SINGLE PARENTS (75%); NAVIES (75%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (64%); 

PERSON: KUTNER, LAWRENCE (DR) BARRY GARFINKEL (75%); 



594 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 14, Column 5; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Archdiocese Orders Play to Vacate Church

BYLINE: By MERVYN ROTHSTEIN

 BODY:
The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York has demanded that an Off Off Broadway theater company in Manhattan terminate performances of a play being presented in a former parochial school the company leases from the archdiocese. The archdiocese says the play has language that is against the church's principles and is being performed in violation of terms in the lease between the church and the theater.
The RAPP Theater Company, which is part of the RAPP Arts Center, at 220 East Fourth Street on the Lower East Side, says the archdiocese's action amounts to censorship and has vowed to fight the church's action, even though the group agreed in its lease not to present such work.
''We will not buckle under the pressure,'' said R. Jeffrey Cohen, the founder and artistic director of both the company and the center, who added that the company had been threatened with eviction if it continued to perform the play. ''My attorneys are looking into it and they are convinced that the church's position is unconstitutional as well as being unconscionable.'' 
 
A Monologue of Diatribe
The play, ''The Cardinal Detoxes,'' by Thomas M. Disch, is a 35-minute monologue about an archbishop who has been placed in a church-run detoxification center because he has killed a pregnant woman in an automobile accident while driving under the influence of alcohol. In the play, he delivers a diatribe against church policies on abortion, women's rights, homosexuality and other issues.
The play was first presented in the spring, when the company received no complaints from the church. It resumed performances in August and is presented on Friday and Saturday nights at 11:30, after the company's current production of ''As You Like It - Fresh,'' in which the Shakespeare play is moved to the Lower East Side and deals with racial and economic issues in New York City.
Mr. Cohen said that on Monday the center received a letter from the lawyers for the Roman Catholic Church of the Most Holy Redeemer, the agent for the archdiocese, which is the landlord, demanding that the theater company ''immediately terminate the performance'' of the play because it violates the center's lease.
 
A Matter of Principles
Joseph Zwilling, the director of communications for the archdiocese, said yesterday that the archdiocese's action in no way amounted to censorship. ''One of the clauses of the lease states that the tenant acknowledges that the land is owned by the Roman Catholic Church and is subject to the religious, moral and ethical principles and directives of the archdiocese, and that any activity permitted on the premises offensive to those principles would be detrimental to the landlord's reputation as a Roman Catholic church,'' Mr. Zwilling said.
Such activity, he said, included obscene language, pornography, nudity and anything else the church deemed objectionable. ''This was agreed to by the tenant after extensive discussions,'' Mr. Zwilling said. ''We went over this very carefully. They said they would abide by these principles.''
''They are renting space from a church, and because we are a church we have certain standards by which we must run our institutions - and that includes the institutions that are rented out to other people,'' Mr. Zwilling added.
 
The Lease Language Stands
Mr. Cohen said that in 1986, when the lease was signed, he and his lawyers tried to negotiate different language but were told that the clause was standard in church leases and would not be excised. He said he received verbal assurances from the priest who was the pastor of the church at the time - but is no longer there - that the clause would never be enforced.
''It was either sign or abandon the project entirely,'' Mr. Cohen said. ''And my attorney suggested to me that if anything happened it would become a constitutional issue because you cannot legislate in a lease against freedom of expression.''
The RAPP Arts Center is an experimental group that presents avant-garde theater, music, dance and film. Among those it has presented are the performance artist Karen Finley and the Moscow Puppet Theater. It also subleases space in the building to painters, visual artists, other theater and dance companies and social-service organizations.
Mr. Cohen said he had not decided whether to defy the church's order and present the play at his group's theater this weekend. ''We will not discontinue the performances,'' he said. ''The question is whether to do the play on this property or in another space near this property.''
 
A Concern for Others
One reason he is considering performing the play elsewhere, Mr. Cohen said, is his concern about the other tenants in the building. ''We have to be very careful about the way we might jeopardize their tenancy in pursuing a constitutional issue,'' he said.
Mr. Disch, the playwright, who is the drama critic of The Nation and a science-fiction writer, said he was not surprised at the archdiocese's action.
''I wrote the play because I grew up Catholic,'' he said. ''I've been a passionate and devout ex-Catholic since my teen-age years. The church has always been at the forefront of any national effort to censor and tone down the arts.''
Mr. Cohen said that as far as he knew, no church representative had seen the play. ''I challenge the church to find anything within the text of the play which is profane and which is against church policy,'' he said.
''It's all about their discomfort with having experimental artists in one of their buildings,'' Mr. Cohen added. ''Which they should have thought of before they leased it to us.''
But Mr. Zwilling said the archdiocese had seen a copy of the script. ''We also have their newspaper advertisement,'' he said, ''which describes the play as 'Tom Disch's powerful indictment of the Catholic Church.' ''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CARDINAL DETOXES, THE (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; RAPP THEATER CO

SUBJECT: THEATER RELIGION (95%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); THEATER (93%); THEATER & DRAMA (91%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ETHICS (77%); CENSORSHIP (75%); WOMEN (74%); EVICTION (73%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (70%); LAWYERS (66%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITIES (65%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (65%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (65%); ABORTION (65%); 

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, MERVYN R JEFFREY COHEN (91%); JOSEPH ZWILLING (70%); 



595 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL
 
With East Germany's economy in shambles, Western companies have balked at investing in its outdated industries. [Page A1.]
 
Mitsubishi and Daimler-Benz said they were exploring several joint ventures in the beginning of their uneasy alliance. 
 
The impact of rising oil prices on poor countries was a concern at a Commonwealth meeting. [D5.]
 
THE ECONOMY
 
Greenspan said there is still no clear evidence of recession to force an interest rate cut now. [D1.]
 
The head of the savings bailout asked Congress for $100 billion to $110 billion for the new fiscal year. [D2.]
 
Neil Bush could face a lifetime prohibition against serving on the boards of federally insured banks and savings institutions, regulators said. [D2.]
 
Congress should do more to shore up the Government fund that insures bank deposits than simply remove the ceiling on premiums, a G.A.O. official said. [D2.]
 
The I.M.F. said the U.S. will avoid a recession next year and experience even faster growth than in 1990, despite the oil shock. [D5.]
 
Housing starts fell 1.7 percent in August to the lowest level since the last recession eight years ago, the Government said. [D5.]
 
Budget negotiators met for seven hours in an effort to break the impasse on a deficit-cutting package. [B4.]
 
COMPANIES
 
The F.C.C. gave the nation's big local phone companies greater freedom to raise or lower the prices they charge long-distance carriers for completing interstate calls. [D1.]
 
Olympia & York has hired Lazard Freres to try to sell a 25 percent equity interest in most if not all of its U.S. holdings. [D1.]
 
Pan Am said it would eliminate 2,500 jobs, or 8.6 percent of its work force, by next month. [D1.]
 
Macy is planning to purchase a large chunk of its ''junk bonds'' to cut its $600 million in annual interest payments. [D1.]
 
Chase Manhattan stock closed at a 12-year low, and interest rates on its long-term debt rose. [D6.]
 
Time Warner announced the creation of Time Warner Publishing to oversee all book and magazine publishing. [D20.]
 
The U.S. Government has quietly seized control of a small Ohio machine tool distributor based on evidence that the company was a front for exporting sensitive equipment to Iraq. [D21.]
 
Roughly a third of The New York Post's news staff resigned by the deadline for receiving a severance bonus. [B1.]
 
American General said it was likely to sell only its large insurance unit and retain the rest of its operations. [D3.]
 
MARKETS
 
Wall Street suffered through another day of the blahs, with the Dow dropping 13.86, to 2,557.43. [D10.] Prices of Treasury securities were mixed in fairly active trading. [D16.]
 
The dollar finished mostly higher in U.S. trading after surging in Europe. [D17.] Grain and soybean futures fell sharply. [D17.]
 
Higher heating oil prices led an afternoon rally in oil futures. Crude oil, off $1 by midday, closed down 23 cents, at $33.18. [D21.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
 
The agreement expected to assure backing for Eastern's pension plan was put together in months of careful negotiations. Talking Deals. [D2.]
 
Anybody who was prescient enough to sell stocks short before August's steep slide has done pretty well. But Jim Grant has done better than most. Market Place. [D10.]
 
The recent weakening of a bill to restrict cigarette advertising is not the end of the issue, backers and opponents of the measure say. Advertising. [D19.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); IRAQ (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: TIME WARNER PUBLISHING INC (52%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (54%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); BONDS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); SAVINGS & LOANS (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); HOUSING STARTS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (69%); SEVERANCE PAY (65%); RESIGNATIONS (63%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (63%); TREASURY SECURITIES (62%); MACHINE TOOLS (60%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (60%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%); 



596 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: Big Shift In Phone Regulation

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
The Federal Communications Commission today gave the nation's eight big providers of local telephone service greater freedom to raise or lower the prices they charge long-distance carriers for completing interstate calls. The move signals a fundamental shift in the economic philosophy of American regulation.
The charges account for about half the cost of placing a long-distance call. But the F.C.C. declined to estimate the effect of today's decision on long-distance carriers, and ultimately on consumers, because the charges will now depend more closely on the productivity of the local telephone companies. 
Some telephone user groups criticized the move, while the local phone companies praised it.
 
Consumer Group's Reaction
Gene Kimmelman, telecommunications expert at the Consumer Federation of America, said the productivity incentives might not encourage adequate investment in the telephone network. And he said the price caps mandated by the new system, which effectively require a company to lower the price of one service if it raises the price of another, could allow prices to rise faster than under the old system, which was based wholly on what is known as ''rate of return'' regulation.
But Frank Gumper, the managing director of regulatory policy at the Nynex Corporation, which is the parent of the New York Telephone Company, said consumers would benefit because Nynex would be able to operate more efficiently and pass on the savings. 8 Companies Involved The price caps apply only to the GTE Corporation and the seven regional Bell companies, including Nynex, created by the breakup of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company on Jan. 1, 1984. Together, these eight companies own 85 percent of the nation's local telephone lines. The F.C.C. decided that each of the roughly 1,300 smaller companies that own the other 15 percent could choose annually whether to switch to price-cap regulation or stay with rate of return.
The new regulatory system will take effect on Jan. 1 and will last at least four years. The commission ordered that the price caps increase each year by less than the local phone companies had expected but more than A.T.& T. and consumer groups had sought. The commission will impose price ceilings for three broad categories of services that the local phone companies provide in conveying calls from businesses and homes to the nearest long-distance switching centers.
Within the three categories the local phone companies will be able to raise or lower their charges to long-distance companies for specific services by 5 percent without seeking regulatory approvals, provided that a weighted average of the prices in each category does not exceed the price ceiling.
Today's move reflects the current economic thinking that regulators should not dictate specific pricing and investment decisions to monopolistic industries, but should instead create rules that force companies to behave as efficiently as they would in a competitive market. Local telephone service, unlike long-distance service, is a natural monopoly because it is not feasible for another company to string telephone wires to every home and business - although a few small companies have laid high-capacity private lines from large corporations to long-distance switching centers in large cities like New York.
Alfred C. Sikes, the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, said in an interview after the decision that his goal was to create a regulatory environment in which built-in incentives prompted companies to set voluntarily the lowest feasible prices for consumers, and to develop the most efficient telephone network possible.
''I don't believe that career Government people, or for that matter career non-Government people, can find out what the true cost of a service should be,'' he said.
Six Congressmen have sent letters in the last several days to the commission, criticizing the price-cap plan. The House Subcommittee on Telecommunications and Finance plans a hearing by the end of the year on whether price caps help consumers.
The F.C.C. today also lowered the maximum allowed rate of return on interstate access charges to 11.25 percent, from 12 percent, for the small local phone companies, with excess profits refunded to consumers. Each of the eight companies on price-cap regulation, previously limited to a 12 percent return, will now be allowed a 13.25 percent return if it chooses price caps that go up slowly over the next four years, or 12.25 percent if it chooses price caps that climb more quickly. Profits above these levels are to be split equally between the consumer and the company, up to an additional 4 percent rate of return, above which all extra profits are to be refunded to consumers.
 
The Struggle for Profits
It is unclear whether the local phone companies will be able to earn these higher rates of return. Both rates of increase in the price caps are roughly comparable or slightly less than the rates of increase that have actually occurred in interstate access charges in recent years. A.T.&T. has been on a price-cap plan since July 1 of last year.
The five commissioners of the F.C.C. voted unanimously to adopt the price-cap regulation and lower the maximum rate of return.
The intent of price-cap regulation is to encourage phone companies to introduce risky new services and improve old ones, because the new system allows them to keep some of the resulting profits.
The exact amount by which the price ceilings will rise had been a subject of bitter dispute in the industry. On one side were the local telephone companies, who favored allowing price caps to increase nearly as quickly as producer prices in the economy.
On the other side was a coalition of A.T.& T., the MCI Communications Corporation, consumer groups and large corporate users of telephone services, who all favored a slower rate of increases in price caps. The coalition contended that the rate of increase suggested when the commission staff publicly outlined its price-cap plan earlier this year would result in an extra $5 billion in charges by the local phone companies to long-distance carriers over the next four years, charges that long-distance callers would eventually pay.
 
Calculating the Savings
The commission staff included two new, slower rates of increase and a different method of calculating part of the price caps in the plan adopted today. The two changes will save consumers between $1.8 billion and $2.75 billion over the next four years, or roughly half what A.T.&T. and its allies sought.
A.T.&T. said in a statement today, ''Although the order is very complex and we're still evaluating it, based on our current understanding, the commission has moved substantially from its earlier, flawed proposal.''
Also in dispute is whether the local telephone companies might seek to cut costs and increase profits by reducing their annual investments in new equipment and by reducing the quality of service. The commission said it would require companies to submit quarterly reports on quality.
But Herbert E. Marx, the counsel of the Independent Data Communications Manufacturers Association, a Washington trade group, called this measure inadequate and said that reduced quality ''is an inherent flaw in price-cap regulation.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (91%); VZ (NYSE) (91%); T (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); AT&T INC (90%); VERIZON NEW YORK INC (67%); NYNEX CORP (67%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES; PRICES; RATES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (92%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (92%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (92%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (90%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); APPROVALS (73%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (60%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 



597 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: Macy Plans To Buy Back 'Junk Bonds'

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE

 BODY:
R. H. Macy & Company, the giant retailer, is planning to purchase a large chunk of its ''junk bonds'' to cut its $600 million in annual interest payments. The company has some $4.7 billion in long-term debt, and another $1 billion in short-term borrowings that fluctuate seasonally.
To finance the buyback, Macy is looking at several options, including selling up to 20 percent of the company, selling non-operating real estate assets and borrowing from its bank lenders. $1.6 Billion in 'Junk Bonds' 
Reports of the buyback began to circulate yesterday, but they failed to increase the price of Macy's bonds, which have declined in value as United States retail sales have slumped and the economy has weakened. The company's 14.5 percent debentures, due in 2001, were bid at 42 cents on the dollar yesterday, unchanged from the day before.
Macy has about $1.6 billion in face value of high-yield, high-risk junk bonds that were issued to help finance a 1986 leveraged buyout to take the company private.
Myron E. Ullman, Macy's executive vice president, offered no timetable for the buyback, nor would he specify the amount of bonds to be purchased. He said, however, that the company would ''move quickly.''
Macy has three main options for financing the buyback. The only one that does not require the approval of its bank lenders is selling an ownership position and using the proceeds to buy debt. Mr. Ullman said that Macy's agreements with its senior lenders allowed it to use up to $300 million of equity funds for debt purchases without bank approval.
This summer, Macy sold a 1 percent stake to a real estate developer. The $15 million in proceeds were used to retire about $50 million face value of subordinated debt.
With bank approval, the company could sell some non-operating assets. These assets include an office building in Los Angeles and equity in shopping centers in Brooklyn and in San Jose, Calif.
The final option would be for Macy to obtain new borrowings from its existing lenders. The last two options ''require the banks' participation and approval, which is neither forthcoming nor certain,'' Mr. Ullman said. But he anticipated that ''some combination'' of the three options would be followed.
The company's two lead banks are Manufacturers Hanover and Bankers Trust New York, which recently lent money for a similar bond-buyback program at RJR Nabisco, but only after lengthy negotiations and the payment of high fees to the banks. Equity in Macy is currently held by the General Electric Company, which owns 20.2 percent; the LoewsCorporation, 12.1 percent; the Mutual Shares Corporation, 12.1 percent, and the real estate developer Alfred Taubman, 4.1 percent.
Mr. Ullman also said he was uncertain whether Macy would meet an earlier forecast of earning an operating profit of about $650 million for the six months ending next Jan. 31. Mr. Ullman said that the estimate could no longer be considered ''in the bag'' because of the sluggish economy and slow retail sales.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (98%); GNE (PAR) (60%); GEC (LSE) (60%); GE (SWX) (60%); GE (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (98%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (98%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (51%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (51%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (76%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (98%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (60%); KRAFT NABISCO (51%); BANKERS TRUST NEW YORK CORP (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: MACY, R H, & CO INC

SUBJECT: CORPORATE BONDS HIGH YIELD BONDS (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); MANAGEMENT BUYOUTS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (76%); APPROVALS (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); RETAIL SALES (73%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (73%); GOING PRIVATE (71%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (71%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); US DOLLAR (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); PRICE INCREASES (55%); 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE MYRON E ULLMAN (79%); A ALFRED TAUBMAN (55%); 



598 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Cools Hope Of Rate Cut

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
The chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, said today that while the Persian Gulf confrontation had ''introduced new and substantial risks'' to the economy, there was still no clear evidence of actual or imminent recession that would force a cut in interest rates now.
''We have not tilted down,'' Mr. Greenspan declared, at the same time expressing concern that the nation's basic inflation rate has, in fact, crept higher amid ever-slackening economic activity.
He spoke shortly after publication of yet another dose of poor news: a drop last month in housing starts and building permits and a Federal Reserve survey showing economic activity ''expanding more slowly or declining'' in most of its 12 districts throughout the country.
 
Budget Action Awaited
For some time Mr. Greenspan has said that once the Bush Administration and Congress reach agreement on a long-term plan to cut the Government's budget deficit, he would play his part by cutting rates. He indicated today that he still held that position, and seemed unwilling to move before such a deal was reached. 
Economists generally interpreted Mr. Greenspan's remarks before the Joint Economic Committee of Congress to mean that conditions do not yet require the central bank to relax its tight grip on monetary policy.
In the credit markets, traders reacted by selling short-term notes and buying long-term bonds, taking Mr. Greenspan's remarks as a sign that the Fed was more concerned with fighting inflation than with a recession. [Page D16.] Tough Medicine Considered Mr. Greenspan rejected almost summarily suggestions that the economy was so fragile it could not stand the fiscal medicine now being considered, which involves cutting spending and raising taxes enough to trim the deficit by $50 billion next year and a total of $500 billion by the middle of the decade.
He strongly implied that the interest-rate cuts that would come after such a fiscal stance was adopted, especially the cuts in long-term rates, would more than offset any budget-related drag.
In an effort to quantify the implications of this summer's jump in oil prices, Mr. Greenspan estimated that a $10 increase in the price of a barrel of oil would add one and a half to two percentage points to the inflation rate over the next year while knocking roughly one percentage point off the rate of growth in gross national product.
Prices rose 5.6 percent in the 12 months ended last month, and G.N.P. is thought by many to be growing in the current quarter at an annual rate of about 1 percent.
''Hard data on the output of goods and services in the period since the invasion of Kuwait are limited and it is difficult to distinguish the effects of higher oil prices from developments that would have occurred anyway,'' Mr. Greenspan said. ''Clearly, growth is, at best, sluggish. Nonetheless, judging from both hard data and more anecdotal reports, we are not, at least as yet, witnessing a cumulative unwinding of economic activity.''
 
Defining Recession
When asked to elaborate, Mr. Greenspan took pains to distinguish between the conventional definition of recession, two straight quarters of contraction in G.N.P., and what he suggested was a more useful description, a period in which business activity not only slumped but dropped significantly enough so that the downturn feeds on itself. A severe loss of jobs, for instance, leads to mortgage defaults, which in turn hurt banks.
Unlike the conventionally defined recession, Mr. Greenspan said, the self-perpetuating type always becomes so clear that it ''never gets revised'' away by after-the-fact refinement of the data. The most recent example of this unmistakable kind of recession occurred in 1967, he said.
 
Auto Sales Cited
As for current conditions, Mr. Greenspan said some comfort could be taken from the fact that sales of new motor vehicles ''have softened only moderately'' in light of the Persian Gulf situation and that retail sales of other items remained about the same in August as in the preceding few months.
He acknowledged that surveys showed a steep drop in consumer confidence but said this might be ''largely a reflexive response to bad news rather than an objective assessment of the outlook.''
''The prospects for weakness cascading throughout the economy do not as yet appear compelling, in part because of the tight rein that businesses have been keeping on inventories,'' Mr. Greenspan added.
 
No Odds Given
Mr. Greenspan said at one point today that it was ''too soon to indicate'' whether the odds of recession, without specifying what kind, were greater or less than 50-50.
One way to guarantee recession, Mr. Greenspan said, would be to let inflation rise substantially, a development that would be speeded if oil-price increases were allowed to become embedded in wage rates.
Mr. Greenspan was not asked by committee members why the rate on Federal funds, which the central bank controls, tumbled earlier this week. After the session, however, a Federal Reserve spokesman, Joseph R. Coyne, attributed the drop solely to ''technical'' factors, which he would not describe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GULF STATES (93%); KUWAIT (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; PERSIAN GULF; IRAQ; KUWAIT; SAUDI ARABIA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST (MONEY) ; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); RECESSION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); STATISTICS (89%); INFLATION (89%); PRICE INCREASES (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); DEBT NOTES (72%); HOUSING STARTS (72%); BONDS (72%); BUILDING PERMITS (70%); PRICE CHANGES (68%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (93%); 



599 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Savings Bailout Chief Asks for $100 Billion

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
The head of the Federal bailout of the savings and loan industry asked Congress today for $100 billion to $110 billion for the new fiscal year, which begins next month, to continue the rescue program.
Appearing before the House Ways and Means Committee, L. William Seidman, chairman of the Resolution Trust Corporation, said the agency would need at least $50 billion to cover the future costs of the rescue it is overseeing. That figure is generally in line with the Bush Administration's revisions in May to its estimates of the overall bailout bill.
Mr. Seidman said the amount, which is used to make up losses at insolvent institutions so that insured depositors can be fully reimbursed, could be greater if the economy and real estate markets around the nation continue to decline. 
 
Need for Working Capital
He said an additional $50 billion to $60 billion would be needed for working capital, which is intended to be used to pay temporarily for assets acquired by the Government and for advances to certain institutions under control of Resolution Trust.
Working capital has generally not been considered part of the overall cost of the bailout, because it is expected to be recouped eventually, largely through the Government's sales of assets. Resolution Trust's portfolio of real estate, securities, outstanding loans and other assets inherited from collapsed institutions has swelled to more than $165 billion.
Resolution Trust's sales of assets suffered a setback this week when the agency announced that it had canceled a $300 million worldwide auction of some of the largest properties because, it said, the company running the auction, Auction Company of America, had failed to spend $2 million on a pre-auction publicity. The company, however, said it had spent nearly $2 million, and accused Resolution Trust of bungling.
 
Support for the Request
The request for new money was endorsed by both Charles A. Bowsher, who as Comptroller General heads the General Accounting Office, and Robert D. Reischauer, director of the Congressional Budget Office, both of whom also appeared before the Ways and Means Committee.
They said said that a failure to continue rapidly rescuing institutions could substantially increase the ultimate cost of the bailout. The Bush Administration has estimated that the effort will at most cost $130 billion, excluding interest, over the next 30 years, while other estimates, including interest, have put the total as high as $500 billion.
When Congress and the Bush Administration established the Resolution Trust Corporation in the bailout legislation signed last year, $50 billion was appropriated to cover the cost of the rescue effort. That money is expected to be gone within the next few months, having been spent on resolving the financial problems at more than 350 institutions.
 
Effort to Save Fragile S.& L.'s
Mr. Seidman told the committee that he and T. Timothy Ryan Jr., director of the Office of Thrift Supervision, had begun exploring the possibility of permitting many fragile savings and loans to survive in an effort to keep the cost of the bailout down.
''There are at least some institutions that might be handled at a more efficient cost if they were managed and supervised more closely rather than closed,'' said Mr. Seidman, who also heads the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. But he quickly added that no decision had been reached on how Resolution Trust would treat such institutions over the next few months.
He said that if additional funds were available, then he would favor exercising certain cost-cutting options in the contracts of nearly 100 transactions that transferred institutions in late 1988 to private entrepreneurs. A study released Tuesday showed that the Government could save $2 billion to $3 billion if it spent $22 billion to buy back high-yielding notes and poor assets that have been guaranteed.
Mr. Seidman also acknowledged that a year into the savings and loan rescue, the regulatory agencies supervising the effort were only beginning to approach the proper level of staffing. But there are still some areas where the agencies are looking to increase their staffs. Resolution Trust alone expects over the coming months to double its staff of lawyers to 2,000, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (92%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: RESOLUTION TRUST CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS BAILOUTS (91%); BANK FAILURES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); AUCTIONS (88%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); WORKING CAPITAL (73%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); 

PERSON: LABATON, STEPHEN; SEIDMAN, L WILLIAM (CHMN) TIM RYAN (58%); 



600 of 966 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Sees Growth for U.S. in 1991

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
Despite oil price increases stemming from the Middle East crisis, the United States will avoid a recession next year and experience even faster growth than in 1990, the International Monetary Fund said today.
The global lending agency, in its first assessment of the impact of oil price rises since Iraq's invasion of Kuwait Aug. 2, concluded that the United States will not exprience the growth contractions of the rest of the world, but that most other countries will also avoid an actual economic decline.
The upbeat analysis of the I.M.F. staff is in line with projections of Bush Administration economists, but counters forecasts of many private economists who, citing rising inflation, a fall-off in real estate values and weak consumption, see a decline ahead for the United States.
 
Recession Is Expected
In its Blue Chip Economic Indicators letter for September, a compilation of opinion of 50 prominent economists, the I.M.F. noted that the ''majority of the panel now expects recession to start this year or next.'' 
The I.M.F. projections appeared today in its World Economic Outlook, a publication prepared for the joint annual meeting here next week of the I.M.F. and its sister lending agency, the World Bank.
While higher oil prices will cause somewhat weaker economic growth and higher inflation than would have otherwise been the case, the impact will be ''much less'' than in the 1970's, the last time oil prices surged dramatically, said Jacob A. Frenkel, the I.M.F.'s director of research.
Oil prices have about doubled since July to around $35 a barrel. In the mid-1970's, prices quadrupled.
 
Lower Oil Prices
I.M.F. economists said they based their forecasts on the ''plausible'' scenario that oil prices will average $26 a barrel for the remainder of 1990 before dropping to $21 a barrel by the fourth quarter of 1991. The $21 figure is a reference price set by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries before the Iraqi invasion.
The projections assume that most of the four million barrels a day in production missing from Iraq and Kuwait will be gradually offset by increased supplies, as currently promised, from Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Venezuela.
''If you had increased production of the order of four million barrels a day by these countries,'' said Ernesto Hernandez-Cato, a senior adviser in the I.M.F.'s research department, ''the crude demand/supply situation would be restored to an approximate balance that would not be inconsistent with the price in the range of $21 to $25 a day.''
 
Sluggish Growth
The reasons cited for the improving prospects in the United States are the diminishing impact of oil price increases, lower interest rates expected to arrest the declines in housing and consumer durable purchases, and a depreciating dollar, which should help performance of American exports next year.
But American growth is likely to be sluggish, with the economy growing by only 1.7 percent next year, compared with 1.3 this year.
Although the economic growth rates of Germany and Japan are seen falling next year, their actual rates will still be substantially ahead of the United States. The I.M.F. sees growth tapering off in Germany from 3.9 percent to 3.3 percent and in Japan from 5.1 percent to 3.7 percent.
The unification of East Germany with West Germany is expected to result in a ''temporary fall in output and employment,'' the I.M.F. report said. At the same time, Germany will become an even bigger importer, especially of investment goods, to restructure the East German economy.
For the short term, the I.M.F. said, there is likely to be ''upward pressure'' on prices, interest rates and the value of the Deutsche mark. But ''over time, the short-run aggregate demand effects of unification would gradually be offset by the increase in productive capacity,'' causing interest rate and price pressures to subside, the report added.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (95%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INFLATION (90%); RECESSION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (87%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (86%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

 
