

1 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: Missile Attacks, Apparently by U.S., Kill 27 in Pakistan, Including Qaeda Operative

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: DERA ISMAIL KHAN, Pakistan 

 BODY:
Missiles believed to have been fired by remotely piloted American aircraft slammed into two villages close to the Afghan border on Friday, killing 27 people, including an operative with Al Qaeda and other foreign militants, intelligence officials said. 
 The new strikes raised the number of such attacks to at least 17 since August. The attacks have angered many Pakistanis and put strains on a seven-year alliance between the United States and Pakistan, where rising violence is exacerbating economic problems and threatening the country's stability.
 The missile attacks have taken place amid American frustration at what United States officials view as Pakistan's failure to curb Islamist extremists who are thought responsible for attacks in Afghanistan and Pakistan. 
 Dozens of foreign Qaeda members, including Osama bin Laden, are thought to be hiding in northwestern Pakistan's lawless tribal areas along the Afghan frontier.
 The United States rarely comments on attacks inside Pakistan, declining to confirm or deny American involvement. The identities of those killed in the attacks are only occasionally made public. Residents frequently contend that civilians, sometimes women and children, are among the dead.
 The Qaeda member said to have been killed Friday was identified as Abu Kasha, the intelligence officials said. He had been living in Pakistan's tribal region for about three years and had been organizing attacks on foreign troops in Afghanistan, the officials said. 
 They spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to talk to the news media.
 The purported Qaeda figure was among 20 people killed when two missiles hit a house and a car in the village of Mir Ali in North Waziristan, the intelligence officials said, citing reports from agents and informers in the area.
 About two hours later, two more missiles hit a village in South Waziristan, killing seven people, including a number of foreign militants, the officials said.
 Pakistan's government has insisted that the missile strikes -- along with a highly unusual ground raid by United States commandos in September -- violated its sovereignty. It insists the Pakistani military is confronting the militants, pointing to the current offensive just north of Waziristan that has killed 1,500 insurgents.
 Pakistan's alliance with the United States is deeply unpopular among lawmakers and many other civilians, who say it fuels violence by the extremists and who complain that the raids prompt retaliatory terrorist attacks within Pakistan by militant groups entrenched in the tribal areas.
 In a sign of the extremists' resilience, a suicide bomber attacked a police chief outside his house on Friday in the northwestern city of Mardan, missing the official but killing three other officers and five civilians, the authorities said.
 The suicide bomber set off the explosion as the first vehicle in a convoy emerged from the police chief's residence, but the officer was in a different car behind the gate.
 ''I was the target, but such attacks cannot stop us from doing our duty,'' said the police chief, Akhtar Ali Shah.
 Television images showed a badly damaged police pickup truck just outside the house and rescue workers loading bloodied survivors into ambulances.
 There have been more than 90 suicide attacks on civilian, military and Western targets since July 2007, killing nearly 1,200 people, according to military statistics.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (66%); ARMED FORCES (65%); CHILDREN (52%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); PAKISTAN (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2008



2 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: A Date With The Departed

BYLINE: By THOMAS LYNCH. 
Thomas Lynch, a funeral director and lecturer at the University of Michigan, is the author of the memoir ''Booking Passage.''

DATELINE: Milford, Mich. 

 BODY:
 THE pumpkins, penny candy and neighborly hordes of goblins and ghosts shouting ''Trick or treat!'' remind us of the ancients and their belief that the souls of the dead must be appeased. But it's the days that follow Halloween that most interest me.
 All Saints' Day and All Souls' Day are time set aside to broker peace between the living and the dead. Whether you are pagan or religious, Celt or Christian, New Age believer or doubter-at-large, these are the days when you traditionally acknowledge that the gone are not forgotten. The seasonal metaphors of reaping and rotting, harvest and darkness, leaf-fall and killing frost supply us with plentiful memento mori. Whatever is or isn't there when we die, death both frightens and excites us. 
 Thus, throughout most of the Western world, graves are decorated on these first days of November with candles and fresh flowers. Picnics are held among the old stones and markers, relatives gather round family plots to give the dead their due of prayers and remembrances. 
 We humans are bound to and identified with the earth, the dirt, the humus out of which our histories and architectures rise -- our monuments and memorials, cairns and catacombs, our shelters and cityscapes. This ''ground sense,'' to borrow William Carlos Williams's idiom, is at the core of our humanity. And each stone on which we carve our names and dates is an effort to make a human statement about death, memory and belief. Our kind was here. They lived; they died; they made their difference. For the ancient and the modern, the grave is an essential station. 
 But less so, lately, especially here in the United States, where we whistle past our graveyards and keep our dead at greater distance, consigned to oblivions we seldom visit, estranged and denatured, tidy and Disney-fied memorial parks with names like those of golf courses or megachurches. 
 In her honors seminar, ''Death in American Culture,'' at Gardner-Webb University in Boiling Springs, N.C., June Hobbs takes her students on a field trip to Sunset Cemetery in nearby Shelby. She believes that cemeteries have much to tell us about ourselves. For most of her students, it is their first visit to a cemetery. 
 ''I find this astonishing,'' says Professor Hobbs. ''This county had more casualties during the Civil War than any other. The dead were everywhere, the churchyards filled up, Sunday afternoons were spent visiting graves. The dead were very much a part of the community, kept alive in everyday conversations.'' Now they've been downsized or disappeared. 
 She speaks to a culture that quietly turned the family ''parlor'' into a ''living room,'' the ''burial policy'' into ''life insurance'' and the funeral into a ''celebration of life,'' often notable for the absence of a corpse, and the subtle enforcement of an emotional code that approves the good laugh but not the good cry. Convenience and economy have replaced ethnic and religious customs. 
 The dead get buried but we seldom see a grave. Or they are burned, but few folks ever see the fire. Photographs of coffins returned from wars are forbidden, and news coverage of soldiers' burials is discouraged. Where sex was once private and funerals were public, now sex is everywhere and the dead go to their graves often as not without witness or ritual. 
 Still, there remains something deeply human in the way we process mortality by processing mortals in the journey between life as we know it and life as we imagine it, in whatever space the dead inhabit. Wherever the dead go or don't, it is the duty of the living to get them to the edge of that oblivion.
 Since the first cave-dwelling Neanderthal awakened next to a dead kinsman and knew something would have to be done about it, we humans have looked into the tomb or grave or fire and asked ourselves the signature questions of our species: Is that all there is? Can it happen to me? What comes next? Only the dead know the answers. And the living are well and truly haunted by them. 
 Perhaps Professor Hobbs is right. The dead have something to teach us still. A visit to your local cemetery, here in the month of all saints and souls, is a course in humanity. There are inklings to answers among the stones.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HALLOWEEN (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); CEMETERIES (89%); RELIGION (78%); CHRISTIAN HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); LIFE INSURANCE (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); SCHOOL FIELD TRIPS (60%); PEACE PROCESS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2008



3 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW 'MILLION DOLLAR QUARTET'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: Rockin' Out to a Golden-Hued Piece of Music History

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- ''I ain't never gonna play that Vegas again,'' swears the baby-faced boy with the sweeping sideburns. Who could blame him for complaining? The year is 1956, and this budding rock 'n' roller has just endured the humiliation of opening for the borscht-beltish Shecky Greene.
The roar of laughter that greets this seemingly heartfelt avowal in the musical ''Million Dollar Quartet'' can be explained simply enough. The boy with the baby face is Elvis Presley, still in the middle innings of his recording and film career, at least a decade away from the peanut-butter-and-banana-sandwich bulges and the rhinestone-encrusted white jumpsuits. Never say ain't never, Elvis.
This pouting youngster is not the only bright-eyed guitar strummer with career problems in this lively little jukebox musical, which boasts a set of gold-plated platters that puts most of the rest of the karaoke competition in the shade. 
''Million Dollar Quartet'' is set in the studio of Sun Records in Memphis during the very hours in which its celebrated stature was cemented. On Dec. 4, 1956, Sam Phillips, the record producer who founded Sun and has been called the father of rock 'n' roll, hosted a jam session and impromptu recording with Elvis, Jerry Lee Lewis, Johnny Cash and Carl Perkins. It was the only occasion on which all shared a studio, and has entered music history as one of those golden-hued, fantastical hours in which a whole pantheon of gods frolicked together.
This slick, fictionalized re-creation of that hallowed night, previously seen in Florida and Washington State (and rumored to be Broadway bound), is what you might call a no-brainer baby boomer money-spinner. It packed audiences into the Goodman Theater's smaller stage for several weeks this fall (I saw the last performance at the Goodman on Sunday), and began performances on Friday night for a run through Jan. 4 at the Apollo Theater here.
As the actors playing the rock luminaries gradually assemble onstage, each bearing a modest resemblance to the fabled performer he is portraying, a faint air of the animatronic threatens to settle over the proceedings. You fear the show will be sort of a Disneyland Rock 'n' Roll Icons Jamboree.
But the performers -- some actors who can play guitar, others musicians trying the acting thing -- are genial, winning and persuasive without lapsing into hackneyed or overripe impersonation. The songs, a stack of early rock hip-shakers, including ''Blue Suede Shoes,'' ''Great Balls of Fire'' and ''Whole Lot-ta Shakin' Goin' On,'' are performed with a vibrant commitment that keeps the sea of gray heads in the audience bobbing, bobbing, bobbing throughout the show's fleet 90-minute running time.
The book, by the rock historian Colin Escott and the movie writer-director Floyd Mutrux (''American Hot Wax''), has plenty of forced transitions and mechanically inserted bits of trivia. At one point a luscious blonde strides into the studio and, with little preamble, grabs a microphone and starts crooning ''Fever.'' Her presence remains unexplained until the song is over. Turns out she's Elvis's girl, although Elvis himself has not yet arrived. Go figure.
The chief generator of suspense is the financial peril faced by Phillips (the amiable Brian McCaskill), who steps in and out of the show, annotating the proceedings with lore and background as it goes along, in the process reminding us a little too frequently that he discovered all these boys, ''taught them to believe in themselves and made them stars.'' About a year before this fateful night Phillips had to sell Elvis's contract to RCA to keep his record company alive. (He received just $40,000 for it -- ouch! -- but, as he informs us, wink-wink, he did invest some of the money in a little outfit called Holiday Inn.)
Now the contract of his current chart-topper, Johnny Cash, is about to expire. Phillips has a new one on hand, and plans to spring it on Johnny when the whiskey's flowing and the boys are trading guitar licks and reminiscing about the desperate days when they were touring the South in the back of a flatbed truck.
The characterizations are economical but adequate. The hot-headed, loud-mouthed Jerry Lee Lewis (Levi Kreis) is new to the label and wants to prove his mettle. Mr. Kreis just about pounds a hole in the stage floor with his Converse high tops when he starts flailing away on the keyboard. Jerry Lee's cockiness antagonizes Carl Perkins (a charismatic Rob Lyons), who is also sore because his records aren't selling and because Phillips had allowed Elvis to sing Perkins's hit song ''Blue Suede Shoes'' on television.
Johnny, gracefully played by Lance Guest, is the courtly country gentleman, pained at having to break bad news to the man who jump-started his career. Eddie Clendening, who plays Elvis, is obviously not a trained actor, but he gives a gentle, likable performance. His honey-coated vibrato is perfectly suited to the songs.
While the book and the songs are not particularly well integrated -- after a little banter and maybe a flashback to the rough old days, somebody will just step up to the mike and break into a familiar tune -- the directors, Mr. Mutrux and Eric Schaeffer, don't ease up on the gas pedal long enough for you to complain. And Mr. Mutrux and Mr. Escott have come up with a few sharp zingers to warm things up between numbers. Johnny, unhappy about Phillips's shambolic organization, grouses about his latest record sales, ''If they really want to stop the spread of Communism, they ought to let Sun distribute it.''
MILLION DOLLAR QUARTET
Book by Colin Escott and Floyd Mutrux, with songs by various composers; directed by Mr. Mutrux and Eric Schaeffer; musical arrangements and supervision, Chuck Mead; sets by Adam Koch; costumes by Caryn Klein; lighting by Keith Parham; sound by Kai Harada; production stage manager, Maggie O'Donnell; production manager, Matt Marsden; general managers, Alan Wasser, Allan Williams and Karen Leahy. Presented by Dee Gee Theatricals, John Cossette Productions and Northern Lights Inc. At the Apollo Theater, 2540 North Lincoln Avenue, Chicago; (773) 935-6100. Through Jan. 4. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes.
WITH: Brian McCaskill (Sam Phillips), Rob Lyons (Carl Perkins), Lance Guest (Johnny Cash), Levi Kreis (Jerry Lee Lewis), Eddie Clendening (Elvis Presley), Kelly Lamont (Dyanne), Chuck Zayas (Jay Perkins) and Billy Shaffer (Fluke).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MILLION DOLLAR QUARTET: From left, Levi Kreis, Rob Lyons, Chuck Zayas, Eddie Clendening and Lance Guest in this new jukebox musical, which runs through Jan. 4 at the Apollo Theater in Chicago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL NATKIN) (pg.C1)
 Jam session, 1956: A scene from ''Million Dollar Quartet.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL NATKIN) (pg.C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POP & ROCK (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSIC (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); RECORD INDUSTRY (70%); HISTORY (69%); THEATER (58%)

ORGANIZATION: APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Million Dollar Quartet (Play)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



4 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: A Monthlong Walk on the Wildest Side of the Stock Market

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics in his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
The wildest month in the history of Wall Street ended on Halloween with both scary and thrilling price movements.
October was the worst month for the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks in 21 years -- since the 1987 stock market crash.
But the final week was the best week for the market in 34 years. 
As befits such a wild month, it was the most volatile in the 80-year history of the S.& P. 500.
The huge gains of the final week were reminiscent of the sharp recoveries from bear market lows in 1974 and 1982. Both of those moves came while the economy was mired in recession, as it almost certainly is now.
If Monday's stock market lows prove to be the low prices for this cycle, the bear market will have ended with the S.& P. 500 down 46 percent from the peak it reached in October 2007.
That would make the bear market almost, but not quite, as bad as the 1973-74 bear market, which ended with the index down 48 percent.
In the 2000-2 bear market, the fall was 49 percent.
The hectic market action in October spread across most of the globe. Remarkably, the American market was one of the calmer markets during the month. Several had more volatility and larger swings in prices.
Nor was the volatility limited to stock prices. Oil prices fell 33 percent during October, making this the worst month for that market since oil futures began trading in 1983. Oil is down to just under $68 a barrel, from a peak over $145 in July.
One volatility measure, shown in the accompanying charts, is the number of days in which an index closes up or down at least 4 percent.
In normal times, the market goes years without having even one such day. There were none, for instance, from 2003 through 2007. There were three such days throughout the 1950s and two in the 1960s.
In October, there were nine such days.
The accompanying chart shows the months, from 1928 through the present, when the S.& P. 500 had at least five days with 4 percent moves. Most of them were during the 1929 crash and the Great Depression.
Until now, September 1932 held the record for the most days with big moves, at eight.
Two days during October ended with the index leaping more than 9 percent, something that had happened only nine times in the previous 80 years.
For the week, the S.& P. 500 was up 10.5 percent, the best weekly gain since a 14.1 percent rise in the week that ended Oct. 11, 1974.
If the rebound this week indicated that the bear market of 2007-8 had ended, it lasted just over a year and hit bottom on Monday, at 848.92. It recovered to 968.75 by week's end.
There were similar moves in most major indexes. The Dow Jones industrial average ended the week up 11.3 percent, at 9,325.01, and the Nasdaq composite climbed 10.9 percent, to 1,720.95.
For the month, the S.& P. 500 was still down 16.9 percent, the worst showing for the index since it fell 21.8 percent in October 1987. The Dow fell 14.1 percent, and the Nasdaq index lost 17.7 percent.
Both moves -- weekly and monthly -- affected every sector and nearly every stock. Only seven of the stocks in the S.& P. 100 fell this week, while just nine were up for the month.
Of the 30 stocks in the Dow industrials, only one fell this week. General Motors dropped 16 cents to $5.79 amid talks on a possible merger with Chrysler and additional government aid.
For the month, all 30 were down, with Alcoa turning in the worst performance with a decline of 49 percent. But in the final week, it rose 22 percent, ending at $11.50 after trading as low as $9 and as high as $22.35 during the month. It traded at more than $47 last year.
During the bear market, financial stocks led the way down. The S.& P. financial index fell 65 percent from the high it reached in early 2007 to the low close on Monday. By Friday, the index had recovered 17 percent.
Internationally, Russia led the volatility parade, with an astonishing 17 days with 4 percent moves in the Micex index. It might have had more if Russia had not closed the market on Oct. 10, fearful of the selling panic that was sweeping the world.
That index ended the week up 42.5 percent. For the month, it was still down 28.8 percent,
Many countries, among them Britain, Japan, India and Brazil, also showed more volatility than the United States.
That volatility was so high everywhere was an indication of how linked markets have become in the age of globalization. It is not just that most industrial countries appear to be in recession, or close to it. Another factor is that investors now own portfolios of shares from around the globe, and in times of stress may sell what they can, instead of just what they want to unload.
The period from 2003 through 2007 -- when there were no daily moves of at least 4 percent in the United States -- became known as the ''Great Moderation'' to some economists. That very lack of volatility encouraged investors to take more risks by borrowing money, and encouraged others to lend it.
All of the big days in September and October came after Lehman Brothers was allowed to fail. That Lehman was not deemed important enough to save signaled to investors that there was risk where they thought there was none and caused a sharp tightening of credit for many borrowers, despite efforts by central banks to push interest rates down.
The big advances, on Oct. 13 and again on Tuesday, came as hope grew that the financial system would be protected. The first came on the Monday after the Group of 7 finance ministers promised to take steps to protect banks. This week's big move came amid indications that central banks would aggressively cut interest rates.
Such wild volatility may be an indication that a bottom was reached. The biggest week since World War II did come at the end of the 1973-74 bear market, and the biggest week in the 1980s, a gain of 8.8 percent, came just after prices hit bottom on Aug. 12, 1982.
Or the wild moves could just show how baffled investors are by a series of events unlike any they can remember.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Record Volatility in the U.S. Stock Market: Months when daily closes of the S.& P. 500 were up or down 4 percent or more on at least five days. (Source: Bloomberg)(B1)
 Bad Month, Good Week: Worst monthly and best weekly performances of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. Market Volatility Around the World: Number of days in October 2008 when major stock index in each country rose or fell at least 4 percent. (Source: Bloomberg)(B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); HALLOWEEN (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); FUTURES (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); PRICE CHANGES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



5 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Banks Alter Loan Terms To Head Off Foreclosures

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ and ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Even as political pressure builds in Washington for a sweeping program to help struggling homeowners, some banks are realizing that it may be good business to keep borrowers in their homes.
 On Friday, JPMorgan Chase became the latest big bank to pledge to cut monthly payments, by lowering interest rates and temporarily reducing loan balances for as many as 400,000 homeowners. Early in October, Bank of America, which acquired the large lender Countrywide, announced a similar effort aimed at 400,000 borrowers as part of a settlement with state officials. 
 Though the measures encompass only a fraction of the nation's troubled homeowners, analysts say they could become more instrumental in stemming the rising tide of foreclosures than the government's plan to partly guarantee home loans. 
 ''The banks are doing the cost-benefit analysis,'' said Gerard S. Cassidy, a banking analyst with RBC Capital Markets. ''The banks don't want these customers going into foreclosure because it is a costly and punitive way of trying to collect your money.''
 Roughly 1.5 million homes were in foreclosure at the end of June, and economists expect several million more borrowers may default in the coming year as housing prices erode and job losses rise. Nearly one in 10 mortgages is either delinquent or in foreclosure.
 Chase officials said their effort was not an act of charity or a response to government pressure. By renegotiating loans with borrowers, the bank is hoping to reduce the losses that it incurs in the foreclosure process and when it sells repossessed homes. Chase said it has already modified 250,000 loans since the start of 2007.
 ''What we are doing is a process that just makes a lot of sense,'' said Charlie Scharf, chief executive of retail financial services at Chase. ''If the government can come in and help us find ways to modify more people that would be wonderful.''
 The bank, which will open 24 counseling centers and hire 300 employees to work with borrowers, will suspend foreclosures on loans it owns for at least 90 days while it puts its new policies into place at Chase and the two banks it acquired this year, Washington Mutual and Bear Stearns. 
 Like other banks, Chase is largely aiming at loans that the bank owns and not the mortgages that it services on behalf of bond investors who own mortgage-backed securities. Banks have less leeway in changing the terms of loans packaged into securities, because contracts that govern them can be very restrictive.
 Those contracts could limit the impact of loan modification programs at Chase and other banks. For instance, Chase owns $350 billion of the $1.5 trillion in the home mortgages it services; the rest are owned by investors. Some hedge fund investors have threatened legal action if banks aggressively modify the loans that back bonds that they own. Mr. Scharf said the bank was working with investors to gain approval to modify more loans. 
 Chase's effort resembles a plan put in place at IndyMac after the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation took it over in July. Chase's program closely mirrors that template by lowering interest rates on existing mortgages and temporarily reducing the principal owed on loans. The goal would be to lower a borrower's housing payments to 31 to 40 percent of disposable income.
 Sheila C. Bair, the chairman of the F.D.I.C., has said the agency may be able to help 40,000 of the 60,000 delinquent IndyMac borrowers. About 3,500 of those who have been approached have agreed to a modification. IndyMac owns most of those loans but it has been seeking permission from investors to modify other loans, as well.
 But the steps being taken by banks on their own could affect a much larger pool of troubled homeowners. 
 ''A clear consensus is emerging that broad-based and systematic loan modifications are the best way to maximize the value of mortgages while preserving homeownership -- which will ultimately help stabilize home prices and the broader economy,'' Ms. Bair said in a statement that applauded the announcement by Chase.
 Mr. Scharf said Chase would also offer modifications to borrowers who were not currently delinquent but who the bank thought could be at risk of defaulting. For certain risky loans, it might offer to temporarily reduce interest rates to as low as 2 percent and calculate payments on a reduced loan balance for a few years.
 Bank of America agreed to make similar changes under a settlement of predatory lending practices with officials from 11 states, and agreed to permanently write down the amount owed on some mortgages. HSBC, another big bank, is also pre-emptively providing relief to some borrowers and has modified nearly 25 percent of its subprime mortgages.
 Mark Pearce, a banking regulator in North Carolina, said the government interventions at IndyMac and Countrywide were helping to set a good example for lenders like Chase that were now beginning to take a more aggressive approach to loan modifications. 
 ''It's clear that they have studied IndyMac and the Countrywide settlement,'' said Mr. Pearce, who is a deputy commissioner for banks in North Carolina. ''Those public programs are leading other servicers to rethink how they are approaching these issues.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: About 1.5 million homes were in foreclosure at the end of June, and economists expect more. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID MCNEW/GETTY IMAGES)(B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REPOSSESSION (77%); BONDS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); HOME PRICES (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (70%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (70%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); EXECUTIVES (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (56%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (56%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (52%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (52%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2008



6 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TALKING BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1702 words

HEADLINE: A Rescue Hindered By Politics

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
Plans. Have I ever been inundated with plans. Deluged with them, actually.
 Two weeks ago in this space, I trumpeted an idea to help struggling homeowners stay in their homes from Daniel Alpert, a founding partner of Westwood Capital, a small investment bank. He had no personal stake in stemming the rising tide of foreclosures, but as someone who has spent his career in and around securitization and structured finance, he felt he had something useful to offer. Mr. Alpert devised what he called his Freedom Recovery Plan because he wanted to try to help ease the terrible financial crisis we're in.
 In publicizing his plan, however, I opened a spigot I hadn't known existed. It turns out that Mr. Alpert isn't the only smart guy who has been thinking hard about how to keep people from getting tossed out of their homes. It is a problem that is getting worse by the day, with more than 107,000 foreclosures in September alone, and one of every five mortgages underwater, by some estimates, meaning the homes are worth less -- often substantially less -- than the mortgage. 
 (A quick refresher: the reasons it is important to tackle this problem are, 1. foreclosures hurt not only individual homeowners but entire neighborhoods and the American economy; 2. until housing prices stabilize, the financial crisis won't end, because housing is at the root of it; and 3. keeping people in their homes is the quickest, most compassionate way to begin stabilizing home prices.)
 I heard, for instance, from William R. Hambrecht, the innovative founder of a firm that takes companies public through Dutch auctions, who believes that lenders should get equity in homes in return for reworking their mortgages, thus giving them some potential upside. Thomas Peterffy, the chief executive of the Interactive Brokers Group, believes the government should simply give every American homeowner $250 a month for five years to help pay the mortgage on their primary residence. 
 James Grosfeld, the former chief executive of Pulte Homes, walked me through his smart, interesting proposal for the government to buy up pools of mortgages at a discount and refinance them through Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. If his plan works -- and his argument is very compelling -- the government could even make a profit in the process. (The details of all the plans discussed here can be found on my blog at nytimes.com/executivesuite.)
 I found examples of nonprofit organizations, like American Homeowner Preservation, based in Cincinnati, that use tax-exempt bonds to buy homes and then lease them back to the former owners. I even discovered that the guy Barney Frank is planning to rake over the coals at a House Financial Services hearing he'll be presiding over in a few weeks has a plan.
 The guy, William Frey, a broker-dealer in Greenwich, Conn., invested in a pool of toxic mortgages, along with hundreds of other investors. His big point is that because the contracts are so ironclad, and the interests of the various investors are diverse and often in conflict, there is no legal way to modify mortgages in those pools. He wrote a letter threatening to take action against any mortgage servicers who took steps to prevent foreclosures -- thus raising Mr. Frank's ire. 
 Turns out that Mr. Frey had sent a letter to Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben Bernanke, seven months ago predicting that the government would have to take over Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, but adding that the takeover offered the best way to help homeowners.
 Under his plan, which he outlined in the letter, the government would buy mortgages at face value, and then use Fannie and Freddie to write homeowners new, more affordable mortgages that reflected the current value of the homes. The government would have to absorb the difference between the original mortgages and the new ones. 
 Mr. Frey acknowledged that it wasn't fair that both borrower and lender were made whole, while the taxpayer had to take the loss. But he believes that the securitization contracts make it impossible to solve the problem any other way. ''Theoretically, morally and logically, the investor should absorb the loss,'' he said. ''But how do you get the loss to them? I don't see a way.''
 So yes, I'm swimming in plans -- serious, smart, well-meaning plans that deserve consideration. And yet one plan is still missing. Where, oh, where is the government's plan?
 It has been over a week since the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation chairman, Sheila Bair, testified before the Senate Banking Committee, where she promised that a plan was on the way. ''Everyone agrees that more needs to be done for homeowners,'' she said, adding that the F.D.I.C. was in discussions with the Treasury and the White House about a plan. ''There is a policy process under way,'' she said. ''We hope to be able to make some announcements soon.''
 In fact, Ms. Bair had hoped to be able to make the announcement that morning, in front of the committee. But the plan she has devised -- and make no mistake, she is the driving force within the administration pushing to do something for homeowners -- has been held up in endless wrangling with the Treasury and the White House. 
 According to an article by Vikas Bajaj and Eric Dash in The New York Times on Wednesday, Ms. Bair's plan would have the government absorbing half the losses on home mortgages when lenders agreed to lower the borrower's monthly payment for at least five years. The government would also guarantee mortgages that were renegotiated at a lower rate, so that the lender would not have to take additional losses if the homeowner later defaulted. The F.D.I.C. hopes to guarantee up to three million mortgages, at a cost that is estimated at around $50 billion.
 As I understand it, the money is not the hang-up. Mr. Paulson and Mr. Bernanke have shown themselves more than willing to use many, many billions of dollars to keep the financial system afloat. Indeed, The Times estimates that the federal government has committed an astonishing $1.5 trillion so far in loans, investments and guarantees to the banking system.
 No, the hang-up, apparently, is that aid is going to homeowners, not giant financial institutions, with the negotiations revolving around who will be eligible for the program and what will constitute an affordable new mortgage. Ms. Bair is arguing for a broad definition; the Treasury wants something narrow, which of course will mean fewer people will get help. This is hardly a surprise. One of the reasons previous efforts at helping homeowners have had such little success is precisely because the Treasury has insisted on defining the number of eligible homeowners as narrowly as possible.
 It is also, of course, maddening. When it comes to the nation's financial institutions, the Treasury is willing to hand billions of dollars to healthy banks, like JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo, that don't even want the money. (It did so to disguise the fact that other, weaker banks, like Citigroup, do need the money.) Yet, inexplicably, it seems to feel that homeowners have to be treated much more severely.
 The only legitimate reason for this is the one that my colleague David Leonhardt has put forth -- that if the government says it is going to help homeowners in danger of foreclosing, it will create an incentive for a lot more homeowners to decide that they're in danger of foreclosing. But I would argue that the country is far better served at this late date by erring on the side of generosity. Isn't it better to let a few homeowners get relief who might not need it (just like JPMorgan!) than restricting the eligibility so narrowlythat people in real trouble will not be able get their mortgages modified? Yet the Treasury instinctively prefers the latter.
 It is also deeply aggravating that the urgency the government showed a month ago, when the banking system seemed at risk, seems absent now that the issue is homeowners. It took the Treasury and the Fed all of 36 hours to put forth a plan for a systemic bailout of the financial system. Yet they still can't agree on a plan to help homeowners; in fact, I hear that the Treasury is furious at Ms. Bair for getting out front of it on this issue, which may be another reason it won't sign off on her plan. More and more, it seems as if Treasury is acting like the Federal Emergency Management Agency after Hurricane Katrina. 
 I can't say with any certainty that the F.D.I.C. plan is demonstrably better than the plans that have been sent to me over the transom these last few weeks. Like any complicated plan, the devil will be in the details. What I do know is that the F.D.I.C. has a deeper understanding of the mortgage and foreclosure problem -- and a greater sense of urgency -- than any other agency of government. 
 In July, the F.D.I.C. became the conservator of a failing bank in California, IndyMac Federal. For the last few months, it has used the bank as a petri dish to see whether it could make mortgage modifications on a broad scale. Although the process is still in the early stages, the answer appears to be yes. So far, more than 3,500 homeowners have accepted the F.D.I.C.'s offer of mortgage modification, with thousands more lined up behind them. What's more, many of those mortgages were ones trapped in securitization pools. 
 In fact, the F.D.I.C. told me that it had sent out notices to 9,000 homeowners with securitized mortgages, offering to modify them. ''We can do this on securitizations,'' said Michael Krimminger, the F.D.I.C.'s special adviser to the chairman for policy. ''We can do it on a streamlined basis because we are applying a model.'' The notion that securitization contracts would prevent mortgages from being modified was ''a red herring.'' 
 If the F.D.I.C. can help IndyMac borrowers, then presumably it can help borrowers all over the country. So enough with ''the policy process,'' as Ms. Bair so politely calls it. The time has come for the Treasury to swallow hard, sign off on the F.D.I.C. plan and let Ms. Bair begin carrying it out as quickly as possible.
 To delay any longer isn't just short-sighted. It's inexcusable.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: William R. Hambrecht, left, who founded a financial services firm, and Daniel Alpert, the founder of an investment bank, have offered suggestions to help people keep their homes. (PHOTOGRAPHS LEFT TO RIGHT BY STEVEN BRAHMS/BLOOMBERG NEWS
MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Sheila Bair, the F.D.I.C. commissioner, devised a rescue plan that was held up in negotiations with the Treasury Department. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS KLEPONIS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); HOME PRICES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); SECURITIZATION (76%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); AUCTIONS (65%); EXECUTIVES (62%); TAX LAW (61%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%); INTERACTIVE BROKERS GROUP LLC (53%); PULTEGROUP INC (52%)

TICKER: IBKR (NASDAQ) (53%); PHM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (52%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (52%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (52%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (52%)

PERSON: SHEILA BAIR (54%); THOMAS PETERFFY (50%); BARNEY FRANK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2008



7 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Spending Slowed in September, Signaling Depth of Economy's Troubles

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Consumer spending dropped in September by the largest amount in four years, while incomes suffered because of Hurricane Ike.
 The Commerce Department reported Friday that personal spending fell 0.3 percent last month, the biggest decline since June 2004. That followed flat readings in both July and August, contributing to the worst quarterly performance in 28 years. 
 Incomes rose 0.2 percent in September, just half of the August increase, a slowdown that partly reflected the adverse effects of Hurricane Ike along the Gulf Coast. The storm cut into rental payments and earnings from businesses affected by the rough weather and its aftermath.
 The September spending decline was slightly worse than expected and confirmed that the economy hit a wall in the third quarter because of the weakness in consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds of total economic activity.
 The government reported Thursday that the gross domestic product, the broadest measure of economic health, declined at an annual rate of 0.3 percent in the third quarter, the strongest signal yet that the country was falling into a recession even before the severity of the current financial crisis was fully felt.
 With reports showing that the financial crisis has driven consumer confidence to a record low, economists say they believe consumer spending will remain weak in the current quarter, sending overall G.D.P. down by an even bigger amount. Some analysts expect a drop of 1 to 2 percent in fourth-quarter G.D.P.
 ''The economy is now navigating through the eye of the storm with recessionary forces intensifying in the fourth quarter,'' said Brian Bethune, chief United States economist at IHS Global Insight.
 In a separate report, the Labor Department said Friday that wages and benefits paid to workers rose 0.7 percent in the third quarter, matching the gains in the previous two quarters. It was a further indication that the weak economy was keeping a lid on business costs, a trend that will give the Federal Reserve room to cut interest rates further in an effort to keep the country out of a steep downturn.
 Two consecutive quarterly declines in G.D.P. would meet the classic definition for a recession, although the National Bureau of Economic Research uses different monthly measurements to pinpoint the exact beginning and ending dates for recessions. The bureau has yet to declare that the country is in a recession.
 The spending report showed that an inflation gauge tied to spending edged up 0.1 percent in September, and posted a 0.2 percent rise excluding energy and food. Prices over the last 12 months are up by 4.2 percent, and have risen by 2.4 percent over the last year when food and energy are excluded.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); HURRICANES (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); RECESSION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); TRENDS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2008



8 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; EXECUTIVE PURSUITS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: After a Life-Altering Event, Cleaning Out and Moving On

BYLINE: By HARRY HURT III

 BODY:
I BURST out the back door of Chateau Bow Wow, a k a the Doghouse, intent on salvaging the last few remnants of an almost-past life by Dumpster-diving in my own driveway. It looked to be a fine day for such an otherwise inauspicious executive pursuit. The late October air was crisper than an ice cream bar, and a deck of flat white clouds stretched across the sky from Sag Harbor, N.Y., to beyond forever.
 I stopped at the edge of my driveway and slipped into a high-visibility orange vest so that my body could perhaps be more easily recovered if I were to pass out inside the Dumpster. I put on a pair of hiking boots, black rubber knee pads, a blue dust mask and latex work gloves similar to those that crime scene investigators wear on television dramas.
 Looking like a cross between a Rollerblader and a highway construction flagman, I stepped on the seat of a soon-to-be-discarded lawn chair and climbed onto the rusted metal deck at the front end of the six-cubic-yard Dumpster that I had rented from my erstwhile carting service, S&P Sanitation. 
 My view from on high was both dizzying and sobering. On my left, I could see the white clapboard flank of my two-story house -- the 150-year-old quarters of a former watch factory worker -- and the ''For Sale'' sign poking up from the front yard. On my right, I could see two sides of Chateau Bow Wow, a matching clapboard shack maybe 10 paces long and 5 paces wide that had housed a butcher shop in the late 19th century and until recently had been my haunt.
 I sucked in a deep breath, and jumped boots first into the rubble below, reminding myself that I shared a common fate with the rapidly increasing number of Americans experiencing dislocation, relocation or the forced downsizing of their primary residences amid the worldwide financial crisis. 
 The day before my Dumpster dive, RealtyTrac, an online property marketing firm, had released its monthly report on house foreclosures. According to the report, there were 765,558 foreclosure filings in the quarter that ended Sept. 30, up 71 percent from the third quarter of 2007. 
 I happened to be in the throes of a divorce, the marital equivalent of foreclosure. Although I had accepted an all-cash offer for the house from an ostensibly wealthy couple, the buyers had recently postponed the closing date to get the money to complete the purchase by selling some stock. Given the downward trend in the Dow Jones industrial average, I was starting to worry that the sale might fall through. 
 The prospect was chilling. If I was unable to find another buyer or a year-round renter, my house might end up in foreclosure. And I had already signed a one-year lease on a two-bedroom walk-up apartment near the center of the village, which meant there was no turning back on my move out of Chateau Bow Wow.
 My attempts to seek guidance in coping with the repercussions of this major midlife change led me to the Web site of the National Association of Senior Move Managers, a nonprofit group of move management organizations that claimed to be dedicated to assisting adults like me, age 55 and older, ''with the physical and emotional demands of downsizing, relocating or modifying their homes.''
 To my dismay, I came across a July 2008 survey conducted by this association that found that 96 percent of its members were assisting clients in downsizing rather than upgrading their residences. But even relocation to more modest digs does not come cheap. According to the survey, the average cost of a move to a two-bedroom apartment ranged from $1,500 to $4,000, not including initial rent payments and security deposits.
 In a telephone interview, Jennifer Pickett, the associate executive director of the group, said the physical and emotional tolls of moving were now commonly referred to in her industry as ''transition trauma.'' Ms. Pickett added, ''Moving is traumatic for everyone, but it can especially throw older adults way off.''
 I was left to ponder my predicament in the solitary confines of Chateau Bow Wow. The crew from Home Sweet Home Moving & Storage had long since come and gone. They had moved the pair of solid-core wooden doors, set on sawhorses, that served as my writing desk, along with my file cabinet and a dozen boxes of books and photographs, to my new apartment. They had put my heirloom furniture and the convertible couch that fortunately could not talk in storage.
 I quickly discovered that there is no sound eerier or more gut-wrenching than the echo of footsteps in an empty room. The only remaining signs that I had labored in Chateau Bow Wow for nearly 16 years were a dozen shelves that had held research materials for the three nonfiction books and 200-plus newspaper and magazine articles I had written there, a library ladder, the nails on the rafters that had once borne my golf cap collection, and two hollows that the movements of my desk chairs had excavated in the pine plank floor.
 The only sign that Chateau Bow Wow had been a meat market operated by obliging butchers more than 100 years ago was a tattered, leather-bound accounts ledger that I planned to entrust to the new owners. One entry showed that a Mrs. Parmmer had purchased a pound of beef for 39 cents on Dec. 11, 1894. 
 Suddenly, the echoing emptiness of Chateau Bow Wow inspired yet another chilling thought and a call to take pre-emptive action. What if I had thrown away something valuable -- a keepsake from my world travels, a family memento, a birthday card from my 11-year-old son -- amid the frenzy of moving? The only way to find out was by going Dumpster-diving before it was too late.
 Appropriately enough, the first thing I saw upon planting my hiking boots in the Dumpster was a split-open banker's box containing yellowed files pertaining to a magazine article I had written on the demise of Enron. The second thing I saw was a pile of poker chips. I grabbed a handful of chips and tossed them in the air for good luck.
 The weather had been relatively dry, so nothing in the Dumpster had been rain-soaked or started to rot. Even so, I was happy to be wearing the knee pads, dust mask and gloves. It was obvious that an unprotected scavenger could suffer painful injury combing through the pointy ends of broken furniture and the detritus of broken dreams that included my wedding announcement and some predivorce family photographs. 
 I retrieved a pale blue inflatable ball my son and I had kicked around the backyard, the orange plastic bat he had used to hit his first ''in the park'' home run, and a rubber duck that our dog, Steffi, had appropriated as a chew toy. I salvaged a pack of firecrackers I'd bought in Texas, and the collapsible stick I'd used to change ceiling-height light bulbs.
 After 20 minutes or so, I called it quits. I stuck a couple of the poker chips in the pocket of my orange vest, tucked a round plastic wall clock that had once hung inside Chateau Bow Wow under my arm, and climbed out of the Dumpster.
 By now, the temperature was dropping, and the sinking sun had turned the flat white clouds into sheets of purple. I stole one last glance inside Chateau Bow Wow, feeling as if I were saying goodbye to a dear friend I might never see again. Then I realized that being in the Doghouse was a state of mind that could be -- and probably would be -- re-created in many other physical locations. 
 I gripped the wall clock by the rim and flung it back into the Dumpster, turning time into a Frisbee. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Harry Hurt going through a Dumpster as he moves out of his house, making sure no keepsakes were discarded. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GORDON M. GRANT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (87%); FORECLOSURE (85%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); TRENDS (69%); AFFLUENT MARKET (60%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (53%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (53%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (53%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (53%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2008



9 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1755 words

PERSON: Studs Terkel 

HEADLINE: Studs Terkel, Listener to Americans, Is Dead at 96

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
Studs Terkel, a Pulitzer Prize-winning author whose searching interviews with ordinary Americans helped establish oral history as a serious genre, and who for decades was the voluble host of a popular radio show in Chicago, died Friday at his home there. He was 96.
His death was confirmed by Lois Baum, a friend and longtime colleague at the radio station WFMT.
In his oral histories, which he called guerrilla journalism, Mr. Terkel relied on his enthusiastic but gentle interviewing style to elicit, in rich detail, the experiences and thoughts of his fellow citizens. Over the decades, he developed a continuous narrative of great historic moments sounded by an American chorus in the native vernacular.
''Division Street: America'' (1966), his first best seller and the first in a triptych of tape- recorded works, explored the urban conflicts of the 1960s. Its success led to ''Hard Times: An Oral History of the Great Depression'' (1970) and ''Working: People Talk About What They Do All Day and How They Feel About What They Do'' (1974). 
Mr. Terkel's book '' 'The Good War': An Oral History of World War II'' won the 1985 Pulitzer Prize for nonfiction.
In ''Talking to Myself: A Memoir of My Times'' (1977), Mr. Terkel turned the microphone on himself to produce an engaging memoir. In ''Race: How Blacks and Whites Think and Feel About the American Obsession'' (1992) and ''Coming of Age: The Story of Our Century by Those Who've Lived It'' (1995), he reached for his ever-present tape recorder for interviews on race relations in the United States and the experience of growing old.
Although detractors derided him as a sentimental populist whose views were simplistic and occasionally maudlin, Mr. Terkel was widely credited with transforming oral history into a popular literary form. In 1985 a reviewer for The Financial Times of London characterized his books as ''completely free of sociological claptrap, armchair revisionism and academic moralizing.''
The elfin, amiable Mr. Terkel was a gifted and seemingly tireless interviewer who elicited provocative insights and colorful, detailed personal histories from a broad mix of people. ''The thing I'm able to do, I guess, is break down walls,'' he once told an interviewer. ''If they think you're listening, they'll talk. It's more of a conversation than an interview.''
Mr. Terkel succeeded as an interviewer in part because he believed most people had something to say worth hearing. ''The average American has an indigenous intelligence, a native wit,'' he said. ''It's only a question of piquing that intelligence.'' In ''American Dreams: Lost and Found'' (1980), he interviewed police officers and convicts, nurses and loggers, former slaves and former Ku Klux Klansmen -- a typical crowd for Mr. Terkel.
Readers of his books could only guess at Mr. Terkel's interview style. Listeners to his daily radio show, which was first broadcast on WFMT in 1958, got the full Terkel flavor as the host, with breathy eagerness and a tough-guy Chicago accent, went after the straight dope from guests like Sir Georg Solti, Toni Morrison and Gloria Steinem.
''It isn't an inquisition; it's an exploration, usually an exploration into the past,'' he once said, explaining his approach. ''So I think the gentlest question is the best one, and the gentlest is, 'And what happened then?' ''
Studs Terkel was born in the Bronx on May 16, 1912, the third son of Samuel Terkel, a tailor, and the former Anna Finkel, who had emigrated from Bialystok, Poland. In 1923 the family moved to Chicago. In the late 1930s, while acting in the theater, Mr. Terkel dropped his given name, Louis, and adopted the name Studs, from another colorful Chicagoan, James T. Farrell's fictional Studs Lonigan.
His childhood was unhappy. His father was an invalid who suffered from heart disease. His mother was volatile and impetuous, given to unpredictable rages that kept the household on edge. ''What nobody got from her was warmth and love, or at least not a display of it,'' Mr. Terkel said.
After moving to Chicago, the Terkels managed hotels popular with blue-collar workers, and Mr. Terkel often said that the characters he encountered and the disputations he witnessed at the Wells-Grand Hotel on the Near North Side were his real education. Although he read avidly and feasted on Roget's Thesaurus, he was, by his own reckoning, no scholar. He earned philosophy and law degrees at the University of Chicago, but after failing a bar exam he worked briefly for the Federal Emergency Relief Administration in Chicago, doing statistical research on unemployment in Omaha. He then found work in Washington counting bonds for the Treasury Department.
When he returned to Chicago in 1938, Mr. Terkel, who once described his life as ''an accretion of accidents,'' joined the Federal Writers' Project, a New Deal program. He wrote scripts for WGN radio and, after appearing in ''Waiting for Lefty'' at the Chicago Repertory Group, found work in soap operas like ''Ma Perkins'' and ''Road of Life.'' What he called his ''low, husky, menacing'' voice made him a natural to play heavies.
''I would always say the same thing and either get killed or sent to Sing Sing,'' he later recalled.
It was while performing with the Chicago Repertory Group that he took the name Studs. In 1939 he married Ida Goldberg, a social worker from Wisconsin whom he met while they were both with the Chicago Rep. She died in 1999. The couple had one son, Dan Terkell, who altered the spelling of his surname. Mr. Terkell, who lives in Chicago, is the only immediate survivor.
After a one-year stint writing speeches and shows in the special services of the Army Air Forces in 1942 and 1943, Mr. Terkel was discharged because his perforated eardrums, a condition resulting from childhood operations, made him unfit for overseas duty. He found work doing news, sports and commentary for commercial radio stations in Chicago, and in 1945 he was given his own radio show, ''The Wax Museum,'' on WENR.
Although ''The Wax Museum,'' which ran for two years, was primarily a jazz show, Mr. Terkel also followed his other enthusiasms, playing country music, folk, opera and gospel, as the mood seized him. He was one of the first to promote artists like Mahalia Jackson, Pete Seeger, Woody Guthrie, Big Bill Broonzy and Burl Ives. On occasion he would invite composers or performers to sit down for an on-air interview. His passion for jazz led to his first book, ''Giants of Jazz'' (1957), a collection of biographies.
In 1950 Mr. Terkel became the star and host of ''Studs' Place,'' a variety show set in a barbecue joint, with Mr. Terkel appearing as the owner, shooting the breeze with his staff and with the guest of the week. Along with ''The Dave Garroway Show'' and ''Kukla, Fran and Ollie,'' it helped define the relaxed, low-key Chicago school of television.
In January 1952, with McCarthyism in full flower, NBC canceled the show shortly after picking it up for national broadcast, nervous because Mr. Terkel had a habit of signing petitions in support of liberal and left-wing causes. Executives in New York told him that he could clear his record by saying he had been duped into signing the petitions. Mr. Terkel refused. ''Duped'' made him sound stupid, he said.
Blackballed from commercial radio, Mr. Terkel found work in the theater, appearing in a national tour of ''Detective Story'' and in other plays. One day, in October 1952, he was surprised to hear Woody Guthrie on the radio. ''I wondered, who plays Guthrie records except me?'' he later recalled. ''So I called WFMT. They were delighted to hear from me.''
In a partnership that would endure for 45 years, Mr. Terkel broadcast a daily hour of music, commentary and interviews, helping to build WFMT into a major fine-arts station. Although he shied away from actors and politicians, anyone else was fair game. The guest roster included figures as diverse as John Kenneth Galbraith, Garry Wills, Aaron Copland and Oliver Sacks.
In 1980, Mr. Terkel won a Peabody Award for excellence in journalism. His official title at the station, where he was instantly recognizable by his wayward white hair, red-and-white-checked shirts and well-chewed cigar, was Free Spirit.
In the 1960s, Andre Schiffrin, the publisher and editor who ran Pantheon Books, was looking for a writer to produce the American equivalent of Jan Myrdal's ''Report From a Chinese Village,'' a collection of interviews that shed light on the lives of ordinary Chinese under Mao Zedong. Mr. Schiffrin called Mr. Terkel and suggested Chicago as a subject.
Mr. Terkel went out into the city's neighborhoods, tape recorder in hand, and produced ''Division Street,'' an enormous success and the beginning of a lifelong relationship in which Mr. Schiffrin would propose an idea and Mr. Terkel would execute it.
''Division Street'' consisted of transcripts of 70 conversations Mr. Terkel had with people of every sort in and around Chicago. Peter Lyon, reviewing it in The New York Times Book Review, said it was ''a modern morality play, a drama with as many conflicts as life itself.''
In ''The Great Divide: Second Thoughts on the American Dream'' (1988), Mr. Terkel returned to an earlier subject and looked at it afresh. When Random House executives forced Mr. Schiffrin out as head of Pantheon in 1990, Mr. Terkel walked out with him and took his work to Mr. Schiffrin's New Press. New Press published ''My American Century'' (1997), a ''best of'' compilation. That book was followed by two more volumes of memoirs, ''Touch and Go'' (2007), and ''P.S.: Further Thoughts From a Lifetime of Listening,'' to be published on Nov. 11.
In 1997, Mr. Terkel received the National Book Foundation Medal for contributions to American letters.
In ''Talking to Myself: A Memoir of My Times,'' Mr. Terkel took on his toughest interview, and many critics found the book frustrating for its refusal to delve too deeply into its author's personal life and feelings. Mr. Terkel acknowledged the justice of the complaint. ''I've met hundreds, no, I've met thousands of interesting people, and I've been so caught up with them and fascinated by them and intrigued with them, it's almost like there's no room inside me to be interested in my own feelings and thoughts,'' he told an interviewer.
It may be the one time in his life that Mr. Terkel's ruling passion failed him. ''I don't have to stay curious, I am curious, about all of it, all the time,'' he once said. '' 'Curiosity never killed this cat' -- that's what I'd like as my epitaph.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The author Studs Terkel at the Algonquin Hotel on May 20,1997, around the release of his book ''My American Century.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The actress Beverly Younger and Mr. Terkel on the Chicago set of his television variety show, ''Studs' Place,'' around 1950. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CBS, COURTESY OF JEFF KISSELOFF) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); HISTORY (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); LITERATURE GENRES (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); LITERATURE (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); GREAT DEPRESSION (67%); WORLD WAR II (66%); RACE & RACISM (64%); SOCIOLOGY (60%)

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines, Broadcasting

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



10 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: Pure and Simple Economics

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
Once upon a time, sales of organic and natural products were growing in double digits most years. Enthusiastic grocers and venture capitalists prowled the halls of trade shows looking for the next big thing. Grass-fed beef? Organic baby food? Gluten-free energy bars?
But now, shaky consumer spending is dampening the mood. It turns out that when times are tough, consumers may be less interested in what type of feed a cow ate before it got chopped up for dinner, or whether carrots were grown without chemical fertilizers -- particularly if those products cost twice as much as the conventional stuff.
Whole Foods Market, a showcase for the natural and organic industries, is struggling through the toughest stretch in its history. And the organic industry is starting to show signs that a decade-long sales boom may be coming to an end.
The sales volume of organic products, which had been growing at 20 percent a year in recent years, slowed to a much lower growth rate in the last few months, according to the Nielsen Company, a market research firm. For the four-week period that ended Oct. 4, the volume of organic products sold rose just 4 percent compared with the same period a year earlier. 
''Organics continue to grow and outpace many categories,'' the Nielsen Company concluded in an October report. ''However, recent weeks are showing slower growths, possibly a start of an organics growth plateau.''
If the slowdown continues, it could have broad implications beyond the organic industry, whose success spawned a growing number of products with values-based marketing claims, from fair trade coffee to hormone-free beef to humanely raised chickens. Nearly all of them command a premium price.
While a group of core customers considers organic or locally produced products a top priority, the growth of recent years was driven by a far larger group of less committed customers. The weak economy is prompting many of them to choose which marketing claim, if any, is really important to them.
Among organic products, those marketed to children will probably continue to thrive because they appeal to parents' concerns about health, said Laurie Demeritt, the president and chief operating officer of the Hartman Group, a market research firm for the health and wellness industry. But products that do not have as much perceived benefit, like processed foods for adults, may struggle.
The economy has ''crystallized the tradeoffs that consumers are willing to make,'' she said. ''Fair trade is nice, but fair trade may fall off the shopping list where organic milk may not.''
Thomas J. Blischok, president of consulting and innovation for Information Resources, a market-research firm, said shoppers were not moving entirely away from categories like organic products in the grocery store. But they are becoming more selective, buying four or five products instead of seven or eight, he said.
Mr. Blischok conducted a survey of 1,000 consumers in the first half of the year and found that nearly two-thirds said they were cutting back on nonessential groceries and nearly half said they were buying fewer organic products because they were too expensive. Such consumer attitudes have compounded problems for Whole Foods Market, the Austin, Tex., chain that served as a launching pad for many organic and natural brands. The company's stock has dropped by more than 70 percent since the first of the year, and analysts expect more grim news when fourth-quarter earnings are announced next week.
Recently in Boston, on the sprawling convention floor of the Natural Products Expo East, some vendors said they had been hurt by the economic malaise and others said they had not yet felt the impact.
Several of them noted that Whole Foods Market faces a broad array of problems, including increased competition from traditional grocers, and should not be viewed as a proxy for the whole industry. But many also worried that if the economy continues to flounder, consumers -- particularly those who only occasionally shop for their products -- may decide they can no longer afford to let their conscience dictate their shopping list.
Theresa Marquez, the chief marketing executive for Organic Valley, which sells primarily dairy products, said she was not worried about core customers because they were so committed to buying organic.
''I'm not sure the periphery -- those that purchase perhaps only four or so times a month -- will break the industry,'' she said in an e-mail conversation after the convention. ''But I am concerned that those periphery customers are important to the growth of the industry and without them, organic growth is sure to go flat.''
Organic Valley's sales have slowed in the last four months, in part because of price increases, company officials said.
Robert Atallah, the owner of Cedarlane Foods, which makes organic and natural frozen meals, said his business had slowed in the last 18 months, a problem he attributed to increased competition and the economy. He said that he believed a newly developed line of products could help sales but cannot convince buyers for grocery chains to commit.
''The morale of buyers is so low, they don't want to buy anything,'' he said. ''It's a sick feeling all the way around. People don't know if their job is going to be there.''
But others said they had not yet noticed a slowdown and were optimistic that sales would remain steady -- or possibly improve -- as consumers ate fewer meals in restaurants and devoted more time to cooking. Some store-brand manufacturers said they were thriving as consumers looked for cheaper alternatives to branded products.
''People aren't going on vacation, they aren't going to buy a car, so maybe they'll buy a luxury item that is affordable,'' said Dary Goodrich, chocolate products manager for Equal Exchange, a worker-owned fair trade organization offering tea, coffee and chocolate from small-scale farmers. ''Right now, we aren't seeing a slowdown, but it's a concern.''
In interviews with consumers around the country, some said they were spending as much or more at the grocery store, including on organic products, in part because they have curbed restaurant meals. Karen Jenson, 35, said she was buying as much organic food but shopping at four different stores to find deals.
''The apples right now are really cheap here because they are in season,'' she said, standing outside the Linden Hills Co-op in Minneapolis.
But some others said they were cutting back on organic food to save money.
Joni Heard, a 29-year-old mother of two who lives in central Florida, said that in the past she would buy organic milk, cheese and produce but had cut back because it was too expensive.
''I'm a stay-at-home mom and my husband -- you never know if he's going to be laid off,'' she said in an interview, explaining that her husband works in construction. ''I can't justify spending $2 or $3 more for a single item.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY THE NEW YORK TIMES/ISTOCKPHOTO)(B1)
The Natural Products Expo East held last month in Boston.
 Robert Atallah, the owner of Cedarlane Foods, a maker of organic and natural frozen meals, says that sales are slowing. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B9) CHART: Specialty Slowdown: The growth in sales of organic products has slowed considerably in the last 12 months. (Source: The Nielsen Company)(B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORGANIC FOODS (90%); ORGANIC FOODS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BEEF (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (89%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (89%); MEATS (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (89%); BABY FOODS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); TRADE SHOWS (78%); MAMMALS (78%); ORGANIC BEVERAGES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (78%); FERTILIZERS (77%); FUNCTIONAL FOODS (77%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (73%); VENTURE CAPITAL (73%); COFFEE MARKETS (73%); YOUTH MARKET (72%); CHILDREN'S MARKET (72%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (57%)

TICKER: WFM (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (57%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



11 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Put Some Zip Back Into the Economy

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''When Consumers Capitulate,'' by Paul Krugman (column, Oct. 31), and ''A National Mobility Project,'' by David Brooks (column, Oct. 31):
 Mr. Krugman, a progressive economist, recommends a huge economic stimulus in the form of actual government spending. 
 David Brooks, a conservative columnist, recommends government spending in the form of a huge ''National Mobility Project'' to rebuild the nation's infrastructure. 
 Senator Barack Obama promises exactly such a rebuilding of the nation's infrastructure. It is a hopeful sign indeed when everybody -- left, right and center -- is in agreement. 
 Infrastructure rebuilding is the most direct, most productive use of taxpayers' money or national indebtedness to rebuild our battered economy. 
 From personal experience as a former small-business owner, I can attest that business tax credits for new hires and other purposes are of no value unless the business is profitable enough to have to pay the taxes from which the credits can be deducted. 
 For a business to be profitable, it needs to operate in a healthy economic environment. To be able to hire more help, it also needs the ability to grow, for which it needs not only a healthy but also an expanding economy. 
 I will vote for the candidate who will follow the most promising path to it.
 George Wolf 
 New York, Oct. 31, 2008
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks gets it: the government should borrow money only to invest. Any stimulus that helps consumers, the military or entitlements just puts off the day of reckoning. Only investment provides hope.
 Thus we should not think ''guns versus butter,'' but ''guns versus butter versus infrastructure'' -- and only infrastructure leads to a better future. 
 Though Mr. Brooks emphasizes highways, we need to also emphasize public transportation, energy, education and preventive health, all of which are essential investments in our future. 
 Stephen W. Smith
 Minneapolis, Oct. 31, 2008
 The writer is an associate professor of emergency medicine at the University of Minnesota School of Medicine.
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks is spot-on with his call for major investment in transportation infrastructure, both for near-term economic stimulus and for a sustainable recovery. His recommendations of what to build are outdated, however.
 As he notes, a way to put people to work would be to repair and maintain our existing highways, bridges and transit systems. But building new highways was the project for an earlier era, the 1950s, when gas was cheap and President Dwight D. Eisenhower created the Interstate System.
 Today we urgently need to build the infrastructure for a clean-energy economy and reduced dependency on oil. Soaring gas prices made our vulnerability clear: Americans flocked to public transportation or took to their bicycles only to find the transit systems underfinanced and the roads dangerous and inhospitable. Half of our urban-dwelling citizens found they had no transit at all.
 If we're going to go into debt to build for the future, we must do so to complete our transportation network with high-speed rail, modern public transit, streets that support safe biking and walking, and, yes, well-maintained highways. David Goldberg 
 Communications Director
 Transportation for America Coalition
 Washington, Oct. 31, 2008
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks calls for a ''National Mobility Project'' to restore the economy. This would focus on infrastructure, including highway projects to relieve traffic congestion. 
 But if we include a global warming perspective in our planning, then we see that building more and wider roads is the wrong way to go. 
 We should relieve the traffic congestion that Mr. Brooks deplores by reducing the amount of traffic. We should renew the 55 m.p.h. speed limit we had for years in the 1970s and mandate much stiffer fuel economy standards for cars and truck manufacturers. 
 As a long-term benefit, we should adopt housing and tax policies that discourage distant urban sprawl in order to shorten the distance between residences and workplaces. John Burton 
 Washington, N.J., Oct. 31, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Forgive me for feeling a healthy skepticism about the earnestness of a leading conservative commentator who proposes what amounts to a vast federally financed series of public projects. 
 Nonetheless, I completely agree with the noble aspiration of putting people back to work and rebooting our economy (though I would shift the focus from transportation to energy infrastructure).
 Such a proposal would require a large government agency to oversee it, which we might call the Works Progress Administration.
 Sounds like a good deal to me. A good New Deal. Dane A. Barnes 
 Ann Arbor, Mich., Oct. 31, 2008

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY AUGUST HEFFNER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); WRITERS (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (76%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (67%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (62%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (56%); EMPLOYMENT (54%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (88%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2008



12 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Even at Costliest College, Unease Over Downturn

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA

DATELINE: BRONXVILLE, N.Y. 

 BODY:
In the hypercompetitive world of higher education, a top ranking in national surveys is zealously sought. But during this moment of deep economic anxiety, Sarah Lawrence College finds itself No. 1 in an inopportune category: the nation's most expensive school.
 With students paying $53,166 per year for tuition, room and board, Sarah Lawrence, a liberal arts school of 1,200 with 42 acres of Tudor-style buildings, edged out George Washington University and New York University as the priciest school in America, according to a report this week by the College Board. They are among more than 100 colleges and universities costing above $44,000 a year. 
 Across the nation, college costs rose 6.4 percent this fall, the College Board report says, with the average price tag for private, four-year schools at $25,143, and public universities, $6,585. 
 On both the top and bottom ends of the spectrum, many of the pressures driving up costs are similar, particularly for liberal arts colleges. A look at Sarah Lawrence, which has been in the College Board's top five in cost for several years, provides a window to better understand where all that money goes.
 Located just north of New York City in Bronxville, the college, since its founding in 1928, has held as its guiding principle the importance of ''individual education.'' Since no two people learn in the same way, the philosophy holds, students are expected to largely design their own academic programs.
 But such a system requires intensive interaction with faculty; Sarah Lawrence brags of a 6:1 student-teacher ratio. During the first year, students meet individually with a professor every week. So it should be no surprise that faculty salaries and benefits are the school's greatest expense, 48 percent of its annual $80 million budget.
 Karen Lawrence, president of Sarah Lawrence, said there is an increasing division among the top liberal arts schools between those with huge endowments like Harvard ($34 billion before this season's economic crisis) and Yale ($23 billion) and schools that depend heavily on tuition to pay their bills. Sarah Lawrence's endowment stands at $65 million -- down from $77 million in May 2007, a 16 percent drop amid the market turmoil.
 ''The rich schools are increasingly functioning like public institutions,'' she said. ''They could go years with not a single student having to pay tuition.''
 At Sarah Lawrence, 53 percent of the students receive some financial aid, the vast majority of them getting grants from the college itself, taking up 21 percent of the budget. (As of 2007, two-thirds of Harvard's students received aid.)
 Ms. Lawrence -- no relation to the school's founder -- said that the school has not yet seen an uptick in requests for financial aid, but that she is worried about increasing pressures as middle- and upper-class families also deal with the market turmoil.
 ''It's really hard to tell right now how much we are going to be impacted,'' she said. ''Some students are struggling more because their family finances are changing. We are trying to help them out. But the small endowment makes it hard.''
 Rosie Young, 18, a freshman from Providence, R.I, said she feels lucky to have a trust fund to take care of her college education -- it covers everything, including Plan 2, the meal plan required for freshmen, which brings the total cost to $53,454 (that's $39,450 for tuition, $8,756 for a room and $4,348 to eat, plus $900 in assorted fees). ''Half the kids here are loaded,'' she said. ''I am extremely lucky that my grandmother is wealthy.''
 Ms. Young said that her grandparents had done well in the stock market, and that her parents had recently told her that as much as half their fortune may have disappeared in the recent downturn. ''But I think I am pretty secure, since the college money is in a trust,'' she said.
 She was sitting next to another freshman, Kayleigh Salstrand, 18, from Lake Tahoe, Calif. The two had apparently not discussed money before; Ms. Young was surprised to learn that her friend was on financial aid.
 Ms. Salstrand, the daughter of a bank employee and a stay-at-home mother, said she pays about $8,000 (she took out a loan to cover it); the rest is offset by a $39,000 grant from Sarah Lawrence and other aid.
 ''It is a little crazy that college should cost so much, but I am really happy with my experience here,'' she said. ''It is absurd, but it is what you have to do. Be in debt for the rest of your life.''
 It was a sentiment commonly expressed -- both by students on aid and those whose families can afford the tuition.
 Max Teischer, 19, a sophomore from Westport, Conn., said that his parents -- his father is a hedge-fund manager -- looked at Sarah Lawrence as an investment and never blinked at the cost. But asked how the economic turmoil was affecting his father, Mr. Teischer said: ''He is freaking out.''
 Mr. Teischer remains unworried about his ability to stay at Sarah Lawrence, but says he is cutting back on some extravagances.
 ''One of my favorite restaurants is the Oyster Bar,'' he said. ''But I don't go there as much. I will get a bagel for dinner instead.''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 8, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article in some editions last Saturday about Sarah Lawrence College misidentified the city in which it is located. The error also appeared in the dateline. The school is in Yonkers -- not in the village of Bronxville, N.Y., which the college uses as a mailing address.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Esther Raushenbush Library at Sarah Lawrence
 some of its students are struggling because of changing family finances. (PHOTOGRAPH BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (94%); RANKINGS (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TUITION FEES (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); BUDGETS (89%); STUDENT TEACHER RATIO (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%)

ORGANIZATION: THE COLLEGE BOARD (91%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2008



13 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1490 words

HEADLINE: Despite Crisis, Wealthy Russians Are Buying Up Coastal Montenegro

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY

DATELINE: BUDVA, Montenegro 

 BODY:
The global financial crisis has buffeted the balance sheets of Russia's legion of billionaires. But suitcases of cash and Russian-owned luxury yachts keep arriving in this idyllic town on the Adriatic, helping Montenegro earn the nickname Moscow-on-the-Sea.
 Among the biggest investors is the Russian developer Vyentseslav Leibman, a young millionaire who is pressing ahead with investments of $310 million, including plans for a 27-floor modernist hotel, luxury seaside villas, docks for the pleasure boats of the Russian superrich and a water park for their children. 
 The investment might seem daring given the way the economic downturn has hit several of his fellow wealthy Russians. But Mr. Leibman, a Muscovite who is managing partner at Mirax Group, the company owned by the Russian billionaire developer Sergei Polonsky, insists he can barely keep up with demand. 
 He said more than half of the sprawling condominiums in Mirax's new complex -- which sell for more than $10,400 per square foot and come with outdoor marble Jacuzzis -- had been sold to executives of giant Russian companies like Gazprom, Lukoil and VTB. They paid, he said, upfront and in cash. 
 Despite the financial crisis, ''the money keeps coming,'' said Mr. Leibman, who recently helped bring Madonna to perform in Budva to promote his development. ''And hopefully the global financial crisis will help sober up the cost of land here, which is now more expensive than in Monaco.'' 
 Thanks in large part to wealthy Russians, Montenegro has received more foreign investment per capita than any other country on the Continent. In recent years, Russian investors have gobbled up land on the Montenegrin coast, a fashionable alternative to the South of France and coastal Turkey. Russians, including the heavily leveraged Russian billionaire Oleg Deripaska, have also made huge investments in the country's industrial sector. 
 In neighboring Serbia, Gazprom, the Russian state energy monopoly, recently bought a majority stake in the national energy company, Petroleum Industry of Serbia, for $520 million and agreed to invest another $650 million by 2012. The deal will give Gazprom a dominant position in Serbia's energy market while transforming Serbia into a gateway for the transportation of Russian gas into western Europe. 
 As governments across the western Balkans have turned toward the United States and Europe -- and actively seek European Union and NATO membership -- the influx of Russian capital is seen by some in Brussels and Washington as a retaliatory move by Moscow to assert influence in a formerly Communist region with which it has long had close ties. 
 Gen. Blagoje Grahovac, a senior adviser to the speaker of Montenegro's Parliament, warned in a recent interview with the Serbian newspaper Nedeljni Telegraf that the United States, the European Union and NATO were being ''outmaneuvered'' in the western Balkans. ''Whoever holds the upper hand economically will also do so politically,'' he said. 
 The European Parliament late last year commissioned a study of Russian investment; among its concerns is that a burgeoning property market provides an ideal front for illegal transactions. The European Commission has repeatedly warned of money laundering in Montenegro. 
 But Dmitri S. Peskov, spokesman for Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, dismissed the notion that Russian investment was geopolitically motivated as ''utter nonsense.'' 
 ''When British people 30 years ago were investing in Spanish coastal areas, it would never come to anyone's mind to speak about enhancing political influence,'' Mr. Peskov said. ''When tens or hundreds of thousands of British or American people are investing in the Gulf countries, this is not a political pressure. But every time when it comes to Russia or Russians, it is immediately treated as flexing political muscle.'' 
 But the Russianization here is unmistakable. Russians can be seen and heard everywhere: on the beaches, in clubs, in upscale restaurants and in a recently opened Russian-language elementary school. Until recently, a billboard at the airport in Podgorica, the capital, greeted visitors in Russian: ''Come where they like you!'' 
 Lazar Radenovic, Budva's young deputy mayor, said Russians started to invest here eight years ago, after the Balkan wars of the 1990s, when real estate prices were severely depressed. Russian investment has since grown to more than $13 billion, he said. In Budva, he noted, the influx had created a new class of millionaires -- 500 at last count -- who had improved the town's tax base and development. 
 Mr. Leibman said Russians were attracted to the Balkans by a cultural connection stretching back to the 18th century. Serbia and Montenegro, he noted, share a Slavic Orthodox identity with Russia. ''When Russians come here,'' he said, ''we don't feel like we have crossed over the border.'' 
 Zarko Radulovic, co-owner of Hotel Splendid -- luxury penthouse suites, swimming pools and boutiques backed by a Russian investment fund -- insisted the threat of economic colonization was exaggerated. ''The perception that the Russians have bought everything is wrong,'' he said. ''Only 1 percent of Montenegro is owned by foreigners.'' 
 But the European Parliament report countered that official statistics had minimized the scale of Russian investment because many Russians invested through third countries or by teaming up with Montenegrins. 
 Mr. Radulovic insisted that most businesspeople support Montenegro's entry into the European Union, since being outside the bloc hampers business. When he recently decided to invest $12 million for new air conditioning to make the hotel's kitchen comply with European Union regulations, he waited two days for a visa to travel to Belgium to buy it, an annoyance, he said, that ''makes me want to buy Russian technology instead.'' 
 Many here argue that Russian investment, paradoxically, will help Westernize Balkan countries by aiding economic development, thereby accelerating readiness to join the European Union and NATO. 
 Branimir Gvozdenovic, minister for economic development and a close ally of Prime Minister Milo Djukanovic, said that Russia was Montenegro's second-biggest foreign investor after Hungary, and that Russians accounted for 12 percent of tourists last year. ''We welcome investments from more than 80 countries, so why not Russia?'' he said. 
 Yet the relationship does appear to have a political dimension. Russia's emergencies minister, Sergei K. Shoigu, has warned that relations between Russia and Montenegro could be damaged if Montenegro pursued NATO membership. Two years ago, when Mr. Putin received Mr. Djukanovic in his residence at Sochi, Mr. Putin praised Montenegro for promoting business with Russia and urged closer ties. In July, Mr. Putin moved to permit visa-free travel between the two countries. 
 Meanwhile, in neighboring Serbia, where the pro-Western government of President Boris Tadic has been pressing for European Union membership, some critics argue that Russia is using pipeline politics to keep Belgrade in Russia's sphere of influence. 
 In a recently announced energy deal, Gazprom agreed to make Serbia a transit country for its South Stream pipeline, a $14 billion project that will stretch 560 miles undersea from Russia to Europe. The project -- which Gazprom insists will forge ahead despite the global financial crisis -- is a direct challenge to Nabucco, a pipeline championed by the United States and the European Union to bring natural gas to Europe via Central Asia, offsetting energy dependence on Russia. 
 Danica Popovic, chief economist at the Center for Liberal-Democratic Studies in Belgrade, an economic research institute, argued that economic relations shifted fundamentally in Russia's favor after Moscow repeatedly invoked its veto in the United Nations Security Council to prevent it from recognizing Kosovo, which declared independence from Serbia last February. 
 ''By Moscow controlling our energy sector, we can become vassals of Russia just like South Ossetia and Abkhazia in Georgia,'' she said, noting that attitudes toward the European Union were hardening in Serbia, even among members of the pro-Western government, who are increasingly frustrated with the union's conditions for membership. 
 Milutin Nikolic, director of Citadel, a Belgrade-based mergers and acquisitions firm that has advised on the biggest Russian deals in Serbia, said he did not believe the recent influx of Russian investments reflected a coordinated Kremlin strategy. 
 If Moscow had influence, Mr. Nikolic contended, it was because Serbs were still smarting over recent history, including the NATO bombing of Serbia in 1999 and the West's backing of Kosovo's independence. ''Russia doesn't need to economically colonize Serbia,'' he said, ''because Moscow already has serious political influence here.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Russians are everywhere around Budva, including in the Adriatic Sea. Residents say Russians are the only ones who would be swimming this time of year.
 Russians, building a $310 million hotel and condominium complex on a rocky peninsula at Budva and dining al fresco in Kotor, another seaside resort, are helping give Montenegro more foreign investment per capita than any other country on the Continent. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KATHRYN COOK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Russian cash and luxury yachts keep coming to Budva. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (86%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (85%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); RECREATIONAL WATERCRAFT (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (71%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (71%); WATER PARKS (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (68%); INTERVIEWS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%)

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (70%); OAO LUKOIL (55%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (70%); GAZP (RTS) (70%); LKOH (RTS) (55%); LKOD (LSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (70%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (70%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (70%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (70%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (70%)

PERSON: OLEG DERIPASKA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); MONTENEGRO (95%); EUROPE (94%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); FRANCE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); MONACO (74%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2008



14 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Despite Economy, Sponsor to Stick With Marathon

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR. 
E-mail: sportsbiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Mary Wittenberg, the president of the New York Road Runners Club, recalled Friday that it was not easy to accept a title sponsor for the New York City Marathon in 2003. 
 On its own, the marathon's name had become a renowned brand. Now it was joining the realm of stadiums, arenas and college bowl games with corporate names.
 But the club needed the money during a soft economy. ''It was a monumental shift that we weren't looking to make at the time,'' Wittenberg said at Tavern on the Green, two days before Sunday's race. ''We were looking at the time to replace JPMorgan Chase at the very high level of principal sponsor, not to add a title sponsor.'' 
 ING, the Dutch financial-services giant, agreed to spend an estimated $2 million a year, which has probably increased since, to place its letters in front of the marathon's name. ''ING came to us,'' she said, ''which put us in a good position to say, Here are the grounds we'll consider a title sponsor. We wanted a real partner and someone who cares a lot about getting kids running, and about the community.''
 The recent financial crisis weakened ING enough that the Dutch government announced Sunday that it would provide $13.4 billion to stabilize ING's operations, if not prevent a possible collapse.
 Wittenberg said she was not surprised when she heard of the financial rescue.
 ''We'd been in close contact with ING,'' she said. ''We had a very good sense throughout the crisis that ING was on solid footing, as we understood it. ING is quite significant in the Netherlands, so we thought the bailout would likely be coming.''
 ING is not cutting its commitment to the marathon, which goes through 2010.
 Tom Waldron, an executive vice president for ING Americas, said in an interview at Tavern on the Green: ''We're not letting up. I'd be wondering about people who retreat at a time like this.''
 At a news conference a few minutes earlier, he said: ''When ING is involved in something, we're not a drive-by. We're here to stay.''
 Waldron's vow to remain -- ING's rights fee is small compared with its size -- will be worth watching as the effects of the global recession damage the balance sheets of sports sponsors, who are prominent in the financial and automotive sectors. How many will retain their commitments, reduce or renegotiate them, or simply try to get out?
 Waldron said the New York City Marathon, along with others that it sponsors in the United States and around the world, has helped elevate ING's name into something beyond initials that consumers don't recognize (or confuse with IMG, the sports marketer).
 ''In the United States, running was the great sweet spot available to us when we entered the market in a big way,'' Waldron said. ''We see it as a real sweet spot for us. Our studies show runners are more likely to seek financial advisers.''
 ING, like many sponsors, can't specifically say that the event they pour money into generates new business or, in its case, new accounts or clients for its banking and financial services. But, Waldron said, ING measures consumer recalls of its name.
 ''We see an uptick in the recognition of our name after these races,'' he said.
 In the world of track and field, the marathon stands out as an event that unites professionals and amateurs, and is untainted by drug scandals. 
 ''We're an attractive global brand,'' Wittenberg said. 
 According to federal documents, the club took in $10.8 million in sponsorship and television revenues in the year ended March 31, 2007. Those were the second-largest sources of revenues for the organization, after $13.1 million in race entries.
 The marathon diligently uses the ING name in all public utterances, press releases and signs. The staff knows ING's money has helped increase overall prize money and the appearance fees that entice about 40 total elite runners to New York. But the news media isn't nearly as dutiful about using the ING name; a Nexis database search showed that this year and last, the print media was 10 times more likely to leave out the ING name. 
 ''I'm very good at calling it the ING New York City Marathon, and they've paid for the name,'' said Wittenberg, who was wearing an ING-orange suit. ''I don't need to be reminded.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPONSORSHIP (92%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (90%); MARATHONS (90%); RUNNING (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); BAILOUTS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%)

COMPANY: ING GROEP NV (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ROAD RUNNERS CLUB (84%)

TICKER: INGA (BIT) (92%); INGA (AMS) (92%); ING (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2008



15 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Oh, Washington? While You're Bailing ...

 BODY:
At a Congressional hearing this week, the mayor of Trenton cut through the weighty economic theories concerning this latest downturn and borrowed a simple message from the Beatles. ''Help!'' Mayor Douglas Palmer pleaded. Like mayors and governors across the country, Mr. Palmer asked Congress to funnel money to city and state governments where tax revenues are plummeting and requests for aid are soaring. 
 The National Conference of State Legislatures has begun appealing for Congressional help with the ''precarious'' financial status of many states. Unlike the federal government, most states and cities require balanced budgets, and the conference has estimated a $26 billion shortfall for 27 states so far this year. If the economy continues its slide, that figure is surely to grow, with some estimates rising to $100 billion by the next fiscal year. 
 California is facing a $3 billion shortfall this year. New Jersey has $400 million less than needed for a $33 billion budget. Gov. David Paterson of New York, whose Wall Street tax revenues are evaporating, has estimated a record $47 billion budget deficit over the next four years. And New York City's mayor, Michael Bloomberg, who also sees his revenues shrinking precipitously, has called on Washington for a ''new New Deal.''
 If Congress and the White House can bail out bankers and insurance companies and possibly the auto industry, they should be able to help state and local governments, too. The aid could be temporary, the way it has been during past recessions. And it should come after cities and states have downsized to the essentials. 
 In addition to extending unemployment benefits and food stamp programs, which provide the biggest immediate boosts to states' economies, one promising idea being pushed by governors is to put more federal money into projects like roads, subways, bridges, tunnels, schools and sewage plants. This help should go where work already has started or can begin almost immediately. Transit experts told Congress recently that they have at least $26 billion worth of projects that would be ready to go in 90 days. All they need is the money.
 Gov. Jon Corzine of New Jersey reminded the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure this week that federal support of this kind would ''put people to work.'' He estimated that each $1 billion for public works would create 35,000 jobs. At the same time, Congress and the White House would be helping to stem the rapid deterioration of the nation's infrastructure.
 Many states also need added support for Medicaid. During the last recession in 2001, Congress provided states an extra $10 billion in block grants and another $10 billion to help temporarily with Medicaid. The program could use longer-range fixes, of course, but emergency funding for at least two years would certainly help protect the nation's most vulnerable.
 Investing in highways and health care is a far more effective way of stimulating the economy than repeating the mistake of sending rebate checks to a broad array of individual taxpayers. Most Americans used those federal bonuses to fill the gas tank, a fleeting assist to family budgets, but a big boon for the oil companies. With their record profits, the oil companies are the last ones the government should be helping at this point. And states won't use federal funds for executive bonuses or corporate junkets, the way some financial firms have.
 Giving money to state and local governments has its hazards, of course. Congress must resist making this next stimulus into an ugly porkfest, with money for everybody's favorite waterworks. And it cannot become an excuse for governors and mayors to avoid making hard decisions about how to cut their own budgets. 
 But it is time for Congress and the White House to recognize how crucial it is to help local governments who provide services like schools and health care and police protection that cannot fall victim to this latest recession.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); MEDICAID (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (75%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (75%); JOB CREATION (73%); INSURANCE (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); INFRASTRUCTURE (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); FOOD STAMPS (63%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (62%); GRANTS & GIFTS (60%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); JON CORZINE (58%); DAVID PATERSON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2008



16 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1400 words

HEADLINE: Specter of Deflation Lurks As Global Demand Drops

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
As dozens of countries slip deeper into financial distress, a new threat may be gathering force within the American economy -- the prospect that goods will pile up waiting for buyers and prices will fall, suffocating fresh investment and worsening joblessness for months or even years. 
 The word for this is deflation, or declining prices, a term that gives economists chills. 
 Deflation accompanied the Depression of the 1930s. Persistently falling prices also were at the heart of Japan's so-called lost decade after the catastrophic collapse of its real estate bubble at the end of the 1980s -- a period in which some experts now find parallels to the American predicament.
 ''That certainly is the snapshot of the risk I see,'' said Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at the research and trading firm ITG. ''It is the crisis we face.'' 
 With economies around the globe weakening, demand for oil, copper, grains and other commodities has diminished, bringing down prices of these raw materials. But prices have yet to decline noticeably for most goods and services, with one conspicuous exception -- houses. Still, reduced demand is beginning to soften prices for a few products, like furniture and bedding, which are down slightly since the beginning of 2007, according to government data. Prices are also falling for some appliances, tools and hardware.
 Only a few months ago, American policy makers were worried about the reverse problem -- rising prices, or inflation -- as then-soaring costs for oil and food filtered through the economy. In July, average prices were 5.6 percent higher than a year earlier -- the fastest pace of inflation since 1991. But by the end of September, annual inflation had dipped to 4.9 percent and was widely expected to go lower. 
 The new worry is that in the worst case, the end of inflation may be the beginning of something malevolent: a long, slow retrenchment in which consumers and businesses worldwide lose the wherewithal to buy, sending prices down for many goods. Though still considered unlikely, that would prompt businesses to slow production and accelerate layoffs, taking more paychecks out of the economy and further weakening demand. 
 The danger of this is the difficulty of a cure. Policy makers can generally choke off inflation by raising interest rates, dampening economic activity and reducing demand for goods. But as Japan discovered, an economy may remain ensnared by deflation for many years, even when interest rates are dropped to zero: falling prices make companies reluctant to invest even when credit is free. 
 Through much of the 1990s, prices for property and many goods kept falling in Japan. As layoffs increased and purchasing power declined, prices fell lower still, in a downward spiral of diminishing fortunes. Some fear the American economy could be sinking toward a similar fate, if a recession is deep and prolonged, as consumers lose spending power just as much of Europe, Asia and Latin America succumb to a slowdown. 
 ''That's a meaningful risk at this point,'' said Nouriel Roubini, an economist at New York University's Stern School of Business, who forecast the financial crisis well in advance and has been warning of deflation for months. ''We could get into a vicious circle of deepening malaise.'' 
 Most economists -- Mr. Roubini and Mr. Barbera included -- say American policy makers have tools to avert the sort of deflationary black hole that captured Japan. Deflation fears last broke out in the United States in 2003, but the Federal Reserve defeated the menace with low interest rates that kept the economy growing. This time, the Fed is again being aggressive, dropping its target rate to 1 percent this week. And the government's various bailout plans have also pumped money into the economy. 
 ''If you print enough money, you can create inflation,'' said Kenneth S. Rogoff, a former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund and now a professor at Harvard. 
 But even as American authorities unleash credit, the threat has intensified. Not since the Depression have so many countries faced so much trouble at once. The financial crisis has gone global, like a virus mutating in the face of every experimental cure. From South Korea to Iceland to Brazil, the pandemic has spread, bringing with it a tightening of credit that has starved even healthy companies of finance. 
 ''We're entering a really fierce global recession,'' Mr. Rogoff said. ''A significant financial crisis has been allowed to morph into a full-fledged global panic. It's a very dangerous situation. The danger is that instead of having a few bad years, we'll have another lost decade.''
 Global economic growth has flourished in recent years, much of it fertilized with borrowed investment. This raised kingdoms of houses in Florida and California, steel mills in Ukraine, slaughterhouses in Brazil and shopping malls in Turkey.
 That tide is now moving in reverse. Banks and other financial institutions are reckoning with hundreds of billions of dollars worth of disastrous investments. As they struggle to rebuild their capital, they are halting loans to many customers, demanding swift repayment from others and dumping assets -- homes sold out of foreclosure, investments linked to mortgages and corporate loans. Selling is pushing prices down further, making the assets left on balance sheets worth less, in some cases prompting another round of sales. 
 ''You get this adverse feedback loop where assets keep falling in value,'' Mr. Barbera said. ''You're essentially putting big downward pressure on the global economy.''
 In past crises, like those that devastated Mexico in 1994 and much of Asia in 1997 and 1998, weak economies managed to recover by exporting aggressively, not least to the United States. But American consumers are battered this time. After years of borrowing against homes and tapping credit cards, consumers are pulling back. 
 From Asia to Latin America, exports are slowing and should continue to do so as the global appetite shrinks. This is spawning fears that major producers like China and India -- which vastly expanded production capacity in recent years -- will have to dump products on world markets to keep factories running and stave off unemployment, pressing prices lower.
 Earlier this year, some analysts suggested that American businesses might continue to prosper, even as consumers pulled back at home, by selling into foreign markets. Caterpillar, the construction equipment manufacturer, might suffer declining sales in the United States, the argument went, but huge projects from Russia to Dubai required front-end loaders. Australia and Brazil needed earth-movers to expand mining operations as they sent iron ore toward smelters in Northeast Asia.
 But as much of the planet now struggles, Caterpillar is worried. ''Next year, no doubt, will be a challenge,'' Caterpillar's chief executive, James W. Owens, recently warned.
 China has long been at the center of claims that the world could keep growing regardless of American troubles. China has been importing cotton from India and the United States; electronics components from South Korea, Malaysia and Taiwan; timber from Russia and Africa; and oil from the Middle East. 
 But many of the finished goods China produces with these materials have ultimately landed in the United States, Europe and Japan. When consumers pull back in those countries, Chinese factories feel the impact, along with their suppliers around the globe. 
 Fewer laptop computers shipped from China spells less demand for chips. Last week, Toshiba -- Japan's largest chip maker -- said it lost $275 million from July to September, blaming its troubles on a world glut. 
 Lower demand for flat-screen televisions means less need for flat-panel glass displays. This month, Samsung, the Korean electronics giant, said a global oversupply in that item caused its biggest dip in quarterly profits in three years. 
 Now, a glut of products may be building in the United States. Orders for trucks used by business have plummeted. Investments in industrial equipment are declining. Yet inventories have grown. 
 ''I worry about an economy that looks like Japan,'' said Barry P. Bosworth, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. ''We're going to be struggling with how to put this back together again for several more years.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Mansfield Manufacturing plant in Dongguan, China. The global economic crisis is threatening the country's factory jobs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg.A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); DEFLATION (91%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); INFLATION (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); INTEREST RATES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2008



17 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Roaring Month Goes Out Like a Lamb

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
October will go down as the worst month in the American stock market since 1987. Still, investors did not go out quietly. 
 Drawing confidence from a move by JPMorgan Chase to shore up the mortgage market, investors moved into stocks and sent the Dow Jones industrial average up 144.32 points, or 1.57 percent, to 9,325.01. It was the first time the Dow had back-to-back gains since the end of September. 
 All the major indexes closed higher in a quiet day of trading, a rarity in a month where stocks routinely dropped 300, 400 or 500 points in a matter of minutes. Such swings, once considered extraordinary, seem barely to register these days. 
 In 23 trading sessions, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 17 percent, the biggest monthly collapse since the index fell 21.8 percent in October 1987. The Dow lost 1,525 points in the same period. 
 For the year, the Dow is down 30 percent and the S.& P. 500 has declined 34 percent. 
 Friday, however, brought a rare reprieve. Shares jumped after JPMorgan Chase, the banking giant, said that it would expand its program to modify mortgages to avoid foreclosures on up to $70 billion in loans. Bank stocks led the gains, with shares of JPMorgan rising 9.65 percent, or $3.63, to $41.25.
 Investors also shook off a report from the Commerce Department that showed inflation running at 4.2 percent in September compared with a year ago, down slightly from the 4.5 percent annual gain in August. 
 At the close, the S.& P. was at 968.75, up 1.54 percent, or 14.66 points. The Nasdaq composite index rose 1.3 percent, or 22.43 points, to 1,720.95.
 The Commerce Department report showed salaries running far behind the rising cost of living -- effectively a pay cut. Income rose 0.2 percent in September compared with August, and consumer spending declined 0.3 percent. The savings rate jumped to 1.3 percent, from 0.8 percent in August.
 Those numbers did not bode well for consumer spending, which in recent years made up more than two-thirds of American economic growth. And anxieties have led many Americans to spend less.
 ''Conditions for consumer spending in the fourth quarter are not expected to improve, with further downward pressure on employment, consumer confidence and net household worth,'' Brian Bethune, an economist at IHS Global Insight, wrote in a note. ''As a result, we expect another sharp quarterly decline in real consumer spending.''
 The Commerce Department reported on Thursday that American consumer spending fell last quarter by the most in three decades. With layoffs on the rise and a retrenchment in consumer credit, economists expect Americans to cut back on their spending habits well into next year.
 Outside of food and fuel products, prices climbed 2.4 percent, above the Federal Reserve's preferred ceiling of 2 percent.
 Those figures, based on the personal consumption expenditures price index, were about in line with expectations, and reflected the falling cost of energy stemming from a 30 percent slide in oil prices. 
 Oil prices rose $1.85, to settle at $67.81 a barrel.
 European shares closed higher. The FTSE-100 index in London gained 2 percent; the CAC-40 index in Paris was up 2.3 percent; and the DAX in Frankfurt rose 2.4 percent.
 In London, Barclays bank said it planned to raise $:7.3 billion ($11.8 billion) by selling shares to Abu Dhabi and Qatar to meet new capital requirements for banks. Shares of Barclays fell 12.8 percent.
 The BT Group, a telecommunications company based in Britain, declined 20 percent after a profit warning.
 Shares in the consumer cosmetics giant L'Oreal, based in France, dropped 2.9 percent after the company ratcheted back its sales outlook through the end of the year. The warning underscored concerns among consumer-oriented businesses, which are bracing for one of the worst holiday shopping seasons in years. 
 The Bank of Japan cut its benchmark interest rate for the first time in more than seven years, a move intended to stimulate the slumping Japanese economy. The recent surge in the yen has caused problems for Japanese exporters dependent on foreign demand. The Nikkei, Japan's major stock index, is trading at a 26-year low. 
 Stocks in Japan fell again, by 5 percent, after the decision, because investors apparently were seeking an even sharper cut. 
 Other Asian markets had a more positive session on the coattails of steps by global central banks to put more liquidity into the financial system. The Korean stock index gained 2.6 percent and Taiwan's index gained 4 percent. The Hang Seng in Hong Kong lost 2.5 percent, falling back slightly from a remarkable 30 percent rise this week alone. 
 The 10-year Treasury note was unchanged at 100 9/32 with the yield unchanged at 3.96 percent. 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.
The Favorites: Stocks held by the largest number of accounts at Charles Schwab. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (86%); WAGES & SALARIES (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); FORECLOSURE (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); COST OF LIVING (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2008



18 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; WHITE HOUSE MEMO; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: A President Vanishes, And No One Asks Why

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
It's the week before Election Day. Do you know where your president is? 
 Probably not, and that is by design. With Senator John McCain lagging behind in the polls and many other Republicans fighting for their political lives, the nation's top Republican -- President Bush -- is intentionally lying low this week, and is likely to do so until after Americans cast their ballots to pick his successor. 
 Mr. Bush, an ardent student of politics, knows what it feels like to be down in the polls, and he is keeping a careful eye on the campaign. Earlier this week, he made a surprise visit to the headquarters of the Republican National Committee to offer thanks to those who have served him for the past eight years, and deliver a little pep talk to lift the spirits of beleaguered McCain supporters. 
 ''He talked about how he was never supposed to win a campaign,'' said one person who attended, speaking anonymously because the session was off-the-record. ''He talked about how in '94, 2000, 2004, they always said he had no chance, and he just encouraged us, to say it's just important to keep doing what we're doing and keep working hard.'' 
 The message was not entirely surprising. What was striking is that Mr. Bush chose to deliver it in private. Presidential visits to campaign headquarters are routine business in election years; the day before voters cast their ballots in 2000, President Bill Clinton dropped in on Democratic headquarters in Little Rock, Ark., to buck up campaign volunteers, even as he conceded that he had no idea which way the race between Vice President Al Gore and Mr. Bush, then the governor of Texas, would go. 
 Mr. Bush, though, has made himself increasingly scarce as Election Day approaches. His campaign season effectively ended on Oct. 21 -- two weeks before the election -- when he attended his last political fund-raiser, a $1 million event for the Republican Senatorial Campaign Committee. (His wife, Laura, is still on the stump; on Thursday she headlined a get-out-the-vote rally in Mississippi.) 
 With Mr. Bush's job approval ratings at historic lows, political analysts have long said Republican candidates simply do not want to be seen with him. But now, with the election just days away, it seems that Republican candidates do not want Mr. Bush to be seen, period. 
 ''One of McCain's biggest challenges has been how to deal with Bush, and he never quite got it right,'' said Scott Reed, a Republican strategist who ran Bob Dole's 1996 presidential campaign. ''Now, the best thing is silence.'' 
 So the president has temporarily dropped out of sight. Until recently, Mr. Bush was giving talks about the battered economy on nearly a daily basis, prompting some Republicans to grumble privately that so much presidential face time was hurting their election chances. This week, Mr. Bush stepped back, holding just four public events, none with real policy implications. 
 He hosted two foreign leaders, the presidents of Paraguay and the Kurdistan Regional Government, at the White House, stepping before the cameras for a total of 11 minutes. He gave the graduation speech at the F.B.I. Academy in Quantico, Va. And he and Mrs. Bush hosted a light-hearted celebration in honor of the 150th birthday of Theodore Roosevelt, complete with a bespectacled Roosevelt impersonator who looked about the East Room and commented wryly, ''Well, I must say, I like what you've done with the place.'' 
 Joe Lockhart, a former Clinton press secretary, said Mr. Bush's absence from the public stage, though brief, had consequences. ''This has an impact,'' Mr. Lockhart said. ''The world marches on; we're in an economic crisis. We have tensions at home and abroad, yet I think if you walk down the street and ask people, 'Has the president already left?' you'd have a lot of people saying, 'Yeah, I think so.' '' 
 On Friday, Mr. Bush left Washington at noon to spend the weekend at Camp David, and he has no public appearances scheduled for Monday. Unlike in elections past, he will not travel to his ranch in Crawford, Tex., to vote; casting his last ballot as president in person would almost certainly have drawn the sort of news coverage the White House might not want. Instead, the Bushes sought the privacy of absentee ballots this year, casting their votes for Mr. McCain by mail. 
 The couple will watch the election returns from the White House; Dana Perino, the White House press secretary, said the public would most likely hear from her, and not the president, on Tuesday night. To avoid getting drawn into a discussion about the race, Mr. Bush has steered clear of news conferences all fall; Ms. Perino would not say this week when reporters might get a chance to question him directly about the outcome. 
 If the past is any guide, Mr. Bush will be matter-of-fact about the result. At the Roosevelt event, the president ''seemed sort of fatalistic'' about Mr. McCain's chances and his own place in history, said Representative Peter T. King, Republican of New York, who was there. Mr. King said his wife grew emotional, telling the president how much she would miss him. Mr. Bush did not grow emotional in return. 
 ''He just said, 'Yeah, yeah.' He seemed like, what happens, happens,'' Mr. King said. ''I always feel that he thinks it's his job to keep everybody's spirits up.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); FUNDRAISING (70%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); AL GORE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%) ARKANSAS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2008



19 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE HOT SEAT; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: Senate Race Follows National Script

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
DOVER, N.H. -- Former Gov. Jeanne Shaheen was on stage with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton at a half-filled community center gymnasium, basking in the cheers of her supporters as she offered up, yet again, the generic message of change that has served Democrats so well this year -- and has put Republican Senate candidates on the defensive in 11 states across the country.
''Everywhere I go, people are struggling,'' Mrs. Shaheen, the Democratic candidate for Senate, said on Tuesday. ''Health care and the cost of college are increasingly unaffordable. Wages are stagnant. Home values are dropping. Energy costs are still at record highs, and our debt and our deficit are soaring. But we don't have to stand for it. We can tackle these challenges head on, and we can make a difference.''
Mrs. Shaheen, who is in a bitter rematch with Senator John E. Sununu, one of the most vulnerable Republican incumbents in the country, did not offer much in the way of specifics. For weeks, polls have shown no need for her to do so, and with just days left in the race, she was not taking any risks. All year, her main theme has been to tie Mr. Sununu to President Bush, and it seems to be working. 
''I think she looked at the numbers, the same numbers that we were all looking at, and decided that she never, ever, had to go out on a limb this year,'' said Dante J. Scala, an associate professor of political science at the University of New Hampshire. ''All she had to do this year was present herself as a plausible, suitable alternative to the incumbent.''
''She has run a very low-risk campaign,'' Professor Scala added.
But in a state that prides itself on spirited political discourse, lack of specificity can be its own risk. ''Shaheen's campaign has been a vapid series of Democratic sound bites without new ideas or systematic thinking about how the economy, war, health care, the deficit and energy link to one another,'' The Portsmouth Herald wrote, endorsing Mr. Sununu on Thursday.
Such endorsements are likely to have minimal impact in this increasingly Democratic state, where recent polls show Senator Barack Obama pulling far ahead in the presidential race.
Mrs. Shaheen's risk-averse approach to the issues helps explain why a cartoon posted on the politickerNH.com Web site ridicules Mrs. Shaheen as the driver of a car stopped at a green light, refusing to move without knowing what the polls say.
Her campaign is taking every step to prevent slip-ups. When a staff member saw Mrs. Shaheen's husband, William Shaheen, talking to a reporter after the rally in Dover, the Shaheens' youngest daughter, Molly, 22, was sent running over. ''Daddy,'' she said, pulling him away, ''I need to speak to you really badly.''
The New Hampshire race is emblematic of Senate contests around the nation that have Democrats within reach of the 60-seat majority needed to break filibusters. And in many ways, Mrs. Shaheen, 61, is the archetypal candidate, a seasoned politician with wide name recognition and great fund-raising prowess.
Democratic Senate contenders this year include three former governors (in New Hampshire, Mississippi and Virginia), two well-known representatives (in New Mexico and Colorado), and a popular mayor (Mark Begich of Anchorage, in Alaska). Polls show Democrats ahead in all of these states except Mississippi.
On the issues, Mrs. Shaheen has hewed closely to the national Democratic agenda. She supports wider domestic oil drilling and more nuclear power but as part of an energy policy focused primarily on renewable sources. She generally supports Mr. Obama's health care plan, and has called for swift redeployment of troops from Iraq. She originally supported Mr. Bush's tax cuts but now favors repealing them.
Some political analysts say it is odd to see Mrs. Shaheen so carefully in line with her party, given that she was elected three times as governor and ran for Senate in 2002 as a centrist, much more in the mold of Bill Clinton than Mr. Obama. If elected, her votes might well reflect those moderate tendencies rather than the more left-leaning politics of the voters who have increased the ranks of New Hampshire's Democrats in recent years.
''The issue for New Hampshire's quirky, flinty voters, is fundamentally who is Jeanne Shaheen?'' said James W. Pindell, the managing editor of politickerNH.com. ''For many voters, the idea that you are voting for a Democratic agenda is good enough.''
Perhaps no issue underscores Mrs. Shaheen's cautious approach more than her position on the $700 billion financial bailout. She waited until after the package was approved by Congress to announce that she would have opposed it because it lacked sufficient taxpayer protections. Mr. Sununu voted for it.
Mrs. Shaheen's campaign said her opposition to the bailout showed a willingness to break with the Democratic leadership. ''She has never shied from disagreeing with her party,'' said Kate Bedingfield, a spokeswoman.
Still, in a televised debate on Thursday night, Mrs. Shaheen struggled with a question from Mr. Sununu challenging her over independence: ''Jeanne, can you give an example of a national issue where you opposed the leadership of your party?'' Mrs. Shaheen stumbled a bit as she described her opposition to efforts by President Clinton to ban road construction in forests and limit logging, a view that aligned her with the timber industry and put her at odds with environmental groups.
In a previous debate, Mrs. Shaheen stumbled on a similar question, submitted by Skipper W. Morris, an independent voter from Nashua who said he favored centrist politicians. ''Help me decide which of you will be more independent,'' Mr. Morris said.
Mrs. Shaheen restated her main talking points, and in an interview later, Mr. Morris said she had lost his vote. ''She basically just spouted the party line,'' he said.
Throughout Thursday's debate, Mr. Sununu accused Mrs. Shaheen of taking politically expedient positions, especially in response to a question about one of his campaign's advertisements, which quoted her in 2002 expressing support for the Iraq war and Mr. Bush's tax cuts.
''This isn't an ad about whether you supported Iraq,'' he said. ''This is an ad about integrity, about taking one position when it's politically convenient because you think it's popular and then changing your position later on.''
But if Mrs. Shaheen can seem less comfortable in front of an audience, Mr. Sununu, 44, often comes across as abrasive. He scolded a moderator for not giving him enough time to answer. When questions about negative advertising began with a clip of one of his opponent's advertisements, he sniped, ''I certainly hope you are charging Jeanne Shaheen for the air time.''
And while Mr. Sununu, an engineer educated at M.I.T., often sounds as if he is lecturing, Mrs. Shaheen is a disciplined campaigner -- though stilted and awkward at times -- who is rarely ruffled and methodically drives home her points.
She calmly explained why she had changed her views on the Iraq war, a sentiment shared by many voters in New Hampshire, where intense antiwar sentiment led to a Democratic sweep in 2006. And she quickly returned to tying Mr. Sununu to Mr. Bush.
''Unfortunately, what we have seen from John Sununu is that he has continued to support George Bush's position on the war in Iraq, down the line with every vote, with every appropriation,'' she said.
And when Mr. Sununu demanded to know why 15 newspapers that endorsed her in 2002 were now supporting him, Mrs. Shaheen shot him a rare sly smile.
''I don't know,'' she said. ''But I hope they help you in the same way they helped me in 2002.''
HOT SEAT: Articles in this series examine the battle for a New Hampshire Senate seat.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator John E. Sununu is trying to hold on to his seat.
 Former Gov. Jeanne Shaheen, Democrat of New Hampshire, who is in a bitter rematch for a seat in the Senate, was joined at a rally this week by Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM COLE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); STUDENT EXPENSES (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); JEANNE SHAHEEN (90%); JOHN SUNUNU (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



20 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 162 words

HEADLINE: Closing Arguments

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama
 At a rally in Des Moines
 ''He has spent the last few weeks of the campaign calling me every name in the book. Every name, everything but a child of God, because that's how you play the game in Washington. When you can't win on your own ideas, you try to make up ideas about the other person.'' 
 Senator John McCain
 At a rally in Hanoverton, Ohio
 ''We need pro-growth and pro-jobs economic policies, not pro-government spending programs paid for with higher taxes. This is the fundamental difference between Senator Obama, who began his campaign in the liberal left lane of American politics and has never left it. It's not an accident that he's the most liberal senator in the United States Senate, more liberal than a senator who used to call himself a socialist. You know we both disagree with President Bush on economic policy; the difference is that Senator Obama thinks taxes have been too low, and I think that spending has been too high.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LIBERALISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); POLITICS (73%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2008



21 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Obama Seeking Votes In Republican-Rich Soil

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: COLUMBIA, Mo. 

 BODY:
When Senator Barack Obama's plane took off from here on Friday morning, after a large rally one night earlier, Democrats might have been justified in assuming it was his final visit to Missouri, given the dwindling number of hours before Election Day. 
 But on Saturday, Mr. Obama is not only returning to Missouri, he is headed to one of the state's most conservative bastions. Of all the cities that he will pass through in the closing stages of the race, Springfield, Mo., is one of the most reliably Republican. 
 ''Traditionally, it's been thought of as a place that Democrats are not welcome,'' said Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, one of Mr. Obama's earliest supporters. ''There is not an area of the state that would be considered more ruby red.''
 At this waning moment of the campaign, Obama strategists are surveying the landscape to build a variety of combinations that reach the 270 electoral votes needed to win. Unlike four years ago, when Senator John Kerry pulled out of Missouri with three weeks to go, Mr. Obama is engaged in a vigorous chase for the state's 11 electoral votes.
 In the past two weeks, Mr. Obama has bracketed the state, drawing tens of thousands of supporters to rallies in St. Louis in the east and Kansas City in the west, Columbia in the center and now the rally in Springfield in the southwestern corner of the state, the hometown of former Attorney General John Ashcroft. Early voting is now allowed, so the voter turnout program run from 44 campaign offices across the state is critical.
 Republican strategists said they were not concerned about Missouri, a state that only weeks ago seemed to be among those where Senator John McCain held an advantage. He is expected to visit on Monday as part of a six-state tour.
 For Mr. Obama, the destination underscores a closing strategy of trying to increase Democratic vote totals in all regions of the country, with an eye on winning more swing states as well as increasing the popular vote. It also suggests an air of confidence at his standing elsewhere by scheduling a rally in a Missouri county that President Bush carried by 17 points in 2000 and 25 points in 2004. 
 ''We think it's worth competing in,'' said David Axelrod, the chief strategist for the Obama campaign. ''We may not win in some of these Republican and rural areas, but we can get more Democrats out to vote. They've felt the impact of the Bush economic policies as much as anyone.'' 
 Jeff Sadosky, a spokesman for Mr. McCain, said the campaign had recruited a significantly larger set of volunteers than Republicans had in 2004. In anticipation of Mr. Obama's efforts in a state bordering Illinois, his home state, Mr. Sadosky said the get-out-the-vote operation was also more extensive than four years ago.
 ''Barack Obama's plans to raise taxes on small businesses and his attacks on Midwestern family farmers have turned off rural voters at the same time that John McCain's independent record has earned the votes of Republicans, independents and conservative Democrats,'' Mr. Sadosky said. 
 Mr. Obama dismissed that argument as he made a quick visit to a neighboring state, Iowa, on Friday afternoon, returning to the place that jumpstarted his candidacy nearly 10 months ago in the Iowa caucuses. To a crowd of thousands, he derided what he called a negative campaign being waged by Mr. McCain, overlooking his own aggressive tactics on the air and on the ground.
 ''A couple of elections ago, there was a presidential candidate who decried this kind of politics and condemned these kinds of tactics. And I admired him for it -- we all did,'' Mr. Obama said. ''He said, 'I will not take the low road to the highest office in this land.' Those words were spoken eight years ago by my opponent, John McCain, but the high road didn't lead him to the White House then, so this time, he decided to take a different route.''
 Missouri, a bellwether in every White House race in the last century except 1956, initially seemed safely in Republican hands. But economic conditions, as well as an aggressive field organization by the Obama campaign, has thrust Missouri into the final ranks of states too close to call.
 ''We're the closest state in the nation,'' Ms. McCaskill said Friday in an interview. ''It's been kind of stuck at tied for weeks now.''
 She said Mr. Obama's effort was ''a sea change,'' compared to four years ago when she ran for governor. She said she remembered Democrats telling her that they were investing their resources elsewhere. ''With three weeks to go, the campaign offices were just suddenly gone,'' she said.
 In her successful bid for the Senate in 2006, Ms. McCaskill campaigned in all corners of the state, not simply in the urban areas. A national co-chairwoman of Mr. Obama's campaign, she urged him to follow that model, which explains the rally in Springfield.
 ''Americans try out candidates and ask, 'How would they do as president? How would it feel to me if they were the president of the country?' '' she said. ''There's no question that they are getting more comfortable with him and more importantly with the idea of him being president.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Barack Obama paid a quick visit to Iowa on Friday and spoke to a large crowd at a rally in downtown Des Moines. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); DAVID AXELROD (58%); CLAIRE MCCASKILL (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (78%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (72%); SPRINGFIELD, MO, USA (58%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (58%) MISSOURI, USA (96%); IOWA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2008



22 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: Bernanke Sees Role For U.S. In Homes

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Development of a system that lets deserving borrowers obtain home mortgages while minimizing the risks to the country's financial system and the taxpayers must be ''high on the policy agenda,'' the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said on Friday. 
 Mr. Bernanke said the recent bailout of the mortgage finance giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac offered a much-needed chance to rethink and clarify the appropriate roles of government-sponsored enterprises whose ambiguous roles, partly public and partly private, have been cited as contributing to the difficulties in the mortgage markets and, consequently, the entire financial system.
 ''Government likely has a role to play in supporting mortgage securitization, at least during periods of high financial stress,'' Mr. Bernanke said, speaking via satellite to a symposium on the mortgage crisis and the economy at the University of California, Berkeley. On Wednesday, the Fed cut the federal funds rate, the interest that banks charge one another, by a half-point, to 1 percent.
 ''But once government guarantees are involved, the problems of systemic risks and contingent taxpayer involvement must be dealt with clearly and credibly,'' Mr. Bernanke said. ''Achieving the appropriate balance among these design challenges will be difficult, but it nevertheless must be high on the policy agenda for financial reform.''
 A possibility worth considering, Mr. Bernanke said, is creation of a government agency to insure bonds used for mortgage financing. ''That approach would clearly limit the government's exposure while making the benefits of explicit government support available to the market,'' he said.
 That approach has worked well for European banks, he said. But one reason it has been seldom used in the United States, he said, is that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have traditionally securitized prime mortgage assets, and have had a built-in advantage in going after such business because of their government backing.
 Implicitly addressing the next president and the next Congress as well as current officeholders, the chairman said government involvement in mortgage financing could have various degrees and could take many forms. 
 To no one's surprise, he attached much blame for the current crisis on excessive borrowing, an underappreciation of risk and ''the creation of complex and opaque financial instruments that proved fragile under stress.'' 
 While calling for ''transparency'' about assets and the mortgage-backed securities attached to them, Mr. Bernanke, who has pointed out that his background is in economics rather than politics, did not discuss his preferences for how policy makers should proceed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SECURITIZATION (89%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (89%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (85%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (84%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (85%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (85%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (85%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2008



23 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Our Election Whopper

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
Omigosh! It's almost here. The one and only Election Day! Except, of course, in the 30-odd states where voting has been going on for some time. Nov. 4 is not quite as much of an event there, although it's still a big date, what with watching the returns and celebrating Laura Bush's birthday, along with the increasingly popular feast of Half a Week After Halloween.
 Our two-year presidential campaign now ends with a monthlong vote, followed by weeks of litigation over provisional ballots. After that, the new president is sworn in and given 100 days to accomplish his legislative agenda, after which everyone will start plotting for 2012. 
 It is a grand system in that great American tradition that has given us the seven-month baseball season and the half-gallon cup of soda. We have supersized the election. And why not? Barack Obama's campaign budget is now supporting half the national economy. I don't know how we're going to get along without it, unless we can convince Mitt Romney to start gearing up instantly for his comeback.
 Although the polls have consistently shown Obama ahead, Democrats are all afraid of the infamous Bradley effect, in which people falsely claim to be voting for a black candidate so pollsters don't think they're racist. In the case of this campaign, you'd have to be paranoid enough to believe the canny closet racists were also falsely assuring the pollsters that they thought Obama would do better with the economy, health insurance and bringing change to Washington, and would appoint better people to his administration than McCain. Which does seem like a lot of effort to impress a stranger on the other end of a telephone line.
 The polls also suggest that Sarah Palin has, in two short months, managed to scare the pants off large portions of the population. Confidence seems to be plummeting not only in her own qualifications but in McCain's overall ability to pick good assistants. These concerns were probably not allayed by the candidate's promise to take Joe the Plumber to Washington with him.
 It also didn't help when former Secretary of State Lawrence Eagleburger, a McCain supporter, was asked on NPR whether Palin would be ready on day one to step in if a crisis occurred.
 ''Of course not,'' Eagleburger responded.
 This was a particularly cruel blow since Eagleburger is not just one of the five former secretaries of state that the McCain campaign constantly cites as having endorsed the ticket. He is one of the four who McCain was actually able to remember during a recent interview on ''Meet the Press.''
 To be fair, Eagleburger went on to qualify his statement and said that given some time in office, he thought Palin would be ''adequate.'' These days in the McCain camp, this may be what passes as a ringing endorsement.
 Obama is going to be racing around from rally to rally over the final 96 hours -- eight states in three time zones. This sort of last-minute dash around the nation is another American political tradition, which serves the dual purpose of setting a good example for the campaign workers and torturing the campaign press corps in retribution for all those months of writing down the things the candidate said.
 Obama's target audience is the 10 percent of voters who told this week's New York Times/CBS News poll that they did not feel as if they had received enough information to make an informed decision on the presidential race. I believe we have met them before. They are the men and women who get up at a town hall meeting after the candidate had just made a 20-minute opening speech about his/her plans for health care reform, and say: ''What I want to know is, what are you going to do about medical costs?'' My theory is that whenever they hear someone start to discuss the issues, they cover their ears and make humming noises, the way my husband does when I say it is time to take a look at our 401(k)s.
 In The Times's poll, the percentage of respondents who said that they weren't totally sure who they were going to vote for was almost identical to the percentage who said that they think the economy is doing well. Are they the same people? If so, perhaps they are still undecided because they are waiting to get their marching orders from well-informed friends like Abraham Lincoln, St. Catherine of Siena or Seabiscuit.
 The best approach at this point is probably to ignore all polls and just wait to see what happens. Take a deep breath. Do a little meditation. Make a list of all the things you're going to do once you no longer have to spend time worrying about who's going to be the next president.
 I personally am planning to read the Russian classics. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); HALLOWEEN (71%); RACE & RACISM (70%); BASEBALL (68%); LITIGATION (55%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (79%); SARAH PALIN (78%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); MITT ROMNEY (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2008



24 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Bank of Japan Cuts Key Interest Rate and Lowers Growth Forecast to Zero

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER. 
Bettina Wassener contributed reporting from Hong Kong.

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
The Bank of Japan cut its benchmark interest rate on Friday for the first time in seven years, joining earlier moves by the Federal Reserve in the United States and other central banks to blunt the global financial downturn.
 The bank's policy board voted to lower the overnight lending rate between banks by 0.2 percentage points, to 0.3 percent, reducing borrowing costs to try to rekindle growth in Asia's largest economy. 
 The bank also seemed to confirm fears that Japan's economy was slowing quickly by lowering its growth forecast for the year to around zero, citing higher energy prices and weakening export demand. 
 Friday's loosening was also aimed at easing a growing credit squeeze in Japan, which had long seemed immune to the international financial contagion. As an additional measure, the bank said it would start paying interest on some of the reserves that commercial banks keep at the central bank, a step that would provide more cash to lenders. 
 This was the first interest rate cut during the current financial crisis by Japan, where near-zero short-term interest rates have constrained the central bank's room to maneuver. 
 Bank officials have said they feel hard pressed to find ways to coordinate with the Fed, which cut rates earlier this week, and other central banks in combating the downturn. 
 The unorthodox size of the rate cut, which the bank usually makes in quarter or half percentage-point steps, seemed to reflect a desire to maintain as much flexibility as possible if additional cuts were needed, economists said. 
 The eight members of the board were evenly divided on the cut; the bank governor, Masaaki Shirakawa, cast the deciding vote in favor, the bank said. 
 Borrowing rates have been stuck at low levels here for more than a decade because domestic growth in Japan's export-driven economy never fully recovered from the collapse of the late-1980s real estate and stock market bubbles. 
 The central bank had until now limited itself to less drastic moves, like supplying dollars and yen to money markets to ease the global credit crisis. 
 Economists said Friday's moves had symbolic value as a sign of Japan's willingness to coordinate with other governments in treating the global malaise. But they said the small size of the move would make it unlikely to stimulate much of an increase in actual borrowing. 
 Japan's stock market reacted badly to the rate cut, sending the benchmark Nikkei 255 down 5 percent on Friday. Despite a rally earlier in the week, the index lost a total of 24 percent in October -- its worst month on record. 
 ''The bank is making an effort to offset some damage from declining exports,'' said Richard Jerram, an economist in Tokyo for Macquarie Securities. ''But a cut of this size is not really going to change anybody's world.'' 
 With low interest rates and a huge deficit, Japan has few real options for stimulating its $5 trillion economy, the world's second-largest after the United States. 
 The government has released a series of spending packages, including one Thursday valued at $51 billion that would give income tax rebates to households. 
 With the United States now apparently heading into recession, Japanese policy makers have looked for ways to pick up some of the slack in global growth. But like many Asian countries, it appears highly vulnerable to the slowdown in the United States because of its reliance on exports and relatively weak consumption at home. 
 The Bank of Japan cited declining demand in the United States in particular in making its forecast of no growth for the rest of this year, followed by around 0.5 percent next year. Previously, the bank had forecast growth of 1.2 percent this year and 1.5 percent next year. 
 ''Increased sluggishness in economic activity will likely remain until around the middle of fiscal 2009,'' the forecast said. 
 With Friday's loosening, the bank appeared to decide that now was the time to send a stronger signal to restore confidence in panic-stricken financial markets. Reports in the Japanese media earlier this week that a rate cut was in the works were enough to ignite a rally in Tokyo's beleaguered stock markets. 
 The central bank also decided to lower the so-called Lombard rate, the rate at which the central bank lends to commercial banks, by a quarter percentage point, to 0.5 percent. As Japan's economy has faltered, there have been increasing complaints by smaller businesses that they are having trouble obtaining new loans. 
 The decision to pay interest on reserves at the central bank is meant to combat this by effectively stuffing private banks with additional cash, in hopes that they will lend more of it to businesses and consumers. 
 The Bank of Japan took similar steps to end a domestic cash squeeze in the late 1990s, when its domestic economy suffered a banking crisis. According to Mr. Jerram of Macquarie, one lesson of Japan's experience with such indirect measures is that they work only if bankers are confident that they will remain in place until the economy actually revives. 
 To make this clear, he said, the bank should accompany such an easing with public commitments not to raise borrowing costs again until some target is met, like a rebound in consumer prices.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The policy board of the Bank of Japan voted on Friday to lower the overnight lending rate between banks to 0.3 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KYODO NEWS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); INTEREST RATES (94%); CENTRAL BANKS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (85%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (71%)

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (90%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2008



25 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Selling Beauty on a Global Scale

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
THE cosmetic company Avon Products traces its roots to the horse and buggy days of the late 19th century, when sales representatives sold perfume door-to-door, often to women who lived far from big department stores. This American frontier model has translated well to countries like Brazil and China, where large populations are dispersed across a vast countryside. Today, more than two-thirds of Avon's sales are outside the United States.
 The direct-selling model -- where independent sales representatives do not work directly for Avon -- makes it easier to break into new markets, says Avon's chairwoman and chief executive, Andrea Jung. About 5.5 million sales representatives now sell Avon products, be it lip gloss in Shanghai or face powder in Rio de Janeiro. 
 The company, reporting its third-quarter earnings Thursday, said the only region where sales fell was North America, which it defines as the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico. By contrast, revenue rose 25 percent in both Latin America and China and 8 percent in Western Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
 Ms. Jung, who was born the daughter of Chinese immigrants in Toronto and moved to a suburb of Boston when she was 10, recently discussed how she thinks the company's direct-selling model can improve the lives of women in developing countries and where the next big growth opportunities are for Avon.
 Q.Since you became the chief of Avon in 1999, the company has expanded into emerging markets. Why do you think your direct-selling model works so well in developing countries?
 A. It is part of a movement around the world for women to have more economic independence. From her very first order, a representative does not have to pull the money out of her pocket. We send her the products, and she pays us after she sells them. The direct-selling model does not have to be centered around where there is heavy retail infrastructure, either. For example, China is going to be one of Avon's largest market opportunities. It has a large geographic expanse, with hundreds of thousands of women in small villages really striving to make an earnings opportunity for themselves.
 Q.And the majority of your independent sales representatives are women?
 A. Well over 95 percent are women and the men are often in Avon couples. I love those conversations, where the husbands tell me that they quit their jobs because their wife's business was doing so well, so they've joined forces to run the business as a couple.
 Q.Given the fact that your sales representatives are not employed by Avon, how do you establish new markets?
 A. We hire recruiting managers, who are Avon employees. They start canvassing for representatives in work places, in religious gatherings, in school fund-raisers. We also run recruiting advertisements in a dozen markets today. And we train our representatives how to manage their businesses online. For example, in Turkey, where there is not much Internet penetration, we have close to 100 percent of our sales representatives entering their orders online. They go to Internet cafes or libraries. 
 Q.How do you deal with economic uncertainty in emerging markets?
 A. With what's going on the last couple of weeks, it reminds me of the very difficult time we had in Russia. I recall in the late '90s, with the massive devaluation of the ruble, our Russian business really became quite challenged. Some companies were retrenching, but we looked across Russia and saw 11 time zones, with women in every small town and village who wanted the opportunity to be economically independent. So we were committed to staying.
 Q.Do you feel that your experience growing up as the daughter of Chinese immigrants has influenced your career?
 A. It has given me a global vantage point, being the daughter of immigrants from China, who had nothing when they came here. And now I am leading a company. It speaks to something deep in me, the concept that you don't have to start with anything. The direct-sales opportunity allows people to change their lives.
 Q.Many of your customers are familiar with the work of the Avon Foundation, but they might not know that you have similar programs in countries like Mexico and Malaysia. How global is your philanthropy now?
 A. We've got programs in around 50 different countries. Together, we have raised $580 million, mostly for breast cancer research, diagnosis and treatment. A couple of years ago, we added a second issue: violence against women. We have made educational pamphlets about breast self-exams and about domestic violence, which our representatives can give to their customers. We have donated mammography units to underserved hospitals in Spain and created mobile mammography units in China.
 Recently, I had one of those amazing experiences where life and work intersect. My maternal grandmother, who was from mainland China, died of breast cancer in Singapore in the 1970s. It was diagnosed at a late stage and she just passed away. It was something that wasn't talked about back then. It was the ''c'' word. About a year ago, my mother discovered that she had breast cancer. She was diagnosed at an Avon breast cancer center, which our people worked so hard to donate to Mass. General. It was detected at a very early stage, with digital mammography, and one year later she is cancer-free. When I look at the two generations in my own family, it shows the progress that has been made on this issue over the last 30 years.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andrea Jung (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASTRID STAWIARZ/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (90%); DIRECT SALES FORCE (90%); SALES FORCE (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); COSMETICS (90%); TOILETRIES MFG (90%); DIRECT TO HOME RETAILING (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); FUNDRAISING (74%); BUSINESS EXPANSION (70%); SUBURBS (66%); EDUCATION FUNDING (62%)

COMPANY: AVON PRODUCTS INC (85%)

TICKER: AVP (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (85%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (85%)

PERSON: ANDREA JUNG (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (73%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (73%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (71%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (73%); ONTARIO, CANADA (71%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (94%); BRAZIL (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2008



26 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1304 words

HEADLINE: Obama Is Up, And Fans Fear That Jinxes It

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL

 BODY:
In the den of his home in New Hope, Pa., a liberal Democrat sits tap-tapping at his computer.
Jon Downs works the electoral vote maps on Yahoo like a spiritualist shaking his Ouija board. He calibrates and recalibrates: Give Senator John McCain Ohio, Missouri, even Florida. But Virginia and Pennsylvania, those go to Senator Barack Obama. And Vermont, Democrats can count on Vermont, right?
Right.
Almost always, Mr. Downs, 53, ends with Mr. Obama, the Democratic presidential nominee, ahead, which should please this confirmed liberal and profound Obama fan. But just as often he feels worried. 
''Look, I have this sense of impending doom; we've had a couple of elections stolen already,'' Mr. Downs said. ''The only thing worse than losing is to think that you're going to win and then lose.''
He considers that prospect and mutters, almost involuntarily, ''Oh, God.''
To talk with left-leaning Democrats in New Hope, San Francisco or Miami Beach, to drill deep into their id, is to stand at the intersection of Liberal and High Anxiety.
Right now, more than a few are having a these-polls-are-too-good-to-be-true, we-still-could-lose-this-election moment. Their consuming and possibly over-caffeinated worry is that their prayers and nightly phone calls to undecided voters in Toledo, Ohio, notwithstanding, Mr. Obama might fall short on Election Day.
To walk on Broadway, on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, is to feel their pain. ''Oh, God, I'm optimistic, but I can't look at the polls,'' said Patricia Kuhlman, 54, nervously tapping her Obama/Biden '08 button. ''I'm a PBS/NPR kind of person, and, O.K., I do look at some polls.''
Ms. Kuhlman shakes her head and says, ''If he doesn't get this, I'll be crying so hard.''
A young woman, Shana Rosen, walks by. She is from Denver and said she had told her boyfriend that their love life was on hold while she sweated out Mr. Obama's performance in Colorado. Ask Lucy Slurzberg, an Upper West Side psychotherapist, how many of her liberal patients speak of their electoral fears during their sessions, and she answers: ''Oh, only about 90 percent of them.''
Certainly, national and swing state polls suggest that Democrats might allow themselves a deep breath or two. But liberals are not inclined to relax, given the circumstances of their last two defeats. Hanging chad, the Supreme Court decisions, and Florida and Ohio's electoral problems: it is a lifetime of agita to staunch Democrats. The prospect of success now comes scented with dread.
Conservatives, it must be said, are not immune from the worry vapors. Therapists report that Republicans are hyperventilating too. ''Wealthy Republicans are very anxious about taxes,'' Jamie Wasserman, a psychotherapist with a practice on the Upper West Side and in Montclair, N.J., said of her patients. ''They are not pretending to vote for the black man.''
And in Ohio, evangelical radio stations feature pastors praying for God to help voters ignore these ''awful'' polls and vote his will.
Many liberal Democrats watch MSNBC, but some say it sounds too much like comfort food. CNN serves its election coverage with a stiff little chaser of doubt for Democrats, and many liberals say CNN and NPR are their regular evening companions. If they really want to rub the sore tooth of worry, they dial over to the ''Obama's radical friend Bill Ayers'' channel, otherwise known as Fox News.
''Mostly I flip between CNN and MSNBC, but I go to Fox if I want to get enraged,'' Mr. Downs said.
Richard Schrader, a senior staff member for a national environmental organization, lives in Amherst, Mass., where politics start liberal and traipse left. He is fairly liberal, but his neighbors worry that he does not worry nearly enough. ''They wake up, drink that pot of coffee and hit the polling Web sites,'' Mr. Schrader said. ''Too much good news has to be a lie.''
Recently he sat down with a friend who was sweating about Minnesota.
''Minnesota?'' Mr. Schrader told his friend. ''What, are you kidding me? Obama's up 14 points there.''
The friend shook his head sadly. Take off seven points for hidden racial animus. Subtract another five for polling error. It is down to two points, and that is within the margin of error in sampling, and that could mean Mr. Obama might be behind.
''It was perversely impressive,'' Mr. Schrader said.
Another friend worries that every undecided voter will break for Mr. McCain, the Republican nominee. Mr. Schrader said, ''I told him: 'O.K., that will be the first time that has ever happened in American history, but sure.' ''
Pre-election rituals are much the same, from Oberlin, Ohio, to San Francisco. Many liberals describe waking up in the predawn, padding to the kitchen, firing up the coffeemaker and logging on before the children wake up. Lisa Serizawa, 44, of San Francisco leaps from site to site, from national newspapers to one in Ohio to another in Pennsylvania, then a blur of CNN, polling sites, and whatever.
''I just want reassurance; or is it a heads-up?'' Ms. Serizawa said. ''I'm cautiously, cautiously optimistic. Though I worry: Am I going to be hurt again?''
Liberals are found in almost every corner of the United States, as are their conservative counterparts. But the tribe's denser concentrations are along the ideological Interstate that runs from Fort Lauderdale, Fla., to the Raleigh-Durham area of North Carolina, to the Adams Morgan section of Washington, to Montclair, to Park Slope in Brooklyn, to the Upper West Side of Manhattan, to Cambridge, Mass., Burlington, Vt., and Ann Arbor, Mich., and so on until it reaches the Pacific.
And from those redoubts, how can one gauge what is going on in the fairly broad expanses of this nation that are not 94.3 percent liberal Democrat? Unfamiliarity spikes the anxiety.
''We live in a bubble,'' Ms. Serizawa said. ''I drove to Monterey recently, and I saw my first McCain placard ever.''
Some East Coast liberals deal with the uncertainty by volunteering to call undecided voters, in hopes that a half-hour talk with a voter in Missouri will stop the mind from yapping.
''It makes them less worried to phone the middle of the country,'' said Ms. Wasserman, the psychotherapist. ''Those who are anxious are becoming more so; some spend an entire session going on about what they heard on CNN.''
Still, it is not as though election is a psychiatric condition. Recent years have offered a bad run for many Democrats. The United States is fighting wars on two fronts. The global economy has pitched into recession, and many say the economic elevator has yet to reach the basement.
For many liberals, the chance to elect Mr. Obama, who would be the nation's first black president, gives the United States a second chance to walk across the stage of world history. (Which also makes the possibility of his loss unspeakably more depressing; given his present lead in every poll, many liberals fear that race will explain any defeat.)
''The last two elections have been so disappointing, so disturbing,'' said Paula Guarnaccia, an assistant dean at the University of Vermont. ''The idea that we could now elect this impressive man as president, I guess it heightens the anxiety.''
And yet, sometimes, a poll, or five, can tease out a smile.
Ellen Beth Bellet, a tax lawyer in Miami and an ardent liberal, confesses to being electorally obsessed. (She recently vacationed with a friend who threatened to machine gun the hotel television if Ms. Bellet did not shut off CNN.)
But of late a curious calm has descended. ''I wrote an e-mail to a friend and said, 'I'm afraid to put this in writing, but I'm really excited about the way this is going,' '' Ms. Bellet said.
Within minutes, the phone rang; her friend was very worried about Mr. Obama's prospects. ''Don't say that!'' the friend said. ''No, no, no. What were you thinking? We can't go there yet!''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: JON DOWNS: Democrat from New Hope, Pa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 PATRICIA KUHLMAN: Obama supporter in Manhattan (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACOB SILBERGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (50%); SUPREME COURTS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); DENVER, CO, USA (72%); MIAMI, FL, USA (58%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (58%) OHIO, USA (94%); VERMONT, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



27 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: 3 Days to Go

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL

 BODY:
The Day
 It was Rust Belt with a dash of Iowa thrown in, as Senators John McCain and Barack Obama embarked on that mad, anxious, ever-so-slightly hallucinogenic dash to the finish line.
 Mr. McCain plowed through Ohio, and Mr. Obama hopscotched from Iowa to Missouri, talking economy and more economy.
 A McCain adviser proclaimed himself ''jazzed'' about internal poll numbers that he said foreshadowed an historic upset, though such numbers are not supported by public polling results. Mr. Obama's campaign manager, David Plouffe, played his own competitive games, beginning advertisements in Mr. McCain's home state, Arizona. 
 Florida offered a flashback, as Al Gore visited the state that denied him the honorific ''President.'' Takeway:Mr. McCain is hitting contested states, shooting Scuds at Mr. Obama (socialist/taxes/socialist) and claiming to divine momentum while doing so. Mr. Obama affects nonchalance and stumps in states that not so long ago would have looked doubtful for Democrats. Only time will tell if this was smartly counterintuitive or hubris.
 Senator Barack Obama At a rally in Des Moines
 ''He has spent the last few weeks of the campaign calling me every name in the book. Every name, everything but a child of God, because that's how you play the game in Washington. When you can't win on your own ideas, you try to make up ideas about the other person.''
 Senator John McCain At a rally in Hanoverton, Ohio
 ''We need pro-growth and projobs economic policies, not progovernment spending programs paid for with higher taxes. This is the fundamental difference between Senator Obama, who began his campaign in the liberal left lane of American politics and has never left it. It's not an accident that he's the most liberal senator in the United States Senate, more liberal than a senator who used to call himself a socialist. You know we both disagree with President Bush on economic policy; the difference is that Senator Obama thinks taxes have been too low, and I think that spending has been too high.''
 If the candidates traveled exclusively to domestic campaign events, and they flew directly from one to the next, they would have journeyed this far since June: Senator Barack Obama Senator John McCain 80,000 miles Average: 539 a day Around the Equator: 3.2 times 69,000 miles Average: 465 a day Around the Equator: 2.8 times PATH TAKEN: PATH TAKEN: THIS WEEK Iowa Ohio Pa. N.C. Fla. Ohio
 ''I don't think at the moment she is prepared to take over the reins of the presidency. ... Give her some time in the office, and I think the answer would be, she will be -- adequate.'' Former Secretary of State Lawrence S. Eagleburger, asked on the NPR program ''Talk of the Nation'' about Gov. Sarah Palin's preparedness to be president.
 ''She didn't know anything about foreign affairs, nor should she have, on the basis of what she had done. But she -- she's now working with a man who knows it all. And she's learned from that. And, if she becomes vice president, she will still be working with John McCain, and she will learn quickly.''
 Mr. Eagleburger, later in the day, in an interview with Stuart Varney on the Fox News program ''Your World''
 ''If they convince enough voters that that is negative campaigning, for me to call Barack Obama out on his associations, then I don't know what the future of our country would be in terms of First Amendment rights and our ability to ask questions without fear of attacks by the mainstream media.''
 Gov. Sarah Palin in an interview on WMAL-AM in Washington
 John McCain and his running mate, Sarah Palin, spend a good part of their final hours on the trail tilling political ground once thought safely Republican.
 * But how do they recover from a day that saw a top Republican insider, Kenneth M. Duberstein, endorse the Democratic nominee, and one of Mr. McCain's most valued supporters, former Secretary of State Lawrence Eagleburger, send out clear signals that he does not think Ms. Palin is qualified to be president?
 * Barack Obama, meanwhile, continues to draw the support of former President Bill Clinton, who is no doubt enjoying that Mr. Obama has finally started crediting him with presiding over a booming economy. MICHAEL POWELL
 SATURDAY
 Barack Obama: Henderson, Nev.; Pueblo, Colo.; Springfield, Mo. Joseph R. Biden Jr.: Evansville, Ind.; Marion and Bowling Green, Ohio.
 John McCain: Newport News and Springfield, Va.; Perkasie, Pa. Sarah Palin: New Port Richey, Polk City and Ocala, Fla.; Raleigh, N.C.; Glen Allen, Va.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Senator Barack Obama: 80,000 miles: Average: 539 a day Around the Equator: 3.2 times
 Senator John McCain: 69,000 miles: Average: 465 a day Around the Equator: 2.8 times 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); POLITICS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (92%); AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (73%) IOWA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); EQUATOR (90%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2008



28 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: As the Governor, a Newfound Thriftiness

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
It was the kind of big-spending Albany mentality that drives Gov. David A. Paterson crazy these days.
In 2004, after the governor proposed some $600 million in cuts to the state budget, the Senate minority leader said he had a better idea. The $429 million in education cuts the governor wanted? Put it all back in. And while you're at it, throw in $35 million for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and $250 million for affordable housing.
Back then, though, Mr. Paterson was that minority leader. And when the governor, George E. Pataki, later vetoed $235 million from the Legislature's budget, Mr. Paterson called it ''an unconscionable maneuver.'' 
To recall Mr. Paterson so loudly crusading against a leaner state budget seems incongruous with the kind of fiscal conservatism he now says the state needs.
A liberal Democrat, who as a state legislator voted for increasing income and sales taxes and for generously financing expensive social programs, Mr. Paterson's talk these days is all about keeping taxes where they are and shrinking the budget.
He has compared the state to a shopper addicted to a credit card. He uses phrases that have the subtle ring of a conservative's economic philosophy, as in the need ''to do more with less.'' He has even invoked Ayn Rand, the libertarian novelist whose writings are considered gospel among many small-government, low-tax intellectual conservatives.
''He really seems to be going out of his way to strut his stuff as a fiscal conservative,'' said Blair Horner, legislative director of the New York Public Interest Research Group, a nonpartisan watchdog group. ''I think he is clearly sending the message that when it comes to fiscal matters, he's Nixon going to China, he's the Democrat who can fundamentally change the state's dysfunctional budget process.''
Some longtime Albany politicians say Mr. Paterson is virtually unrecognizable from the state senator they knew for two decades. And they said they thought political opportunism might be what was really driving the governor's newly stiffened fiscal resolve.
''He was a tax-and-spend liberal,'' said Shaun Marie Levine, executive director of the Conservative Party of New York State, who added that she was suspicious of politicians who say they support tighter budgets these days. ''If Wall Street weren't in the mess it's in, Governor Paterson would be willing to keep every program and not cut spending at all. They all would.''
Mr. Paterson does not dispute that he saw financial matters differently as a legislator. In a recent interview, he said he felt that some of the borrowing and spending that he supported as a senator had contributed to the current $47 billion deficit the state is projected to have over the next three and a half years.
''I, in retrospect, wish I had been more conscious of the continuous spending,'' Mr. Paterson said, adding that with all the long-term debt the state was piling on then, ''We had gone from tax and spend to borrow and spend.'' He added: ''It had become ridiculous.''
In 2003, as the state was facing a gaping budget deficit of $11.5 billion and a souring economy, Mr. Paterson voted for the law that raised income taxes on the state's highest earners. He also supported a measure that year that raised the state sales tax. He has said he now opposes any tax increases to help the state solve its current financial problems and has even floated the idea of lowering some business taxes.
He voted in 2000 to allow New York City to expand its ability to borrow money. And in 1999, he did not oppose allowing the city to extend tax increases that were enacted during the financial crisis of the 1970s. That year he also supported what was at the time the largest increase ever in aid to schools.
To be sure, these were all measures that passed because they had solid support from Democrats and Republicans. His record from the Senate includes votes in favor of lowering taxes, and he also sparred with Senate Republicans, accusing them of underestimating deficits.
But now that he has the perspective of a governor representing 18 million people, rather than a state senator representing a few hundred thousand, Mr. Paterson said he could better understand why governors must check the Legislature on budget matters.
''The Legislature has sacred cows from time to time,'' he said. ''And I didn't appreciate the limitations that the executive had. And that is something I have learned.''
In July, he even vetoed a bill he had voted for numerous times as a senator. The bill, which critics said was a giveaway to the state's unions, would have made it more difficult for local governments and state agencies to fire unionized employees. It had also been vetoed by Eliot Spitzer, Mario Cuomo and Mr. Pataki, who was a state legislator before he was elected governor.
His tough-talking stance has its political advantages, of course. And that point has not been overlooked by Mr. Paterson's advisers, who have made the economy the centerpiece of his administration. Voters who ordinarily would be wary of his liberal stance on most social issues could be swayed by his swift and stern handling of the budget, they believe.
But budget experts warned that the strategy could backfire if the cutting resulted in New Yorkers' noticing a decrease in services, or if he came out looking too combative.
Mr. Paterson has, in somewhat scolding tones, called for lawmakers to get tough on spending. In August, he summoned them back to Albany and persuaded them to agree to $427 billion in cuts. In October, he announced he would call them back again, this time to ask for $2 billion in reductions.
''Right now, the governor is popular because he's saying we have to be responsible,'' said Edmund J. McMahon, director of the Empire Center for New York State Policy, a conservative research group. ''But when you do the right thing, the public never appreciates it. When you actually cut stuff and interest groups spend millions of dollars portraying you as someone who wants to leave Grandma on a gurney out on the street, that drives down your poll ratings.''
For his part, Mr. Paterson insisted that he had not undergone a fundamental political conversion. He said he was just adjusting to the times and his new responsibilities.
''I don't know that I've actually changed that much. I think that I'm responding to a crisis that I never saw when I was a legislator.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. David A. Paterson now urges doing ''more with less.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); POLITICS (89%); LIBERALISM (88%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); VETO (78%); SALES TAX (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); WRITERS (65%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



29 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2341 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: November 1, 2008

 BODY:
International
WITH TENSE CALM IN CONGO, TIME TO ASSESS THE DAMAGE
The cease-fire called by rebels in Congo appears to be holding, which has allowed aid workers to resume food distribution to the hundreds of thousands of people uprooted in recent weeks. It has also given the civilians who had been fleeing the violence the opportunity to take measure of the destruction. ''Who knows if peace will last,'' a farmer said. ''But we were starving.'' PAGE A9
27 KILLED IN MISSILE STRIKE
Twenty-seven people were killed when missiles believed to have been fired by remotely piloted American aircraft slammed into two villages close to the Afghan border with Pakistan. Among those killed was an operative with Al Qaeda, as well as other foreign militants, intelligence officials said. It was the latest in a series of such attacks, which have put strains on the alliance between the United States and Pakistan. PAGE A7 
LIBYA RESOLVES TERRORISM CASES
Libya deposited $1.5 billion with the State Department, which is to be shared among more than 400 victims of about a dozen bombings, hijackings and other terrorist attacks in the mid-1980s. Relatives of the 270 people killed in a 1988 airplane bombing over Lockerbie, Scotland, will receive $2 million per victim -- which was promised by Libya if the country was removed from the American list of countries sponsoring terrorism. PAGE A8
INTERVIEW WITH ASSASSIN CANCELED
Two Israeli television stations canceled their planned broadcasts of an interview with Yigal Amir, a religious extremist, who assassinated Yitzhak Rabin, the former prime minister. The cancellations were in response to a harsh public outcry, that followed the broadcast of promotional excerpts from the conversations. PAGE A8
PETRAEUS TAKES NEW POST
Gen. David H. Petraeus, above sitting, took over the Central Command, making him responsible for military operations in Iraq, Afghanistan and across the Middle East. Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, above clapping, stressed that while it would be a central task for General Petraeus to ''keep us on the right path in Iraq,'' an immediate challenge was ''bringing coherence to our own strategy'' in Afghanistan. PAGE A9
GEORGIA'S BATTERED PUBLIC FACE
Dmitri Sanakoev, a Georgian official who waged a ''hearts-and-minds'' campaign against South Ossetia's separatist government, still inspires passionate responses. Georgian officials maintain that ''the Sanakoev project'' was working and could have brought about a peaceful solution over time. But critics say it revealed Tbilisi's blindness to the ethnic rifts that appeared after the collapse of the Soviet Union. PAGE A8
NationalNEW HAMPSHIRE SENATE RACE FOLLOWS THE NATIONAL SCRIPT
Jeanne Shaheen, the former Democratic governor of New Hampshire, is in a bitter rematch with Senator John E. Sununu, one of the most vulnerable Republican senators in the country. The New Hampshire race is akin to Senate contests around the nation that have Democrats within reach of the 60-seat majority needed to break filibusters. And in many ways, Mrs. Shaheen, 61, above, is the archetypal candidate, a seasoned politician with name recognition and great fund-raising prowess. PAGE A14
OBAMA IMPROVES MICROTARGETING
The Obama campaign has appropriated a powerful skill long mastered by the Republicans and taken it to a new level. Microtargeting, or the ability to find hidden pockets of support by analyzing reams of personal data about voters, has helped the campaign build a ground game that has put more closely contested states into play and forced the Republicans to compete in states they have handily won in the past. PAGE A15
THE DISAPPEARING PRESIDENT
It's the week before Election Day. Do you know where your president is? Probably not, and that is by design. With Senator John McCain lagging behind in the polls and many other Republicans fighting for their political lives, the nation's top Republican -- President Bush -- is intentionally lying low this week, and is likely to do so until after Americans cast their ballots to pick his successor. PAGE A10
GORE RETURNS TO SCENE OF LOSS
Former Vice President Al Gore wass back in Florida campaigning on the presidential trail. But, no need to stockpile Pepto Bismol, Mr. Gore was urging voters to go to the polls early and cast their ballots for Senator Barack Obama. Though Mr. Gore kept the focus on Mr. Obama's candidacy, the symbolism of his visits to Palm Beach and Broward Counties, which were ground zero during the 36 days in 2000 when the outcome of the election remained in limbo, was unmistakable. PAGE A12
SAVING THOSE FLEETING WORDS
Some of the more memorable slip-ups or slights within the news media's coverage of the 2008 presidential campaign might have slipped into the broadcast ether but for the efforts of Media Matters for America, the nonprofit, highly partisan research organization. Media Matters has given the Democrats a weapon they have not had in previous campaigns: a rapid-fire, technologically sophisticated means to call out what it considers ''conservative misinformation'' on air or in print, then feed it to a Rolodex of reporters, cable channels and bloggers hungry for grist. PAGE A15
Moving In, but Wishing Out A16
Business
BARCLAYS SEEKS FINANCIAL INJECTION,
And Finds It in the Middle East
In order to meet Britain's new capital requirements for banks, Barclays plans to raise money by selling convertible notes to Middle Eastern investors, potentially leaving them with a 32 percent share in the bank. The balance of the needed funds would be obtained by selling shares to existing institutional shareholders. The plan allows the bank to avoid seeking help from the government, as so many others have. Page B4
JAPAN LOWERS KEY INTEREST RATE
Japan has cut its benchmark interest rate, joining the United States and other central banks in an effort to corral the global economic plunge. Japan lowered its overnight lending rate between banks by .02 percentage points, and it reduced borrowing costs to give Asia's largest economy a much-needed boost. Japan also lowered its growth forecast to zero, citing fuel costs and weakening export demand. Page B4
ADVICE FOR SAME-SEX COUPLES
The battle over the legality, not to mention legitimacy, of same-sex marriage rages on. It's legal in three states, and three others are seeking to ban it. But the question remains, is it even worth it when domestic partnerships and civil unions exist as options in many states? The answer appears to be a resounding yes, marriage just seems to have that much street cred. There are some tips to make negotiating that twisting path a little easier. Page B8
New York
JUDGE ENDS MAYOR'S BID
To Make Taxis Greener
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's efforts to improve air quality in the city were dealt a major blow by a federal judge who blocked a rule that all new taxis must meet stringent fuel efficiency standards. The rule would have mandated that most cabs be hybrid gas-and-electric vehicles by 2012, but the judge said the plaintiffs were likely to succeed in a key legal argument: Only the federal government has the right, under existing laws, to set fuel efficiency standards. PAGE A18
PATERSON'S NEWFOUND FRUGALITY
When he was the minority leader in the New York Senate, David Paterson bristled at pressure by George Pataki, then the governor, to cut state spending. Now Mr. Paterson, a liberal Democrat, is pushing for huge cuts to the state budget, adopting language and imagery often used by small-government, low-tax conservatives, which has some in Albany scratching their heads. PAGE A18
Sports
A HUNGRY CITY STOPS
To Savor a World Series Title
Starved for a major sports championship for more than 20 years, Philadelphia's sports fans flooded the streets (and dangled from windows, above) to see their Phillies, the newly minted World Series champions, parade down Broad Street. The police and city officials put the number of fans at nearly a million -- so many that the city was nearly shut down. ''This is the biggest parade I've ever been in,'' the Phillies' manager, Charlie Manuel, told the fans. ''It's like Christmas came two months early.'' PAGE B14
ALL EYES ON TEXAS TECH'S COACH
Texas Tech's football team has finally reached the big time, ranked sixth in the country. Much of that success can be attributed to Coach Mike Leach, the guru whose unconventional formations has turned the team into an offensive juggernaut. But with his relatively small paycheck and his rising national profile, fans are beginning to fret that Texas Tech may not keep be able to keep him around. PAGE B1
GEORGIA'S LINGERING OUTBURST
The last time Florida and Georgia met, 70 Bulldog players rushed the field in celebration after the team scored its first touchdown, part of a ploy by Mark Richt, the Georgia coach, to fire up his team. (The Bulldogs went on to defeat Florida, 42-30.) The maneuver, which helped Georgia finally enter the nation's football elite, still hovers over the two teams, who meet on Saturday in one of the biggest games in their long rivalry's history. PAGE B13
ECLIPSING TWO SOCCER STARS
David Beckham was lent out to A. C. Milan for the winter, and the erratic Diego Maradona was named the coach of Argentina's national soccer team. Still, Beckham and Maradona, two of soccer's pre-eminent drama queens, were overshadowed by Danny Cepero, a little-known goalkeeper in Major League Soccer, who last month scored the league's first-ever goal by a goalkeeper. George Vecsey, Sports of the Times. PAGE B14
Obituaries
GEN. ROBERT H. BARROW, 86
As the 27th Commandant of the Marine Corps, he reformed the way Marines trained and recruiting, raising the quality of recruits while ending physical abuse of recruit trainees. PAGE B10
ES'KIA MPHAHLELE, 88
His 1959 memoir, ''Down Second Avenue,'' vividly dramatized the injustices of apartheid and became a landmark work of South African literature. In an essay in a Johannesburg newspaper, the journalist and editor Barney Mthombothi wrote, ''If Nelson Mandela is our political star, Mphahlele was his literary equivalent.'' PAGE B10
Arts
STUDENT'S IDEOLOGIES NOT LINKED
To College Faculty
Conservative critics of American universities have long argued that college professors were indoctrinating students with liberal beliefs. But a new book by a politically conservative professor found that college instructors are the least likely to influence a student's political views, but ideological shifts had more to do with general trends among members of that age group. Some conservative thinkers say that while that may be true, it does not mean that there isn't a problem. PAGE C1
JUST A PINCH OF PRODUCT PLACEMENT
The Internet is awash with recipes, but the founders of Cookstr, a new Web site that goes live this month, will boast some from Nigella Lawson and Mario Batali, as well as those of less-well-known but highly regarded cookbook writers. The site will give prominent placement to the source's cookbook cover, and link to an online retailer selling the book -- nudge, nudge. PAGE C1
A QUESTION MARK IN 'PRESS' CHAIR
David Gregory? Gwen Ifill? Katie Couric? All of those names have been circulating in the rumor mill as candidates to become the permanent host of ''Meet the Press.'' NBC has been mum on who will take over for Tom Brokaw, who has been the show's interim host since Tim Russert, above, died in June, but insiders say that the ''auditions'' have been unwieldy, and so far, there is no clear frontrunner. PAGE C1
This Weekend
TRAVEL
Wine would undoubtedly still be the first choice in a beverage-association game involving Italy. But a craft beer scene has begun to emerge there, bringing well-made brews into the kitchens and dining rooms of some of northern Italy's best restaurants. PAGE 1
PLAY
You think you know what you need to do to warm up for an athletic endeavor, the same thing you learned back in grade school. You are, in all likelihood, wrong. Science has moved on. PAGE 20
ARTS & LEISURE
More than five decades after his death, two projects -- an exhibition in Nashville and a CD box-set -- help to recast Hank Williams in a revealing new light, without whitewashing the intemperance and scandal. The two leave the impression of a devout man who, despite debilitating health and personal problems, loved his family -- and a good prank. PAGE 9
Editorial
WHILE YOU'RE BAILING ...
If Congress and the White House can bail out bankers and insurance companies, they should be able to help state and local governments. The aid could be temporary, and it should come after cities and states have downsized to the essentials. PAGE A21
ANOTHER THUMB ON THE SCALES
The world is in economic turmoil -- much of it caused by American financial excesses -- but the Justice Department's antitrust division has published a new set of guidelines that is a deregulatory gift aimed at getting pesky antitrust enforcers off the back of big business. PAGE A21
A FLAWED ASSESSMENT OF BPA
After reports of a possible conflict of interest, we worried that a scientific advisory panel might pull its punches in evaluating the Food and Drug Administration's judgments on the safety of bisphenol-A, known as BPA. It didn't. PAGE A21
Op-Ed
GAIL COLLINS
Our two-year presidential campaign now ends with a monthlong vote, followed by weeks of litigation over provisional ballots. After that, the new president is sworn in and given 100 days to accomplish his legislative agenda, after which everyone will start plotting for 2012. PAGE A21
BOB HERBERT
Of all the issues thrashed about in this interminable election season, the twin towers are still the economy and race. PAGE A21
CHARLES M. BLOW
For McCain to have a chance this month, everything needed to go his way in October. It didn't. PAGE A21
Correction: November 8, 2008, Saturday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A capsule summary last Saturday for the Sports of The Times column, about a rare goalkeeper's goal by Danny Cepero of the Red Bulls, misidentified the national team that Diego Maradona has been named to coach. It is Argentina, not Brazil.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTOS (A2
 A3) DRAWING (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); ASSASSINATION (78%); HIJACKING (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); STARVATION (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); AL-QAEDA (69%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (69%); SPONSORSHIP (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%); GOVERNORS (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (62%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%)

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (65%); JOHN SUNUNU (52%); JEANNE SHAHEEN (50%); ROBERT M GATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); GEORGIA (85%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011



30 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THE TV WATCH; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: New Cable Hosts and Political Opposites

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
Neither CNN nor the Fox News Channel is known for comedy, or even much of a sense of humor, so it is a measure of how important a role comedy has played in the 2008 election that these two sober cable news channels now offer lighthearted Saturday night talk shows.
 ''Huckabee,'' on Fox, is hosted by a politician with a whimsical side, while ''D. L. Hughley Breaks the News,'' on CNN, stars a stand-up comic with a political edge. Not surprisingly, Mike Huckabee, who, before he ran in the Republican presidential primary, was a Southern Baptist minister and an Arkansas governor, is more earnest than funny. Mr. Hughley is more of a cutup than a pundit. 
 Neither is in the same league as Jon Stewart or David Letterman, but they earn points for collegiality. Mr. Huckabee, who plays the bass guitar, recruits lighting technicians and production assistants to play in his house band, the Little Rockers. Mr. Hughley gives cameos to strait-laced CNN reporters: the business correspondent Ali Velshi gave a list of the five ways to make money in America, and cited ''Marry Madonna'' and ''Divorce Madonna'' as two of them.
 Their guest lists this Saturday are counterintuitive. Mr. Huckabee's show, which is so basic that it sometimes looks almost like public-access television, has invited the celebrities Richard Dreyfuss, Kelsey Grammer and Bill Maher to appear. 
 Mr. Hughley, on the other hand, is reaching for legitimacy. His guests include Donna Brazile, a CNN political analyst, and the Rev. Al Sharpton, as well as a voter-fraud expert; a representative from Acorn, the community-organizing group; and Nate Silver, the chief executive of FiveThirtyEight.com, a polling Web site. (Spoiler alert: Mr. Silver predicts an Obama victory.)
 Fox and CNN developed these shows to cash in on the new, younger viewers drawn to cable news -- and political satire -- this election year. (MSNBC, home to Keith Olbermann and Tucker Carlson, presumably felt it already had enough clownish star power on hand.) 
 But since so much of the cable-news ratings spike has been driven by the presidential race, viewership may sag once a winner is declared. This Saturday Mr. Huckabee will try to demonstrate that he can handle a more catholic (small C) talk show format, while Mr. Hughley hopes to prove he can keep humdrum political topics lively.
 Mr. Huckabee is conservative and populist, castigating the Democrats but also complaining that John McCain clamped down too hard on his own legendary temper. ''We need a president willing to get mad,'' he said. ''Lord knows the rest of us already are.''
 Mr. Huckabee has a pleasant, even gentle, manner, but some of his ideas are way off the mark. On his first show he suggested that the financial meltdown might have been caused by ''economic terrorism'' (someone tampering with computerized trades). The actor Chuck Norris, who supported Mr. Huckabee's bid, threw out his own conspiracy theory: a secret government plot to allow China to search for oil 50 miles off the coast of Florida, or, as he put it, ''do a slant drilling into our oil in Florida.''
 Mr. Huckabee favors his natural habitat: he watched clips of the Rev. Jeremiah Wright with Elisabeth Hasselbeck and discussed tax policy with Samuel J. Wurzelbacher, better known as Joe the Plumber. But he also recently invited Mr. Sharpton on to discuss the Acorn voter registration scandal, scooping Mr. Hughley, who has Mr. Sharpton as a guest this Saturday. 
 Mr. Hughley, for his part, coaxed the former White House press secretary Scott McClellan to endorse Barack Obama on his debut show. (It wasn't as heretical as it seems: Mr. McClellan is a Republican non grata after publishing a tell-all autobiography.)
 Mr. Hughley is a recent convert to commentary: a onetime Los Angeles gang member turned comedian, he has mostly focused on African-American life, notably on a family sitcom, ''The Hughleys,'' from 1998 to 2002. But in recent years he has branched out into politics on shows like ''Real Time With Bill Maher.''
 He pokes fun at Mr. Obama's finesse. In his opening monologue last week he noted that the Democratic nominee had raised more than $700 million. ''Wow, a brother with that kind of money,'' he marveled. ''He don't even have a shoe deal.'' 
 In that show Mr. Hughley also attended a Sarah Palin rally in North Carolina, and talked to her supporters to comic, and, at times somewhat sad, effect. One young man said he wanted a Christian in office. When Mr. Hughley asked him about Mr. Obama, that student replied, ''Well, Obama's probably not a Christian.''
 Mr. Huckabee delivers sermons leavened with humor; Mr. Hughley tells jokes that have a solemn underside. And like the candidates their shows celebrate, the two hosts' fates may be decided on Tuesday.
 CENTER STAGE: TURN IT UP
 Oxygen, Saturday at 8 p.m. Eastern and Pacific times, 7, Central time.
 It's always fun to mock the Oxygen network, which was created in 1998 with highfalutin airs and big-name backers (Oprah Winfrey was one) and is now bottom-feeding with shows like ''The Bad Girls Club'' and ''Snapped.'' But Oxygen does try to wedge in better programming where it can, and Saturday's ''Center Stage: Turn It Up'' is a case in point: a sweaty, sexy movie that is centered on ballet dancers, not the lap kind. 
 It's basically an updated version of ''Flashdance,'' mixing hip-hop with classical ballet. Kate Parker (Rachele Brooke Smith) is a talented but self-trained dancer from Detroit who loses a position at New York's American Ballet Academy to a wealthy patron's daughter (Suzanne Von Stroh). Kate finds work in a nightclub and tries to make her own way with the help of another dancer, a former hockey player and fellow have-not, Tommy Anderson (Kenny Wormald).
 Peter Gallagher, who played the Academy's artistic director in the first installment, ''Center Stage,'' in 2000, returns in the same role, as does Ethan Stiefel, a principal dancer with American Ballet Theater, who plays Cooper Nielson, a star of the academy. 
 Some of the acting is stilted in spots, but the dancing is fantastic. And the leitmotif of class resentment is an apt one for the times.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee with Elisabeth Hasselbeck on ''Huckabee,'' on the Fox News Channel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FOX NEWS) (pg.C1)
 D. L. Hughley, left, with the former White House press secretary Scott McClellan on ''D. L. Hughley Breaks the News.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CNN) (pg.C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CELEBRITIES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); ELECTION FRAUD (72%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (63%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%)

PERSON: MICHAEL HUCKABEE (90%); MADONNA (89%); JON STEWART (79%); DAVID LETTERMAN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); AL SHARPTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: D. L. Hughley Breaks the News (TV Program)>; Huckabee (TV Program)>; D. L. Hughley Breaks the News (TV Program)>; Huckabee (TV Program)>

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2008



31 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: Meet Russert's Replacement? Not Yet

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG

 BODY:
It is probably the second-most-pressing question circulating in the salons of Washington's media elite: Who will be the permanent host, or hosts, of the NBC program ''Meet the Press''?
 It could be Chuck Todd, whose profile as political director of NBC News has risen noticeably during the network's coverage of the presidential campaign, but whose low-key, conversational style doesn't quite ''crack the screen,'' as one television executive put it this week. It could be David Gregory, a correspondent who has long been familiar to NBC viewers, but who has had trouble attracting viewers to his own program, ''Race for the White House,'' on MSNBC. 
 It could be both, as part of an ensemble, or it could be neither. Gwen Ifill, a former NBC correspondent who went on to PBS, has been approached by the president of NBC News to gauge her interest. And some at NBC still pine for Katie Couric, who, if many planets were somehow to align, could be back on a top-rated NBC morning show, albeit one that is broadcast just once a week. 
 Meanwhile, the names of the candidates' backers and antagonists are as intriguing as those of the potential hosts themselves. Tom Brokaw has told some colleagues that he has been impressed with Mr. Todd. Mr. Gregory has struggled to get critical air time on ''NBC Nightly News With Brian Williams'' -- in part, some colleagues say, because he can be as combative off camera as he can be at a White House press briefing.
 NBC is expected to announce its decision sometime between Election Day and the end of the year, when Mr. Brokaw is scheduled to end his tour as interim host, a role he has played since shortly after the death of the program's longtime moderator Tim Russert in June. The network has said little publicly about its deliberations, which have been set against the backdrop of the election -- with the stock of some potential hosts rising, and others falling. 
 Those inside and outside the network who have been briefed on portions of the process said this week that it had been understandably difficult, given the oversize shoes being filled. As of yet, no obvious candidate has emerged from what in effect has been an unwieldy bake-off, with some of the leading candidates playing prominent roles in the network's political coverage.
 A spokeswoman for NBC News, Allison Gollust, said on Friday, ''No decision has been made about the future of 'Meet the Press,' and any speculation by alleged insiders is nothing more than idle chitchat.'' 
 The rough list of journalists who are receiving scrutiny within NBC emerged from conversations this week with people who would speak only on condition of anonymity, because not one was a direct decision maker. Among the other names being bandied about the hallways and suites of NBC's headquarters at 30 Rockefeller Plaza in Manhattan, and its Washington bureau on Nebraska Avenue, are those of Andrea Mitchell, a longtime reporter who could play a supporting role, and a dark horse, Chris Matthews, the outspoken MSNBC host whose ratings have climbed during the final weeks of the presidential campaign.
 Some NBC executives are intrigued by the possibility of hiring an established star to replace Mr. Russert. Near the top of that short list is Ms. Couric, the former ''Today'' co-host, who has had at times an unhappy experience as anchor of the ''CBS Evening News.'' And there is always Ted Koppel, who would bring the heft of more than two decades spent hosting ''Nightline.'' 
 That the decision to replace Mr. Russert has been protracted is not just a reflection of the degree to which he made ''Meet the Press'' his own. The program, which has its 61st anniversary on Thursday, is a tremendously important showcase for NBC. With an average weekly audience of nearly four million, according to Nielsen Media Research, it has actually increased its viewership and its margin of victory over its two main competitors -- ''This Week With George Stephanopoulos'' on ABC, and ''Face the Nation'' on CBS -- in the months since Mr. Russert's death. 
 The program also generates millions of dollars in annual advertising revenue for NBC. While Betsy Fischer, the longtime executive producer of ''Meet the Press,'' and Steve Capus, the president of NBC News, will have much to say about the next moderator, the ultimate decision will most likely rest with Jeff Zucker, the president and chief executive of NBC Universal, in consultation with Jeffrey R. Immelt, the chairman and chief executive of General Electric, the network's parent company.
 NBC has drawn some criticism for not having more minority journalists in prominent roles. Ms. Ifill, the host of ''Washington Week'' on PBS and a regular on ''The NewsHour With Jim Lehrer,'' is black. She also has a resume long on jobs covering Washington politics, not just over the last nine years at PBS but also before that at NBC, The New York Times and The Washington Post.
 Reached this week, Ms. Ifill would neither confirm nor deny any contact with NBC executives. ''I have one of the best jobs in journalism right now,'' she said, ''but I never rule anything out.'' 
 Asked how long she was committed to PBS, Ms. Ifill said, ''I'm still under contract.'' 
 Of the inside candidates, Mr. Todd has drawn praise for his sober election analysis. And yet he has logged far more time as a print journalist than as a television host, including six years as the editor of The Hotline, a publication of National Journal. Moreover, the job of presiding over ''Meet the Press'' in an election year, which plays to Mr. Todd's strengths as a political analyst, is different from what it will be during the early months of a new administration, in which the topics will hopscotch from the economy to international affairs.
 For these reasons the network has thought seriously about placing Mr. Todd at the helm of an ensemble, perhaps a rotating one, that could include Mr. Gregory. Mr. Gregory still might get the ''Meet the Press'' job outright. 
 Then there is Ms. Couric, whose widely seen conversations with Gov. Sarah Palin, the Republican vice presidential nominee, were fresh reminders of her interviewing skills. Even if Ms. Couric were interested, which is not clear, she would have to be let out of her contract with CBS, which is to run for more than two more years. 
 On the other hand, CBS executives acknowledged earlier this year that Ms. Couric and the network had discussed the possibility of her leaving, perhaps between the election and the inauguration in January. 
 Asked in an interview last month if the attention she received for her Palin interview had her thinking about what it would be like to lead the ''CBS Evening News'' in a new administration, Ms. Couric demurred, saying, ''I haven't really been able to look beyond Nov. 4, in terms of how things are going to shake out.'' 
 As for Mr. Koppel, he declined an opportunity to take over ''This Week'' when he concluded his tenure on ''Nightline'' in 2005. At the time it was noted that he had done an interview program of his own for 26 years and was loath to interrupt time with his family to lash himself to an anchor desk in Washington each Sunday.
 And yet when asked this week about whether Mr. Koppel might have changed his mind in the intervening years, someone close to him emphasized that his three-year contract with the Discovery Channel was winding down, and that Mr. Koppel was open to a new challenge. As of yet, though, no one from NBC is believed to have called.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOGRAPHS: Gwen Ifill of PBS. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DON EMMERT/POOL)
David Gregory, left, NBC's chief White House correspondent, with Tom Brokaw, the interim host of ''Meet the Press.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES)
 Chuck Todd of NBC News. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.C8) DRAWING (pg.C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (72%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (98%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (98%)

PERSON: TIM RUSSERT (78%); KATIE COURIC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Meet the Press (TV Program)>; Meet the Press (TV Program)>

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2008



32 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: The Known Unknowns

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
All the signs are pointing to an enormous turnout.
 Already, in early voting, the numbers have been huge. In Charlotte, N.C., an elderly black woman showed up at a community college eager to cast a ballot for Barack Obama. The line ahead of her was daunting -- at least two hours long. She knew she could not stand for two hours, so she went home.
 The next day she came back with a folding chair. She sat down at the end of the line, which was even longer than the day before. Every few minutes, as the line inched forward, the woman would get up, move her chair ahead a little bit and sit back down. 
 The polls show Senator Obama ahead, but there is no reliable precedent for this election. There are too many ''known unknowns,'' as Donald Rumsfeld might have said. 
 The eagerness to vote is being driven to a great extent by anxiety. The financial sector, with hundreds of billions of bailout dollars from taxpayers, is trying to emerge from a state of shock. The auto industry, a house of cards for years, is in danger of collapsing. The economy is shrinking, joblessness is soaring and financial security for all but the very rich is going the way of the video cassette recorder.
 An auto worker in Michigan told me, ''I'm voting for my economic life, man.''
 The most significant factor vying with the economy in this election is also the greatest unknown: the race issue. The election would likely be a runaway if not for Senator Obama's race. He's leading, but the question is whether the poll numbers accurately reflect what is going on with the electorate.
 Of all the issues thrashed about in this interminable election season, the twin towers are still the economy and race.
 ''I am a strong nonsubscriber to the Bradley effect,'' said Lee Miringoff, director of the Marist Institute for Public Opinion. He was talking about the frequently mentioned phenomenon in which some percentage of white respondents supposedly tell pollsters that they are voting for a black candidate and then go into the voting booth and do otherwise.
 The race issue has hurt many black candidates. But there is very little evidence to support the existence of a Bradley effect, named for Tom Bradley, a black mayor of Los Angeles who, in 1982, lost an election for governor of California that he had been expected to win.
 Mr. Miringoff does not believe that significant numbers of respondents are lying to pollsters because they are fearful of being seen as racist, or for any other reason. ''If you actually listen to the interview process, you would see that people are extremely eager to have their views correctly recorded,'' he said.
 He recalled the David Dinkins-Rudolph Giuliani race for mayor of New York in 1989 in which Mr. Dinkins, who is black, only narrowly won. ''We polled on the eve of that election, Monday night,'' said Mr. Miringoff, ''and we saw a big shift in the numbers. The race had gotten closer. Most of the polling had stopped two or three days earlier.''
 There are many reasons why Senator Obama, or any other candidate, might do better or worse on Election Day than polls suggest. Respondents lying to pollsters is probably the least likely among them. 
 Turnout is the big wild card this year. Frank Newport, editor in chief of the Gallup Poll said that trying to gauge the size of the turnout and decipher its meaning ''is probably the No. 1 challenge we're looking at.''
 An exceptionally high turnout probably plays to Mr. Obama's advantage. It would indicate that large numbers of newly registered Democratic voters, including blacks and younger voters, were showing up in droves. With a better-organized ground operation than the McCain campaign, and with lots more money to spend, the Obama forces should have an easier time getting their voters to the polls.
 A huge overall turnout could also be a sign that economic anxiety has become so great across the electorate that it trumps the concern that many voters might have about Mr. Obama's race.
 A potential pitfall for Mr. Obama is the danger that voters who have not expressed a preference to pollsters end up voting heavily for John McCain. Those voters could shift the balance in potential swing states, especially those states where Mr. Obama is ahead but is not polling above 50 percent.
 There is some evidence that lower-educated, less affluent white voters -- a group that tends to favor Senator McCain -- may be somewhat more reluctant than other groups to respond to pollsters.
 The Bradley effect may not be real, but race in this election looms large. The question that will be answered Tuesday is whether a bad economy looms even larger. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); MAYORS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); GOVERNORS (73%); BAILOUTS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (73%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2008



33 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2147 words

HEADLINE: After the Ballot, the Bash

BYLINE: By BEN GIBBERD. 
Ben Gibberd is the author of ''New York Waters: Profiles From the Edge,'' with the photographer Randy Duchaine.

 BODY:
FOR many Americans, the Presidential Election Night Party is part of a long-established social tradition, one that takes its place alongside familiar and beloved institutions like the Oscar Night Party, the World Series Party and the Super Bowl Party. Friends and sometimes colleagues gather eagerly in one another's living rooms, there to eat, drink, watch the results come in and share either the joy of victory or the agony of defeat. 
 Nowhere, with perhaps the exception of the political fanatics who live inside the Beltway, is this tradition observed with more energy than in New York. 
 Given the status of both the city and the state as true-blue Democratic strongholds, local voting will not play a decisive role in Tuesday's outcome. Nonetheless, as it is the nation's largest city and its media and financial capital, a place where considerable national political fund-raising occurs and where many members of a future presidential administration live in waiting, election-night returns are parsed here with unusual intensity. 
 Inflating New Yorkers' sense of being at the center of all things political is the fact that the city's mayor often plays a role on the national political stage. 
 If you can run New York, so the argument goes, you can run the country, despite the fact that not since John T. Hoffman was elected governor in 1868 has a mayor of New York gone on to higher office. This phenomenon was particularly evident this past year, with former Mayor Giuliani's spirited though unsuccessful run for the Republican presidential nomination and Mayor Bloomberg's extended flirtation with a similar run as an independent.
 This year, the city's outsized political role has been underscored by the historic racial aspect of the presidential campaign. For the first time, a black candidate has a real chance to become president, a prospect that will have particular resonance in a city whose population of more than eight million is nearly a quarter black, making it the largest such community in the nation. 
 Compounding the intense interest in the presidential race is the recent national and global financial crisis, whose epicenter, Wall Street, is one of the city's iconic neighborhoods and a place where the impact of the fiscal problems is hitting with particular force.
 These factors have combined to stoke the fires of local political partisanship to an unprecedented degree, ensuring that the crop of election-night parties due to get under way in just 48 hours will be imbued with an urgency and historic import not felt, perhaps, since John Kennedy squared off against Richard Nixon nearly half a century ago.
 AT the Sutton Place apartment of Michael Leopold, a disarmingly youthful-looking 53-year-old lawyer and registered Republican, party planning has been in the works for nearly five months. 
 Mr. Leopold, who has voted both Democratic and Republican in the past, and considers himself a Libertarian, has said that this year he intends to vote for the Republican nominee, Senator John McCain. 
 But remarkably for such events, which tend to be almost exclusively gatherings of like-minded partisans, Mr. Leopold's guest list crosses the spectrum politically, from ardent Democrats to ardent Republicans, and even includes a few as-yet undecided voters.
 His guests will be invited to form a bipartisan huddle on Mr. Leopold's Italian burgundy leather sofa in front of a 48-inch Sony flat-screen television set tuned to CNN -- with, Mr. Leopold promised, an inset image of the far more conservatively tinged Fox News broadcast, ''to keep things somewhat balanced.''
 ''Maybe I should make people wear blue or red shirts on the night,'' he suggested at one point. ''I don't think anyone will be undecided by then.''
 Mr. Leopold plans to draw his two dozen guests mostly from the ranks of two very different sets of friends. One set includes people from his divorce support group, whom he first met three years ago at the Jewish Community Center on Amsterdam Avenue. The others are or have been fellow members of an early-morning ''boot camp'' workout that he attends at the Sports Club/LA, an upscale gym on East 61st Street.
 Lest one assume that the divorce support group was dominated by Democrats while the boot camp members harbored more Republican sympathies, Mr. Leopold made it clear that both groups crossed party lines. 
 ''There are a couple of Republicans among the divorce group,'' he said, and the boot camp included at least one highly vocal Democrat. 
 But regardless of party affiliation, come 8 p.m. Tuesday, this politically motley group will crowd into Mr. Leopold's living room, with its tasteful yellow walls, where they will drink the case of Beaujolais he is saving especially for the event, eat Kentucky Fried Chicken and takeout Vietnamese food from Saigon Grill, and watch history being made. 
 THE bash at Mr. Leopold's apartment will hardly be the only social event marking the culmination of a momentous political season.
 Liz Sevcenko, 36, a Democrat and the director of the International Coalition of Sites of Conscience, a nonprofit organization, planned to invite 10 politically sympathetic friends to her Park Slope row house for what she described as ''chips and dips.'' She was thinking about closing her office the day after the election.
 ''No matter what happens, we're going to have been up all night,'' Ms. Sevcenko said a few days before the election, ''and even if it's resolved by 10 o'clock and Obama wins, can you imagine just going to sleep? It'll be total craziness. I think then we'd move on to a more public venue.''
 Like many New Yorkers, Ms. Sevcenko will be observing the results with more than usual diligence. As well as watching CNN's detailed maps, graphics and interactive charts on voting trends, thanks to what she described as ''a pretty sweet HDTV deal,'' she will also be checking the channel's Web site throughout the evening. ''I'll be obsessively hitting refresh,'' Ms. Sevcenko admitted.
 Nearby, planning for sizable election-night crowds was under way at the three bars owned by Jim Carden, including the well-known Union Hall near Fifth Avenue. 
 At one of his premises, the Bell House on Seventh Street, a cavernous lounge and performance space near Third Avenue, Mr. Carden had set up a large projection television screen in the rear of the bar, the better to display CNN's comprehensive graphics. He also planned to offer gin specials like the ''Hendrick's Gin-eration Tonic'' in honor of Senator Barack Obama's supposed favorite drink, gin and tonic. 
 The renowned food vendors of Red Hook Park, whose regular gastronomic constituency is local soccer players and their fans, will be on hand to serve Latin American delicacies like huaraches, tortillas and pupusas.
 ''We held a little election party four years ago,'' Mr. Carden said, referring to an event held at Floyd, another Brooklyn bar he owns, ''but we've seen double the number of people showing up for each debate. 
 ''I think the big difference is that people are viewing the election in a much more social context because it's such a historic event,'' Mr. Carden added. ''They know they're living through history, they know it's something they're going to tell their kids about, and they want to be there with other people when it happens.''
 A FORETASTE of Mr. Leopold's election-night party could be had last month, when he played host to a get-together during the second presidential debate, on Oct. 7. As guests streamed into his apartment, Mr. Leopold, barefoot and dressed casually in jeans and a red-checkered shirt, padded around his living room laying out plates of finger food and pouring wine. Miniature sausages in puff pastry and slices of cheese, including a fetching red, green and white British concoction, were much in evidence. Every now and then Mr. Leopold disappeared into the kitchen to open another bottle of shiraz or merlot. 
 Against one wall, and looking somewhat out of place amid the framed scrolls of Chinese calligraphy and other delicate pieces of contemporary Asian art Mr. Leopold collects, stood his 48-inch television screen tuned to CNN. Mr. Leopold lived in Taiwan for two years during his 20s, working as a model and a movie extra and acquiring a love for Eastern art.
 The host was in cheerful form. ''I've got some backing tonight,'' Mr. Leopold said as his guests began to arrive. ''There's a bunch of fellow McCain people here.''
 One such ally was Anne Marie Fields, a 46-year-old senior vice president of Lippert/Heilshorn & Associates, a public relations company, whom Mr. Leopold had met at the Sports Club/LA's boot camp. Dressed in a chocolate brown suit and green suede heels, Ms. Fields grasped her pink BlackBerry in one hand and a glass of white wine in the other while leaning forward intently to catch the debate above the hubbub of conversation. Every now and then, she interrupted her viewing with bursts of energetic texting.
 Ms. Fields, who was born in New York, grew up in Larchmont and returned to the city in 1983, said she had always voted Republican, and had pulled the lever for Ronald Reagan in 1980, just after she turned 18.
 ''I was surprised to find that there were any Republicans in New York,'' she confessed. ''A dear friend of mine said she was joining the Union Club'' -- one of the city's oldest and most conservative social organizations -- ''and I said, 'Are you Republican?' And she kind of sheepishly said, 'Yes.' And I thought, how could I not know after all these years? I guess there aren't many female G.O.P.-ers in Manhattan.''
 Seated next to Ms. Fields in apparent harmony was a political adversary, the sole Democrat among the Sports Club/LA's boot camp contingent, a registered independent and outspoken Obama fan named Abby Huhtanen.
 Ms. Huhtanen, a 40-year-old jewelry buyer for Bergdorf Goodman who was wearing black Prada pants and sporting a large emerald on her right finger, at one point grew amused with Ms. Fields's texting.
 ''Anne Marie's right in the middle of it with her Republican friends,'' she announced in a loud voice.
 In fact, Ms. Fields was communicating with her nephew Danny O'Connor, a senior at Princeton, and his brother, William, a junior at the Peddie School, a private school just outside Princeton. 
 Both were watching the debate, she reported, and both were enthusiastic Republicans.
 ''McCain's the man!'' Danny's e-mail message said. William's text had read, ''Obama looks like a used-car salesman.''
 ''William's so cute,'' Ms. Fields announced. ''He's the sole Republican in his entire school, but he doesn't care.'' 
 Another of Mr. Leopold's Republican allies present was Rene Bermudez, a 53-year-old former mortgage broker who sat slumped on the sofa, a black Dolce & Gabbana baseball cap pulled down over his eyes as if to block out the political scrum unfolding on the screen. Mr. Bermudez, it turned out, was seriously reconsidering his political allegiances in the light of the recent financial crisis.
 ''I used to be one of those predatory lenders they talk about,'' Mr. Bermudez, a longtime friend and business associate of Mr. Leopold's, said in a gravelly voice as the two candidates dueled it out on the screen. ''Then it all disappeared. 
 ''I'm traumatized,'' he said. ''I've been in the biz since 1980, and I didn't see it coming. I thought there'd be a correction, you know? I didn't think it would completely disappear overnight.''
 To make ends meet, Mr. Bermudez said, he had switched to the contracting business, and was currently helping excavate the foundations of a new house in Ridgewood, Queens, for a client.
 ''I like McCain,'' Mr. Bermudez added, ''but he seems a little bit conservative and old. I don't know if he can handle this craziness that's going on.''
 BY the evening's end, as Mr. Leopold's guests began to pull on their coats and straggle out into the night, nobody seemed to have changed his or her political views in light of what the group had just watched. 
 For Ms. Huhtanen, the war in Iraq remained the great issue. 
 ''If McCain gets in, it just means that the war will continue and money goes over there,'' she said resignedly. ''Once again the focus will be on another country and not on our own.''
 Mr. Leopold, for his part, felt that the chief issue was the economy.
 ''I think if Obama wins, there's not going to be enough stimulus to get the economy running,'' he said as he surveyed the empty wine bottles and crumb-laden plates. ''I don't buy it that the middle classes will not be affected by raised taxes. And the war is a problem, but I think McCain will ultimately end it and end it the right way.''
 Sipping a final glass of wine, he added: ''I don't know why anybody wants to take this thing over. It's just one bad thing after another. What does McCain need it for at his age? What does Obama need it for?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michael Leopold, far left in top photograph and standing at left, will be entertaining guests of many political stripes on Tuesday in his Sutton Place apartment. (PHOTOGRAPHs BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.CY8) DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY MICHAEL WITTE) (pg.CY1 and 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MAYORS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GOVERNORS (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); FUNDRAISING (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); LAWYERS (50%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



34 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: At the Speed of Life

BYLINE: By SCOTT GRIFFITH. 
As told to Amy Zipkin.

 BODY:
AS a kid I had a fascination with electronic and mechanical parts. My dad used to call me Mr. Fix-It. When I was 9 or 10 I was working on a toaster when I found a broken wire. I had a workbench in the basement and I took my soldering gun, soldered the wire in place and got the toaster working again. I was lucky I didn't electrocute myself.
 I lived in Pittsburgh until I was through with college. By the time I was a senior in high school, steel mills were closing down. Many people were unemployed. Less than 10 years earlier, going to visit my grandmother in Monongahela, south of the city, you could see the flames spewing from the mills and huge piles of coal and steel. The factories emptied out. 
 At college I majored in engineering and minored in economics. I thought about whether I should stay in Pittsburgh, but didn't feel that there would be a strong economy anytime soon.
 I decided to go into transportation and aerospace. I moved to Seattle to work at Boeing, then moved to Los Angeles as an engineer at Hughes Aircraft. I got a reputation as someone who knew technology and the technology around business. I left to earn an M.B.A. at the University of Chicago and became a business strategy consultant.
 Ten years ago, I received a diagnosis of Hodgkin's disease. I was in the airport in Newark, talking on a pay phone and rubbing my shoulder. There was a hard lump the size of a baseball under the collarbone. Instead of flying wherever I was going, I flew home. It was a large cancerous growth on my lymph nodes.
 After I got the call from the surgeon, I called my brother who is older by a year. I told him what had happened. I was in Boston; he was in Minneapolis. He said something along the lines of, ''You'll figure out a way to go through this and come out a different person on the other end.''
 I underwent nine months of chemotherapy and radiation. The treatment worked and I'm now cancer-free. I didn't have to take a leave of absence, but the last two months of treatment I took some time off. I thought a lot about what I was going to do and what would make me happy. I talked to friends. I talked to my oncologist, Tom Lynch. I realized that if he could love what he did, I needed to find and follow my passion, too. 
 I moved to Atlanta. I think there is a bit of the explorer in me. I was involved in two start-ups. I was responsible for running Information America, now owned by ChoicePoint. Then I was the chief executive of Digital Goods. We had the exclusive right to distribute an e-book of a novella by Steven King called ''Riding the Bullet.'' The company folded and I began wondering if book publishing would be the next steel industry. It was a very good idea, perhaps 10 years early.
 By the time the Internet bubble burst, I was thinking that there was too much risk in any start-up. I started consulting, but I had some free time. I built a tree house. First, I sketched out what I wanted to do. I didn't have an S.U.V. to carry the lumber, so I borrowed a truck from my brother-in-law. The tree house took six to eight months to build.
 My son was about 3 when I completed it. I built a ladder with no rungs at the bottom so he couldn't climb up by himself. It has shutters that close, and I built a little table and chairs. 
 Now it's about 12 feet by 15 feet. I just completed a 4-foot deck. Our homeowner's insurance policy values it at $20,000. 
 My son is 9 now, and he and his buddies use it all the time. Our street address is 25 and he says, ''I'm going outside to 25A.''
 I had been watching Zipcar and had lived in all the cities it serves. When Peter Aldrich, the chairman of the C.E.O. search committee, approached me about the job, I didn't say yes immediately but thought about it. I took the job because I think it will influence how people think about city life. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Scott Griffith (PHOTOGRAPH BY ZIPCAR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENGINEERING (90%); CANCER (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (75%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (73%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (73%); AIRPORTS (72%); COMPANY STRATEGY (71%); ONCOLOGY (70%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (70%); LYMPHOMA (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (68%); RADIOLOGY (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: DIRECTV (55%); BOEING CO (55%); CHOICEPOINT INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%)

TICKER: DTV (NASDAQ) (55%); BOE (LSE) (55%); BAB (BRU) (55%); BA (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (55%); NAICS561499 ALL OTHER BUSINESS SUPPORT SERVICES (50%); NAICS524298 ALL OTHER INSURANCE RELATED ACTIVITIES (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (75%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



35 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 243 words

HEADLINE: What Price Oil?

 BODY:
Roger Lowenstein (Oct.19) concedes the reckless role of speculators in driving up gasoline prices to over $4 a gallon. But he does not condemn that drive. He, too, wants high gas prices: not for exploitative gains, of course, but to support the development of alternative fuels within the U.S. at higher costs than gasoline. His ''contrarian'' proposal is a floor-type tax, to kick in only if oil prices fall below a set level of support. 
 Unfortunately, Lowenstein's proposal dooms the consumers again to bear the high prices, while the oil-company executives still get overcompensation and the foreign suppliers get big gains. Perhaps the floor tax should be rebated to low-income consumers, and an excess-profits tax applied to the oil companies.
 The chief alternative is substantial government subsidies to the various alternative fuels, together with government intervention (especially by imposing steep ''transaction'' fees) against speculative pricing that is just pure profiteering.
 EDWIN P. REUBENS
 Emeritus Professor of Economics, CUNY
 New York
 I take strong exception to Lowenstein's comment that there is no reason to rule out any energy source -- oil included. There is a very good reason, and it is global warming. We need to phase out oil, not burn it just because we can. The only mechanisms that work are strong incentives to wind, solar and perhaps nuclear and strong disincentives for burning oil and coal. 
 STEWART PRAVDA
 Brooklyn

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); GASOLINE PRICES (91%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); WIND ENERGY (77%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); SALES REBATES (58%); GLOBAL WARMING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



36 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Casino Layoffs Destined to Affect Norwich

BYLINE: By ADAM BOWLES

DATELINE: Norwich 

 BODY:
 WHEN Ron Ward first heard about plans to lay off 700 workers at Foxwoods Resort Casino and the MGM Grand at Foxwoods, he immediately e-mailed his colleagues who were working on a plan to improve the quality of life for children in Norwich.
 In essence, Mr. Ward told his associates, the city was headed for trouble. In Norwich, a city whose economy and workforce are inextricably tied to the casino industry, the reverberations from Foxwoods and MGM Grand will be felt from the downtown businesses to the schools, where the children of many casino workers attend classes. 
 ''I know people who have moved to Norwich in anticipation of getting jobs at Mohegan Sun,'' said Mr. Ward, chairman of the Norwich Enhancement Plan Collaboration, which is assessing the poverty, education and health care needs of children. 
 The round of across-the-board layoffs at Foxwoods was largely completed Oct. 19, and city leaders and employment experts say it is still too early to determine the impact of the cuts, which amounted to 6 percent of the casino's workforce. 
 Still, the layoffs came on the heels of the Mohegan Sun's announcement Sept. 22 to suspend a $734 million expansion that would have created approximately 1,200 permanent jobs. 
 State government depends on revenue from the casinos, so all of Connecticut is affected when the gaming industry does not do well. But perhaps no other community will feel the impact as much as Norwich, which has one of the highest proportions of casino workers of any municipality, due primarily to its high stock of rental units. 
 ''It's a major concern for us,'' said Beverly Goulet, director of human services in Norwich. Her office, which helps people search for jobs, apply for food stamps and sign up for heating-oil assistance, has experienced an increase in the number of working-class people looking for employment in the last two years. 
 Norwich Public Schools reported that of its 3,920 students, 1,003, or 27 percent, had at least one parent working at one of the casinos as of Oct. 1.
 In Greeneville, a neighborhood of Norwich, it seems everyone knows at least one person who works at a casino.
 Jose Cerba, who works as a line cook at Mohegan Sun, said he knew 10 friends who worked either there or at Foxwoods Resort Casino. He said he lived with four of them. 
 Migdalia Ocasio, 21, said she had four family members with casino jobs. And Rosalyn Hill said about 20 people she knew were casino employees. 
 Ms. Ocasio, who has two sons, ages 1 and 2, said she and her husband moved from Boston to Norwich to be with his family. She said four or five family members hold casino jobs. Already, she and her family are concerned about rising prices because her grocery money does not buy as much as it did a year ago. 
 ''Everything is going up,'' Ms. Ocasio said, ''but not money from jobs.''
 Mr. Cerba, 24, left Mexico for New York about a year ago because of the poor economy in his home country. Soon after, he moved to Norwich because he got a job at Mohegan Sun. Many of his friends also moved to the city because of casino jobs. 
 Ms. Hill, who works at a group home in Greeneville, said many of her friends who worked at the casinos were single mothers. 
 ''They would have to go on the state,'' she said, referring to welfare. ''But what the state is giving up is not enough for them to take care of their families.''
 Pamela W. Aubin, superintendent of the Norwich Public Schools, said she would not be surprised if more students became eligible for free and reduced-price meals, school counseling services became strained, domestic violence cases rose, grandparents took on added financial burdens to care for their families, and families moved in together. At the same time, she said, the pace of immigrants moving into the region would probably slow. 
 ''Money takes a terrible toll,'' she said. ''If you are a dealer in a casino, where are you going to go? It's a very specialized skill. It's not transferable to other work environments.'' 
 Mayor Benjamin P. Lathrop said that he believed the casinos' downturn was cyclical and that it was only a matter of time until a new wave of hiring swept the region. The question is: Will people stick around for the upturn?
 ''How patient can people be if they need to put food on the table?'' Mr. Lathrop asked. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DOWNTOWN: Main Street in Norwich, where, as of Oct. 1, about 1 in 4 school students had at least one parent working at a casino. (PHOTOGRAPH BY C. M. GLOVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (93%); LAYOFFS (91%); LABOR FORCE (90%); FAMILY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); GAMING (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); ENERGY ASSISTANCE (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (71%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); PRICE INCREASES (62%); FOOD STAMPS (50%)

COMPANY: FOXWOODS RESORT CASINO (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (93%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



37 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 280 words

HEADLINE: Can Government Policies Create Energy Savings?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Green Policies in California Generated Jobs, Study Finds'' (Business Day, Oct. 20): 
 Analysts can quibble with the total jobs indirectly generated by government policies, because economists have a great deal of artistic freedom when building their models. Such is the case with the recent study on jobs created by California's energy-efficiency policies conducted by the Center for Energy, Resources and Economic Sustainability at the University of California, Berkeley.
 The report claims that California businesses and households were simply ignoring billions of dollars in energy-saving measures that would ''pay for themselves'' because they were so economical. It took political intervention to force these shortsighted companies and consumers to save themselves money.
 And in fact, the study says, the savings were so great that for every job lost through reduced energy consumption, more than 50 new jobs were created by the extra income energy consumers were able to spend on other goods and services.
 Even if this fantastical story were true, California's lawmakers would only need to fax their recommendations to all major American companies around the country for the ''savings'' to be evident.
 Yet that won't happen. Instead, state legislatures around the country will point to the ''success'' of California to justify their own set of higher taxes and costly mandates, hurting businesses, citizens and economic growth. 
 Politicians don't create wealth or jobs; all they do is penalize productive sectors and subsidize inefficient ones.
 Robert P. Murphy Houston, Oct.
 21, 2008
 The writer is an economist at the Institute for Energy Research.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (91%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ENERGY RESEARCH (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); CONSUMPTION (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



38 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Who Has the Better Health Plan?

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 ''The Candidates' Health Plans'' (editorial, Oct. 28) reveals the critical flaw in both candidates' proposals. Both merely redistribute the cost of health care; neither actually lowers the cost. Their common flaw: continued dependence on insurance companies.
 Here's a better plan: a single national nongovernment not-for-profit health insurance company financed by a payroll tax. By eliminating the profit margin and cost of marketing, we can reduce the cost of health insurance, and thus health care, dramatically. 
 Glenn Alan Cheney Hanover, Conn., Oct. 28, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Neither the candidates' plans nor your editorial addresses one of the most glaring problems that I see in my legal practice, of health insurers' knee-jerk denial of claims and/or permission for treatment. 
 For example, I was recently involved in a matter in which a 95-year-old man who had been in a hospital for weeks had been sent to rehabilitation by his doctors and the hospital, yet the (major) insurer involved refused to consent to the widely medically recommended proposed course of treatment. 
 Thus the man either had to pay for the rehabilitation stay on his own, which he could not afford, or go home and suffer, even though he had more than adequate insurance coverage.
 This is not a unique case.
 Any proposed presidential plan must include a mechanism to closely monitor and regulate the health insurers and give citizens a vehicle to have a government agency enforce their health policy entitlements. It must include fines and other sanctions for insurers who are guilty of patterns of wrongful denial. 
 Mark J. Bunim New York, Oct. 28, 2008
 The writer is a lawyer.
 To the Editor:
 The candidates' health plans that you describe are almost amusing in their complexity and inadequacy. Why are Americans unable to adopt plans that have served other nations of the developed world well for many decades? 
 My wife and I have experienced national health services in both Norway (our son was born there under socialized -- yes, socialized -- medicine) and in Canada. Our experiences have been excellent in both countries. 
 We now live under a national health plan, Medicare, in the United States, and with the same excellent results. Medicare should be made an open enrollment plan available to all, and let the private insurers try to compete with that. 
 We can't afford it? We just blew $700 billion and counting on trying to rescue the financial system with less than two weeks' debate. We lack not the means, only the will.
 David W. Blair Princeton, N.J., Oct. 28, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Your editorial accurately describes the candidates' plans. But it doesn't reveal how inadequate they are. 
 In the face of a doubling of health care costs just since 1999, they propose nothing that would seriously contain costs or assure access to health care for the millions of Americans, both insured and uninsured, who today are one illness away from bankruptcy.
 These plans continue to rely on a privately run insurance system that has shown itself to be too costly, too inflation-prone and too unreliable to meet our needs. As a result, they fail to provide the major system overhaul that the American people need and have been demanding.
 Only a complete restructuring of the way we pay for health care, toward a publicly financed system that can assure access to care -- much as Medicare does today for those over 65 -- while containing costs can truly provide the solid foundation we need for the health care system of the future.
 Leonard Rodberg New York, Oct. 28, 2008
 The writer is research director of the New York metro chapter, Physicians for a National Health Program.
 To the Editor:
 No proposal for the delivery of health care in the United States will make a difference unless somewhere in the debate single payer (Medicare for all) figures in. 
 Americans must ask an important question: Who would be a more beneficent provider of health care, a well-financed nonprofit national program, or for-profit insurance companies whose primary responsibility is to shareholders and not patients? 
 Only through a government-sponsored Medicare-for-all model will every resident be guaranteed the basic health care that is the right of all of our citizens, privileged or not.
 Richard L. Stivelman Salisbury, Md., Oct. 28, 2008
 The writer is a medical doctor.
 To the Editor:
 While Senator Barack Obama's health care plan is certainly sounder than Senator John McCain's, it is far from what it needs to be if the goal is for all Americans to have quality, affordable health care. 
 In order to achieve that, we would need single-payer national health insurance, like almost every other industrialized nation has. 
 Barack Obama used to support a single-payer system, in which health care is publicly financed but privately delivered, as it is in Medicare. Unfortunately, on the way to becoming mainstream enough for the presidency, he stopped talking about single payer and now proposes a system that would preserve the role of for-profit insurance companies, with their administrative excesses. 
 Mr. Obama should know that as long as private insurers are allowed to waste our premiums finding ways to deny care and deliver dividends to shareholders, universal health care in the United States will never happen.
 Sarah Ramer Pittsburgh, Oct. 28, 2008
 The writer is a second-year medical student.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LEWIS SCOTT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); WRITERS (73%); MEDICARE (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



39 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section EDLIFE; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; CONTINUING AN EDUCATION; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 3804 words

HEADLINE: Combat to College

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ. 
Lizette Alvarez is a national correspondent for The Times who covers the home front.

 BODY:
KEVIN BLANCHARD'S freshman year at George Washington University was unlike anybody else's on campus.
Crowded classrooms routinely sent him into a panic. Cubicles triggered tunnel vision. He felt alienated from the 18-year-olds around him and their antics. His leg throbbed as he wandered the campus, trying to remember where to go. His concentration whipsawed and the words he read in textbooks slipped easily from his memory, the result of a mild traumatic brain injury.
A charismatic Marine Corps veteran, Mr. Blanchard, 25, could trace his difficulties to Iraq and the summer of 2005, when a Humvee he was riding in detonated a bomb buried under the sand. The blast claimed half his left leg and mangled his right leg. In short order, he endured numerous surgeries, months in a wheelchair, a titanium prosthesis and intermittent swirls of depression and pessimism. Until, as he tells it, he woke up one morning and decided to count his blessings.
College was the first step in his plan to reshape his life. After four years in the Marines, one combat tour in Iraq and a life-changing injury, how tough could it be? 
''I thought, I'm so motivated, so intelligent -- I am taking on the school,'' says Mr. Blanchard, who now leads efforts at George Washington and nationally to bridge the gulf between combat and campus. ''It didn't happen that way at all. I was so lost.''
Few students make their way to campus directly from an outpatient bed at Walter Reed Army Medical Center, as Mr. Blanchard did. But with the passage this summer of a new G.I. Bill that offers a greatly improved package of education benefits, there will be more. When the bill goes into effect, in August 2009, a boom in post-9/11 veterans is expected at colleges and universities across the nation. And unlike the aftermath of the Vietnam War, when few colleges and universities welcomed military veterans, a growing number are taking steps to ease the difficult transition.
Still in its early stages at many institutions, the effort is led in large part by a generation of student veterans who came to view their own struggles to adapt to academic life as dispiriting and unnecessary.
''Some people are talking about it like it's a movement,'' says Derek Blumke, a University of Michigan senior and cofounder and president of Student Veterans of America, an advocacy group formed earlier this year. ''A lot of people are returning now and realizing they want to go to college. They are coming back, getting together and wanting to make this happen. People are mobilizing.''
The legislation fueling the movement pays homage to the original G.I. Bill of Rights, which is considered one of the most successful and transformative government programs in history. It ultimately sent 2.2 million veterans to college after World War II and helped five million others acquire trade skills. Rather than come home to sell apples, as many neglected veterans did after World War I, these veterans helped broaden the middle class and democratize universities, which were primarily bastions of the wealthy and well connected.
Few would argue that the impact of the new G.I. Bill, formally the Post-9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Act, will rival that of its prototype, mostly because there are far fewer eligible veterans and the new law is less generous. The original bill paid for public, private and vocational education. This one covers public education for most veterans who served after 9/11 and eases the burden of private tuition. The law also extends many benefits to members of the National Guard and the Reserve, and offers stipends for housing and textbooks. But it does not pay for non-degree vocational training.
Still, the law is viewed both by veterans and colleges as an opportunity to do right by today's combat-tested troops and mend a relationship that has badly frayed since the antiwar movement of the 1960s. The hope is that new veterans, buffeted by war and a troubled economy, can seize on college as a roadmap to a productive life beyond the military.
''This is the biggest step toward turning the page on what we did after Vietnam,'' says Paul Rieckhoff, executive director of the advocacy group Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America. ''We saw the G.I. Bill as a way of attempting to deal with veterans' reacclimation issues in a more comprehensive way. They are in a safe place there in school, moving forward with their life.''
Mr. Rieckhoff's group spearheaded efforts to pass the bill, written by Senator Jim Webb, a Virginia Democrat and Marine Corps veteran. The bill met strong resistance from John McCain, the senator from Arizona who is now the Republican candidate for president, and from President Bush, who argued that it would prompt service members to choose college over re-enlistment after just three years. But ultimately, it passed handily and was signed into law on June 30.
Of course, veterans have never stopped going to college with government help, even as the country moved to a volunteer military. The existing law, the Montgomery G.I. Bill, was passed in 1984 and was named after the Mississippi congressman who worked to update the benefits. But, over time, inflation outpaced the payments. Veterans, who often enlist on the promise of a college education, found that the program, in essence, paid for community college. Many have been forced to find full-time jobs to pay their bills. (In August, the benefit was increased by $221, to $1,321 a month.)
About 40 percent of the 450,000 veterans in the current program attend community colleges, about the same percentage that attend four-year institutions, according to the Department of Veterans Affairs. Many do so by choice. Two-year colleges offer flexible class schedules, enroll older students and can feel less intimidating -- all important issues to veterans, who are usually older and often married with families. Online programs are popular for the same reasons.
Some veterans, though, say they wind up in community colleges or fail to transfer to a four-year institution by necessity: the cost is simply prohibitive. The new G.I. Bill will change that.
But money isn't the only hurdle. Veterans, for the most part, do not have an easy time getting into four-year colleges and universities, particularly selective private ones. Boredom or frustration with high school -- often accompanied by mediocre transcripts and SAT scores -- led many into the military in the first place. But many institutions have failed to make allowances for the soldiers' special circumstances or to promote themselves as veteran-friendly. For veterans, adapting to civilian life, let alone student life, is difficult. It is not uncommon for a new veteran, particularly one with mental or physical injuries, to feel overwhelmed by the choices and rhythms of college.
ISMAEL VALENZUELA, now 33, hopes one day to study at Columbia University.
Reared in El Paso, Tex., he did a lackluster stint at a community college, then in 1997 moved to New York to study classical guitar at the New School. Despite his passion, he didn't feel ready to get serious. ''A big piece of the puzzle was still missing,'' he says.
A patriot, he had long imagined himself in the military. So in 2000, Mr. Valenzuela enlisted in the Marine Corps. Twice he was deployed to Iraq, the first time at the start of the war. The second tour, with the country in the throes of an insurgency, was much rougher. Days were filled with seek-and-destroy missions and searching houses for weapons caches. A buddy died in combat. Explosions and small arms fire were a constant hazard.
Last year he decided to leave the corps, a tough decision. He traveled through Europe for a while and came home ready for college. But he had missed the application deadline for Borough of Manhattan Community College. He was told to reapply later in the year.
Fearing that if he did not begin school right away he would start a downward drift, Mr. Valenzuela asked to speak to the director of admissions. At first the director, Eugenio Barrios, saw in him just another case of procrastination and immaturity. But Mr. Valenzuela brought up his seven-year career in the corps, and showed pictures of a banged-up Humvee in Iraq. The vehicle had flipped in an accident, a common danger, and Mr. Valenzuela had been knocked unconscious for 10 minutes. He had shaken off the daze and gone right back to work.
The two men shared a rapport, and Dr. Barrios agreed to become the veteran's mentor.
Mr. Valenzuela did not do so well on the placement exam in reading, writing and math required by the City University of New York. That did not surprise him, because the day of the test he had trouble focusing and remembering facts, perhaps a product of both post-traumatic stress disorder and a mild traumatic brain injury.
Dr. Barrios was quick to tell him that to succeed he would need to apply everything he learned in the corps to his schoolwork.
''Some need more help than others because their academic beginnings were not as strong,'' Dr. Barrios says of veterans. ''They bring a certain level of maturity and a certain appreciation of our system. Their desire is there. There is a word in Spanish for that: las ganas. They have that very strong will to want to succeed.''
Mr. Valenzuela's return from war has not been entirely smooth or entirely unusual. In the months after he left the corps, he became easily enraged, got into fights and drank two 12-packs of Heineken a night, he says. He felt adrift and apathetic. That slowly began to change after he started college, in January. With the help of his psychiatrist at the Department of Veterans Affairs, his new girlfriend and Dr. Barrios, he has wrestled down some of his mental health problems. Talking about the war was the first step in a long process.
''I have gotten a lot better,'' he says. ''I have been pampered right now by the V.A. and the school. They have been perfect, more than perfect.''
Academically, he has struggled. He studies three times as hard as many other students, he says, but makes progress every day. He is passing all his classes this term, though he failed math over the summer. His goal is to study astronomy and engineering, then return to the Marine Corps as a pilot.
''I can see why it would be hard to follow through,'' says Mr. Valenzuela, an unyielding optimist now. ''I don't know how many times I just want to throw the books. But I am super-motivated. That is one of the things keeping me sane.''
Still, old habits die hard, even in the classroom.
''I always know where the exit is, how many windows there are and,'' he says with a smile, ''what's the weapon of choice.''
SHORTLY after Mr. Valenzuela first showed up for class at the community college's lower Manhattan complex, Aubrey Arcangel sought him out. Mr. Arcangel is president of the student veterans club, and he wanted to make sure Mr. Valenzuela was doing all right. It was a protective gesture not so very different from the code the military lives by.
New veterans step into college life from a highly structured system and are bedeviled by the looseness they find. How to start a day without a schedule, one that usually begins with physical training? Mr. Arcangel, 26, who left the Army after four years and one tour in Iraq, explains: ''You have P.T. formation, then you have P.T., then you have another formation and blah blah blah. There is a procedure for everything, a field manual, a technical manual for everything.''
Then there are the other students, many of whom arrive right from high school. By and large, fellow students have welcomed veterans, although they do sometimes display a morbid -- some former Marines say inappropriate -- curiosity about life on the ground in Iraq. The discomfort many veterans mention has less to do with any antiwar attitudes than with the students' maturity level and remove from the war. With fewer than 2.7 million in the armed forces -- roughly 2 percent of Americans 18 to 49 -- young people know little about the military, how it works and what it is like to fight in a war.
For Mr. Arcangel, Iraq, where he provided security for a lieutenant colonel, has been difficult to shake off. ''If I were back there, I think I would go insane,'' he says. ''It seemed almost surreal.''
That is one reason he became a student leader, working to hook veterans up with one another in a social network. ''There are some veterans that are socially awkward and this helps,'' he says. At Borough of Manhattan Community College, fewer than 1 percent of enrolled students are veterans -- 160 of more than 19,000 students.
Channeling the warrior mentality into textbooks and tests can be especially trying for combat veterans.
John Schupp, a chemistry professor at Cleveland State University, which has about 340 former servicemen and women among its 15,000 students, saw the difficulties firsthand and sold his university on the idea of vets-only courses. Fall semester, first-year vets can take four introductory courses -- English, math, biology and ''Introduction to College Life'' -- and in the spring, psychology, chemistry, sociology and one course in the mainstream to ease them into the civilian world.
''I had to recruit students from the community to get enough in the spring,'' he says. ''They didn't just show up on campus. I reached out to the military mom groups. I met with them on a weekly basis.'' Last semester, the program's first, he recruited 14 freshmen. ''Once I got the first 14, they were spokespersons.'' This semester there are 25 new students in the program.
Mr. Schupp sees camaraderie in the classroom as crucial to getting the veterans to show up, to stay and to thrive. ''They tell me over and over they wouldn't have come to college otherwise,'' he says. ''In the military world it's the team. The squadron must survive. When you come to school it's all personal -- my books, my grade, my stuff, my notes. They're isolated, because other students haven't seen what they've seen.''
The University of California, Berkeley, a hotbed of antiwar protest during the Vietnam War, offers a class called ''Veterans in Higher Education,'' to help them learn how to prepare for tests and maximize study time. The class is part of Troops to College, an initiative begun in 2006 and championed by Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger to attract veterans to California state colleges and universities and make them feel at home on campus.
And at the University of Michigan, with 90 students receiving G.I. benefits, a veterans services office has been set up to help with paperwork and particulars of the G.I. Bill, to walk new students through course registration and to help them find housing. Such offices can assist members of the service or veterans in gathering lost transcripts before they apply, something not easily done from Iraq, or see to it that veterans have access to counseling, in some cases without having to wait in a roomful of other students. Veterans suffering from combat stress don't always cope well with crowded rooms.
DESPITE the steps to attract these students, Mr. Blumke of the Student Veterans of America says many in the military view the best universities as off limits, even for the academically qualified.
Mr. Blumke, now 27, had a grade point average of 1.5 when he graduated from high school in Alanson, Mich. The 3.9 G.P.A. he earned in a community college and, he believes, his standing in the military got him into the University of Michigan last year. (Michigan State University rejected him.) He is double-majoring in psychology and political science.
His friends thought he was overshooting when he applied. ''Veterans for far too long have been pigeonholed'' as only community college material, says Mr. Blumke, a former noncommissioned officer in the Air Force. ''The Michigans, U.C.L.A.'s and Dartmouths -- there is a social stigma attached to those schools. When I told my friends I was going to U. of M., they couldn't believe it, because of the liberal ideas that they don't like the military there. They were stuck in the '60s and '70s.''
Until recently, universities made little effort to recruit veterans or to alter the misgivings that Mr. Blumke expressed.
Jim Selbe, the assistant vice president for lifelong learning for the American Council on Education, which represents 1,600 colleges and universities, says that just two years ago ''a significant gap'' existed ''between rhetoric and practice.''
''The gap is beginning to steadily diminish,'' he says. ''There is a deep sense of obligation to do what's necessary to provide an opportunity for returning veterans.''
Last year, the council started a program to provide individualized college counseling to seriously injured veterans at military hospitals. The program was the brainchild of James Wright, the president of Dartmouth, who has led efforts to bring more veterans to college.
''The all-volunteer military draws in a segment of the population that has not customarily gone to college in the same proportion as other parts of our society,'' says Mr. Wright, a former Marine. He hopes the new G.I. Bill ''will cause them to raise their aspirations.''
Dartmouth's admissions office takes military experience into account, Mr. Wright says. He advises veterans to bring their service record to the institution's attention, perhaps through the essay requirement. Discipline, as well as job and leadership qualities, brings something to the table that cannot be matched by young students. Yet there has to be a sense that the veteran can cope with the demands of the courses. ''We don't look for the same thing in terms of test scores, but we are not doing them any favors,'' Mr. Wright emphasizes. ''We want to make sure they are prepared and would succeed.''
The number of recent veterans attending Dartmouth is tiny, all matriculating in the last two years. Last year, two became freshmen; this fall there are six in a first-year class of 1,077.
Mr. Blumke recognizes the uphill struggle and has refined his organization's pitch, which he delivers repeatedly to colleges and universities: ''War is not glamorous, but it is reality. We bring that experience to people who don't know about it.''
That experience ultimately got James McMahon, who served four years in the Marines, into the college of his choice. Mr. McMahon, 23, had nearly given up on attending the University of Rhode Island, his home state school. The admissions office looked at five-year-old SAT scores and poor high school grades (''I didn't have a vested interest in college'') and was unimpressed. He was rejected.
Mr. McMahon was in California training other Marines for deployment to Iraq, so his father and girlfriend took up the battle, calling the admissions office and sending letters that underscored his successes.
''My father finally got in touch with the president of the university and with his typical Irish charm said, 'Something might be wrong with the computer system. I'm sure it's nobody's fault. But did you just deny a combat veteran with all this experience and a guaranteed $40,000 if he comes to your school?' '' Two weeks later, an acceptance letter arrived.
Admissions offices, Mr. McMahon says, ''are just not wired to think about it in those terms. I didn't take it as a personal insult. I was more laughing at the university. My friends from high school, they have bachelor degrees from there and these are the same kids I was getting into trouble with four or five years ago.''
An artilleryman, Mr. McMahon is now being tested for a mild traumatic brain injury. He recently cut back on his classes, saying that the injury was making it hard to keep up. But he is majoring in sociology with a focus on criminal justice and has a 3.24 average.
LIKE his fellow veterans, Mr. Blanchard is determined not to let his injuries dictate his future. Following in his father's footsteps, he joined the Marine Corps right out of high school, in 2001.
His specialty was combat engineering, because ''I wanted to blow stuff up,'' he says.
In 2005, he was deployed to Iraq near the Syrian border, where he went on patrols and blew up gates and doors so buildings could be searched. Six months later his Humvee hit the roadside bomb that took half his leg.
After his roommate at Walter Reed was accepted by Georgetown University, Mr. Blanchard decided to aim high himself and apply to George Washington University, which now has about 300 veterans who receive benefits and 200 who do not, a university spokeswoman says.
The two veterans moved into an apartment in Virginia together, and Mr. Blanchard started his first year.
But he didn't count on his brain playing tricks on him. Although doctors had diagnosed mild traumatic brain injury, he shrugged it off. Compared with losing half a leg and nearly losing his other leg, a slightly shaken-up brain did not register as a concern.
''Whatever,'' Mr. Blanchard thought to himself.
Two days into classes, though, he noticed that he was retaining little of what he read or heard in the classroom. ''My mind was blurred, cloudy all the time, and I was walking around in a daze,'' says Mr. Blanchard, who does not advertise his injuries because he wants no special treatment. ''I had a full load and I dropped all my classes except two. And yet I'm studying all the time. It was so frustrating.''
Over time, his brain learned to compensate. ''I just started to remember better, adjusting how I think,'' says Mr. Blanchard, now a junior studying international business. ''It's still very hard. With classes like regression analysis, I'll never be the same again,'' he says, jokingly.
Although his good leg hurts all the time, he refrains from taking pain medication whenever he can. Instead, he works out at the gym and allows his endorphins to lessen his discomfort, reduce his anxiety and help him concentrate.
He also started a student veterans group, which has put him in touch with about 20 other veterans and has greatly diminished his sense of isolation.
This semester, his grades are average and he is taking a full load of courses, along with added responsibilities as vice president of Student Veterans of America. He ran on a whim in the spring and was voted in. He is setting up a database of services for veterans and working on plans to take his fellow veterans to Walter Reed to help -- and urge -- wounded service members to go to college. He hopes to collaborate with the university's hospital on treating student veterans for combat-related problems.
Looking back, he says, it was his injury and the discipline he learned as a Marine that pushed him toward college, a first for his family.
Now that he is here, courtesy of the government, he is not about to squander the opportunity.
''I went through hell and my body shows it,'' Mr. Blanchard says. ''But I said this is going to be a blessing. I didn't know how, I just knew it would.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TYRONE TURNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
COURTESY OF KEVIN BLANCHARD
ISMAEL VALENZUEL)(pg. 24)
AFTER IRAQ: Kevin Blanchard is a junior at George Washington University
Ismael Valenzuela, opposite page, bottom, is at Borough of Manhattan Community College.(pg. ED25)
RELIEF: Kevin Blanchard works out at the campus gym to lessen the pain of his injuries and help him concentrate (pg. ED26)
Homework: Ismael Valenzuela, who has a mild traumatic brain injury, says he has to study three times as hard as classmates but is making progress every day.(pg. ED28)(PHOTOGRAPH BY TYRONE TURNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TYRONE TURNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (TOP AND BOTTOM RIGHT)
 COURTESY OF KEVIN BLANCHARD (TOP LEFT) AND OF ISMAEL VALENZUELA (BOTTOM LEFT) ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETERANS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ARMIES (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (75%); TEXTBOOKS (73%); BRAIN (72%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (72%); BRAIN INJURIES (71%); VIETNAM WAR (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (70%); LEGISLATION (68%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011



40 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; N.B.A. ROUNDUP; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: New-Look Pacers Defeat Defending Champion Celtics

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Danny Granger had 20 points, and the host Indiana Pacers beat the defending champion Boston Celtics, 95-79, on Saturday.
 Larry Bird, the Pacers' president, brought in seven new players in the off-season to improve the team's talent level and overhaul its image after numerous off-court incidents the past several years, and the payoff was immediate. The new starting point guard T. J. Ford, the key acquisition in the trade that sent Jermaine O'Neal to Toronto, had 19 points and 4 assists. The backup point guard Jarrett Jack, picked up in a trade with Portland, added 11 points and 7 rebounds. 
 Kevin Garnett led Boston (2-1) with 18 points and 14 rebounds. LAKERS 104, NUGGETS 97 Kobe Bryant scored 33 points and visiting Los Angeles nearly became the first team in three years to hold Carmelo Anthony to single-digit scoring. Coming off a two-game suspension for a D.U.I. arrest, Anthony scored 11 of his 13 points in the fourth quarter. 
 Hawks 95, 76ers 88 Joe Johnson scored 35 points, including a long 3-pointer that clinched the game with 11 seconds left, and host Atlanta battled back from a 23-point deficit. The Hawks improved to 2-0 in their home opener, the team's best start in a decade.
 RAPTORS 91, BUCKS 87 Jose Calderon scored a career-high 25 points, including a key 3-pointer late in the fourth, and visiting Toronto won its third straight.
 BOBCATS 100, HEAT 87 Gerald Wallace scored 34 points and host Charlotte gave Coach Larry Brown his first victory in his ninth N.B.A. head coaching job.
 ROCKETS 89, THUNDER 77Tracy McGrady had 22 points, Yao Ming added 16 and host Houston beat Oklahoma City for its third straight win. 
 IN OTHER GAMESDirk Nowitzki had 21 points as visiting Dallas earned its first victory, 95-85 over Minnesota. ... Richard Hamilton had 24 points and Rasheed Wallace had 17 points and 11 rebounds as host Detroit beat Washington, 117-109. ... The rookie Derrick Rose scored 26 points as host Chicago beat Memphis, 96-86. ... Chris Paul had 24 points and 15 assists, and host New Orleans won its third straight with a 104-92 victory over Cleveland. ... Dwight Howard had 29 points and 14 rebounds, and host Orlando beat Sacramento, 121-103. ... Carlos Boozer had 25 points and 10 rebounds for his second double-double of the season, and host Utah earned a 101-79 victory over the Los Angeles Clippers. 
 NO EXTENSION FOR KLEIZA The Nuggets decided not to sign the 23-year-old Lithuanian Linas Kleiza to a four-year, $25 million extension because of economic uncertainties. He will become a restricted free agent after the season. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%)

ORGANIZATION: INDIANA PACERS (94%); BOSTON CELTICS (93%); ATLANTA HAWKS (82%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (56%); TORONTO RAPTORS (54%)

PERSON: KEVIN GARNETT (58%); KOBE BRYANT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (77%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (73%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (72%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (55%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (53%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (77%); INDIANA, USA (73%); ONTARIO, CANADA (72%); GEORGIA, USA (55%); OKLAHOMA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



41 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; PARENTING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: Decisions Made in the Shadows

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP. 
E-mail: parenting@nytimes.com

DATELINE: CHERRY HILL 

 BODY:
 WATCHING the presidential candidates speak about their views on abortion at the final debate, I wondered how many Americans understand who the typical woman getting an abortion is.
 I had long assumed it was someone like Juno -- the title character of the recent popular movie -- a teenager in high school who finds herself pregnant and is not ready to raise a child.
 This is wrong. The typical American woman having an abortion is a parent of one or more children (60 percent); in her 20s (57 percent); has never married (67 percent); is economically disadvantaged (57 percent); lives in a metropolitan area (88 percent); considers herself a Christian (70 percent); and has graduated from high school (87 percent) and attended at least some college (57 percent).
 This according to two studies, one released in September and one in 2002, by the Guttmacher Institute, a nonprofit, politically nonpartisan research center that supports abortion rights but whose work is often quoted by both sides of the abortion debate. The Guttmacher studies surveyed 10,000 women who had undergone abortions and included data collected by the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
 Guttmacher attracted considerable attention earlier this year, when it reported that the number of women having abortions dropped to 1.2 million in 2005 from 1.3 million in 2000, the fewest since the Supreme Court legalized it 35 years ago. This was widely welcomed as good news, although explanations varied, depending on which side of the issue people were on: One side attributed the decline to comprehensive sex education programs in states where most abortions occur, along with the availability of the morning-after pill; the other credited the demonizing of abortion and the emphasis on adoption as an alternative.
 While the media have recently shown us teenagers who decide to keep their babies or put them up for adoption -- like Juno, Sarah Palin's daughter Bristol, and Jamie Lynn Spears -- I don't think we know the parent in her 20s having the abortion.
 After numerous inquiries, I found a clinic here that performs abortions and was willing to help me, the Cherry Hill Women's Center. It took many more weeks to find three statistically typical women willing to be interviewed. Not one would allow her name to be used; each had told three or four people at most.
 Beyond their shared demographics, the women had several things in common. All three are balancing demanding work schedules while raising children. All three are economically lower middle class, but upwardly striving. All three described their children as the most important thing in their lives and said their decision had been influenced by the need to give the children they already had the necessary support. And all three were deeply conflicted about the decision, but grateful for the option.
 The head bank teller: 28; three children, ages 12, 8 and 3; ''engaged to be married''; two years of college; Catholic (the two oldest children go to Catholic school and the family attends Mass twice a month).
 Why: ''My 3-year-old son was not speaking, and going back and forth to doctors, we discovered his speech was severely delayed. I just knew, with all I was going through with him, I didn't want to have to go through having to care for another baby at the same time. It was too much.''
 The decision: ''Very hard, very emotional for me. I thought about it for five weeks. You're ending a life, you're cutting life short. Who knows what would have been.''
 Adoption: ''No. I don't want to be found 20 years from now.''
 Her Catholic faith: ''It's my decision, my body, something I have to answer for when the day comes, when I'm gone and I'm standing there before him. And I'm prepared.''
 The beautician: 25; one daughter, 4; has a boyfriend of three years; works two jobs (at a beauty salon and for a beauty supply company); Baptist; has a community college degree in business.
 Why: ''To be honest, I kind of felt it was not the right time to have another child. I just graduated and started working in my career. I want to make a good living for my daughter. It's hard being a single parent, and I'm trying to get to a level in a career where I'm more established. I didn't want to be one of those barefoot-and-pregnants.''
 The decision: ''It was very hard emotionally. I was scared to death of everything. Scared of having another child. Me and my boyfriend are together three years, but how would our relationship change with a baby in the picture? Would he stay? It was scary thinking about having and scary thinking about not having it.''
 Adoption: ''I thought if I went through the pregnancy, I wouldn't be able to go through with it, I'd wind up keeping the baby.''
 Her daughter: ''She's my motivation, she makes me get up every day and do what I have to do. You do everything for them.''
 Future children: ''Definitely. I can't wait to get to the point where I have more security.''
 The exotic dancer: 25; 1-year-old son; ''not really with his father''; works four nights a week dancing; Catholic; attends Camden Community College two nights a week.
 Why: ''I knew his father couldn't help me -- he didn't help when I was pregnant with my son. He's a scrub -- even his family says -- he's relapsed on heroin again. Last time, I danced until I was five months' and waitressed the rest of the pregnancy. I can't do that again, working, going to school -- it's too much. I need to take care of my son.''
 The decision: ''Morally I thought it's wrong and taking the easy way out. I felt horrible. It was a lose-lose situation. I was a screw-up for a lot of years. Very self-destructive. A lot of drugs. I weaned myself off it, two years now and I'm trying to do the right thing.''
 Adoption: ''I didn't think I'd be able to be pregnant, dance and take care of my son.''
 Her son: ''Whether I would have stayed clean without him I don't know. It isn't about me anymore; it's about him. My life is done, my life is getting prepared so he can live.''
 Future children: ''No. Not unless I find the right man, and I don't think I ever will.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY RITCHIE STIRLING/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ABORTION (94%); WOMEN (90%); PARENTING (90%); CHILDREN (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); SEX EDUCATION (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); ADOPTION (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); CONTRACEPTION (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); MARRIAGE (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (68%); SUPREME COURTS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: GUTTMACHER INSTITUTE (56%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (55%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (91%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



42 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Island of Lost Homes

 BODY:
As the financial crisis crisscrosses the globe, mutating as it goes, it is important to remember the brownfield of bad American home loans that are its ground zero. The view is ugly, the effects dire and the need for solutions just as urgent whether you look in the stucco foreclosure tracts of Phoenix and Southern California, the condo-boom cities like Miami -- or a birthplace of the suburban American dream, Long Island.
 Long Island's two counties, Suffolk and Nassau, are first and fourth in the number of loans at risk of foreclosure in New York State. Long Island was not supposed to be hit this hard, because of its affluence, highly desirable housing stock and relative lack of room to sprawl. But for lots of reasons distinctly its own, it was highly susceptible to the toxic fallout of the subprime bubble. 
 Long Island now has two housing crises, an acute new one laid over a chronic old one. The old one is a severe shortage of housing for regular people, in a market pathologically skewed by racial segregation and not-in-my-backyard resistance to responsible development.
 Housing in the land of Levittown, the national symbol of affordable starter homes, has for years been out of reach to young couples and the working class. Thousands of Long Islanders of modest means, from young professionals to immigrant day laborers, are crowding into illegally subdivided single-family houses. Demographers have documented an exodus of people who grew sick of living in their parents' basements, while retirees rattled around in empty nests, cash-poor but property-rich -- at least until the mortgage meltdown.
 For all that, there are few legal rental units, and efforts to build higher-density ''smart growth'' developments have been vigorously, often rabidly, opposed by communities wedded to the single-family house behind the white picket fence. McMansions have been eating up the island's dwindling open space and farmland, while its downtowns and infrastructure wither from age and neglect.
 To top it off, the island remains one of the most segregated suburbs in the country, designed from the days of its earliest tract homes to be a haven of white aspiration. For years, African-American homeowners were shunted to tightly bounded neighborhoods that became self-perpetuating pockets of poverty with severely underperforming school districts.
 It is little wonder that within Long Island's dysfunctional housing market, where more than half of residents spend more than 30 percent of their income on housing, the lure of easy credit was irresistible. Mortgage lenders cajoled the elderly to plunder their equity, people in heavily minority areas like Hempstead Village, Amityville and Brentwood lined up for the subprime express, investors snapped up homes for illegal rentals, and trader-uppers in richer ZIP codes dived in over their heads.
 Advocates who had struggled to get poor people into housing realized a few years ago that things were moving too fast. Peter Elkowitz, chief executive of the Long Island Housing Partnership, said people at the group's home-ownership workshops would sometimes bristle at being told what they could not afford and take their business to storefront brokers who offered no-income-verification loans and the false promise that home values would keep rising forever. 
 Now it is all crashing down. The ranch homes have plywood picture windows, and front lawns sprout billboards for foreclosure auctions. The disaster is particularly acute in black and Latino communities, where subprime loans were advertised heavily. The Empire Justice Center found that the three Suffolk communities with the highest foreclosure risk -- Amityville, Brentwood and Central Islip -- are home to a full 30 percent of the county's African-American homeowners. Nassau's three hardest-hit areas -- Hempstead, Freeport and Elmont -- are home to 42 percent of its black homeowners.
 The county executives of Nassau and Suffolk, Thomas Suozzi and Steve Levy, have ramped up services like debt counseling to keep the next wave of troubled homeowners from defaulting when their adjustable-rate mortgages reset next year. But the counties are struggling to keep their own budgets right-side-up in a wretched economy. New York State's deficit is mountainous, and Mr. Levy and Mr. Suozzi expect to get hammered on aid from Albany, even as their own sales taxes and property-transfer taxes dwindle. 
 Crime is not up yet, but homelessness and hunger are. So is blight: town and village officials have their hands full keeping lawns mowed for a glut of abandoned houses. The bottom-feeders are out: ''We Buy Houses,'' read the light-post fliers in poor neighborhoods, offering fast cash for troubled homes. Brokers who shamelessly peddled subprime loans to unqualified buyers are now offering, for thousands of dollars in fees, to fix people's credit, convert their loans and negotiate with lenders -- the same thing nonprofit groups do at no charge.
 This disaster was caused by a torrent of bad loans, but there has been only a trickle of the money and leadership needed from Washington, where the focus has been on bailing out banks before homeowners. At a training workshop at the Long Island Housing Partnership in Hauppauge last week, representatives of Citibank met with nonprofit groups to explore ways to repair mortgages so that families can keep their homes for the life of the loans, and not simply postpone inevitable foreclosures. 
 The emphasis was on realism and honesty in a world that jettisoned both. Participants agreed that a solution as big as the problem had not yet been devised. Lenders, homeowners and advocates are stuck with straightening out a colossal mess, one bad loan at a time.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); SUBURBS (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (74%); RACE & RACISM (72%); EMPTY NESTERS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (66%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



43 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-EXTRA: SELECTIONS FROM OPINION ONLINE; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 454 words

 BODY:
OUTPOSTS If Americans are walking without a skip in their step, and maybe with a pitchfork in one hand, you can't fault them. Gallup found that one in five people say their finances have already been hurt ''a great deal.'' On Tuesday, consumer confidence fell to the lowest level since the Conference Board started tracking popular sentiment 41 years ago. A bare 11 percent say the country is headed in the right direction. 
 We are not a nation of whiners, despite what Phil Gramm has said. But where does this jet stream of anxiety go after the election?
 During the Great Depression, it found its violent outlets. In Iowa, farmers stormed a courtroom in mid-session, demanding that a judge not sign any more foreclosure notices. The judge was dragged from the courthouse and taken to a nearby hanging tree. His life was spared only when the mob's cooler heads (an oxymoron?) prevailed.
 In Congress, at the time, taxes were raised on the wealthy, with a whiff of genuine class warfare in the air and cries of ''Soak the rich!''
 And the wise men of finance offered few nuggets of hope, only a clunker or two of infinite despair during an age the poet W.H. Auden called ''the low, dishonest decade.'' The economist John Maynard Keynes was asked if there was ever a worse time.
 ''It was called the Dark Ages,'' he said. ''And it lasted 400 years.''
 -- Timothy Egan, ''Hang 'Em High''
 DOMESTIC DISTURBANCES The aversion to joyful anticipation is a feeling I know very well, and not just in relation to politics. Anticipating the worst -- from birthdays, other holidays, vacations -- is kind of my modus vivendi.
 It is a habit of mind so natural and ingrained -- and seemingly self-protective -- that I've never thought to change it. Until this week, when a friend pointed out that, if one were to think like a realist instead of a knee-jerk pessimist, enjoying the moments in life when good things might be about to happen makes sense.
 ''You may as well enjoy the anticipation,'' she said, ''Because it may be all that you'll get.''
 There are, of course, sensible reasons to resist the pull of happiness right now: reports of touch-screen voting machines in West Virginia, Tennessee, Texas and Missouri ''flipping'' votes from one party to the other; a confusing ballot design in North Carolina that could result in tens of thousands of invalid votes; the Bradley effect; the Wilder effect; and that one Associated Press poll last week showing McCain and Obama in a dead heat.
 But there are also good reasons to consider throwing off our evil-eye-repelling negativity and taking a moment to smell the roses.
 The Bush years are almost over.
 -- Judith Warner, 
 ''Don't Worry, Be Happy''
 For more, nytimes.com/opinion

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY STEPHEN SAVAGE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (83%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); ELECTRONIC VOTING MACHINES (70%); FORECLOSURE (69%)

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%)

PERSON: PHIL GRAMM (55%); BARACK OBAMA (54%); JOHN MCCAIN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



44 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; WILLIAMSBURG; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: For a Weapon With a Past, A New Life of Crime

BYLINE: By SAKI KNAFO

 BODY:
IN a city whose mayor has been one of the nation's most outspoken proponents of gun control, Councilwoman Diana Reyna of Brooklyn has distinguished herself by considering a bill to ban sales of a different weapon: the machete. 
 In July and August, four machete attacks were reported in the southern part of Williamsburg, where many of Ms. Reyna's constituents live. Late last month, worries over machete violence again rippled through the community when a stray bullet hit a 5-year-old girl in nearby Ridgewood during a shootout. One of the young people involved in the attack was seen wielding a machete. 
 Ms. Reyna has attributed the seeming proliferation of machetes in part to the rising membership and influence of the Trinitarios, a local gang that has adopted the name -- and evidently, the preferred weapon-- of a revolutionary group that fought against Haiti during the Dominican Republic's struggle for independence in 1844. 
 ''It is sad and disgraceful that these confused young people have co-opted the name Trinitarios from our founding fathers,'' said Ms. Reyna, a Dominican. 
 In addition to considering a citywide machete ban, Ms. Reyna is trying to generate support for what she called a ''youth-led initiative'' to remove machetes ''from the shelves of our local hardware stores.'' While opportunities for hacking down jungle vines may be few in New York, the machete, with its long, cleaver-like blade, can nonetheless be useful for ambitious gardening projects, which is why hardware stores stock them. 
 Even as Ms. Reyna speaks out against machetes, she and other local leaders are wary of devoting too much attention to what they consider just one facet of the much larger problem of gang violence. 
 Luis Garden Acosta, the founder and president of El Puente, a Williamsburg community development group, says that gangs are a growing concern among the 3,000 young people who attend the organization's programs. He and his staff recently organized a neighborhood march against gang violence, and they have met with officers of the 90th Precinct to discuss its plans for protecting the community. 
 Mr. Acosta hopes to hire several workers to patrol local streets and talk with potential gang members, but in these economically difficult times, financial struggles stand in the way. 
 If the use of the machete as a weapon can be traced to the Dominican Republic, the lure of gangs, Mr. Acosta said, can be attributed to more local influences. Along with reduced funding for community-based organizations and public schools, Mr. Acosta cited the neighborhood's high rents and abrupt gentrification. 
 ''From the perspective of a young person, this is a community that does not care for him or her,'' he said. ''Out of that milieu, you have some young people who rebel.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The machete, a tool for gardeners and sometimes gang members. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GABRIELE STABILE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GANGS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); SHOOTINGS (78%); GUN CONTROL (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); HARDWARE STORES (65%); GARDENING (64%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (61%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (91%); HAITI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



45 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; NO GUARANTEE FOR THIS ONE; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 206 words

HEADLINE: Auction Houses Brace for Fall

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
EARLY last summer a New York collector negotiated a hefty guarantee from Christie's in consigning his 1964 ''Study for Self-Portrait'' by Francis Bacon for the fall auctions. In the months it took to hammer out details of the contract, economic turmoil grew so worrisome that Christie's got cold feet and withdrew the guarantee. 
 The auction house persuaded the seller to offer the Bacon anyway, and it is one of the highlights of Christie's Nov. 12 sale. Experts say that the full-length portrait, in which the artist is shown sitting on a bed, his body twisted from head to toe, should sell for around $40 million. 
 Christie's is obviously hoping to capitalize on the record prices paid for Bacon's works recently. A 1976 Bacon triptych went for $86.3 million in May at Sotheby's in New York, and a 1975 self-portrait brought $34.4 million at Christie's in London in June. Those were among the highest prices ever paid for the British artist, who is the subject of a current exhibition at the Tate in London that travels to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York in May.
 Still, there is no getting around the fact that ''the market has changed,'' said Brett Gorvy, co-head of Christie's postwar and contemporary art department. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ARTIST: Francis Bacon TITLE: ''Study for Self-Portrait'' (1964) AUCTION HOUSE: Christie's ESTIMATED PRICE: $40 million (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIE'S IMAGES LTD. 2008) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (92%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%)

COMPANY: CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (85%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (52%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



46 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Iraq and U.S. Confer on Iraqi Economy

BYLINE: By SUADAD AL-SALHY and KATHERINE ZOEPF; Sam Dagher contributed reporting.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
With oil prices less than half what they were this summer, Iraqi and American officials are searching for new sources of money to jump-start Iraq's economy. 
 At a meeting on Saturday, representatives from the two countries and a handful of foreign business people discussed ways to stimulate investment in business ventures in Iraq. 
 Almost 95 percent of Iraq's revenues come from oil exports. The Iraqi government has said that it will have to reduce its 2009 budget to $67 billion from an earlier forecast of $80 billion because of slipping crude prices. 
 Bayan Jabr, Iraq's finance minister, said spending would have to be reduced by more than 16 percent, leading to a drop in the money available for rebuilding infrastructure. Mr. Jabr said that the country figured that it needed almost $400 billion to rebuild and upgrade its infrastructure.
 ''We must seriously activate foreign investment in Iraq,'' he said.
 Iraqi officials emphasized that the recent decline in violence should make investing in the country safer, and Rafie al-Issawi, deputy prime minister, suggested that investors could benefit by taking a chance on ''the young experiment of Iraq.''
 The American delegation included State Department officials, Robert M. Kimmitt, the deputy secretary of the Treasury, and the deputy secretary of commerce, John J. Sullivan. The American officials expressed their support for private enterprise, and Mr. Kimmitt said he looked forward to the day when the relationship between the countries was more about business than about security concerns. 
 But he also used the meeting as an opportunity to again warn that delays in signing a security pact with the United States could keep away investors.
 The pact, which would regulate the presence of American soldiers, is being held up because of a series of amendments demanded by the Iraqis and disagreements inside the Iraqi government. The United Nations Security Council mandate for the American presence expires Dec. 31.
 ''We hope the negotiations on the security agreement can be concluded as quickly as possible,'' Mr. Kimmitt said. ''This again will send an important signal not just in the political and security field, but also in the economic and financial fields and especially to foreign investors.''
 He said the agreement was one of several ''significant challenges'' that remained in luring foreign investors, including complex laws and bureaucratic practices.
 On Wednesday, Brig. Gen. David G. Perkins, spokesman for United States-led forces in Iraq, warned that the ''partnership'' between Iraq and America as well as the flow of foreign investment into Iraq would be adversely affected by the lack of an agreement on United States forces.
 He likened the role of the United States to a ''pillar'' necessary for the functioning of the Iraqi state.
 American negotiators also presented almost 10 days ago a series of slides to the Iraqi government outlining in great detail what America currently provides to Iraq in security, economic and technical assistance and how this would have to come to an end in the absence of an agreement, according to American and Iraqi officials. 
 On Thursday, Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki responded, ''If they or others think that Iraq's decision could be begotten through blackmail, then I think that's an illusion.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); BUDGET CUTS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



47 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN COLLINGSWOOD, N.J.; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1440 words

HEADLINE: Where Walkable Encounters Affordable

BYLINE: By JILL P. CAPUZZO

 BODY:
SEAN OGDEN dropped off a bag of clothing at an AIDS charity thrift shop on Haddon Avenue, went down the street to buy a vacuum cleaner, then turned the corner to pick up a dozen crab cakes to serve to dinner guests. The errands were nothing extraordinary, except in one way: he was able to run them all on foot.
 In recent years, this Camden County borough of nearly 15,000 residents has become sought after not only because of its walkable downtown and accessible public transportation, but also for an eclectic housing stock and a diverse population. 
 ''I make a good income and I could live anywhere, but I choose not to,'' said Mr. Ogden, a nurse anesthetist who moved to Collingswood from Philadelphia in 2005, after he and his partner, Michael Marotta, decided they wanted more space and suburban schools for Mr. Marotta's two sons. ''It's very down-to-earth here. People do well for themselves but it's unpretentious.'' Seeking more of a yard, Mr. Ogden and Mr. Marotta are now looking to trade their large two-family home for a single-family, still in Collingswood. 
 As Robert Hanson, a broker for Long & Foster in Cherry Hill, put it: ''You have people coming here from Philadelphia, North Jersey, even New York. Collingswood has its own identity of being trendy and that makes it very attractive, especially for people coming out of the city.'' 
 Once largely blue collar, the 1.9-square-mile borough suffered during the 1980s and early '90s from its proximity to Camden just to the west, and the exodus of businesses to malls. Mr. Ogden remembers Collingswood back then as ''the place you would go to buy drugs.''
 But the community has managed a self-reinvention -- beginning in earnest in the late 1990s with the redevelopment of a run-down '40s-era high-rise complex called Parkview Apartments. The town, an owner of the complex at its low point, arranged its sale to a private developer, recouped an $8 million investment and made an extra $4 million for community coffers. 
 ''Parkview made it clear that we'd be very active to make something happen,'' Mayor James Maley said. ''Once the snowball started to roll down the hill, it kept going.''
 Yet there was still the problem of rebuilding the downtown. Mayor Maley said that he and other officials ''pushed on all fronts'' to find new ventures -- and that it was restaurants that responded. ''They've become our anchors, with retail coming in around them,'' he said.
 Today, Haddon Avenue is home to more than a dozen restaurants and lots of shops. 
 Nowadays, the borough is seeking to capitalize on mass transit. In 2003, the New Jersey Department of Transportation's Smart Growth initiative -- aimed at encouraging residential development along commuter corridors -- named Collingswood a ''transit village.'' As such, it has received public and private financing for projects like the $45 million LumberYard Condominiums, a mixed-use project near the Speedline, a rapid transit system connecting Camden County towns with Philadelphia. Phase 1 of that project -- 41 apartments and 10 retail stores -- is sold out; Phase 2 is being built.
 Next would come a multistory residential and office complex, though that has met with mixed feelings. Scott Flynn is one of those who worry about overdevelopment. A 44-year-old carpenter, Mr. Flynn said he moved here eight years ago because he liked the mix of blue-collar and professional workers. ''There's a lot of reality in Collingswood that the blue-collar element brings to it,'' he said. ''This is not a Haddonfield or a Moorestown. You should be able to rub elbows with anybody here.''
 WHAT YOU'LL FIND
 Collingswood has a big mix of housing, from the brick row houses once home to Camden and Philadelphia factory workers, to grand residences facing the town park, where titans of industry once lived. 
 The 1940s row houses are popular among first-time buyers for their affordability and proximity to the train station, said Pat Ciervo, the owner of Main Street Realty. The large Victorians and colonials that face Knight Park or line the streets between the park and the White Horse Pike don't come on the market very often, he added, but when they do, they are snatched up. 
 Some of the largest houses have been converted to two-family homes over the years, a trend that the borough has tried to reverse. Working with a local bank, the borough has offered low-interest financing for those seeking to convert duplexes back to single-families. Mayor Maley said that to date, 80 homes had been converted under this program.
 Other desirable neighborhoods include the southern area of town, especially those streets facing Newton Lake, and, to the north, the stretch of South Park Drive facing Cooper River Park. 
 In addition to the Parkview Apartments, 20 percent of which are moderately priced housing, there are several other rental buildings in Collingswood, including the 109-unit Marina Park Apartments and the 217-unit RiverView Apartments near the Cooper River. There are also many rental units over the downtown stores. A borough-run property management task force conducts annual inspections of all multifamily units.
 WHAT YOU'LL PAY
 Like the housing stock, prices vary widely, which makes Collingswood more accessible and, with the economic downturn, more in demand than some neighboring towns.
 ''With a lot of homes being affordable,'' said Alicia Weister, a broker with Prudential Fox & Roach of Haddonfield, ''there's still a lot of activity in this town, with a lot of first-time buyers looking to get in.'' At the low end, a three-bedroom one-bath semidetached house is listed at $124,900. Climbing up the scale, a large single-family near Newton Lake is listed for $395,000. The highest-priced home on the market is a five-bedroom 1904 Victorian listed at $615,000. 
 Collingswood has an inventory of 72 homes. After nearly doubling over the previous five years, Mr. Ciervo said, prices have started to slip. The average sale price through mid-October was $216,793, versus $239,005 for the same period last year. Similarly houses have averaged 81 days on the market over the last nine months, versus 65 over the same period a year ago. 
 The LumberYard condos sell for $350,000 to $400,000, brokers say. Rentals run $650 to $1,000 a month.
 THE COMMUTE
 Collingswood is easily accessible to major highways. Most residents commute to nearby Philadelphia or to other New Jersey cities, but New York via the New Jersey Turnpike takes 90 minutes to 2 hours. New Jersey Transit's Riverline stops in Camden and can be taken to Trenton, for another NJ Transit line to the city. With the change, that trip takes about two and a quarter hours.
 WHAT TO DO
 People come from great distances to check out the restaurants, choosing from upscale Mexican, Caribbean, Asian fusion, and Italian, to name a few.
 The Saturday morning farmers' market is another popular place to see and be seen. Operating from April through Thanksgiving, the market has 20 to 30 vendors selling organic produce, soaps, jams, meats and baked goods.
 The community theater brings together more than 100 residents each year to put on a fall musical -- this year the show is ''Oliver,'' to be performed soon at the beautifully restored Scottish Rite Auditorium (another public-private project backed by the borough). 
 Situated in the center of town, the 60-acre Knight Park is the focus of much activity, from festivals to sports events to open-air movies in the summer. It's also a good place to walk your dog, as are Newton Lake Park and Cooper River Park. At Roberts Park Pool, Collingswood families can buy a summer season pass for $200.
 THE SCHOOLS
 The five elementary schools have a total enrollment of 783 students. Collingswood Middle School has 355 students, and Collingswood High School has 852 students, including some from Woodlynne and Oaklyn. SAT averages last year were 483 in reading, 486 in math and 482 in writing, compared with 509, 491 and 489 statewide. 
 According to Superintendent Scott A. Oswald, a program for autistic students has been introduced at the elementary level, and a reading intervention program is in place at the middle and high schools. The high school's marching band has won state and national titles.
 THE HISTORY
 Much of the land now known as Collingswood was a farm in the Collings family in the 18th and 19th centuries. Once part of Haddon Township, Collingswood became its own entity in 1888. With two railroads and a trolley running through town, the borough became one of the first prominent bedroom communities of Camden and Philadelphia at the turn of the last century. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: RUBBING ELBOWS: The intersection of Haddon and Collings Avenues in central Collingswood. The community, down and out in the 1980s, has undergone a revitalization. Today, the downtown has lots of shops and restaurants. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RYAN COLLERD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Collingswood, New Jersey 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); CHARITIES (78%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); HOME PRICES (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); SUBURBS (71%); NURSES & NURSING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



48 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Could This Year's Chase Be Over Before It's Over?

BYLINE: By DAVE CALDWELL

 BODY:
Jimmie Johnson has been so dominant lately that he could wrap up his third straight title in two more races, or as early as next Sunday. Unfortunately for Curtis Gray, there are three races left in the Nascar Sprint Cup season.
 Gray is the president of Homestead-Miami Speedway, which will host the season finale Nov. 16. No other track has benefited from the Chase for the Sprint Cup more than Homestead, where the champion has been determined the past four years. 
 But Johnson has stormed to a 183-point lead over Carl Edwards heading into Sunday's race in Fort Worth. If Johnson leads by at least 161 points after the Nov. 9 race in Phoenix, he will win the title, no matter how he does at Homestead.
 Gray said Friday that he thought that Homestead would sell out the race, although he added that he had the same trouble selling tickets that track officials elsewhere had encountered because of the economic downturn. The attendance at Atlanta last Sunday dropped to 80,000 from 100,000, though that could also be a sign of diminishing fan interest. 
 ''It's not the best scenario for us,'' he said. ''Obviously, we'd like to have a close and exciting Chase like we've had for the last few years.''
 There are still two races to go before the finale -- 646 laps, or 813 miles -- so there is time for Johnson to run into mechanical trouble or a fender-bender.
 ''Why not?'' Gray said, laughing, before quickly adding, ''I'm just kidding.''
 Kurt Busch beat Johnson by just 8 points for the first Chase title in 2004. Four drivers had a chance to win the title going into Homestead in 2005; five drivers were in contention heading into the final race in 2006.
 Last year, Johnson went into Homestead with a four-race winning streak but a surmountable 86-point lead over Jeff Gordon. When Gordon finished fourth, Johnson's seventh-place finish was good enough for him to clinch the title by 77 points.
 ''It's been real good for us, but what we're building is an event much like the Super Bowl, where it doesn't matter what drivers are in the championship race when they get here,'' Gray said of the Chase. ''At this point in the history of the Super Bowl, it doesn't matter who's in the game.''
 To maintain fan interest, Nascar has been promoting other competitions that are still in play, like the Nationwide Series, the rung below the Sprint Cup, and the manufacturer's championship, which is currently led by Chevrolet.
 But Johnson has been so fast in the Chase with five top-five finishes in seven races that it appears as if he will cruise to his third straight title. Only one driver has won three straight titles in Nascar's highest division: Cale Yarborough in 1976-78.
 Johnson's bid to match Yarborough could be helped by the locations of his next two races: Texas Motor Speedway and Phoenix International Raceway. Johnson has finished first and second in his last two races at Texas, and has won his last two races at Phoenix.
 Johnson's most impressive performance was last Sunday at Atlanta, when he took four fresh tires and zoomed to 2nd place from 11th in the last eight laps of the race. Edwards won the race.
 ''Jimmie's the last guy I want to see in my mirror with a few laps to go,'' Edwards said during a conference call last week.
 Given Johnson's dominance, other drivers have been asked if the points system should be tweaked -- again -- to ensure that all 36 races of the season are meaningful, something the Chase was supposed to have addressed.
 ''I think you could throw at them whatever you want, and they're still going to figure out how to win it,'' Matt Kenseth said, referring to Johnson and his crew chief, Chad Knaus. ''There's nothing wrong with that.''
 This year's race at Homestead could merely be a coronation for Johnson, but Gray said that might not be such a bad thing because Johnson was poised to accomplish something that no driver had done in 30 years.
 ''But first, he's got to get through two more races,'' Gray said. ''He's got a long way to go.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jimmie Johnson, left, with his crew chief, Chad Knaus. Johnson has a 183-point Sprint Cup lead. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM R. BOUNDS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: THE SPRINT CUP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); NASCAR RACING (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%)

COMPANY: HOMESTEAD-MIAMI SPEEDWAY LLC (58%)

PERSON: JEFF GORDON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (73%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



49 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Play Magazine; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 5190 words

HEADLINE: Score Another One for Putin

BYLINE: By ANDREW MEIER. 
Andrew Meier is the author of ''Black Earth: A Journey Through Russia After the Fall.'' His most recent book is ''The Lost Spy''

 BODY:
ON A CHILL FRIDAY NIGHT IN OCTOBER with seconds left to play in the most anticipated hockey game of a young season, tied three goals apiece, Avangard Omsk, the pride of southwestern Siberia, and Atlant Mytishchi, an upstart from the Moscow suburbs, have players from seven countries on the ice -- young men whose hometowns stretch from Canada to Kazakhstan. This is professional hockey in Russia now, at its best. And across the land of the old Soviet sports machine, whether the place is a rink, soccer pitch or basketball court, the scene repeats itself: few countries better reflect the newest face of globalization in sports. In Russia, foreigners round out the pro teams -- legionery, legionnaires, they call them, with a mix of awe and disdain. In Omsk, the transcontinental gap matters little. 
With more than 10,000 fans screaming at the top of their lungs, communication is rendered moot. As the final seconds tick by, and both clubs express a level of hustle, stick work and hunger worthy of any match in North America, one man towers above all others: Jaromir Jagr. In Omsk, a black-collar city of 1.2 million souls, where the oil flares burn all night, marking the edge of town and the promise of the future, Jagr, the superstar who until midsummer reigned as the captain of the New York Rangers and a winner of nearly every trophy in the National Hockey League, now rules what he calls ''the big ice.''
 On the weekend when his old team is preparing to open the N.H.L. season in Prague, where the stands will be filled with Czechs wearing his old jersey, Jagr tells me that he couldn't be happier. And, he adds, ''I never look back.''
Why should he? In this remote post-Soviet hinterland, Jagr, at 36, is revered as the Second Coming (he played 32 games in Omsk during the N.H.L.'s 2004-5 lockout season), and his face has been ubiquitous throughout Russia in the months since he signed with Omsk. There is a new league, the Kontinental'naya Khokkeinaya Liga, the Continental Hockey League, or K.H.L, that has supplanted the old Super League, a shambolic enterprise that never managed to pull Russian hockey into the present. Coming at a time when the specter of a new cold war hovers over the relations between the United States and Russia, the K.H.L.'s creation is a deliberate, and direct, slap shot at the N.H.L. With 24 teams and a porous salary cap for each team of 620 million rubles ($24 million), the K.H.L. will have its own version of the Stanley Cup: the Gagarin Cup, in honor of the first man in space, the cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin. And in Jagr, the K.H.L. has its icon. There are plenty of familiar faces to keep him company: the league has lured dozens of former N.H.L. players, including Alexei Yashin, Alexei Morozov and the goalies in Omsk that night, Ray Emery and John Grahame. But Jagr, as he will make abundantly clear to me long after the game, feels the weight. In his outsize hands, he holds, perhaps more than any other athlete in the country, the hope for the rise of pro sports in Russia.
 IT'S A TALL ORDER. Try to remember way back, to the darkest days of the U.S.S.R., when Americans once feared the Big Red Machine. For decades, the Soviet sports monolith cast a pall over East-West athletic competitions. In the minds of Western coaches, the Soviet machine was a seemingly invincible state apparatus, unfettered, or so they imagined, by budgetary constraints or amateur regulations and blessed with endless conveyer belts that scooped up the genetically gifted at age 2 and churned out the likes of Olga Korbut, Sergei Bubka, Arvydas Sabonis and Slava Fetisov.
 The fall of the U.S.S.R. in 1991 brought an end to all that. The first post-Soviet decade became known as another Time of Troubles in the nation's history as it lurched from political upheaval to economic crisis. Sports were among the first to suffer. Russians soon knew less about statistics and technique than about the metastasizing crime groups, organized or not, that were strangling their teams. N.H.L. teams would usually pay clubs whose players moved to North America, but it was never clear how much made it to the clubs. In 1996, Vladimir Bogach, the business manager of the Central Army Sports Club, which comprises hockey, soccer and basketball teams, was shot dead while playing tennis at the club. The following spring, Valentin Sych, a longtime hockey power broker, was gunned down as he left his dacha outside Moscow. Amid the anarchy, athletes and coaches -- all but the oldest and most exhausted -- fled for the exits, and the Soviet sports machine ended up in the ash can of history. In its wake, Russian sports, both amateur and professional, floundered. The Olympics became a quadrennial debacle, the hockey leagues cheap colonies for the N.H.L., and when it came to soccer, you had to mention only two words, ''World Cup,'' to ignite diatribes about the need to restore the lost empire.
 What a difference a sea of oil and gas makes. Russia, as oil-company executives in Houston can tell you, boasts the largest reserves of oil and natural gas outside OPEC. Even after this year's precipitous drop in Russia's stock market and the beating that the global financial crisis has administered to its banks and business titans, Russians have enjoyed one of the greatest booms of the new century. Thanks to a combination of Kremlin muscle, oligarchic fealty and the surging price of Ural crude under Putin, the country's gross domestic product has risen nearly ninefold in nine years, and Russia is again an emerging market. And sports, once considered a luxury, are back on center stage.
 Across the country, dozens of sleek stadiums, arenas and rinks are rising. The state and a host of petro-rich biznesmeny have invested billions into a new generation of pro clubs -- and the results have stunned Europe. Even the casual observer of tennis knows that Russian has become the second lingua franca on the women's tour, but Russia's rise extends far beyond the W.T.A. rankings, where 7 of the top 14 women are Russian. Last September, the national basketball team, coached by David Blatt, an American-born Israeli, won the European championship for the first time since the Soviet collapse.
 In the spring, the march continued. Zenit, the St. Petersburg soccer club beloved by many in the Kremlin, pulled off a triumph that resounded across 11 time zones by winning a major season-long European club tournament in Manchester, England, in May. Days after that UEFA Cup victory, the national hockey team beat Canada, 5-4 in overtime, for its first world championship in 15 years. Then in June, the national soccer team, under the guidance of a Dutch coach, Guus Hiddink, and led by Zenit's star playmaker, Andrei Arshavin, made it to the semifinals of the European championships.
 The greatest comeback may be yet to come. The advent of the hockey league has been the biggest news since the Americans stole the gold with ''the miracle on ice'' at Lake Placid in 1980. ''Once Again We've Surpassed the Americans,'' a headline announced on the sports page of Komsomol'skaya Pravda, a popular tabloid. In its inaugural season, the K.H.L. has already raised expectations at home and fears in the United States. Even as the N.H.L. is finally entering Europe -- last month, a quartet of N.H.L. teams played their season openers in Prague and Stockholm; last year, two teams began the season in London -- it is experiencing a reverse migration. Instead of Russian players moving only west, N.H.L. players -- many but by no means all of them Russian -- are heading east. In 2001, 77 Russians played in the N.H.L. Now the number is 26. As tensions rise and the two leagues remain unable to agree to a new international transfer agreement, the trend is set to increase. And the eastern pull may yet draw more. When a Russian reporter asked Kobe Bryant at the Beijing Games if he'd consider coming to Russia, Bryant floated a balloon that he later called a joke: ''Without a doubt, $40 million a year -- and I'm there,'' adding, ''You cut the check, and I'll bring my Nikes.''
 The Russians, as they like to say, whether in the Siberian hinterland or in the cigar clubs of Moscow, are back. Nowhere is the resurgence of power, patriotism and pride felt more than on the country's athletic battlegrounds. 
 WHILE BORIS YELTSIN'S love of tennis sparked a tennis boom, his enduring gift to the sports renaissance was his chosen heir. The first time I encountered Vladimir Putin, it was courtside at the Kremlin Cup, a post-Soviet tourney dreamed up to extend the pro tour eastward. As an event, the Moscow tournament had yet to establish itself, but Putin was there at midcourt, surrounded by bodyguards and sitting stiffly in a polo shirt and boxy black blazer. It was late in the fall of 1999. Putin, most recently the head of the Federal Security Service, had just been catapulted to power; he was serving as Yeltsin's prime minister, still utterly unknown to the vast majority of his compatriots. But sports for Putin, as his subjects would soon learn, were no minor obsession, no flash dance of machismo born of advancing middle age and a latent exhibitionist streak. Instead, as he embarked on a campaign to make Russia once again a velikaya derzhava (great power) -- a small man's drive to pump up the shrinking post-Soviet sphere of influence -- sports would dominate his tenure.
 One of Putin's first acts upon settling into the Kremlin was to install a private gym in the remodeled presidential offices. In ''First Person,'' Putin's version of a campaign memoir (it's largely a Q & A with Russian journalists, published in 2000), he revealed that sports -- and a preadolescent yearning for a KGB career -- saved him from going astray in Leningrad. Putin ''didn't like socializing much,'' a schoolteacher remembered. ''He preferred sports. He started doing martial arts in order to learn how to defend himself.'' He became expert in sambo, a Soviet mix of judo and wrestling. ''If I hadn't gotten involved in sports,'' Putin was quoted as saying, ''I'm not sure how my life would have turned out. It was sports that dragged me off the streets.''
 Nine years since his appearance at the Kremlin Cup, Putin nominally no longer runs the Kremlin, but he still rules Russia. He remains, moreover, the arbiter of all things athletic, from the ski slopes of the North Caucasus to the rise of his hometown club, Zenit, to his ultimate dream: Sochi 2014, the Winter Games that he secured with a virtuoso display of English and oligarchic prowess. Although Sochi lies only a short drive from Abkhazia, one of the restive provinces in neighboring Georgia, preparations for the Games promise to be historic in scale. A massive Olympic village is under construction, and a new port, large enough to hold the yachts of tycoons who have pledged troths of hundreds of millions, is set to dominate the Black Sea shoreline. (In April, a government official warned that the price tag could rise to $24 billion.)
 Young Putin soon graduated from sambo to judo. Martial arts, as he said at the start of his political ascent, is not just a sport: ''It's respect for your elders and for your opponent. It's not for weaklings.'' On his 56th birthday, I sit in Moscow traffic under black skies and hear a news bulletin: Putin, now prime minister, has given a ''birthday present'' to his subjects, an instructional DVD, ''Learning Judo With Vladimir Putin.'' The level of sports development in the country, Putin declares, defines the development of the country itself. ''Because without sport, it's impossible to speak of a healthy way of life, or even a healthy nation.''
 A JOCK IN THE KREMLIN would not have been enough had Russia not possessed the riches to sustain a revival. The three clubs I visited during a tour of Russia last month, Zenit, Dynamo and Avangard, are not only centers of attention in Russia. They also reflect, not coincidentally, the narrow spectrum of ownership models in the country. Zenit is owned by a state-controlled company, Dynamo is associated with a state-security organization, with additional private support, and Avangard, like the K.H.L., seems to be an amalgam of three models, a combination of state-controlled companies, oligarchic empires and the state itself. A spokesman for the league, Vladimir Mikheev, offers a description that only underscores its contradictory nature: It ''may be a state-run, but not a state-owned, company, with a mixture of state and private interests.''
 Visit the Zenit soccer club in St. Petersburg, and you quickly see how those resources can ''accelerate success,'' as its Dutch coach, Dick Advocaat, put it. Zenit, formerly known as Stalinets, was founded the year after Lenin's death and for most of the Soviet century languished in the shadow of the more muscular Moscow teams. That changed in 2005, when Gazprom, the natural-gas giant, bought a controlling stake. Gazprom went on a shopping spree, investing around $100 million in mostly foreign players (13 of the team's 25 players hold non-Russian passports), hiring Advocaat -- like Hiddink, a well-regarded import from the West -- and starting construction on a 65,000-seat stadium designed by a Japanese architect. The results followed in short order. And it's a measure of that success, perhaps, that two Spanish newspapers, El Pais and ABC, published stories this fall, based on alleged police leaks, claiming that the Tambov gang, one of Russia's most infamous mafia groups and long the shadow power in St. Petersburg, paid an opponent, Bayern Munich, to take a dive, paving the way for Zenit's UEFA Cup championship last spring. (The club issued a heated denial and threatened to sue the papers. ''There is a lot of jealousy about what we have achieved,'' Advocaat told a Scottish paper.)
 Gazprom, one of the world's largest corporations, is not so much a company as a state within the state. It is also one of the financial powers behind the K.H.L. The president of the league, Alexander Medvedev, happens to head Gazprom Export. ''Flip a switch around here,'' goes an old joke at Gazprom headquarters in Moscow, ''and the lights go out in Frankfurt.'' Indeed, natural gas from Russia supplies more than 25 percent of the European market, and Medvedev controls that flow. Aides are quick to point out that the 53-year-old K.H.L. boss is no relation to Russia's new president, Dmitri Medvedev, who is 43 -- though the latter is Gazprom's most famous alumnus (he was chairman of Gazprom's board).
 The Dynamo basketball team coached by David Blatt is part of a large sports behemoth in Moscow, once the core, alongside the Central Army clubs, of the Soviet machine. Dynamo has traditionally been associated with the police, or MVD, as the Ministry of Internal Affairs is known. On a tour of Dynamo's stunning new arena, Blatt makes clear how things have changed in the age of Putin. Blatt, who played at Princeton under Pete Carril and has won championships everywhere from Tel Aviv to Italy, is considered one of the best coaches outside of the N.B.A. (Blatt's players include Jannero Pargo and Bostjan Nachbar, who moved to Russia this year after eight seasons in the N.B.A.) He would like to show me the downstairs health club, he says, but he can't. It's the preserve of the FSB, the Federal Security Service. In the arena lobby, I glance at a wall of keys hanging behind an attendant's desk. Small black tags, above more than a dozen keys, are marked ''ZONA FSB'' -- the FSB zone.
 The All-Russian Sports Society Dynamo includes soccer, hockey and other teams and is the athletic home for a host of law-enforcement ministries, from the federal police to the tax agencies. ''But it's more connected to the FSB these days,'' Blatt says as we walk the halls. The front office makes no attempt to hide the relations: Vladimir Pronichev, the FSB deputy director and head of the border-guard service, acts as chairman; Sergei Stepashin, a former head of the FSB under Yeltsin, leads the board of trustees; Nikolai Patrushev, another former FSB boss, is involved with the Dynamo volleyball team.
 But in Putin's Russia, even the secret policemen need corporate sponsorship. Most prominent among private patrons has been Metalloinvest, the metals giant owned by Alisher Usmanov, a 55-year-old magnate who lately has backed the Dynamo soccer club, as well as Arsenal in London (he bought nearly 25 percent of the English Premier League team last year for more than $200 million). Usmanov, one of the unheralded titans to rise under Putin, is an ethnic Uzbek who served six years in Soviet jails for fraud and embezzlement. (The Uzbek Supreme Court overturned the convictions, and he was later pardoned.) Usmanov, who regards the Soviet charges to be a political conspiracy, has powerful friends in the Kremlin and in security bureaus.
 In Omsk, you find all sorts of interests. Avangard players wear their sponsors on their jerseys in all capitals: across the chest, Gazprom Neft (the oil company, formerly known as Sibneft before Gazprom acquired it in 2005), and across their backs, Omskaya Oblast, the regional administration, which is publicly credited with financing the team and delivering Jagr to Siberia. Avangard's biggest sponsor, however, is not advertised on the team uniform. Despite public denials to the contrary, the club, as its president, Konstantin Potapov, explained to me, is 40 percent owned by the Prodo Group, a Russian company ''close to Roman Abramovich'' -- one of Putin's favorite oligarchs and the former owner of Sibneft, who now divides his time between London (where he owns Chelsea, the E.P.L. team he bankrolled to its first league championship in 50 years), Moscow and a growing flotilla of megayachts.
 Whatever the ''sponsor,'' the ultimate power in Russian pro sports remains political. ''The oligarchs are fighting each other for the chance to sponsor a team,'' Andrei Illarionov, once a top economic adviser to Putin and now in self-exile in Washington, told me. ''But it's not their initiative. It's an order from the Kremlin. It was Putin, and now Medvedev, who tells them to support this or that team.''
 ''WHAT'S GOING ON HERE, it's like nowhere else in the world.'' After the game, Jagr and I sit in the team's swank restaurant. It is late, and the players' wives and girlfriends, whippet-thin women wearing stilettos and short skirts, have taken their leave. Their table remains filled with scarcely nibbled dinners and an unfinished bottle of red wine -- a rare sight in Russia. For a time, two or three other players sit nearby, regarding the strange scene -- one of the world's greatest athletes plying an American reporter with a plate of farm-fresh grilled chicken and mashed potatoes -- at a respectful distance.
 Chris Drury, his former teammate and now the Rangers captain, told me to convey his regards to Jagr. ''He's one of the best of all times,'' Drury said. ''And his leaving, that's not something that goes away easily.'' In Moscow, no less an authority than Slava Fetisov, the former Soviet and Detroit Red Wings star, would tell me sternly that ''Jagr was no P.R. gamble, no marketing decoration.'' In 2002, Fetisov returned to Russia at Putin's behest, to head up Rossport, a new federal agency dedicated to reviving the country's sports infrastructure. (After we meet, Rossport would be folded into a new entity, the Ministry for Sports, Tourism and Youth Policy, and Fetisov kicked upstairs, to the upper house of the Russian Parliament.) Jagr, he told me, is ''one of the greatest players to come out of Europe in the last 20 years -- maybe ever.'' Fetisov went on, ''I should know, I had to play against him.''
 The roster says 6-foot-3, 240 pounds, but Jagr somehow seems much taller, and leaner. His quickness and strength are legendary, and tonight the Russian fans have seen a giant sinewy cat cover every inch of the ice. He is playing well these days. But with the pads off, wearing a T-shirt and shorts, he projects something contradictory, a 36-year-old kid who cannot help but fidget, a mass of statuary that cannot sit still. If when we first met the talk was slow, the sparse phrases tinged with regret, now, after the game, an unexpected confessional, in Jagr's own version of English, heavy on Slavic sibilants and short on definite articles, comes cascading forth.
 ''I didn't come here just to hang out,'' Jagr says, although I hadn't asked. I had only raised the reports of his salary -- $7 million a year, taxes included, for two years, with an option for a third. Exaggeration, he said, echoing the front office. ''I came to play -- and win,'' he goes on, adding an expletive. ''It means everything, to win here. Did you see those fans? Did you hear them? We're doing something so new, this is fun, but it's not so easy. I mean this'' -- his enormous forearms fill the air between us -- ''is a huge challenge.''
 Earlier, after a morning skate-around, Jagr could only laugh when I asked about Avangard's business ledger, given the expense of a glittery new arena, the price of season tickets (the top seats cost almost $800), the lack of a merchandising tradition. ''They don't care about the money,'' he said. ''It's about the oil. It's all about sponsors here, and no sponsor's going to get their money back. If the oil is sponsoring you, and the price of oil went up three times, instead of making whatever, $100 million a day, you get $300 million a day.''
 ''It's not a business,'' concedes Potapov, the Avangard president who spent 18 years at the Omsk refinery and wooed Jagr in Prague during the lockout at the request of the regional governor. ''This is sports -- we're blessed with backers, people who give money not for a return in profits.''
 Jagr is the industry standard. ''We needed a superstar,'' Fetisov told me in Moscow. ''Someone who we could hold up to the world and say, 'Look who wants to come to Russia, to play for Russian fans.' That's the difference, the way Russia will change world sports.''
 Jagr, who once signed the richest contract in N.H.L. history back in 2001, is well aware of his pivotal position and its attendant ironies. He is, after all, a boy who grew up on a Czech farm, whose grandfathers were jailed for political reasons and who has always worn the number 68 out of respect for the 1968 ''revolution,'' as he calls it, when his countrymen challenged their Soviet occupiers -- and were crushed. But he feels a tie to this corner of Siberia, one that stretches back to the years after World War I. ''Thousands of Czech soldiers were here,'' he says, ''to fight the Russians.'' Omsk served as the base of Admiral Aleksander Kolchak, the White Russian leader who fought the Bolsheviks until 1920. The Czechs came in the employ of the allied interventionists, the British and the Americans. ''Many of them,'' Jagr says he has heard, ''stayed and never left.''
 There is no chance of this history repeating itself. Jagr says he will end his career where it began, with his hometown club, Kladno. But he says that in Russia he wants ''to prove I can play.'' It was not an easy shift. K.H.L. teams play fewer regular-season games than their N.H.L. counterparts (56 rather than 82), but they start earlier. Jagr signed on July 5, and Avangard was on the ice 10 days later -- training three months before the N.H.L. season opened. The biggest adjustment was ''the big ice.'' Russian (and European) rinks are about 15 feet wider than N.H.L. rinks, which are 85 feet wide. The bigger rink demands more of you, Jagr says. ''If you want to get the puck, you have to skate. If you don't skate, you don't have a chance. The Russians have more skills because you can use skills on this ice. In the U.S., you don't have time to play with skills. It's hockey, with the same rules, but it's a different sport. You cannot dump and chase, because you'll never get the puck back.''
 When Wayne Fleming, the Canadian coach who arrived just six days earlier to take over Avangard, stops by our table, Jagr shares his worries about the future of Russia's relations with the N.H.L. His reasoning is economic. In the N.H.L., he tells Fleming, ''the top three or four guys eat up half the salary cap.'' Fleming nods. ''That leaves all the rest of the guys far below, not making a ton of money.'' Fleming, a nice guy who was recommended to Jagr to be the team's new coach, nods again. ''But now they're going to find out how it is over here. That they can make much better money, and you can live over here. They'll see it soon enough.'' Again Fleming nods.
 ''I've always thought the N.H.L.'s wanted to do something big in Europe,'' the coach says, ''like a division.''
 ''But I think they've missed it,'' Jagr says. ''The Russians are ahead of them.''
 Just as the talk of a new cold war dominates political circles in Moscow these days, the fear of an eastward expansion by the N.H.L. preoccupies Russian hockey officials. In Moscow, I would hear Fetisov echo Jagr's prediction. Fetisov was the first Russian star to leave for the N.H.L. He not only ''stood up to the system,'' as he put it, but he also proved that Russians could thrive in the American game. When Detroit fielded the first five-man Russian unit in 1995-96, Fetisov led the way to two consecutive Stanley Cups. He was living in New Jersey, pondering an N.H.L. coaching career, when the Kremlin called: ''I told Putin I was thinking about the N.H.L., but he said he could give me a bigger team.'' As the prime mover behind the new hockey league, Fetisov worries about how the West will react to Russia's sports revival.
 ''I warned Gary Bettman five years ago,'' he tells me, referring to the N.H.L. commissioner. ''You've got your business model, but if you take the best players out of Europe and Russia for cheap -- you'll kill the game, and your own market.'' North America, Fetisov argues, is ''a small hockey market.'' He continues: ''For years I've tried to tell the Americans to think big. Look beyond Russia and Europe. What about Asia? China? Even in India they play field hockey. Why can't the N.H.L. see it? They're afraid. They want to preserve their market. Now it's too late. We're gonna take our market share. And you'll see, it'll be good for the game.''
 On my last night in Omsk, long after the locker room has emptied, Jagr and I close down the arena. We pass in front of Alexei Cherepanov's locker, the Rangers' 19-year-old first-round pick in 2007, who 11 days later would collapse and die during a game, succumbing to an enlarged heart. (''I used to think I had one of the best shots in the league,'' Jagr tells me. ''But his -- it's better.'') It's after midnight; he insists on driving me to the hotel. We sit in Jagr's Mercedes, a dark sedan that slips unnoticed around town. As we cross over the broad Irtysh River, Russian pop fills the car, and I'm struck by an unlikely conclusion: Jagr is at home in Omsk, a city the size of Dallas but with all the luster of Albany. The team has found him an apartment (which he shares with his 22-year-old Czech girlfriend) and he loves it more than the rental he had in Trump Tower. Not that he had a problem in New York, he says. He never suffered the pressure, nor the press. ''For hockey players, New York's not that bad,'' he says as we cruise past Lenin Square, where a statue of Lenin still stands. ''Because you've got the Yankees, you got baseball and American football. Hockey? Maybe it's No. 5 in popularity. After fishing.''
 ''Here, it's not like in the U.S.,'' Jagr says at a different point. ''You got such freedom, it's hard to believe. In the U.S. you have so many rules, everything's regulated and structured. When you make a mistake you pay for it -- a lot.'' It is a theme that Jagr returns to often, the freedom of this strange place. It is not so much that his departure from New York has left a disquieting wake, but that he has discovered the unlikely and unexpected promise of Siberia. ''Look at A-Rod,'' he says. ''No matter how well you do -- they always want more. Expectations only climb higher. In Russia you don't have to worry if you make a mistake. And that's what I love about living here. There's always another way to make up for it. Nothing's too serious. Nothing is a problem, and at the same time, everything's a problem. But somehow no matter how bad things are, you can always work it out.''
 How, I ask, can he untangle the contradiction? 
 ''I can't. I don't understand it myself,'' Jagr says. ''It's not something you explain. You have to live it.''
 AFTER OMSK, after St. Petersburg, after making the rounds of sports officials across Moscow, on an unusually balmy afternoon in the Russian capital, I went to pay a visit to a Soviet legend. I went to the old Central Army rink to see Viktor Tikhonov, the premier coach of Soviet hockey whose coaching career spanned from Brezhnev to Putin and who at a robust 78 years old is one of the chief backers of the new K.H.L. I knew I would hear the set refrains, the glory of the old days, when ''athleticism'' was not yet a dreaded synonym for modern Western techniques. Who needed all that, Tikhonov would tell me, ''when our guys had unparalleled technique and training and intelligence?'' The chorus, I was not surprised, remained the same, but the bark was gone. I had made the pilgrimage, though, to hear something else, the latest turn in one of the most improbable family sagas in Russian sports.
 The irony could not be greater. Here was the dictator of Soviet ice, whose ironclad regime molded champions and brought gold home to the U.S.S.R., and the old-school contrarian who, when the stars started to defect one by one, fought hardest to maintain his grip. For years, Tikhonov chased N.H.L. scouts out of his rink. As we sat in his office, beneath a massive map of Russia, amid black-and-white photographs dating to his years as a soccer star under Stalin's rule, it was clear that the coach had mellowed. But he seemed in an unusually sunny mood. His grandson, young Viktor, 20 years old and fluent in English and the suburban ways of Northern California, had just made the final cut -- with the Phoenix Coyotes.
 ''Gretzky's happy,'' Tikhonov told me straight off, referring to the Hall of Fame player and current Coyotes coach, ''and that makes me happy.''
 Tikhonov concedes it is odd that, after the end of an empire and the rebirth of a country, the godfather of Soviet hockey could boast of a grandson poised for an American debut. But after an hour spent rewinding memories of his start under Stalin, after almost the entire national hockey team was killed in a plane crash in 1950 and ''we soccer players were ordered to play hockey'' and his time with the four hockey legends whose names now adorn the K.H.L. divisions, Tikhonov drops his guard. His lips curl at the edges and he nearly winks as he leans forward to share a secret: young Tikhonov has an unusual clause in his Phoenix contract. ''If he doesn't make the team,'' the old coach says, ''he's not going to be demoted and get lost on some farm club -- he's got an out. He can come straight home.'' ANDREW MEIER

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THE 'IT' MAN
OF OMSK JAROMIR JAGR IS THE NEW STAR OF THE RISING K.H.L.
THE DRAWING BOARD
THE CANADIAN COACH WAYNE FLEMING RECENTLY TOOK OVER JAGR'S TEAM, AVANGARD OMSK, AT THE SUPERSTAR'S INSTIGATION.
SOCCER SURGE
DICK ADVOCAAT, THE IMPORTED DUTCH COACH OF THE ASCENDANT ZENIT CLUB.
 (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES HILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); SPORTS (89%); ICE HOCKEY (89%); SOCCER (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); BASKETBALL (73%); SPACE EXPLORATION (60%); WAGES & SALARIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EDMONTON OILERS (54%); DALLAS STARS (54%); NEW YORK RANGERS (54%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); CANADA (93%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2009



50 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: Machinists Back Contract With Boeing; 8-Week Strike Ends

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: SEATTLE 

 BODY:
Members of the machinists union ratified a new contract with the Boeing Company late Saturday, ending an eight-week strike that cut the company's profits and stalled airplane production. 
 The vote by members of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, which represents about 27,000 workers at plants in Kansas, Oregon and Washington, came five days after the two sides tentatively agreed to the deal and union leaders recommended its approval. Of those who cast a ballot, about 74 percent voted in favor of the proposal. 
 Workers are expected to return to Boeing's commercial airplane factories, which have been closed since the walkout on Sept. 6, starting Sunday night.
 The union has said the new contract protects more than 5,000 factory jobs, prevents the outsourcing of certain positions and preserves health care benefits. It also promises pay increases over four years rather than three, as outlined in previous offers.
 The union members, including electricians, painters, mechanics and other production workers, have lost an average of about $7,000 in base pay since the strike began. They had rejected earlier proposals by the company, with headquarters in Chicago.
 It was the union's fourth strike against Boeing in two decades and its longest since 1995. 
 Boeing officials have said the contract allows them flexibility to manage their business and remain competitive.
 The work stoppage cost the company an estimated $100 million a day in deferred revenue and postponement of its long-awaited 787 jetliner, which has already been delayed three times.
 The strike came amid surging demand for Boeing's commercial jetliners, which include 737s, 747s, 767s and 777s. Boeing has said its order backlog has swollen to a record $349 billion in value.
 It remains unclear how long it will take Boeing's commercial aircraft business to return to pre-strike production levels, but the company's chief financial officer, James A. Bell, said Boeing hoped it would take less than two months.
 The walkout started as the global economy began sinking into turmoil. Boeing executives have said that only 10 percent of the company's orders come from domestic carriers.
 As the machinists strike wore on, Boeing began talks with another union in hopes of avoiding a second strike by 21,000 scientists, engineers, manual writers, technicians and other hourly workers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); STRIKES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (89%); OUTSOURCING (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); APPROVALS (71%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (95%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS & AEROSPACE WORKERS (58%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (95%); BAB (BRU) (95%); BA (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) OREGON, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



51 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 206 words

HEADLINE: Marcia Carlson, Timothy Smeeding

 BODY:
Marcia Jeanne Carlson and Timothy Michael Smeeding were married Saturday at St. Philip's Church in the Highlands in Garrison, N.Y. The Rev. Francis H. Geer, an Episcopal priest, performed the ceremony. 
 The bride, 39, and the bridegroom, 60, teach at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, where she is an associate professor of sociology and he is the arts and sciences distinguished professor of public affairs and the director of the Institute for Research on Poverty. 
 The bride, who will continue to use her name professionally, graduated from Gordon College in Wenham, Mass., and received a Ph.D. in sociology from the University of Michigan. 
 She is a daughter of Lois M. Carlson and Dr. Richard E. Carlson of Meridian, Idaho. Her father is a retired otolaryngologist. Her mother retired as a registered nurse at her husband's practice. 
 The bridegroom is also the founder of the Luxembourg Income Study, a database and research center. He graduated from Canisius College and received a Ph.D. in economics from Wisconsin. 
 He is a son of the late Marjorie T. Smeeding and the late Edwin C. Smeeding, who lived in Buffalo. His father was a carpenter there. 
 The bridegroom's first two marriages ended in divorce. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); NURSES & NURSING (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (58%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (78%); MADISON, WI, USA (71%) WISCONSIN, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); MICHIGAN, USA (76%); IDAHO, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



52 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; FIELD NOTES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Divorce Takes the Economy Into Account

BYLINE: By VINCENT M. MALLOZZI

 BODY:
HIGH-FINANCE marriages are crumbling along with the economy, divorce lawyers say, and because of it, couples who are splitting up are paying closer attention to the timing of bonus payouts and other economic trends in the hope of achieving the best possible settlement.
 ''A lot of couples who have been living the good life have begun the process of re-evaluating their lives together,'' said Jacalyn F. Barnett, a Manhattan divorce lawyer. ''In the past year, I have seen how the dramatic changes in our economy have had a dramatic effect on married people, especially those who have been used to earning high salaries, and many of those couples can no longer handle the stress.'' 
 Ms. Barnett noted that between Labor Day and New Year's Day, ''there is always a flood of new divorces.''
 In other words, if spring and summer are the seasons for marrying, fall and winter tend to be the high seasons for divorce.
 ''These are the prime periods of evaluation,'' Ms. Barnett said. 
 Tom W. Smith, the director of the General Social Survey at the National Opinion Research Center in Chicago, echoed Ms. Barnett's findings. ''A radical shift,'' in the value of assets like stock portfolios or real estate, he said, can wreak havoc with divorce negotiations, which can last months or longer. ''All this just changes the playing field.'' 
 Debbie Nigro, a moderator of support groups brought together by First Wives World, an organization based in New York that offers counseling and information resources to women who have gone through or are about to enter divorce proceedings, said she has been hearing tales of financial woe from both women and men whose relationships, among other investments, have hit the skids.
 ''When you are perceived by your partner in a certain financial way, and now you can no longer continue to be that person, it flips a switch,'' she said, ''and the relationship sours.''
 Ms. Nigro said she had been in touch with a Wall Street executive who was divorced within the last year, ending a 17-year marriage that once seemed as solid as his investment portfolio. In the divorce settlement, the large bonuses he used to receive have come back to haunt him.
 ''The lawyers made an arrangement based on the net earnings of this executive's career, including the average of his bonuses the past six or seven years, and added that to the alimony and child-support payments,'' Ms. Nigro said. 
 ''Those bonuses vary, and in these troubled times, they are not what they used to be,'' she said. ''But he is still making payments based on a time when his bonuses were much larger. As a result, this poor guy is barely surviving financially.''
 He is not ''the only one who has been victimized by this formula,'' Ms. Barnett noted. ''Timing is everything. The date of valuation of assets can make all the difference in the world depending upon when an action was started.'' 
 She added that when the possibility of divorce looms, both spouses have to consider what assets are available and which side of the equation they fall on.
 ''If you're a person who creates the income, and your income stream is plummeting, it might be in your best interest to get divorced after Jan. 1 so that you have it documented and it works in your favor in a settlement or litigation,'' she said. ''Or if you're the person who is financially dependent, you may be concerned about waiting too long because the money might disappear and the lifestyle you have become accustomed to may be reduced.'' 
 Mitchell Devack, a lawyer in East Meadow, N.Y., who handles divorce cases, offered a slightly different view. ''From a nonearner's perspective who is looking for the best possible settlement, it's probably best to wait on the sidelines right now and hope this economy gets going again,'' he said.
 ''In more stable economic times, there is no reason to believe that a spouse's salary or bonus or 401(k) or pension will change, so there is less strategy involved in terms of timing a divorce with the help of a lawyer and an accountant,'' Mr. Devack said. ''These are the kinds of issues that only come to the forefront during hard times.''
 Mr. Devack said he has seen a noticeable ''spike in the high-earning divorce cases'' in the last year. 
 Ms. Barnett surmised that those spikes tend to occur late in the year, because ''Family vacations have already been taken and bonuses have already been doled out, and now people in shaky marriages begin to ask themselves, 'Do I want to keep sailing on this lifeboat? Or is it time to bail out?' '' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (TOM BLOOM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (90%); FAMILY LAW (90%); TRENDS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); BONUS PAY (89%); LAWYERS (89%); SPOUSAL SUPPORT (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); US LABOR DAY (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



53 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 198 words

HEADLINE: This 3 Cents Has Come a Long Way

 BODY:
In a sign that high-end collectibles may withstand the economic downturn, a near-record price for a rare postage stamp was set last week at an auction in New York City. 
 A pink 3-cent stamp issued in 1868 and depicting George Washington was bought on Wednesday by an anonymous bidder for $1,035,000, including commission. Stamps of this design are common and usually worth only a few dollars; but what made this one worth a million dollars is a distinct, waffle-like grill pressed into the back of the stamp as part of a short-lived government experiment to prevent fraudulent re-use. The Post Office tried out various sizes of grills, and only four 3-cent stamps with this type, called a B-grill by collectors, are known to exist. 
 The four were rediscovered in 1969, on a single envelope from a letter mailed to Germany. The stamp is one of the keys to assembling a complete collection of American stamps.
 This particular example last sold at auction in 1993 for $85,000; another of the four sold in 1998 for $155,000. Wednesday's buyer, who bid by telephone, was described by the auctioneer only as a ''longtime, serious collector'' who is most likely trying to complete a collection.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The million-dollar 3-cent stamp. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (90%); COIN & STAMP COLLECTING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (76%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



54 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 830 words

PERSON: C.W. Spangenberger 

HEADLINE: C.W. Spangenberger, 102, of Storied Hudson River Tugboat Line, Dies

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
When coal powered the tugboats of the Cornell Steamboat Company, people who lived along the Hudson River would recognize them by the yellow and black of their smokestacks and the blare of their whistles. In the decades after the Civil War, Cornell pulled the barges that brought the bluestone, cement and bricks to build New York City, and the grain and ice to sustain it. Baled hay came down the river for the thousands of horses on city streets, and their manure went north for fertilizer.
Clarence W. Spangenberger -- who died on Oct. 21 in Rhinebeck, N.Y., at the age of 102 -- was the last president of what for many years, with its more than 60 vessels, was the largest tugboat company in the United States, and maybe the biggest in the world. 
His death was announced by Stuart Murray, author of ''Thomas Cornell and the Cornell Steamboat Company'' (2001).
By the time Mr. Spangenberger took over the legendary company in 1954, Cornell was struggling; trucks, railroads and oceangoing vessels were fast cutting into its business. Mr. Spangenberger, known as Bill, did everything he could to stave off a collapse, including laying off hundreds of employees, many of whom he had known since childhood -- always telling them in person. He even had to let his father, the company barber, go.
After its largest customer, the New York Trap Rock Corporation, a producer of crushed stone, bought Cornell in 1958, Mr. Spangenberger remained in charge of the towing operations, which continued to be called Cornell Steamboat. But his economies and the introduction of powerful new kinds of tugboats were not enough to prevent Cornell from going out of business in 1963.
The company traced it roots to the 1830s, when Thomas Cornell acquired a sloop to carry passengers and ship goods from Rondout, N.Y., a port town on the Hudson that is now part of Kingston, to New York City, 100 miles to the south.
But he glimpsed that steamboats were the wave of the future and set about building a fleet of towing paddle-wheelers that by 1900 was the largest of its kind in the United States. One steamer was the famous Norwich, which was designed by Robert Fulton and operated until 1910.
Mr. Cornell's business empire included hotels, railroads and an amusement park. When he died in 1890, Samuel D. Coykendall took over and converted the Cornell fleet to propeller-driven tugboats. His six sons assumed control after his death in 1913.
Mr. Spangenberger was born in Kingston on Dec. 9, 1905. He was the only child of parents who supported themselves by catering to the shipyard workers and boatmen in Rondout, his mother by selling bread from her parents' bakery, and his father by working as a barber to the Coykendall family and to company executives.
Mr. Spangenberger graduated from New York University with a degree in business, then worked for the Standard Oil Company as a sales representative. He joined Cornell in 1933 in accounts receivable, then moved to supervising the engineers, firemen and oilers of the tugs before climbing the ladder to become president in 1954.
By that time, much of Cornell's business had disappeared. The Hudson had been deepened about 1930 to allow oceangoing ships to reach Albany, ending the need to tow grain barges. Railroads and trucks could carry most cargo faster and more efficiently than boats, and refrigeration had obviated the need for natural ice. And Cornell had not gone after the lucrative business of towing petroleum products.
Well before he became president of Cornell Steamboat, Mr. Spangenberger had nudged the company's reluctant owners to convert steam vessels to oil power. His efforts to modernize the fleet resulted in boats like the Rockland County, which could push 21 barges that were tied three abreast and covered an acre. Before then, when barges were towed end to end, they would have extended a half mile, Mr. Murray said.
Trap Rock, whose corporate predecessors dated to before the Civil War, hoped to use Cornell's name, Mr. Spangenberger's expertise and $4 million in new barges to expand its tug and barge business. But when sufficient business failed to materialize, Trap Rock sold its barges and boats and got out of the business in 1963.
Mr. Spangenberger, who left no immediate survivors, liked to hike in the Catskills and dance to the music of Guy Lombardo in elegant Manhattan hotels with his wife of more than 70 years, the former Kathleen M. Sharp, who died last year. He played tennis into his early 90s.
He worked to keep alive the memory of the steamboat company. He helped to get the company biography published and to organize an exhibit about Cornell Steamboat at the Hudson River Maritime Museum in 2001.
In 1958, Mr. Spangenberger, with clear delight, showed a reporter for The New York Times some yellowed articles about the company, including one from the 1880s that reported that it had cost a shipper a dime a ton to move cargo from New York City to Yonkers, and twice that if the destination was Poughkeepsie.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Clarence W. Spangenberger in the 1950s. (PHOTOGRAPH BY COURTESY OF THE HUDSON RIVER MARITIME MUSEUM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); MARINE VESSELS (91%); SHIPBUILDING (78%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (76%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); FERTILIZERS (70%); BAKERIES (69%); STONE MINING & QUARRYING (64%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (62%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (60%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK TRAP ROCK CORP (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



55 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; COUNTY LINES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: An Understanding Ear For Shocking Tales of Debt

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER. 
E-mail: joeberg@nytimes.com

DATELINE: MAMARONECK 

 BODY:
 THESE may not be the best of times for most Americans, but for Cindy Goldstein, ''business is good.''
 She's a financial planner and, good times or bad, people need advice. With the Dow shedding one-third of its value and with loans becoming harder to get, people stream to Ms. Goldstein to get them out of the mess they've made of their finances. Maxed-out credit cards, overstretched lines of credit, shrinking retirement funds -- what she sees is the nightmarish unraveling of the suburban American dream. Desperation edges many a voice.
 ''I've gotten multiple calls wondering, 'Should I sell all my investments and put the money under my mattress?' '' she said in a chat here at the Nautilus Diner, where she sometimes meets clients. 
 In Ms. Goldstein, they find an unflappable, nonjudgmental temperament who is not easily shocked by the dumb decisions people have made. Despite their embarrassment, she understands.
 Too many people have never been taught -- by their parents, by their schools, by their spouses -- how to budget, how to restrain wasteful spending, how to think twice before signing up for an adjustable rate mortgage. Others have bought into the self-deception that in an ever-expanding economy, there is no price to pay for conspicuous consumption -- for that Mercedes leased in what seemed like a reasonable deal, for that exclusive private school that leapfrogged a perfectly fine public school system, for that ballooning line of credit that has been cannibalistically used to pay the mortgage and the Con Ed bill.
 ''People in the suburbs look at their house as a checking account,'' she said. ''They believe it when they're told by banks, 'You have all this equity in you house, go out and use it!' They believe the suburban concept that your house will always go up in value.''
 Ms. Goldstein, 53, whose mother was an accountant who advised her to become one too (''You'll always have a job''), has professional degrees in law and accounting. She fell into financial planning part time about 15 years ago while raising two children. 
 These days, people come to her who didn't plan for a disaster like a layoff or who are tapping their 401(k)'s and I.R.A.'s and they are sensing that they are robbing the Peter of retirement years to pay the emergencies of Paul. She sees people who ''need to keep up appearances'' even though they don't have the money to meet the mortgage nor the courage to tell the children they have to move.
 Americans would rather go on ''The Jerry Springer Show'' and talk about their sex lives than tell their best friends how much they earn, so she helps them overcome the taboo of talking about money. She eases the humiliation they feel at their own ignorance, at their willingness to take advantage of endless credit card offers and at their willingness to pay back with trifling monthly minimums, which practically guarantees they will be hooked to debt like a junkie.
 One man who came in recently with $30,000 in credit card debt said he had gotten by paying the monthly minimums but now was upset at the deep hole he had dug.
 ''It would have taken him 12 years to pay off the interest,'' Ms. Goldstein said. ''The credit card companies don't want you to get out from under. They want you to keep paying their fees. That's how they make money.''
 She works out a budget for clients and hashes out the merits of owning a home versus renting. Sometimes even she seems astonished by how just cutting back on simple expenses can restore some sanity. A daily latte at Starbucks can add up to more than $1,000 a year. Payments for premium cable-TV channels that rarely get watched also add up. 
 ''Lunch is huge!'' Ms. Goldstein said, pointing out that a sandwich and a soda in Manhattan costs more than $10, so brown-bagging can save more than $3,000 a year. 
 Dinner out is gargantuan.
 She does not tell people where to invest but sets out some basic principles -- like how to balance portfolios among bonds and stocks. ''It turns out that people are not as risk tolerant as they thought they were,'' she said. Money under a mattress is actually a bad idea because every now and then houses burn, and savings accounts are covered by federal insurance.
 She even has some offbeat tips. She urges families weighed down with college-age students to consider asking the grandparents to make tuition payments directly to the college; those would be exempt from gift taxes. She hears talk about people raising extra cash with tag sales or selling gold jewelry, and she sometimes urges clients to consider sideline business like representing cosmetics, clothing or cookware lines in casual sales to neighbors.
 ''A lot of what I do is making people feel they're in control of what they can control,'' she said.
 When her clients do come up with a plan, Ms. Goldstein finds, their stress level goes down, even as the stock market does, too. 
 In these pinched times, with even the upper crust suffering, it's heartening to hear that she notices a shift in prodigal or ostentatious American attitudes. 
 ''Now there's more cachet to living within your means,'' she said. ''People don't want to rub their wealth in other people's faces. They're looking for ways to save money. That's now the chic thing to do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SOUND ADVISER: Cindy Goldstein says many people are never taught how to handle money and are under pressure to keep up the appearance of wealth.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JANET DURRANS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); CHILDREN (87%); BUDGETS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (75%); SUBURBS (75%); US 401K PLANS (75%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (75%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (70%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (66%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (63%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (54%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (54%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (54%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (54%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



56 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 5126 words

HEADLINE: Stuart Levy's War

BYLINE: By ROBIN WRIGHT

 BODY:
It has been almost 30 years since the last shah, with a small jar of Iranian soil in his hand and the empress by his side, flew into exile, ending 2,500 years of dynastic rule and a valuable American alliance. The United States vowed to ''honor the will'' of Iran's people, and its ambassador to the United Nations, Andrew Young, mused that Ayatollah Khomeini might be hailed as ''somewhat of a saint, when we get over the panic.'' Over the next nine months, however, young zealots twice seized the American Embassy and its diplomats, a harbinger of tensions to come. Washington has struggled to figure out what to do about Tehran ever since. Fear still defines policy.
Iran will be perhaps the most daunting strategic challenge for a new American president. There is no shortage of problems elsewhere: America is overextended in Iraq, underdeployed in Afghanistan, constrained on Pakistan and stymied on the Arab-Israeli conflict. But Iran is different. It has become the superpower in the region where the United States has invested the most manpower, money, blood and prestige. Washington can't make enduring progress in the Middle East or South Asia without a denouement in the long showdown with Iran. 
But what tools does Washington have? Since 1979, five presidents have failed to influence, engage or outwit Iran. The Carter administration accepted the revolution -- then took in the shah, which led Iranians to suspect that Washington wanted to restore the monarchy, as it had in 1953. When radicals took the embassy, Washington froze Iran's assets and broke off relations. The Reagan administration put Iran on the terrorism list after Lebanese Shiite suicide bombers struck two American diplomatic offices and a Marine barracks in Beirut -- then sent envoys to Tehran to swap arms for hostages abducted in Lebanon. The first Bush administration promised ''good will begets good will,'' then isolated Tehran once it helped free the last hostages in Beirut. When Iran offered a lucrative petroleum deal to an American company, the Clinton administration banned the import of Iranian oil, but it later lifted an embargo on Iranian caviar, carpets and pistachios to signal a potential opening. The current Bush administration worked closely with Iran on Afghanistan after 9/11, then labeled it part of the ''axis of evil.'' It orchestrated four United Nations sanctions resolutions, then offered talks and trade if Tehran stopped enriching uranium that could be used in a nuclear weapon.
In short, each American administration since 1979 has been driven to such distraction by Iran that it has had to continually revise its own policies. Can a new president do better?
He will inherit few effective tools. Diplomacy is, at the moment, going nowhere. Efforts in the United Nations and the International Atomic Energy Agency have done little to prevent Iran from growing ever closer to acquiring the capacity to manufacture nuclear fuel. At the same time, there is very little genuine enthusiasm in Washington today for a military option in Iran. Other endeavors have had limited impact. Last year, Congress approved an astonishing $400 million for intelligence operations against Iran, but senior officials acknowledge that covert actions -- primarily aid to ethnic proxies and broadcasts into Iran -- are only an irritant to its security services. American officers have actually had trouble finding effective ways to spend much of the money. In Iraq and Afghanistan, U.S. Special Forces have focused on the Quds Force, Iran's covert military wing, and its local agents. Dozens have been detained; truckloads of Iranian arms have been uncovered. Tehran has been forced to adapt its tactics, alter routes, pull back some of its people. But again, U.S. officials concede, the United States is unlikely to fully curb Iran's involvement in its two neighbors, parts of which once belonged to Persia and share either a language or a religion.
What remains, in one form or another, is the idea of sanctions. Over the decades, Washington has embargoed imports from Iran, forbidden visas for officials and even sanctioned the entire Revolutionary Guard Corps -- the first time the United States has ever sanctioned a section of another country's military. But each effort has fallen short. Energy-hungry China now buys Iran's oil in huge quantities. Tehran has found other outlets for trade and travel. And sanctions are slow to take effect.
One new concept, however, has begun to get Tehran's attention. In January 2006, Stuart Levey, the under secretary for terrorism and financial intelligence at the Treasury Department, was having breakfast in Bahrain when he noted a local newspaper article about a big Swiss bank that cut off business with Tehran. He clipped the article. It gave him an idea.
Governments traditionally focus on actions they can enforce themselves. Reading about the Swiss bank, Levey decided it was time to mobilize the private sector, starting with the world's banks, to join the effort to sanction Iran. His idea was to prevent a country reliant on global trade -- as an ancient empire, a station on the Silk Road across Asia and a modern petroleum powerhouse -- from being able to do business outside its borders. ''That could spark the right internal debate in Iran,'' Levey told me when we met in his spacious Washington office, which was painted hunter green and decorated with collections of vintage American currency. Since that breakfast in Bahrain, he has managed to persuade the U.S. government to back his project; he has also made a lot of enemies in Tehran and created a policy legacy that the next president will have to deal with.
The best place to get a feeling for the challenge Iran poses to any sanctions program is Dubai, where Levey spent a great deal of time refining his approach. The cosmopolitan emirate, situated near the mouth of the Persian Gulf, is famed for an indoor ski slope and a man-made island in the shape of a palm tree, with villas for the superrich on each frond. But Dubai has also become the latest battleground for Iran and the United States, so in the late summer heat, I walked the concrete path along Dubai Creek, a grimy inlet that winds through a section of town long predating today's slick skyscrapers. Old wooden dhows, each painted the traditional baby blue and white, were moored four and five abreast for more than a mile along the wharf. Crews using carts were hustling to load televisions and appliances, food and toys, tires and even cars to ferry to Iran.
Dubai's citizens, unlike Iranians, are mostly Sunni and Arab. Yet trade across the gulf has gone on so long that many of Dubai's elite, including members of the emir's inner circle, are of Iranian descent. Each major change in Iran creates a new wave of migrants: merchants left in the 19th century to avoid Persia's new tariffs; traditional families fled in the 1930s after the modernizing monarchy banned the chador; modern-minded Iranians left after the 1979 Islamic revolution forced women back into the chador.
The biggest migration, however, began five years ago, in anticipation of sanctions and other U.S. pressures. Thousands of Iranian businesses simply set up local offices, opened bank accounts and imported goods from abroad to Dubai. When wares arrived, they were turned around and sent to Iran by dhow, container ship or air. ''The best place to do business in Iran,'' an Iranian businessman quipped, ''is in Dubai.'' Dubai now has as many Iranians as it does its own citizens. Trade has steadily grown; according to Nasser Hashempour, vice president of the Iranian Business Council in Dubai, it topped $14 billion last year.
On my first day in Dubai, I had lunch at the Iranian Club, a compound with a sports facility, stadium, theater and hotel. The stadium is where President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad spoke last year. The hotel's lobby had separate clocks for Tehran and Dubai, a half-hour apart. A manager's office was decorated with pictures of Ayatollah Khomeini and Hassan Nasrallah, Hezbollah's leader.
I later stopped at the Iranian mosque, now being expanded, across from the Iranian Hospital, which has tended to many of Dubai's royals. I visited the Spice Market and chatted with Iranian merchants. At American University, I was told, Iranians are the second-largest group in the student body. They're also among the biggest buyers and flippers of Dubai real estate. My hotel overlooking Dubai Creek had an Iranian clientele, an Iranian sports channel available in the rooms and an annex with Iranian-run businesses. It was within two blocks of Tehran Restaurant, Iranian shops where Farsi was more common than Arabic and several Iranian banks.
''There are so many Iranians here,'' Hashempour said with a chuckle, ''that we tell a joke: When people in Dubai are asked to pray for rain, it ends up raining in Iran.'' Since 2003, the number of Iranians in the United Arab Emirates has doubled to more than 450,000, he told me, and the number of Iranian businesses quadrupled to almost 10,000. Most are in Dubai, giving it the world's second-largest concentration of Iranian expatriates (after California).
Because Dubai has no oil, unlike the United Arab Emirates' other sheikdoms, it has survived on trade -- from its old wharf on the creek to the high-tech Jebel Ali, one of the world's largest ports. Most traffic -- including Israeli cargo -- is for re-export elsewhere. At least 20 percent goes to Iran. So, despite sanctions, Iran's shelves are well stocked, even with American goods. Maytag refrigerators, Diesel clothing and Victoria's Secret lingerie are quite popular. Legal American exports to Iran -- from clothing and cigarettes to musical instruments and bull semen, all considered agricultural, educational or humanitarian goods and thus exempt from sanctions -- increased tenfold during the Bush administration.
''The easiest thing to do in the world today is trade,'' the Iranian foreign minister, Manouchehr Mottaki, told me over the summer when I met him in New York City. ''Economic advantages attract partners. Right now, a number of American companies are working with Iran. But because of their conditions, I can't give their names.''
Iranians now have an estimated $300 billion in assets in tiny Dubai alone. Emiratis profit handsomely from these ties: outside Dubai's new free-trade zone, entrepreneurial foreigners need local partners, who must hold 51 percent of any business. Citizens of Dubai can earn up to $100,000 annually just by putting their names on a license, leaving the work to the Iranians. Iranian money is not alone in driving Dubai's growth, one U.S. official told me, but there's so much Iranian money in property, investment and trade that it's hard to cut off. ''Dubai,'' he said, ''is not going to shoot itself in the foot financially'' for the sake of sanctions. Dubai and Iran are now so economically interdependent, local analysts told me, that the city-state has become to Iran something like what Hong Kong is to China. Sanctions seem only to strengthen such ties.
Stuart Levey says he thought his new sanctions could succeed where so many had failed. But he knew his idea might be a tough sell. He was not part of the Bush administration's inner circle. Some officials still mispronounce his name. (It rhymes with ''Chevy,'' a Treasury official advised me.) In February 2006, his colleagues in the Treasury Department persuaded Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to let him travel with her to the Middle East, and he hoped to make his pitch at some point along the way. He waited, stop after stop; he spent most flights chatting with his seatmate, Gen. Raymond Odierno, the current commander of U.S. forces in Iraq who was then the Pentagon liaison with the State Department. ''I did, often, feel like a fifth wheel,'' Levey recalled. Finally, on the way home, he was summoned to Rice's private cabin to lay out his seven-point proposal.
Levey's pitch was simple: Banks were only as reputable as their clients' practices. And the reputations of banks that did business with Iran were at risk as long as Iran financed extremists and pursued missile and nuclear technology. More basically, he argued, Iran had bad banking habits, with little oversight to prevent money laundering. It had even begun asking foreign banks to remove traces of a transaction's ties to Iran, a practice known as ''stripping.''
Levey's idea was to press banks not to do business with Iran until it complied with international standards. Rice bought in. ''She was thrilled,'' Levey wrote in an e-mail message to his staff from the plane. ''She especially liked options 1, 2, 6 and, if necessary, 7. . . . Truly, this one hour made the whole trip worthwhile.''
''It gave us a new lever,'' Rice later told me. ''It's not sanctions in the traditional sense.'' Levey has since made more than 80 foreign visits of his own to talk to more than five dozen banks. Several countries required multiple trips to reassure suspicious (or just annoyed) governments about American intentions -- and then to persuade the banks. Levey offered specifics. U.S. intelligence, he told them, had traced $50 million transmitted by Iran's Bank Saderat through a London subsidiary to a charity affiliated with Hezbollah in Lebanon. Saderat, which has 3,400 offices worldwide, is Iran's equivalent of Citibank. Its Lebanon branch, Levey said, also supposedly sent millions of dollars to Palestinian extremists.
The Treasury Department then started blacklisting Iran's biggest banks, urging other nations to follow suit. In 2006, Saderat was barred from direct or indirect business with U.S. banks. In early 2007, the department sanctioned Bank Sepah for financing projects to develop missiles that could carry nuclear weapons. (Sepah, meaning ''army,'' was established with money from Iran's military pension fund and is now associated with Revolutionary Guard projects.) The Treasury Department then blacklisted Bank Melli, Iran's largest bank, for supposedly helping to finance defense industries under U.N. sanctions.
Iran has angrily denied illicit activity. Its banks pledged compliance with international practices. Tehran complained to the International Monetary Fund. Some banks even wrote to the Treasury Department to protest. Iran's Central Bank governor spoke of ''financial terrorism.'' Yet the innovative efforts have spread. Actions against Iranian banks became a feature of Security Council sanctions resolutions, beginning in 2006. Last June, the European Union blacklisted Melli and froze its assets. Last month, Australia sanctioned Melli and Saderat, while the U.S. blacklisted the Export Development Bank of Iran, which it claimed had taken over many of Sepah's accounts and provided services for missile programs. The Treasury Department is also scrutinizing Iran's Central Bank and considering blacklisting it too, which could undermine not only the country's banking system but also international support for the U.S. campaign.
The momentum has surprised even Levey, a Harvard-educated lawyer who once specialized in white-collar criminal defense. Big banks in Britain, France, Germany, Japan and Italy curbed business with Iran, even with longstanding clients. Only a few would admit it; most prefer to silently go along and keep their options open. ''They're not happy with what's happening,'' a European diplomat told me. ''They complain about U.S. pressure, but accept it. They hope it will pass soon.''
Even banks in Muslim countries, from Bahrain to Malaysia, have cut back their Iran business, bankers told me. Most surprising has been the shift by several Chinese banks. ''We haven't had Chinese banks tell me that they won't do deals with Iran,'' Levey told me. ''They just stop.''
So far, more than 80 banks have curtailed business with Iran. A European bank official told me its business dropped from hundreds of millions of dollars annually to zero. A Middle East banker said his institution no longer did business with the sanctioned banks. Gulf bankers said medium- and long-term credit for development and trade was drying up. Banks Saderat, Melli and Sepah -- which together serviced 80 percent of Iran's international trade -- were losing customers and struggling to find new banking relationships, despite many offices abroad. (None of these sources wanted to be identified as cooperating with the U.S. Treasury Department.) The private sector has proved ''quicker to respond'' than governments, Rice said. ''This really relies on the kind of self-interest -- to protect their reputation and protect their investment.''
''Stuart Levey's war is like 'Charlie Wilson's War,' '' a U.S. official said over coffee in the State Department cafeteria, referring to a former Texas congressman's campaign to change policy on Afghanistan, a saga made into a movie. ''It's the most direct and aggressive stuff we've got going. It delivers.''
The Treasury Department also galvanized global groups. The Financial Action Task Force -- the world's financial watchdog representing the 34 biggest economies -- warned that Iran poses a ''significant vulnerability'' for the world's financial system. And the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, including 30 of the world's richest nations, has twice lowered Iran's credit risk -- to a 6 on a 7-point scale.
Iran has noticed. On his final day in office, last April, the ousted finance minister, Davoud Danesh Jaffari, complained bitterly about Levey. ''We had embarked on a serious and breathtaking game of chess with America's Treasury Department,'' he told his staff. ''They had assigned one of their Zionist deputies to halt the Iranian economy. This person would personally travel to many countries around the world. He would use incentives and encouragement to request cooperation against Iran, and if he failed to get any results he would use threats to pursue his goal.''
Treasury officials deny foreign banks were warned that their access to the U.S. financial system was in peril if they didn't cooperate on Iran. ''We never threaten,'' Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. told me. ''We talk about how important it is not to violate the rules and engage in illicit transactions.'' Foreign bankers, however, insisted that threats were always implicit.
The financial squeeze on Iran has had a ripple effect. Iran has the world's second-largest natural-gas reserves, after Russia. The world's largest natural-gas field is shared by Iran and Qatar. Development of Iran's share has been dragging on for years. ''Qatar cut a deal quickly and was on its merry way,'' said Fareed Mohamedi, an executive in the Washington offices of PFC Energy. ''But Tehran never had the funding or technology to develop the gas field independently.'' Iran played hardball with foreign firms over development contracts. It wanted to pay them in oil rather than cash. Then came banking pullouts. ''We've been extremely effective at dissuading multinational oil companies from going into Iran,'' said Cliff Kupchan, a former State Department official now at the Eurasia Group who has visited Iran. ''Like with the international banks, we've invoked reputation risks. That really cramped the Iranian energy sector and could, more or less, impair the gas sector for the foreseeable future. They say they will do a lot of it themselves, but their technological capabilities are uncertain, at best.'
Ordinary businesses have been hard hit, too, according to Western officials and Iranians. Big companies and small bazaaris -- as traditional merchants are called in Iran -- are increasingly forced to pay for imports in advance, in cash. Exporters are losing clients; raw materials for nonoil industries are harder to pay for. Boutique banks in Europe and Asia have filled some of the vacuum, at hefty costs, although U.S. officials suggest the global economic crisis may scare them away from Iran, too.
Levey's campaign has coincided with Iran's own crisis. In his 2005 presidential campaign, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad vowed to put Iran's oil wealth on every dinner table. But his populist policies have flopped. Calling interest rates ''the root cause of injustice,'' Ahmadinejad twice ordered banks to lower them, first to 12 percent and then to 10 percent -- while inflation has gone as high as 30 percent. The dollar, worth 70 rials at the revolution, is today worth 9,600. Iranians gripe that produce prices have tripled over the past two years while housing prices have doubled.
Ahmadinejad has faced unusual public criticism from senior clerics, former chief nuclear negotiators, former speakers of Parliament and several economists. The finance minister who called Levey a Zionist deputy chastised his own leadership in the same speech for having ''no plan for the future.'' The president retorted that Iran needed a ''culture of martyrdom'' to solve its economic problems. He has fired six cabinet ministers with economic portfolios and two Central Bank governors. Since June, his government has temporarily banned two newspapers for publishing articles ''harmful to the economy.'' And last month, Iran's bazaaris shuttered their shops to protest against new tariffs, forcing the regime to back down.
For the first time in 30 years, U.S. officials contend, Washington has found a tangible way to pressure Iran. Whatever happens with the Bush administration's diplomatic or intelligence efforts, this is the program most likely to be continued by the next administration because it has bipartisan support.
And Levey is continuing to pick new battlefronts. In September, the Treasury Department sanctioned Iran's national shipping company and affiliates in 10 countries for falsifying documents and for transporting cargo on behalf of entities tied to weapons of mass destruction by the United Nations. Treasury officials say the insurance industry is next. ''This is one of the most powerful actions that can be taken, short of military action,'' Paulson told me. ''It's not a knockout punch, but it is effective.''
It's no coincidence that Levey has visited Dubai eight times, or that President Bush and Vice President Cheney have both stopped there over the past 18 months, or that Bush hosted Dubai's emir, Sheik Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum, at Camp David this summer. The ultimate success of Levey's scheme -- and the precedent it could set -- depend heavily on Dubai.
In its quest to be a global financial center, Dubai has pledged to honor U.N. sanctions. It's trying to shed the image of a way station for arms merchants and extremists. A. Q. Khan, the father of Pakistan's nuclear program, ran a black market through Dubai, funneling sensitive technology to Iran, North Korea and Libya. Dubai was a money-transfer center for Al Qaeda, and 11 of the 19 Sept. 11 hijackers traveled via Dubai.
Despite the strong Iranian presence in Dubai, new restrictions are taking a toll. Of the 48 international, local and family banks in Dubai, all but a handful have cut off new business with Iranian banks cited in U.N. resolutions, said Hamad Buamim, director general of the Dubai Chamber of Commerce. Potential risks are too high. ''It's psychological,'' he told me. The emirates have also set up a joint task force with the United States to sift through Iranian-run businesses in Dubai to uncover front companies for Iranian military, government or business entities sanctioned in U.N. resolutions, officials said. At least 30 have been shut down and dozens put on a watch list.
Visas and work permits for Iranians have dried up. ''Registering a new company with an Iranian partnership is almost impossible,'' said Hashempour, the Iranian Business Council vice president. When Iranian-run companies import goods, the wait in customs has gone from hours to days, even weeks. Passengers on hundreds of weekly flights between Iran and Dubai go through Terminal 2, where iris scans are taken -- a practice not used at Terminal 1 for flights from Europe and the United States. Iran formally complained recently that its citizens were being mistreated, ''obstructed'' and detained in Dubai.
The emirates do not, however, want to be the pioneer in a new ''sanctions of the willing,'' I was often told. They have not adopted Washington's blacklist. Several officials expressed frustration with American strong-arming. ''Sometimes, yes, we feel that the United States is asking too much,'' said Sultan bin Nasser al-Suwaidi, governor of the Central Bank. ''They want results to happen immediately, yesterday instead of today or tomorrow. They are demanding. This is what I said to Stuart Levey: 'You shouldn't expect it can produce miracles in a short time.' ''
The Achilles' heel of U.S. strategy, of course, is oil. It has provided Iran with a huge cushion to absorb financial shocks. Iran's budget is pegged to a per-barrel oil price of about $60 (though actual spending is somewhat higher), at a time when oil has gone as high as $147. Gary Hufbauer, co-author of ''Economic Sanctions Reconsidered'' and a fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, told me that banking sanctions are effective, but the odds are still against current sanctions convincing Tehran to change its behavior or cooperate on its nuclear program. The Peterson report concluded: ''It is hard to bully a bully with economic measures,'' especially against ''large targets that are strong, stable, hostile and autocratic.''
It is also possible that the Levey strategy could backfire. Iranians carp at their government over the economy, but such is the Iranian way. ''If the Prophet Muhammad were to govern Iran, people would be critical,'' said an Iranian businessman who commutes to Dubai. ''We are a very demanding people.'' The clampdown is uniting many disaffected Iranians around their government, just as they rallied when Saddam Hussein invaded in 1980, said Hashempour. Small-businesses owners have been hit hardest. Meanwhile the state, the Revolutionary Guard's growing business empire and quasi-government foundations dominate up to 80 percent of business in Iran and are most able to weather the financial storm.
''Yes, they can stop a guy in the Spice Market from getting a letter of credit,'' said an Iranian-American investment banker in Dubai who met with Levey. ''That's not fomenting opposition. The guys who are hurting are in the business community. Yes, they hate Ahmadinejad, but they hated him from the beginning. The basic flaw is [the idea] that people who are unhappy with the government can do anything. If the goal is to stop Iran from developing a nuclear capability, nothing that has happened here will achieve that objective.''
Tradition also provides alternatives for those pressed by the lack of access to international credit. Hawala, Arabic for ''transfer,'' is an informal version of Western Union dating back to the eighth century; it was used initially to avoid bandits. The system is based on trust. To get money to a relative in another city or country, one person gives money to a local hawala. For a small fee, he gets a code word or password to give the relative. The hawala then contacts a trusted friend or agent in the other city. The relative picks up the money upon providing the correct code word. At year's end, hawalas settle their own accounts. Hawalas are making a big comeback among traders doing business with Iran.
On two scorched mornings in August, I wandered Dubai Creek to talk to dhow crews and check their cargo to Iran. I was on the creek in the 1980s during the Iran-Iraq war, when the world was trying to squeeze Iran into a cease-fire. Dhows then carried vast amounts of American goods. Many still do, but the biggest share of cargo now is Chinese. Economists and dhow captains told me Iranian trade is increasingly looking East.
Dhows thrive off sanctions. But the sun-wizened seafarers thought Washington was making a political mistake. ''I may look dirty, but I watch TV and read,'' said an engineer on the Ramseh Shams. He was a burly man with disheveled hair, a sweat-stained T-shirt and shorts with an image of Bozo the Clown on them. ''The Yankees don't know who we are,'' he declared, as crewmates listened. ''Ahmadinejad is not Iran. We are people who love our country even if we're against our government. It's the soil we love. Ahmadinejad will be gone in four years. We will not. The United States has lost its sanity in the Middle East. The bully who strong-arms in this region does not last.''
Levey's campaign may have had a broader punitive impact than any other action against Iran. But sanctions take time. International sanctions on the illegal white-minority government in Rhodesia took 15 years to really bite; and only when South Africa cut Rhodesia off, in its own political self-interest, did the regime begin to collapse.
There is probably not that much time in the case of Iran. The clock on Iran's nuclear program is ticking faster. Rival projections suggest Tehran might be able to develop a nuclear capacity between 2010 and 2015. The clock on sanctions is moving much more slowly. Levey acknowledged huge hurdles. ''But sitting in my place, we have an obligation to use every tool available to us to solve this problem peacefully, and that's what we're doing,'' he told me.
A senior U.S. official acknowledged as much. ''This is not a two- or three- or four-year plan,'' he said. ''If people are realistic, it's a 10- or 15-year plan. Of all available options, it seems to me the most sensible thing to do. In the meantime you try to do other things and just hope you can head them off at the pass.''
The ultimate glitch in Levey's campaign, however, may be that the hard-liners now in power flourish under siege. ''I call them weeds who grow in the dark because they thrive in isolation,'' reflected Karim Sadjadpour of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. ''You want to send a signal to the Iranians that belligerence only isolates them and reaps no rewards. But they're like Fidel Castro; they don't want a U.S. presence or to open up to the world. It would open up the floodgates against them.''
Because Stuart Levey's war may result in only limited victories, a growing array of voices -- from a former general in the U.S. military's Central Command to former Bush administration staff members -- is calling on the next president to reach out to Iran in direct dialogue. Some support the so-called ''grand bargain'': negotiating over all diplomatic, economic and security issues and eventually re-establishing U.S.-Iran ties. A robust rapprochement with Iran still seems unlikely any time soon. But to advance American interests in the region, the next president will have to think more imaginatively than the five presidents whose policies have fallen short for three decades.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Stuart Levy, undersecretary for terrorism and financial intelligence, with Assistant Secretary Pat O'Brien and Christy Clark, the chief of staff. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LARRY FINK) (pg.MM28)
TRADING AROUND SANCTIONS: Dhows moored in Dubai Creek, across the Persian Gulf from Iran. Goods from all over from the United States, Europe, China arrive in the port and are then ferried to Iran. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RYAN CARTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.MM31)
EXPAT DUBAI (from left): The Iranian Club in Dubai serves the large Iranian population in Dubai
Ahmed Zaer, 65, of Shiraz, Iran, in a stall in a Dubai spice souk, where most of the businesses are run by Iranians
 a Dubai branch of Bank Saderat, one of several Iranian banks hit by the Treasury Department's sanctions. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RYAN CARTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.MM32) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HOSTAGE TAKING (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (87%); TERRORISM (86%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); IMPORT CONTROLS (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (67%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (63%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (61%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: LAURENCE D FINK (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); SHIRAZ, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (95%); INDIAN OCEAN (77%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (95%); LEBANON (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAN (90%); IRAQ (79%); ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); GULF STATES (78%); SOUTHERN ASIA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011



57 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; JERSEY CAMDEN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Informer Appears at Trial, But His Recordings Talk

BYLINE: By KEVIN COYNE. 
E-mail: jersey@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Camden 

 BODY:
 THEY hadn't seen him since the days when they thought he was still their friend -- a disenchanted Muslim from South Jersey like them, eager to talk about guns and Fort Dix -- and their heads all turned toward the back of the courtroom when the prosecution called him as the next witness.
 Everybody had been talking about Mahmoud Omar since the trial started, but the only glimpse of him so far had been in the prosecution's grainy video of the night in his Cherry Hill apartment when two of the defendants handed him $1,400 in cash for four M-16s and three AK-47s. That was almost 18 months ago, and now here he was, the paid informant at the heart of the case against five young men accused of planning an attack on the sprawling Army base. His shaved head caught the overhead lights in courtroom 4D as he walked briskly to the witness stand. He didn't return the steady, tracking gaze of the men whose conversations he had surreptitiously recorded for more than a year. 
 He finally had to, when Assistant United States Attorney Michael Hammer asked him to identify each of the five defendants: Mohamad Shnewer, 23, in the blue shirt; the three Duka brothers with their bushy jawline beards, Dritan, 29, Eljvir, 24, and Shain, 27; and Serdar Tatar, 24, in the gray suit. But then, and for the rest of the day, Mr. Omar sat mostly silent on the witness stand.
 ''I make a lot, lot of recordings,'' he said, and it was those recordings that did most of the talking, played all afternoon as the jurors followed along in their thick black binders of English transcriptions, trying to decide whether all that talk was bluster, as the defense lawyers contend, or conspiracy, as the government has charged. 
 In the midst of an election season that has centered on new fears about the economy, the Fort Dix trial has been unfolding here as a stark reminder of some older ones about terrorism. Orange traffic barriers block off half the street in front of the federal courthouse, an explosives-sensing device sits alongside the metal detector outside the courtroom doors, and extra federal marshals are stationed at each corner inside. The jurors had already seen videos found on one defendant's computer: jihadist propaganda, dead American soldiers, captives about to be beheaded. And as Mr. Omar sat on the witness stand, they watched a DVD he testified he received from Mr. Shnewer: a tribute to the 9/11 hijackers.
 The case started in a Circuit City store in Mount Laurel in January 2006, when a worried clerk alerted the police to a videotape a customer wanted transferred to DVD: on it men shot assault weapons in the woods as they shouted in Arabic. The F.B.I. enlisted Mr. Omar -- an Egyptian-born used-car salesman who entered the country illegally and was on probation for bank fraud -- to befriend the men. By the end of this year, defense lawyers said, he will have been paid $238,000 by the F.B.I.
 On the previous day in the trial, one defense lawyer had called Mr. Omar, 39, a ''serial fraud artist,'' and before he appeared on this day, one of his government handlers had again acknowledged his flaws. ''Someone more truthful would be nice,'' said John Stermel, a police officer with the Delaware River Port Authority who was assigned to an F.B.I. terrorism task force. 
 But Officer Stermel kept making another point, too, in his testimony. ''We were trying to find out if these individuals were an actual threat to the country,'' he said.
 They were, the F.B.I. believed, which is why they were arrested as soon as the guns changed hands that night in Cherry Hill in May 2007, and have been held without bail ever since. They were not, their defense lawyers have argued -- they were just young men with big mouths who were lured by Mr. Omar into a sketchy pan they could have never executed. Their reconnaissance of the base they were targeting, one defense lawyer said before Mr. Omar took the stand, consisted of little more than ''driving down the road and looking'' at it. 
 But here were the recordings finally, the first of many, and here was Mr. Schnewer at his family's home in Cherry Hill on an August night in 2006, talking with Mr. Omar about what Muslims could do to defend their faith in a country they considered hostile to it. Crickets chirped in the background as they spoke in Arabic. Two words in English jumped out of their conversation: Fort Dix.
 ''Here, if you want ... if you want to do anything, there is Fort Dix,'' Mr. Shnewer said. ''I am not exaggerating how easily you can strike an American base.''
 ''Here in America it is easy?'' Mr. Omar asked.
 ''Very easy,'' Mr. Shnewer said. But, he continued a few minutes later, they would need guns.
 ''I can get them,'' Mr. Omar said. ''Camden is full of them.''
 ''No, I mean heavy weapons -- not machine guns,'' Mr. Schnewer said. ''You need mortars and you need RPGs.''
 Mr. Schnewer moved on to other subjects, but Mr. Omar turned the talk back to Fort Dix, and what else they would need. ''You and I is not enough,'' Mr. Omar said.
 ''We have people that are already prepared,'' Mr. Schnewer said.
 It was the main revelation of the day, the first time in the recordings Mr. Omar made that Fort Dix was mentioned; the seed, the prosecutors contend, of the conspiracy; and the start of many more hours of listening for the jurors who will try to determine what it all means. On the afternoon's last tape -- recorded by Mr. Omar a few nights later on a fishing trip to the Shore with Mr. Shnewer and two of the Duka brothers, Dritan and Shain -- Dritan Duka spoke about the difficulty of knowing whom a Muslim could trust in a country that didn't seem to trust Muslims.
 ''Just remember, you are watched,'' he said in English, speaking about how Muslims needed to be careful about what they said in mosques he presumed were bugged, not knowing that his own words were being heard, too.
 The men talked about people they knew who had been ensnared by false accusations, and they told some old fish stories, too, because they didn't seem to be catching any on this trip worth mentioning. 
 ''Any bites?'' Mr. Shnewer asked Dritan Duka.
 ''No, low tide, brother,'' Mr. Duka said. ''Ain't going to catch nothing.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JURY TRIALS (89%); WITNESSES (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (85%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (84%); ARMIES (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MARSHALS (77%); CONSPIRACY (76%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); LAWYERS (73%); METAL DETECTORS (72%); ARMED FORCES (68%); TERRORISM (68%); HIJACKING (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (78%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



58 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; DEER PARK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: At the Salon, Still Plenty of Heads

BYLINE: By PAT WIEDENKELLER

DATELINE: DEER PARK, N.Y. 

 BODY:
 IT will take more than a financial meltdown to keep Missy Wheaton away from her regular cut-and-color at Soto Salon here. Yes, unemployment is up and 401(k)'s are tanking, but at least things are looking good for her hair and her personal life. 
 ''I'm getting married! In seven days!'' she almost shouted as her hairdresser, Laura Battista, tended a sparkly forest of foil wrappers that stuck out in every direction from Ms. Wheaton's platinum-streaked head. 
 Ms. Wheaton, 33, is furiously cutting back to pay for her wedding, but not on her regular $145 salon visits. ''I can't give up Laura,'' said Ms. Wheaton, who lives in Patchogue. ''I would never go anywhere else.''
 Loyalty may help explain why on a Saturday morning in October, the darkest month on any hairdressers' calendar (post-summer, pre-holiday), amid a deepening economic crisis, the salon was humming, all seats taken. Dozens of women bantered and laughed and fussed over one another. It was like a good party, with great hats.
 The owner, Carl Morello, circulated, flirting and joshing. He has been collecting a following here for 33 years, the last 13 at Soto Salon, a free-standing storefront on Deer Park Avenue. He and his wife, Christine, built their payroll of 28 part-time workers from an initial staff of 5 employees. 
 He said he had not yet seen a drop in hairdressing, although sales of hair-care products -- about 9 percent of his business -- were off 20 percent. 
 That tracks with the nationwide industry, said Brad Masterson, spokesman for the Professional Beauty Association, based in Scottsdale, Ariz. He said the salon business is ''relatively recession proof, although people may be waiting a little longer to get their hair done.'' 
 Sue Osani, 61, has been going to Mr. Morello for 29 years. She returns every two weeks for a hairline color touch-up, $24. ''You grab a cup of coffee, catch up with people -- it's like socializing,'' she said. ''If I had to prioritize on spending, I would never give up my hair.''
 Mr. Morello combed wet hair back from Myrna Kahane's face. There for her weekly blow-out, Ms. Kahane, 70, has followed Mr. Morello for 20 years. Before giving him up, she said, she would give up eating.
 Mr. Morello has a theory about all this: ''When the economy is going to hell, you don't want to walk by a mirror and notice that you are, too.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: KEEPING BUSY: Carl Morello works on Myrna Kahane's hair at Soto Salon in Deer Park. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL MARINO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); HAIR CARE PRODUCTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US 401K PLANS (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); MARRIAGE (76%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); RETAILERS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



59 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Wrestling the Bear Oct. 26-Nov. 1

 BODY:
THE NEWS White House officials sought ways to provide emergency financial assistance to the deeply troubled auto industry that could help spur a proposed merger between Chrysler and General Motors. 
 BEHIND THE NEWS Two options being discussed include making the carmakers' financing arms eligible to take part in the Treasury's $700 billion bailout program, originally intended mainly for banks and other financial institutions, or using a $25 billion loan program recently created by Congress to help them modernize plants. The failure of any of Detroit's big three would have far-reaching implications and could start a national pension-financing crisis. 
 THE NEWS A worldwide rally sent stock markets soaring on Wall Street and around the world, with the major American indexes posting gains of about 11 percent.
 BEHIND THE NEWS Market analysts were hard-pressed to identify a single catalyst for the surge. They tended to point instead to a general feeling that the sharp sell-offs of recent weeks, partly due to sales forced by the financial crisis, had been overdone, and that stocks had been beaten down to attractive prices. It was a day when bad news just wouldn't stick: investors seemed to shrug off a report that a widely followed measure of consumer confidence had sagged to a 40-year low.
 THE NEWS The Federal Reserve cut each of its two benchmark short-term interest rates, the federal funds target rate and the discount rate, by half a percentage point. 
 BEHIND THE NEWS The Fed said that its policy-setting committee, which approved the move unanimously, acted to address multiplying danger signs of a downshifting economy, and that there was little risk of inflation. The cut brought the federal funds target rate down to 1 percent, matching the lows of 2003 and 2004 when the central bank was trying to contain the damage from the bursting of the dot-com bubble. Stocks rallied briefly after the cut but slumped at the day's end.
 THE NEWS New figures from the Commerce Department showed that the economy contracted in the third quarter at an 0.3 percent annual rate.
 BEHIND THE NEWS Consumers, who buoyed the economy through previous dips and slowdowns by continuing to spend, have snapped their wallets shut this time: Personal consumption spending fell at a 3.1 percent annual pace, the first decline in 17 years, the report said. Business investment also retreated in the quarter, and the only economic bright spot (of sorts) in the report was growth in government spending, especially on the military. Still, the figures weren't as gloomy as expected, and the stock market posted gains for the day.
 THE NEWS The Bank of Japan cut its benchmark interest rate for the first time in seven years to try to rekindle growth in Asia's largest economy.
 BEHIND THE NEWS Japan joined moves by the Federal Reserve and other central banks to lower their rates. The overnight lending rate between banks was cut by 0.2 percentage points to 0.3 percent to reduce borrowing costs and ease a growing credit crunch in Japan. With interest rates already so low, economists said the action was unlikely to stimulate borrowing. But they said it had symbolic value as a sign of Japan's willingness to coordinate with other governments against the global financial downturn. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY REBECCA COOK/REUTERS
DAVID KARP/ASSOCIATED PRESS
KAREN BLEIER/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
CHIP LITHERLAND/SARASOTA HERALD-TRIBUNE
 DAI KUROKAWA/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MERGERS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (88%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (86%); INTEREST RATES (86%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); CONSUMPTION (74%); APPROVALS (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); STATISTICS (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING (69%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (69%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); BANK OF JAPAN (50%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



60 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; VENTURES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1401 words

HEADLINE: In a Sickly Market, A Healthier Asset

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
FEW healthy spots can be found in the ailing real estate market right now, but some big real estate investors are discovering a measure of relief, or at least a better prognosis, in medical office buildings.
 The sector, which has an estimated property value of $173 billion, has emerged as a haven of sorts in these uncertain times, for the simple reason that health care needs are largely impervious to economic conditions.
 ''People will continue to get sick, and they will continue to need facilities to house where they get care,'' said Phil Mobley, a vice president at Kingsley Associates, a real estate research firm based in San Francisco. ''This, of course, hasn't escaped the attention of the investment community.'' 
 Indeed, the major players -- including institutional investors like pension funds, private firms and real estate investment trusts, or REITs -- expect that demand for medical office buildings will only intensify as graying baby boomers require more health care and as insurers and government agencies push doctors to perform lower-risk procedures outside hospital settings. 
 These days, a number of developers and property managers involved in medical buildings say their businesses are holding up fairly well. ''We're a little bit slower than last year, but we're still pretty busy; deals are getting done,'' said Tommy W. Tift III, the president and chief executive of the HealthAmerica Realty Group in Atlanta, which develops and manages medical properties in the Sun Belt. He hopes to break ground soon on his next development, in Jacksonville, Fla. 
 Meanwhile, REITs that own medical office buildings, along with senior residences, private hospitals and other health care facilities, continue to add to their portfolios. 
 Robert A. Rosenthal, the executive chairman of Pacific Medical Buildings in San Diego, said that the Nationwide Health Properties REIT acquired 21 buildings owned by Pacific Medical through a joint partnership with his company in the spring. Nationwide has also agreed to acquire additional buildings from Pacific Medical, he said.
 And so far this year, the Grubb & Ellis Healthcare REIT, has acquired 72 buildings nationwide. The REIT has managed to raise more than $500 million in capital since its initial public offering two years ago. ''It took us six months to raise our first $2 million,'' said Danny Prosky, the executive vice president for acquisitions at the REIT, which is sold privately. ''We're now raising more than that each day.''
 Still, the sector, while sometimes characterized as recession-resistant, has hardly been immune from the credit crisis. 
 ''There are a lot of good deals in the market, but the hardest part is securing financing,'' said Dr. David N. Helfman, a podiatrist who heads a physicians' group that owns and operates 14 medical office buildings in the Atlanta area. ''Banks are requiring a lot more equity than they used to.'' 
 Nationwide sales of medical office space, in fact, have fallen off, though not nearly as much as the rest of the commercial real estate market and, in particular, the office sector over all. For the 12 months that ended on June 30, sales volume for medical office buildings slipped by around 20 percent from the year-earlier period, according to the latest data compiled by Real Capital Analytics, a research firm in New York. For all offices, the drop was 51 percent, it said. 
 Sale prices, however, have remained fairly strong. The average price per square foot for medical office space was $237 at the half-year point, up 6 percent from the same point of the previous year, compared with $257 for all offices, up 3 percent, according to Real Capital Analytics. The company said capitalization rates -- the industry term for the initial rate of return -- have also held steady, at around 7 percent nationwide. 
 Dan Fasulo, the managing director of research at Real Capital Analytics, says investors regard medical office buildings as ''a good hold for a downturn.'' At the same time, though, he marvels at what the investment world considers a good performer nowadays. ''The fact that I've gotten excited about a 20 percent decline signals just how bad the market in general is right now,'' he said of the sales volume.
 A similar situation seems to be reflected in the performance of publicly traded health care REITs, which allow smaller investors to gain exposure to medical property ownership. Returns were a negative 10.33 percent this year through Thursday, according to the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts. All property REITs, however, suffered a 34.76 percent loss, on average, during the same period, the association said.
 ''The REITs are not as leveraged'' as some other companies, like private equity firms, Mr. Mobley of Kingsley explained. This is a clear advantage in getting deals done in the current environment of tight credit. These securities offer a safe dividend yield -- currently averaging 6.59 percent, according to the REIT association -- exceeding the yields on most stocks or bonds. 
 Medical property also tends to offer a predictable cash flow. ''I may not hit a home run with medical office buildings, but I'm getting steady and predictable'' income, said Kevin O'Neil, the senior managing director of the health care division of the Trammell Crow Company, which develops and manages medical properties and is a subsidiary of CB Richard Ellis. ''It's like owning a bond versus a high-tech stock.''
 A big draw of medical buildings is the stable tenant base. Doctors and other medical professionals tend to have long leases -- 10 or 15 years, on average -- and have renewal rates of 90 percent or higher, according to building owners. Occupancy rates, therefore, are also high, typically in the low 90 percent range, owners say.
 Many medical offices carry ''triple net'' leases, in which tenants must pay operating expenses, like property taxes and insurance premiums, in addition to making certain improvements to the space. Doctors' offices often require special plumbing, electrical wiring and ventilation for their expensive medical equipment, and are more likely to install special finishes like high-end carpeting and wood cabinets. 
 ''They're making significant investments, so there's a good chance they will be renewing their lease when it comes due,'' said Mr. Fasulo of Real Capital Analytics. ''The cost of moving is just so expensive.''
 Doctors also prefer to stay put because it helps to retain patients. ''Basically, physicians are in a service industry; you're only as good as the service you could provide,'' said Dr. Helfman, the Georgia podiatrist. That includes having offices in accessible locations with ample parking. 
 Not surprisingly, the most desirable properties, which often fetch premium prices, are close to hospitals. ''All of our buildings are on a hospital campus and connect to a hospital by tunnel or bridge or covered walkway,'' said Mr. Rosenthal of Pacific Medical Buildings. He said his company's average tenant-retention rate was 96 percent.
 Over the last few years, the trend among property owners has been to offer equity interests to doctor-tenants. Some building owners are also selling individual office condominiums to doctors and investors.
 Mr. Rosenthal says that some of his tenants have ownership stakes -- in the form of ownership units, each of which costs them $1,000. The typical investment is $50,000 to $500,000. ''If they have an interest,'' he said, ''they are less likely to leave.'' 
 John Sweet, a managing director at the Ziegler Healthcare Real Estate Fund, based in Milwaukee, agreed. ''We have always made available to physician-tenants in our buildings the opportunity to be part-owners,'' he said, estimating that his tenants over all hold 5 to 10 percent stakes in some of the company's buildings. Ziegler Healthcare also offers investment funds for outsiders -- it has three and is putting together a fourth -- that invest in medical real estate. The minimum investment is $50,000 to $100,000. 
 Dr. Helfman, meanwhile, figures that the ownership of medical office buildings will prove to be a good long-term investment, especially as the stock market has suffered a steep decline and managed-care plans are further eroding doctors' income. 
 ''This gives you retirement,'' he said, ''When we retire, our physicians are still managing owners.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dr. David N. Helfman is part of a physicians' group that owns medical office buildings in the Atlanta area. At top right is one of Trammell Crow's medical office buildings, in Cleveland. Below it is one of Ziegler Healthcare's, in Denver. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRIS RANK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 LACASSE PHOTOGRAPHY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (94%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HOSPITALS (77%); RECESSION (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); INSURANCE (73%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); PODIATRY (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (68%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (58%)

COMPANY: GRUBB & ELLIS CO (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (52%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (52%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



61 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 413 words

PERSON: Jacques Piccard 

HEADLINE: Jacques Piccard, 86, Scientist Who Explored the Deep Seas

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
GENEVA (AP) -- Jacques Piccard, a scientist and underwater explorer who plunged deeper beneath the ocean than any other man, died Saturday, his son's company said. He was 86. 
Mr. Piccard died at his Lake Geneva home in Switzerland, according to the company, Solar Impulse.
Exploration ran in the Piccard family. Mr. Piccard's father, Auguste, a physicist, was the first man to take a balloon into the stratosphere. His son, Bertrand, was the first man to fly a balloon nonstop around the world.
Jacques Piccard helped his father invent the bathyscaphe, a vessel that allows people to descend to great depths. On Jan. 23, 1960, he and Lt. Don Walsh of the United States Navy took the vessel, named the Trieste, into the Mariana Trench in the Pacific to a depth of 35,800 feet, nearly seven miles below sea level. It remains the deepest human dive ever.
''By far the most interesting find was the fish that came floating by our porthole,'' Mr. Piccard said. ''We were astounded to find higher marine life forms down there at all.''
Solar Impulse said the discovery of living organisms at such a depth played a crucial role in the prohibition of nuclear waste dumping in ocean trenches.
After the dive, Mr. Piccard continued to research the deep seas and worked for NASA.
He also built four mid-depth submarines, mesoscaphes, including the first tourist submarine. During the Swiss National Exhibition in 1964, he took 33,000 passengers into the depths of Lake Geneva.
Born in Brussels in 1922, Mr. Piccard was 9 when his father took his balloon into the stratosphere. He studied in Switzerland and worked as a university economics teacher, but abandoned teaching to help his father design the bathyscaphe.
Information about his survivors was not immediately available.
In April 1999, when Bertrand Piccard completed a round-the-world balloon trip with a Briton, Brian Jones, his team drew on Jacques's experiences in the Gulf Stream to work out how best to use the jet stream to speed the balloon around the world.
They also made use of some of the ideas used by Auguste Piccard in his pioneering flights, including the notion of only partly inflating the balloon at takeoff to allow for the expansion of the gases at higher altitudes, and the use of an airtight capsule.
In a statement on Saturday, Bertrand Piccard said his father ''passed on to me a sense of curiosity, a desire to mistrust dogmas and common assumptions, a belief in free will, and confidence in the face of the unknown.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jacques Piccard in 2001. (PHOTOGRAPH PIERRE ANDRIEU/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); OCEANS (90%); MEN (90%); DEATHS (78%); LAKES (77%); NAVIES (73%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (65%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (92%) PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) SWITZERLAND (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (89%); UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: Science and Technology

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



62 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: Stamford Theater Works Closes

BYLINE: By ANITA GATES

 BODY:
WHEN Steve Karp chose to open the 2008-9 Stamford Theater Works season with ''The Mercy Seat,'' he knew audiences would have strong reactions. It is, after all, a play by the hard-edged Neil LaBute, about a self-involved, adulterous man who makes callous use of the 9/11 attacks. Presumed dead, he decides to take advantage of that and flee his family and other responsibilities. 
 ''That's sort of our stock in trade anyway -- doing edgy, provocative plays,'' said Mr. Karp, the founder and producing director of the 20-year-old Stamford theater company. 
 What he didn't know was that ''The Mercy Seat'' would turn out to be the company's last production. On Monday, he announced that Stamford Theater Works would discontinue its programming and dissolve its theater operations.
 ''It's sort of like a wake,'' Mr. Karp, a Stamford native, said in a telephone interview Wednesday. ''People are busy letting me know how sad they are that it's closed. But we've gone out of business in a quite high place in terms of artistic reputation.''
 The company hadn't lost subscribers, he added, except to death and relocation. The real financial problem, he said, was the loss of corporate support. 
 ''Corporations are trending away from the arts,'' Mr. Karp said. And in a global economic crisis, arts institutions can fall by the wayside. Even if subscribers and other audiences remain faithful, that doesn't guarantee solvency; ticket sales alone rarely cover a theater company's operating expenses. 
 The closing announcement came only nine days before the scheduled opening of ''Almost, Maine,'' a romantic fable by John Cariani. But the financial problems, Mr. Karp said, had been building for five years or so. 
 Stamford Theater Works was founded in 1988. Its first season consisted of only two productions, and they were as different as night and day. Mr. Karp offered his audience Noel Coward's frothy, perpetually produced marital comedy ''Private Lives'' and Roger Cornish's little-known antiwar courtroom drama ''A Class C Trial in Yokahama.'' 
 Over the next two decades, Theater Works seemed to concentrate on thoughtful, social-issue-oriented Off Broadway (or at least Off Broadway-style) dramas. The lineup has included Donald Margulies's ''Collected Stories,'' Kenneth Lonergan's ''Lobby Hero,'' Joe Orton's ''Loot,'' A. R. Gurney's ''Dining Room,'' David Feldshuh's ''Miss Evers' Boys,'' Rebecca Gilman's ''Spinning Into Butter'' and David Hare's ''Skylight,'' as well as works by Athol Fugard, Romulus Linney and Arthur Miller. 
 Its productions were staged in a 150-seat performance space in a barn on Strawberry Hill Avenue, on the property of Sacred Heart Academy. Plans to relocate to the Amy Rich Theater, in the Palace in downtown Stamford, were held up by building delays. And the Stamford Center for the Arts, which owned the theater, filed for bankruptcy earlier this year.
 As Mr. Karp looked back on two decades of his life, he considered them very well spent. He recalled his original hesitation to take on the job because it meant running a business as well as devoting time to the arts. But he was seduced by the challenge, and he remembers thinking at the time, ''If we last a year, that'll be worth the risk.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CURTAIN CALL: Matthew Fraley and Eliza Foss in Stamford Theater Works' production of ''The Mercy Seat'' by Neil LaBute.
 DOORS CLOSED The barn on Strawberry Hill Avenue, the home of Stamford Theater Works. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JANET DURRANS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (88%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); TICKET SALES (73%); TRENDS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



63 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; MAIN STREET SUMMIT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: For Affluent Town, Clouds of Uncertainty

BYLINE: By MARY JO PATTERSON

DATELINE: SUMMIT 

 BODY:
 IT was August when Abel Flores first detected a mood shift among the customers here at his tobacco store and private cigar lounge, a cozy, leather-filled retreat from the world favored by residents who make their living in the financial markets.
 As the economy faltered, ''they were saying the worst is yet to come, and trying to make maneuvers to stay ahead of things,'' said Mr. Flores, a co-owner of Florez Tobacconist in downtown Summit, a short walk from the station where traders go to get the trains that take them to their jobs in Manhattan.
 A month later, when a financial storm indeed engulfed Wall Street and buffeted many of his club's 55 members, some of them stopped dropping in, preferring, he believes, to monitor their losses from home. Others came by, but purchased only a handful of premium cigars, not the boxes costing $350. 
 ''Everybody looks like they're in neutral right now,'' Mr. Flores said. ''There's a lot of uncertainty in the air.'' 
 Summit, an affluent suburb of about 20,000, has long been popular with traders, investment bankers, and money managers. Gov. Jon S. Corzine lived on its moneyed north side when he was chairman of Goldman Sachs, and Jim Cramer, the former hedge fund manager who is host of the CNBC program ''Mad Money,'' is a current resident.
 Nearly 20 percent of Summit's residents work in finance and real estate, according to Business Week magazine, which last month ranked the city No. 6 on a list of American communities likely to be pummeled by the economic crisis. The Independent Press, a newspaper in nearby New Providence, recently published an essay by Summit's mayor, Jordan Glatt, who wrote that a ''powerful storm'' was gripping the city and hurting, or ''at least unsettling,'' residents. He appealed to residents to help their neighbors.
 ''We're a mill town, and the mill closed,'' Mr. Glatt said a few weeks later in an interview at City Hall. ''But we'll get through it. We have a lot of real estate permits and investment going on. We may not end up with the same number of Wall Streeters, but we'll have many successful people here.''
 No one should cry for Summit. In 2005, the median household income was $168,045, with 14.4 percent of households earning above $200,000, according to Claritas, a private marketing research firm. Still, recent events have unnerved many who used to spend without limit, and the local merchants who counted on them. 
 Most business owners here say that Summit has survived other painful economic downturns -- the mid-'70s recession, the stock market collapse in 1987, and the aftershocks from 9/11 -- always to see prosperity return.
 A few, like John Bitici, a restaurateur, and Tom Keefe, a jeweler, believe the trickle-down impact of the financial crisis has yet to arrive at their own door.
 ''Really, I haven't seen a drop in business yet. Maybe a little drop on the most expensive wines,'' said Mr. Bitici, the owner of Fiorino Ristorante, a downtown restaurant with loyal patrons who dine there two, three, even four times a week. ''Maybe they haven't gotten the pink slips yet. We have one gentleman who comes to our bar and takes some food home. One day he said, 'Tomorrow I may be out of a job.' But he is still working, and coming.''
 On the surface, Summit looks robust. One day late last month, well-clad men and women lingered over lunch at sidewalk bistro tables warmed by the autumn sun. Ornamental grasses blew back and forth under an allee of locust trees on Springfield Avenue, the city's commercial heart.
 Among Summit's abundance of interior decorating firms, one had a display window made up to look like an opulent den, featuring a table with an ornate chessboard, velvet chairs whose cushions had needlepoint images of golden retrievers, and a bottle chilling in a silver bucket. The scene was captioned, ''A Gentleman's Retreat from a Hectic Day.''
 But under the surface, not all was well.
 Attendance at a monthlong designer show house a few blocks away, sponsored by Summit's Junior Fortnightly Club, was falling far short of the 300 or 400 daily visitors hoped for, according to Laurie Finn, co-chair of the charitable event. ''Still pretty respectable, but not what we'd hoped for,'' she said.
 Mrs. Finn also said walk-in business at La Jolie Maison, her shop downtown, had been so slow that she had extended her annual furniture sale.
 ''It's not that people are coming in and not buying. They're just not coming in,'' she said. ''Fortunately, the interior design office upstairs, which is 95 percent of my business, is getting new projects in every week.''
 On Oak Ridge Avenue, a spec house priced at $2,495,000 has sat empty and unsold since June, part of the town's mounting inventory of homes for sale. The house, a colonial revival, has details that include a library with custom-made, built-in desks; a cherry wood wet bar in the family room; and a master bedroom with French doors leading to a private deck.
 ''This is a house that would normally have sold in a heartbeat, and most likely to a person who was a director at Merrill Lynch,'' said Diane Peer, a partner in the firm that built the house, Peer Construction. Merrill Lynch, the global financial services firm, was sold to Bank of America on Sept. 15.
 ''We're trying to drum up some custom work right now,'' said her husband, Dixon Peer. ''But we have expensive subcontractors and the best-quality materials. People are looking right now for the best price.''
 ''We have a smattering of lawyers and surgeons out there,'' Mrs. Peer said. ''But a large part of our market is watching and waiting.''
 The Summit Chamber of Commerce is countering the softening economy with an aggressive advertising campaign, said Jan Martin, its chairwoman. In October, the chamber signed a contract for 2,214 cable television spots promoting the city and its retail stores. They will run from Nov. 1 to Dec. 31.
 ''If we just stay the course and don't panic, we'll get through it,'' said Mrs. Martin, owner of the Summit Sampler, which sells antiques, home furnishings, gifts, and interior design services. ''A lot of people are doom and gloom, but they are doom and gloom in good times, too. I've never had trouble making money -- knock on wood. This sofa, $5,200, sold today.''
 Cheryl Rajewski, a caterer in Summit, said her reaction has been to hope for the best. 
 ''I just can't worry,'' Ms. Rajewski said while making last-minute preparations for a recent Thursday-night party.
 ''All the husbands ask me, 'How's business?' When Lehman closed, it did slow down a couple of days,'' she said, referring to the financial firm Lehman Brothers. ''And October has been slower than usual. But September was good and the phone has been ringing like crazy for November and Christmas. People still have to eat.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HEART OF THE CITY: A long Springfield Avenue, top, in downtown Summit, a city with a population of about 20,000 and a 2005 median household income of $168,045. Summit also abounds with design stores, like the Summit Sampler, left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NANCY WEGARD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(NJ1)
AROUND TOWN: A cafe across from the station, above. Dixon and Diane Peer at a house built by their firm
 John Bitici in his restaurant, Fiorino. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NANCY WEGARD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(NJ7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOBACCO STORES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); RECESSION (77%); CITIES (75%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); MAYORS (70%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (69%); RANKINGS (69%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (50%); JIM CRAMER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



64 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; ART; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1880 words

HEADLINE: Tapped Out?

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
A $60 million painting by Kazimir Malevich. A $40 million self-portrait by Francis Bacon. It hardly seems the ideal moment to be selling such pricey art. As Sotheby's, Christie's and Phillips de Pury brace for their big fall auctions in New York, starting with a sale of 71 Impressionist and Modern paintings, drawings and sculptures at Sotheby's on Monday night, anxiety is the dominant mood. 
 Only 10 days ago, Sotheby's reported a loss of $15 million in guarantees -- the undisclosed amount that the houses promise to sellers regardless of the outcome of a sale -- from recent auctions in Hong Kong and London. 
 Millions of dollars of art went unsold at those September and October sales, with many works going for well below their estimates. Since then auction house officials have been busy trying to get sellers to lower their expectations. Much of the art up for auction this week and next was secured early in the summer, when the world seemed a far different place. Now, with the net worth of so many buyers plummeting, auction houses have been trying to persuade sellers to lower their reserves, that is, the undisclosed minimum price that a bidder must meet for the art to be sold. 
 ''Prices of all assets have fallen -- stocks, gold, oil, real estate -- and it would be unrealistic to expect works of art to be immune to the market's pressures,'' said Marc Porter, president of Christie's in America. ''We are actively encouraging consignors to set reasonable reserves.'' 
 Minimizing risk is the message of the moment. While Sotheby's has said that it has provided only half the number of guarantees it did a year ago, the company still has outstanding guarantees of $285.5 million. 
 Unlike Sotheby's, Christie's is not a public company, and is not obligated to release figures, but officials there acknowledge having a similar level of risk. As for buyers, the message is a little trickier. With them, Mr. Porter said, Christie's is making the argument that the objects they desire ''might not reappear on the market next season at an even lower price.'' 
 The major sellers this season are hardly novices: they include savvy collectors like the financier Henry Kravis and his wife, Marie-Josee Kravis, president of the Museum of Modern Art, who are selling Degas's ''Dancer in Repose.'' Other sellers include Jennifer Stockman, president of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation; and Kathy Fuld, another MoMA trustee and the wife of Richard S. Fuld Jr., the troubled former chief executive of the now-bankrupt Lehman Brothers. All of these collectors have been given generous guarantees that some admitted were hard to refuse. 
 The big question is who will be buying this expensive art. With hedge-fund traders, Russian oligarchs and wealthy Middle Easterners having taken a hit in the financial markets, the auction houses, whistling in the dark, are hoping for a return of old money. 
 ''Americans who fled when prices began soaring will jump back into the market but at a different price level,'' said Tobias Meyer, Sotheby's head of contemporary art. Among the standouts in the fall lineup at Sotheby's are paintings like Edvard Munch's ''Vampire'' (1894), priced to bring more than $35 million, and an Yves Klein wall relief estimated at more than $25 million. Christie's is offering a 1934 portrait of Picasso's mistress Marie-Therese Walter estimated at $18 million to $25 million and a Basquiat painting at $12 million and $16 million. ''I still hold the belief that the great works will find buyers,'' said Guy Bennett, of Christie's. But at what price remains to be seen. 
 Safety Net for a Malevich
 The Russian avant-garde artist Kasimir Malevich painted this ''Suprematist Composition'' in 1916, the same year he wrote his Suprematist manifesto arguing for the pre-eminence of emotion in creating works of art. 
 For years the painting, an abstract composition of bright blocks and rods of color, resided in the Stedelijk Museum in Amsterdam with 14 others by the artist. 
 Last spring, descendants of Malevich gained title to the painting and four others from the collection in an accord with the Stedelijk after a court battle in the United States. Now, after the heirs tried to sell the five paintings privately for around $300 million but failed, they are trying to sell one of them at auction. Often public auctions are a last resort as well as a way to reach an international pool of possible buyers. 
 The work will be offered Monday night at Sotheby's, where officials predict that it will fetch $60 million. Determined to offset some of the risk, Sotheby's has lined up what it calls an irrevocable bid on the painting. That means the auction house has a buyer who has contractually agreed to purchase the painting for an undisclosed sum. 
 If someone else is willing to pay more, the original bidder will get a share of what is called the upside: the difference between what he was willing to pay and the higher price. 
 Knowing When to Leap
 A museum retrospective can often boost the value of an artist's work, particularly when the piece at issue is included in the show. 
 That may explain why Jennifer Stockman, president of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation, is parting with ''Pine House (Rooms for Rent),'' a 1994 painting by the Scottish-born artist Peter Doig. 
 The canvas, which was featured in a show of the artist's work at Tate Britain in London earlier this year, is expected to bring $4.5 million to $6.5 million. 
 ''Talk about timing,'' Ms. Stockman said of the consignment. She said she secured a guarantee, so ''it became almost impossible not to take advantage of the sale.'' 
 Ms. Stockman's guarantee from Christie's includes other works she is selling as well, including one of Richard Prince's nurse paintings, ''Last Resort Nurse,'' from 2003, which is expected to fetch $5 million to $7 million.
 Although it was not included in a recent retrospective of the artist's work at the Guggenheim Museum, prices for Mr. Prince's nurse paintings have skyrocketed recently. 
 At a Sotheby's auction in London in February 2007, a new Georgian collector shocked a salesroom by spending $11.2 million on a painting by Mr. Doig, said to be intended for a museum in Kiev. 
 ''It was now or never,'' Ms. Stockman said. ''This will enable us to collect more. I'm in it for the long term.'' 
 Too Many Warhols?
 Prices for less-than-stellar Warhols have been softening recently, so this fall's auctions will test the Pop master's staying power. 
 Both Christie's and Sotheby's are selling Warhols of all dates and subjects, including ''Set of Four Boxes: Brillo Soap Pads; Campbell's Tomato Juice; Del Monte Peach Halves; Heinz Tomato Ketchup'' at Sotheby's. 
 The sculpture is composed of four wood boxes, each from the 1960s, that are silk-screened to look like products and belong to Jane Holzer, the New York socialite who was known as Baby Jane Holzer when she was a regular in Warhol's entourage in the 1960s. It carries an estimate of $2.5 million to $3.5 million. 
 At Christie's, Aaron Fleischman, a Washington lawyer and collector, is parting with an example of one of the artist's Mao portraits. The small 1973 canvas, measuring about 26 by 22 inches, is priced to sell for $4.5 million to $6.5 million. In November of 2006, a far larger Mao, measuring 82 by 61 inches, sold for $17.3 million to Joseph Lau, a Hong Kong collector. In those halcyon days, Warhol's Mao images appealed to any number of Asian collectors. The question of who will step up and bid this season is another matter. 
 No Guarantee for This One
 EARLY last summer a New York collector negotiated a hefty guarantee from Christie's in consigning his 1964 ''Study for Self-Portrait'' by Francis Bacon for the fall auctions. In the months it took to hammer out details of the contract, economic turmoil grew so worrisome that Christie's got cold feet and withdrew the guarantee. 
 The auction house persuaded the seller to offer the Bacon anyway, and it is one of the highlights of Christie's Nov. 12 sale. Experts say that the full-length portrait, in which the artist is shown sitting on a bed, his body twisted from head to toe, should sell for around $40 million. 
 Christie's is obviously hoping to capitalize on the record prices paid for Bacon's works recently. A 1976 Bacon triptych went for $86.3 million in May at Sotheby's in New York, and a 1975 self-portrait brought $34.4 million at Christie's in London in June. Those were among the highest prices ever paid for the British artist, who is the subject of a current exhibition at the Tate in London that travels to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York in May.
 Still, there is no getting around the fact that ''the market has changed,'' said Brett Gorvy, co-head of Christie's postwar and contemporary art department. 
 A Puzzle
 Why are these two 1964 sculptures by John Chamberlain, roughly the same size and made the same year, priced so differently? 
 Christie's estimates that ''Spike,'' from the estate of the philanthropist Alice Lawrence, the widow of the Manhattan real estate developer Sylvan Lawrence, will bring $900,000 to $1.2 million. ''Ca-D'Oro,'' which is being sold by an unidentified Midwestern collector at Sotheby's, carries an estimate of $1.8 million to $2.2 million. 
 Both of these colorful crushed metal sculptures are from the artist's prime period, when he used everyday objects, like abandoned car parts. He often sprayed as many as 100 coats of lacquer on the steel to achieve the surface he desired. 
 Estate property is generally more reasonably priced, and Christie's has given the Lawrence heirs a guarantee. That means the auction house rather than the estate can set the prices. The one at Sotheby's seems to have been estimated at the whim of an auction house expert -- or possibly a hungry seller. 
 Catnip for Connoisseurs
 A hint of schadenfreude might have been in the air when gossip-mongers delightedly spread the news that the Museum of Modern Art trustee Kathy Fuld and her husband, Richard S. Fuld Jr., the former chief executive of Lehman Brothers, would be selling 16 postwar works on paper at Christie's on Nov. 12. Still, their offerings could well be among the biggest draws of the sale, potentially attracting old-time collectors who bowed out of the market when it became overheated. 
 Far lower in price than paintings by these modern masters, they are seminal images of the highest quality that only occasionally come to market.
 Mrs. Fuld, who began collecting works on paper in the mid-1980s, is parting with rare examples of drawings by Barnett Newman, Arshile Gorky, Willem de Kooning and Agnes Martin. Among the best in the group are three from de Kooning's ''Woman'' series, including a 1951 example of a Cubist figure. Another is Gorky's ''Study for Agony I,'' a graphite, crayon and ink wash on paper executed in 1946-47, related to a painting from the same year that is in MoMA's collection. Mrs. Fuld bought her drawing at Christie's in 1996 for $370,000. It is now estimated to bring $2.2 million to $2.8 million. 
 Christie's officials are so confident about the drawings, which are expected to bring $15 million to $20 million in all, that it gave Mrs. Fuld a guarantee that is said to be about $20 million. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Dancer in Repose'' (around 1879), by Edgar Degas, one of the works to be auctioned this season in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SOTHEBY'S) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (91%); PAINTING (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (77%); SCULPTURE (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (70%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (92%); SOTHEBY'S (92%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (50%)

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (92%); NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: HENRY KRAVIS (50%); RICHARD S FULD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



65 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3022 words

HEADLINE: A Splash of Green for the Rust Belt

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

DATELINE: NEWTON, Iowa 

 BODY:
 LIKE his uncle, his grandfather and many of their neighbors, Arie Versendaal spent decades working at the Maytag factory here, turning coils of steel into washing machines. 
 When the plant closed last year, taking 1,800 jobs out of this town of 16,000 people, it seemed a familiar story of American industrial decline: another company town brought to its knees by the vagaries of global trade. 
 Except that Mr. Versendaal has a new factory job, at a plant here that makes blades for turbines that turn wind into electricity. Across the road, in the old Maytag factory, another company is building concrete towers to support the massive turbines. Together, the two plants are expected to employ nearly 700 people by early next year.
 ''Life's not over,'' Mr. Versendaal says. ''For 35 years, I pounded my body to the ground. Now, I feel like I'm doing something beneficial for mankind and the United States. We've got to get used to depending on ourselves instead of something else, and wind is free. The wind is blowing out there for anybody to use.'' 
 From the faded steel enclaves of Pennsylvania to the reeling auto towns of Michigan and Ohio, state and local governments are aggressively courting manufacturing companies that supply wind energy farms, solar electricity plants and factories that turn crops into diesel fuel.
 This courtship has less to do with the loftiest aims of renewable energy proponents -- curbing greenhouse gas emissions and lessening American dependence on foreign oil -- and more to do with paychecks. In the face of rising unemployment, renewable energy has become a crucial source of good jobs, particularly for laid-off Rust Belt workers.
 Amid a presidential election campaign now dominated by economic concerns, wind turbines and solar panels seem as ubiquitous in campaign advertisements as the American flag. 
 No one believes that renewable energy can fully replace what has been lost on the American factory floor, where people with no college education have traditionally been able to finance middle-class lives. Many at Maytag earned $20 an hour in addition to health benefits. Mr. Versendaal now earns about $13 an hour. 
 Still, it's a beginning in a sector of the economy that has been marked by wrenching endings, potentially a second chance for factory workers accustomed to layoffs and diminished aspirations. 
 In West Branch, Iowa, a town of 2,000 people east of Iowa City, workers now assemble wind turbines in a former pump factory. In northwestern Ohio, glass factories suffering because of the downturn in the auto industry are retooling to make solar energy panels. 
 ''The green we're interested in is cash,'' says Norman W. Johnston, who started a solar cell factory called Solar Fields in Toledo in 2003. 
 The market is potentially enormous. In a report last year, the Energy Department concluded that the United States could make wind energy the source of one-fifth of its electricity by 2030, up from about 2 percent today. That would require nearly $500 billion in new construction and add more than three million jobs, the report said. Much of the growth would be around the Great Lakes, the hardest-hit region in a country that has lost four million manufacturing jobs over the last decade.
 Throw in solar energy along with generating power from crops, and the continued embrace of renewable energy would create as many as five million jobs by 2030, asserts Daniel M. Kammen, director of the Renewable and Appropriate Energy Laboratory at the University of California, Berkeley, and an adviser to the presidential campaign of Senator Barack Obama.
 The unfolding financial crisis seems likely to slow the pace of development, making investment harder to secure. But renewable energy has already gathered what analysts say is unstoppable momentum. In Texas, the oil baron T. Boone Pickens is developing what would be the largest wind farm in the world. Most states now require that a significant percentage of electricity be generated from wind, solar and biofuels, effectively giving the market a government mandate. 
 And many analysts expect the United States to eventually embrace some form of new regulatory system aimed at curbing global warming that would force coal-fired electricity plants to pay for the pollution they emit. That could make wind, solar and other alternative fuels competitive in terms of the cost of producing electricity.
 Both presidential candidates have made expanding renewable energy a policy priority. Senator Obama, the Democratic nominee, has outlined plans to spend $150 billion over the next decade to spur private companies to invest. Senator John McCain, the Republican nominee, has spoken more generally of the need for investment.
 In June, more than 12,000 people and 770 exhibitors jammed a convention center in Houston for the annual American Wind Energy Association trade show. ''Five years ago, we were all walking around in Birkenstocks,'' says John M. Brown, managing director of a turbine manufacturer, Entegrity Wind Systems of Boulder, Colo., which had a booth on the show floor. ''Now it's all suits. You go to a seminar, and it's getting taught by lawyers and bankers.''
 So it goes in Iowa. Perched on the edge of the Great Plains -- the so-called Saudi Arabia of wind -- the state has rapidly become a leading manufacturing center for wind power equipment. 
 ''We are blessed with certainly some of the best wind in the world,'' says Chet Culver, Iowa's governor. 
 MAYTAG was born in Newton more than a century ago. Even after the company swelled into a global enterprise, its headquarters remained here, in the center of the state, 35 miles east of Des Moines.
 ''Newton was an island,'' says Ted Johnson, the president of local chapter of the United Automobile Workers, which represented the Maytaggers. ''We saw autos go through hard times, other industries. But we still had meat on our barbecues.'' 
 The end began in the summer of 2005. Whirlpool, the appliance conglomerate, swallowed up Maytag. As the word spread that local jobs were doomed -- Whirlpool was consolidating three factories' production into two -- workers unloaded their memorabilia at Pappy's Antique Mall downtown: coffee mugs, buttons, award plaques. 
 ''If it said Maytag on it, we bought it,'' says Susie Jones, the store manager. ''At first, I thought the stuff had value. Then, it was out of the kindness of my heart. And now I don't have any heart left. It don't sell. People are mad at them. They ripped out our soul.''
 When the town needed a library, a park or a community college, Maytag lent a hand. The company was Newton's largest employer, its wages paying for tidy houses, new cars, weddings, retirement parties and funerals. 
 As Whirlpool made plans to shutter the factory, state and county economic development officials scrambled to attract new employers. In June 2007, the local government dispatched a team to the American Wind Energy Association show in Los Angeles. Weeks later, a company called TPI Composites arrived in Newton to have a look. 
 Based in Arizona, TPI makes wind turbine blades by layering strips of fiberglass into large molds, requiring a long work space. The Maytag plant was too short. So local officials showed TPI an undeveloped piece of land encircled by cornfields on the edge of town where a new plant could be built.
 Although TPI was considering a site in Mexico with low labor costs, Newton had a better location. Rail lines and Interstate 80 connect it to the Great Plains, where the turbines are needed. Former Maytag employees were eager for work, and the community college was ready to teach them blade-making. 
 Newton won. In exchange for $6 million in tax sweeteners, TPI promised to hire 500 people by 2010. It has already hired about 225 and is on track to have a work force of 290 by mid-November.
 ''Getting 500 jobs in one swoop is like winning the lottery,'' says Newton's mayor, Chaz Allen. ''We don't have to just roll over and die.''
 On a recent afternoon, workers inside the cavernous TPI plant gaze excitedly at a crane lifting a blade from its mold and carrying it toward a cleared area. Curved and smooth, the blade stretches as long as a wing of the largest jets. One worker hums the theme from ''Jaws'' as the blade slips past.
 Larry Crady, a worker, takes particular pleasure in seeing the finished product overhead, a broad grin forming across his goateed face. He used to run a team that made coin-operated laundry machines at Maytag. Now he supervises a team that lays down fiberglass strips between turbine moldings. He runs his hand across the surface of the next blade for signs of unevenness. 
 ''I like this job more than I did Maytag,'' Mr. Crady says. ''I feel I'm doing something to improve our country, rather than just building a washing machine.''
 Ask him how long he spent at Maytag and Mr. Crady responds precisely: ''23.6 years.'' Which is to say, 6.4 years short of drawing a pension whose famously generous terms compelled so many to work at the Maytag plant. ''That's what everyone in Newton was waiting on,'' he says. ''You could get that 30 and out.''
 But he is now optimistic about the decades ahead. ''I feel solid,'' he says. ''This is going to be the future. This company is going to grow huge.''
 The human resources office at TPI is overseen by Terri Rock, who used to have the same position at Maytag's corporate headquarters, where she worked for two decades. In her last years there, her job was mostly spent ending other people's jobs.
 ''There was a lot of heartache,'' she says. ''This is a small town, and you'd have to let people go and then see them at the grocery store with their families. It was a real tough job at the end.''
 Now, Ms. Rock starts fresh careers, hiring as many as 20 people a week. She enjoys the creative spirit of a start-up. ''We're not stuck with the mentality of 'this is how we've done it for the last 35 years,' '' she says.
 Maytag is gone in large part because of the calculus driving globalization: household appliances and so many other goods are now produced mostly where physical labor is cheaper, in countries like China and Mexico. But wind turbines and blades are huge and heavy. The TPI plant is in Iowa largely because of the costs of shipping such huge items from far away.
 ''These are American jobs that are hard to export,'' says Crugar Tuttle, general manager of the TPI plant. 
 And these jobs are part of a build-out that is gathering force. More than $5 billion in venture capital poured into so-called clean energy technology industries last year in North America and Europe, according to Cleantech, a trade group. In North America, that represented nearly a fifth of all venture capital, up from less than 2 percent in 2000.
 ''Everybody involved in the wind industry is in a massive hurry to build out capacity,'' Mr. Tuttle says. ''It will feed into a whole local industry of people making stuff, driving trucks. Manufacturing has been in decline for decades. This is our greatest chance to turn it around. It's the biggest ray of hope that we've got.''
 Those rays aren't touching everyone, though. Hundreds of former Maytag workers remain without jobs, or stuck in positions paying less than half their previous wages. Outside an old union hall, some former Maytaggers share cigarettes and commiserate about the strains of starting over. 
 Mr. Johnson, the former local president, is jobless. At 45, he has slipped back into a world of financial hardship that he thought he had escaped. His father was a self-employed welder. His mother worked at an overalls factory.
 ''I grew up in southern Iowa with nothing,'' he says. ''If somebody got a new car, everybody heard about it.''
 When Maytag shut down, his $1,100-a-week paycheck became a $360 unemployment check. He and his wife divorced, turning what once was a two-income household into a no-income household. He sold off his truck, his dining room furniture, his Maytag refrigerator -- all in an effort to pay his mortgage. Last winter, he surrendered his house to foreclosure.
 Mr. Johnson has applied for more than 220 jobs, he says, from sales positions at Lowe's to TPI. He has yet to secure an interview. His unemployment benefits ran out in May. He no longer has health insurance. He recently broke a tooth where a filling had been, but he can't afford to have it fixed. 
 When his teenage daughter, who lives with him, complained of headaches, he paid $1,500 out of pocket for an M.R.I. The doctor found a cyst on her brain. And how is she doing now? Mr. Johnson freezes at the question. He is a grown man with silver hair, a black Harley-Davidson T-shirt across a barrel chest, and calloused hands that could once bring a comfortable living. He tries to compose himself, but tears burst. ''I'm sorry,'' he says.
 He signed up for a state insurance program for low-income families so his daughter could go to a neurologist.
 ALTHOUGH the United States is well behind Europe in manufacturing wind-power gear and solar panels, other American communities are joining Newton's push, laying the groundwork for large-scale production. 
 ''You have to reinvest in industrial capacity,'' says Randy Udall, an energy consultant in Carbondale, Colo. ''You use wind to revitalize the Rust Belt. You make steel again. You bring it home. We ought to be planting wind turbines as if they were trees.''
 In West Branch, Acciona, a Spanish company, has converted the empty hydraulic pump factory into a plant that makes wind turbines. When the previous plant closed, it wiped out 130 jobs; Acciona has hired 120 people, many of them workers from the old factory. 
 Steve Jennings, 50, once made $14 an hour at the hydraulic pump factory. When he heard that a wind turbine plant was coming in a mere five miles from his house, he was among the first to apply for a job. Now he's a team leader, earning nearly $20 an hour -- more than he's ever made. Ordinary line workers make $16 an hour and up.
 ''It seemed like manufacturing was going away,'' he says. ''But I think this is here to stay.'' 
 Acciona built its first turbine in Iowa last December and is on track to make 200 this year. Next year, it plans to double production.
 For now, Acciona is importing most of its metal parts from Europe. But the company is seeking American suppliers, which could help catalyze increased metalwork in the United States. 
 ''Michigan, Ohio -- that's the Rust Belt,'' says Adrian LaTrace, the plant's general manager. ''We could be purchasing these components from those states. We've got the attention of the folks in the auto industry. This thing has critical mass.''
 IN Toledo, the declining auto industry has prompted a retooling. For more than a century, the city has been dominated by glass-making, but the problems of Detroit automakers have softened demand for car windows from its plants. Toledo has lost nearly a third of its manufacturing jobs since 2000. 
 Now, Toledo is harnessing its glass-making skills to carve out a niche in solar power. At the center of the trend is a huge glass maker, Pilkington, which bought a Toledo company that was born in the 19th century. 
 Half of Pilkington's business is in the automotive industry. In the last two years, that business is down 30 percent in North America. But the solar division, started two years ago, is growing at a 40 percent clip annually. 
 Nearby, the University of Toledo aims to play the same enabling role in solar power that Stanford played at the dawnof the Internet. It has 15 faculty members researching solar power. By licensing the technologies spawned in its labs, the university encourages its academics to start businesses. 
 One company started by a professor, Xunlight, is developing thin and flexible solar cells. It has 65 employees and expects to have as many as 150 by the middle of next year.
 ''It's a second opportunity,'' says an assembly supervisor, Matt McGilvery, one of Xunlight's early hires. Mr. McGilvery, 50, spent a decade making steel coils for $23 an hour before he was laid off. Xunlight hired him this year. His paycheck has shrunk, he says, declining to get into particulars, but his old-fashioned skills drawing plans by hand are again in demand as Xunlight designs its manufacturing equipment from scratch, and the future seems promising.
 ''The hope is that two years from now everything is smoking and that envelope will slide across the table,'' he says. ''The money that people are dumping into this tells me it's a huge market.''
 In Newton, the tidy downtown clustered around a domed courthouse is already showing signs of new life, after the pain of Maytag's demise.
 The owner of Courtyard Floral, Diane Farver, says she saw a steep drop in sales after Maytag left, particularly around holidays like Valentine's Day and Mother's Day, when she used to run several vanloads a week to the washing machine plant. Times have changed since that decline. When TPI recently dispatched workers to a factory in China for training, the company ordered bouquets for the spouses left at home.
 Across the street at NetWork Realty, the broker Dennis Combs says the housing market is starting to stabilize as Maytag jobs are replaced.
 ''We've gone from Maytag, which wasn't upgrading their antiquated plant, to something that's cutting-edge technology, something that every politician is screaming this country has to have,'' he says.
 At Uncle Nancy's Coffee House, talk of unemployment checks and foreclosures now mixes with job leads and looming investment.
 ''We're seeing hope,'' says Mr. Allen, the mayor.
 The town is hardly done. Kimberly M. Didier, head of the Newton Development Corporation, which helped recruit TPI, is trying to attract turbine manufacturers and providers of raw materials and parts for the wind industry.
 ''This is in its infancy,'' she says. ''Automobiles, washer-dryers and other appliances have become commodities in their retirement phase. We're in the beginning of this. How our economy functions is changing. We built this whole thing around oil, and now we've got to replace that.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Maytag left Newton, Iowa, but a maker of wind turbine blades has moved in. It has already hired about 225 workers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK KEGANS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.BU1)
Mike Prusha, left, and Steve Jennings at a wind turbine plant in West Branch, Iowa. Acciona, a Spanish company, took over a hydraulic pump factory there.
Arie Versendaal worked at the Maytag plant in Newton, Iowa, for years. After it closed, he went to TPI Composites, which makes wind turbine blades.
 Darius Coltrain, a new employee at TPI, measures the general manager, Crugar Tuttle, in millimeters as part of training in the metric system. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK KEGANS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.BU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAJOR APPLIANCE MFG (90%); WIND ENERGY (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); WIND POWER PLANTS (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); PLANT CLOSINGS (89%); POWER PLANTS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (76%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (76%); EMISSIONS (75%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELL MFG (73%); GLASS MFG (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (68%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (65%); DIESEL FUEL (65%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (65%); GREENHOUSE GASES (64%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (63%)

COMPANY: WHIRLPOOL CORP (91%)

TICKER: WHR (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335228 OTHER MAJOR HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS335224 HOUSEHOLD LAUNDRY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (55%) IOWA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



66 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 162 words

HEADLINE: Letters: Lessons Learned, or Not, from the '30s

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''But Have We Learned Enough?'' (Economic View, Oct. 26), which compared the present-day financial crisis with the Great Depression without mentioning income inequality or overproduction as factors common to both times. 
 Is it pure coincidence that American levels of income inequality have grown in the last 15 years? Or that average real American incomes stagnated or declined as auto manufacturers spoke of overcapacity? Doesn't a strained limit of consumer purchasing power, in addition to lending and derivatives practices, ultimately underlie the housing crisis?
 Apparently, to answer the headline, we have not learned enough. Perhaps it is time to reread Keynes, who understood capitalism to be innately crisis-prone -- or better yet, Marx -- and look to the economic tendencies hollowing out working-class incomes and living standards.
 Christopher Phelps
 Mansfield, Ohio, Oct. 26
 Letters for Sunday Business may be sent to sunbiz@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (88%); AUTOMAKERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



67 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Holiday Hiring Forecast Hardly Looks Promising

BYLINE: By EILENE ZIMMERMAN

 BODY:
THOSE who are hoping to earn extra money for the holidays this year may find the seasonal market anything but generous, as jobs are likely to be scarce and competition intense. 
 Because consumers are weighed down with economic worries, retailers face ''incredible challenges heading into the fourth quarter,'' Rosalind Wells, chief economist for the National Retail Federation, said in a statement last month.
 To meet those challenges, they may have to trim both inventory levels and labor costs -- and recent surveys about seasonal hiring bear this out. 
 Jonas Prising, president of the North American division of the staffing firm Manpower, said the company's quarterly employment outlook survey showed the hiring market for the wholesale-retail sector to be the weakest in 17 years.
 At a time when retailers should be gearing up for the holiday season, many are taking a wait-and-see approach. ''There is a lot of talent out there looking for work, so the actual decision for businesses to ramp up a work force can be made later in the season,'' Mr. Prising said. ''Even in dining, hotels and call centers, they can wait a little later.''
 Few companies will acknowledge publicly that they are scaling back holiday hiring because it implies slowing sales, said Shawn Boyer, chief executive of SnagAJob.com, a job board for hourly positions. But according to surveys done by the company, managers in general are planning to hire fewer workers this year, he said. 
 Part of the reason is that existing staff members are agreeing to take on additional hours. ''More people are interested in doing overtime this year, so businesses are waiting later in the season to hire,'' Mr. Boyer said.
 For some businesses, the credit crisis has compounded the problem of declining consumer spending because credit lines they often use to stock stores and finance seasonal hiring are not available. 
 Even businesses holding their own during this downturn are being cautious. John Thrailkill, vice president of stores at the Container Store, said locations in Manhattan, White Plains and Paramus, N.J., were hiring roughly the same number of workers as last year. But stores in other parts of the country with slower sales are likely to cut back their hiring, he said. 
 ''Scheduling has become more important now, too,'' he said. ''We are really digging into every hour at every store to make sure that if we only need 12 people on the floor during a particular hour, we don't have 13.'' 
 Emmanuel Tam, who lives in Harlem and was laid off this summer from his job as a media literacy instructor in the Bronx, says that there is simply too much competition. Although he has been searching for a full-time job since July, he is now also applying for temporary holiday work. ''I'm going everywhere,'' he said. ''I've tried retail stores, temp agencies, SnagAJob. I go out every day and put in applications.''
 Although Mr. Tam expected a competitive landscape for full-time work, he was surprised at the number of applicants for holiday jobs. ''A year ago I wouldn't have thought I would have trouble getting one of those positions,'' he said. ''But now I will take whatever comes along. I have no choice.'' 
 Retailers often hire from the same pool of workers they used in previous holiday seasons, but new job seekers can increase their chances by highlighting on their applications any special skills they have -- speaking more than one language, for example, or experience in customer service, said Rosaleena Marcellus, vice president of client services and head of the retail practice at Global Lead, a management consulting firm based in Cincinnati.
 Applicants may also need to be more flexible about scheduling than they were in previous years. ''You need to have a wide availability that is easy to describe, such as 'every afternoon after 5 p.m. and any time on the weekend,' '' said Dan Russell, a vice president for the human resources firm Aon Consulting in Chicago who works with retailers on work-force selection. ''You don't want to go in with a really complex schedule, because a hiring manager doesn't have the time to deal with that.'' 
 SnagAJob encourages job seekers to spread their bets by applying for jobs in a variety of environments and industries -- like low- and high-end retailing, hotels and restaurants, and airlines. ''It's a numbers game,'' Mr. Boyer said. 
 It's not all doom and gloom, either. Discount retailers like Wal-Mart and Target are likely to be hiring more seasonal workers than higher-end department stores, Ms. Marcellus said. ''People who normally go to middle-scale stores are going to shop at discounters this year,'' she said.
 ANOTHER bright spot is online shopping. This season, it is expected to increase by 12 percent, according to a report released in October by Forrester, the technology research firm.
 Sucharita Mulpuru, an analyst at Forrester covering online retailing, said: ''This is one sector in retail that should be looking for more people.'' That means fulfillment centers and call centers will be looking for workers. 
 DialAmerica, a teleservices company in Mahwah, N.J., expects its business to expand about 20 percent this quarter. The company's clients are in a variety of industries, but about 20 percent are retailers using customer service agents for online and catalog sales.
 ''We are definitely hiring,'' said Mary Conway, the company's chief marketing officer. Job seekers with listening skills, the ability to think on their feet and respond appropriately stand a good chance of finding work at a teleservices company, Ms. Conway said.
 ''I get the sense our clients are going to raise the numbers of agents they need for the holidays,'' she said, ''because they are relying heavily on this to be a successful channel for them.
 ''Quite frankly,'' she added, ''we're nervous we won't have enough capacity.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Amy Fletcher of the Container Store congratulated Jonathan LeBlanc for successfully completing a mock sales quiz in a group interview in Dallas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN HARKIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); RETAILERS (90%); SEASONAL WORKERS (90%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); INVENTORIES (77%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (75%); OVERTIME (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (51%); CALL CENTERS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



68 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: The Sociology of Success

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KOTKIN

 BODY:
MALCOLM GLADWELL has a rare ability: he can transform academic research into engaging fables spotlighting real people. His new book, ''Outliers: The Story of Success'' (Little, Brown, $27.99), with its entertaining psychology and sociology, is catchy and beautifully written. But it also feels like a sumptuous Chinese meal that an hour later leaves a diner feeling hungry.
 A staff writer for The New Yorker, Mr. Gladwell uses ''Outliers'' (to be released Nov. 18) to refute the simplistic old saw of the self-made man -- and to remind us that success is social. 
 One of his best examples involves Joe Flom, who was born during the Great Depression. His parents toiled in the Garment District of Manhattan. After graduation from law school he was shunned by the patrician, ''white shoe'' law firms. Yet he became part of the storied New York firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom as a seeming rags-to-riches success.
 Certainly, Mr. Flom exhibited smarts and ambition in droves. But he was also born in a ''demographic trough,'' meaning that he faced fewer rivals for coveted school slots. And his Jewish immigrant parents had skills that enabled them to set up urban businesses and benefit more from hard work. Mr. Flom's rejection by establishment law firms forced him into new areas, like work on lucrative hostile corporate takeovers.
 So in the end, all of Mr. Flom's supposed disadvantages proved to be advantages. Further, the work of the legal scholar Eli Wald, recapitulated by Mr. Gladwell, shows that Joe Flom belongs to a packed galaxy of star lawyers who share Jewish descent, 1930s birth, and Garment District parents. 
 Over and over, Mr. Gladwell zeros in on circumstances. The best hockey players in Canada, the psychologist Roger Barnsley has noted, are disproportionately born in January, February and March. Why? The eligibility cut-off in age-grouped youth leagues is Jan. 1, meaning that those born at the beginning of the year are older than their peers. These more mature youths get more coaching attention, reinforcing their age advantage.
 American children born in the latter part of the year are underrepresented in college. Conveying the research of the economists Kelly Bedard and Elizabeth Dhuey, Mr. Gladwell writes that those born early in the calendar year enjoy many months of developmental advantage because of arbitrary school entrance cut-off dates, and are often tracked into ''gifted'' programs.
 By way of equalizing the field, Mr. Gladwell suggests grouping school classes and youth sports leagues by birth months. ''We cling to the idea,'' he writes, ''that success is a simple function of individual merit.'' We? Who actually thinks that way? Not the parents holding their late-month-born children back a year before they enter kindergarten. Not those involved in wrestling or other sports that group individuals by weight.
 If some points border on the obvious, others seem a stretch. Asian children's high scores at math, Mr. Gladwell would have us believe, derive from work in rice paddies. Never mind that few of the test takers or their urban parents in Hong Kong, Singapore or Tokyo have ever practiced wet-rice agriculture. Noting that math test scores correlate with how long students will sit for any kind of exam, Mr. Gladwell points to an Asian culture of doggedness, which he attributes to cultural legacies of rice cultivation. (Paddies require constant effort.) 
 Here as elsewhere, Mr. Gladwell promotes a cultural explanation for success no matter how indirect the causal mechanisms. 
 Although the individuals that Mr. Gladwell cites are exceptional, their success, he argues, does not flow from their natural gifts but from their unusual cultural legacies, the uncanny opportunities that come their way, and their really, really hard work.
 He demonstrates this to bravura effect in an epilogue about the emergence of his mother, Joyce, as a writer and therapist from a slave-descended, mixed-race Jamaican family. Her background turns out to have had hidden advantages, bolstered by fortunate breaks and effort. Even better at making this point are chapters that connect the Beatles and Bill Gates. Top musicians and software programmers make their superiority look effortless only after 10 years of nonstop practice, Mr. Gladwell shows.
 But often the examples are unsatisfying, as in his discussion of the KIPP academy in the Bronx, where 90 percent of the students qualify for free or reduced-cost lunches but do as well in math as privileged suburban children. Why? Supposedly because the academy abolished long summer vacations. Mr. Gladwell, following the research of the sociologist Karl Alexander, contends that virtually the entire educational performance difference between better-off and poorer children derives from what some students do not learn when school's out. 
 So forget class size, funding levels, teachers, principals, parental involvement, role models, home life. Just shorten the summer break. ''The only problem with school for the kids who aren't achieving,'' Mr. Gladwell asserts, ''is that there isn't enough of it.'' His argument is attention-grabbing, but simplified.
 Academic journals brim with disputes as theories are contested by opponents. Mr. Gladwell revels in the flaws of Lewis Terman's hoary work on I.Q. -- because it argues for innate ability -- and he gives voice to Terman's critics. But he omits discussing objections to the work of the social scientists he chooses to rely upon. As in a magic trick, he wows the audience, using bold claims and exquisite storytelling, but we see no arguments that would detract from his brilliant spectacle. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIOLOGY (91%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); CHILDREN (88%); YOUTH SPORTS (85%); PSYCHOLOGY (78%); WRITERS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (74%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (74%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (73%); TAKEOVERS (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); SPORTS (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION (62%)

COMPANY: SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM LLP (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (77%)

TITLE: ''Outliers: The Story of Success'' (Book)>; ''Outliers: The Story of Success'' (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



69 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 227 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
In 36 Hours, Exploring Burlington, Vt.
 For all its worldliness -- antiglobalization rallies and fair-trade products abound -- the city has turned an eye to the local. At left, the Burlington Earth Clock at Oakledge Park and Beach on Lake Champlain. 
 nytimes.com/travel
 INTERACTIVE: RUNNING NEW YORK
 Five boroughs, 26.2 miles, about 40,000 runners and countless spectators. Explore the New York City Marathon route, learn about its history, watch a time-lapsed view of the course and follow three runners on race day.
 nytimes.com/sports
 VIDEO: DIM LIGHTS, 
 Green City
 A dusk-to-dark video tour of New York shows how green building technologies are changing the city's nightscape.
 nytimes.com/nyregion
 AIDING KIDNEY STONES
 A look at the remedies for a growing number of people with kidney stones. Also in the Times Essentials, an expert Q&A, selected clinical trials and questions for your doctor. 
 nytimes.com/health
 SLIDESHOW: RISKY AUCTION SEASON
 A slide show of art featured in coming auctions at Sotheby's and Christie's, including works by Jean-Michel Basquiat, Andy Warhol and Francis Bacon. Will the current economic climate mean less risky bids?
 nytimes.com/design
 More Letters
 Terrorism in Lebanon; government policies and energy savings.
 Also, the Biotechnology Industry Organization responds to a Business Day article.
 nytimes.com/opinion

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAUL G. BOISVERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 CHRISTIAN HANSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); MARATHONS (90%); RUNNING (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); GREEN BUILDING (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (67%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (67%); GLOBALIZATION (58%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); TERRORISM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY ORGANIZATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BURLINGTON, VT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); VERMONT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



70 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 5079 words

HEADLINE: The Safety Gap

BYLINE: By GARDINER HARRIS. 
Gardiner Harris, a correspondent in The New York Times's Washington bureau, reports on public health.

 BODY:
In the belly of an industrial district south of Lyon, France, just past a sulfurous oil refinery and a synthetic vanilla plant, sits a run-down, eight-story factory that makes aspirin, the first pharmaceutical blockbuster. The Lyon factory is the last of its kind. No other major facility in Europe or the United States makes generic aspirin anymore. The market has been taken over by low-cost Chinese producers. Even Bayer, the German company that created aspirin in the 1890s and has fought for more than a century to distinguish its product as the most trustworthy one, now has backup supplies from China. 
 The Lyon plant is owned by a French chemical giant named Rhodia that has been making aspirin since 1908 and still accounts for more than 25 percent of the world's aspirin market. But now a century after its entry into the business, the company intends to quit making aspirin altogether. The plant was last renovated in 1992, and it would need an upgrade to continue operating, an investment the company can no longer justify in what has become a cutthroat business. In fact, Rhodia is closing another factory about 40 miles to the south. This one makes the painkiller acetaminophen, which is found in Tylenol. It, too, is the last such facility in Western Europe. 
 In some ways, this is a nonevent. European factories close; Chinese ones open. Consumers like their commodities cheap, in the case of aspirin as with everything else. China now produces about two-thirds of all aspirin and is poised to become the world's sole global supplier in the not-too-distant future. But are the Chinese factories safe? Who knows? The U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the European Medicines Agency and other competent government regulators rarely, if ever, inspect them. (By contrast, Rhodia's plant was last inspected by the F.D.A. in July and is routinely inspected by one country or another.) Companies that import Chinese pharmaceutical ingredients, including aspirin, are required to test the supplies before using them, and some send private inspectors to China to ensure that suppliers use adequate controls. No pharmaceutical maker wants its name to become synonymous with disaster, and the vast majority of drugs that are consumed in the United States are safe. But some industry executives told me that price sensitivity in the generics industry makes it more difficult to fully vet their low-cost suppliers.
 In China, where thousands of drug manufacturers sell products in the local markets, profit margins are razor thin, and counterfeiting and contamination are common. In 2002, the Pharmaceutical Association, a Chinese trade group, estimated that as much as 8 percent of over-the-counter drugs sold in China are counterfeit. Contaminated products extend beyond drugs, as was made tragically clear this fall when four Chinese babies died and 53,000 were sickened by melamine, a toxic chemical illegally added to watered-down baby formula to artificially increase the protein count and fool quality tests. 
 Though no melamine-tainted baby formula from China was found in the United States, it has shown up in other countries. This is the latest in a series of food- and drug-safety scandals. China has in recent years exported poisonous toothpaste, deadly dog food, toys made with lead paint and tainted fish. In one infamous example this spring, Chinese manufacturers substituted a cheap fake for the dried pig intestines used to make the drug heparin, which is given to dialysis and surgery patients to prevent blood clotting. As deaths among those taking the drug mounted, the F.D.A. discovered the taint and banned the contaminated drug. In the end, 81 people may have died from allergic reactions, and tens of thousands around the world were exposed to danger. F.D.A. officials admitted that the agency should never have approved the Chinese-made heparin for sale in the United States; the agency, it turned out, had never inspected the Chinese plant making it. 
 Concerns about Chinese drugs have become so intense that just three weeks ago, the Health and Human Services secretary, Michael O. Leavitt, announced that the F.D.A. would open an office in Beijing by the end of the year and offices in Shanghai and Guangzhou next year. The agency still plans to send inspectors to China from the U.S., but the offices will provide ''an infrastructure that will make those people more effective,'' Leavitt said at the time of the announcement.
 China's leap to one of the biggest suppliers of pharmaceutical ingredients in the world happened over the last decade, as the Chinese government subsidized the construction of manufacturing plants that have undercut prices everywhere. Generic drug makers in the United States, where price competition is fierce, were the first to seek cheaper drug ingredients in China. Last year, generic drug applications to the F.D.A. listed 1,154 plants providing active pharmaceutical ingredients: 43 percent of them were in China, and another 39 percent were in India. Only 13 percent were in the United States. Branded drug makers, with their fatter profit margins, resisted buying ingredients from China for years, but with their businesses now suffering, even major pharmaceutical companies like AstraZeneca, Bayer, Baxter and Pfizer have announced deals to outsource manufacturing to China.
 I have been writing about the drug industry for more than a decade, but I have rarely written about a subject that both branded and generic drug makers wanted to discuss less. Nearly all of the industry executives who spoke for this article did so anonymously. Even the Generic Pharmaceutical Association, a normally loquacious trade group, was largely silent on the issue. Not one of them, it seems, wants to talk too much about the difficulty of regulating factories across several times zones, 6,000 miles and a vast linguistic and cultural divide. 
 The F.D.A. regulates more than $1 trillion worth of consumer goods, which amounts to about 25 cents of every consumer dollar spent in this country. This includes $466 billion in food sales, $275 billion in drugs, $60 billion in cosmetics and $18 billion in vitamin supplements. The agency is responsible for monitoring a third of all imported goods, from eggplant to eyeliner, microwave ovens to monoclonal antibodies, slaughterhouses to cellphones. But with fewer than 500 import inspectors and computer systems so old that repairmen must be called out of retirement to fix them, the agency is increasingly beset by a sense of futility. 
 Even the F.D.A.'s staunchest defenders now acknowledge that something is terribly wrong. Among them is Peter Barton Hutt, who served as the agency's general counsel during the Nixon administration and is widely considered the dean of the F.D.A. bar in Washington. I've interviewed Hutt dozens of times over the years, and he has always defended the F.D.A. No more. ''This is a fundamentally broken agency,'' Hutt told me earlier this year, ''and it needs to be repaired.''
 The breakdown is not simply about money. This summer 1,442 people around the country were sickened by tainted tomatoes -- or possibly jalepeno peppers. Such scares have become familiar, and the inability to quickly find the sources of contamination has been one of the agency's signal failures. A 2002 law requires produce processors and distributors to keep track of where food goes and comes from, but the government has yet to mandate standardized record-keeping. As a result, in response to a scare, investigators must pour over a blizzard of contradictory packing slips and incompatible computer programs as they race to save people.
 To ensure the safety of imported drugs, the F.D.A. relies almost entirely on its own inspections of foreign plants. This was not much of a problem 30 years ago, when most medical products consumed in the United States were made here and F.D.A. inspectors could drive around to plants in their district. Most of those plants have since moved abroad, and now decades can pass between inspections. Testifying before Congress in April, Dr. Janet Woodcock, director of the F.D.A.'s drug center, spoke with rare frankness about the ability of the agency to do its job abroad. ''The F.D.A. of the last century is not configured to regulate this century's globalized pharmaceutical industry,'' she testified.
 Other current and former F.D.A. officials I talked to echoed Woodcock's warning. Tim Wells, who was a field investigator and then a compliance officer for 24 years at the F.D.A., now does private audits of drug plants and sees the holes in the agency's safety net. ''A company I recently visited abroad hasn't been inspected for 10 years,'' he told me.
 Besides being more frequent, domestic inspections are unannounced and more intense. And when inspectors find dangerous conditions at domestic plants, they generally return promptly to ensure that those conditions get fixed. Not so in foreign plants. In a report released Oct. 22, government auditors reported that between 2002 and 2007, F.D.A. inspectors found dangerous conditions in 15 foreign plants. Only one of those plants was reinspected within two years, the auditors found. In every other case, the agency took foreign managers at their word that promised changes were made.
 The record is particularly bad in China. Over the past six years, the F.D.A. has managed to inspect annually an average of just 15 of the 714 Chinese drug plants that export to the United States. At its present pace, the F.D.A. would need more than 50 years to visit all of these Chinese plants. By contrast, the F.D.A. inspects domestic drug plants every 2.7 years.
 Inspectors volunteer for the grueling overseas assignments, and, it turns out, they don't much like traveling to parts of Asia. ''I went to Taiwan once, and after initially spending a night in a very nice hotel, I was transferred several hours by car to a hotel closer to the plant,'' recalls DeVaughn Edwards, who worked as an F.D.A. inspector for 14 years until he left in 2006. ''The bed consisted of two mattresses on the floor. There was no lock on the door. You had to hope that no one came in. It was dark; there were no amenities, no TV that worked. There was a shared restroom down the hall. It was only one night there, but it was enough to make you not want to revisit the plant or spend too much time there.''
 When inspectors do go to China, their reports sometimes read like a bureaucratic rendering of Mark Twain's ''Innocents Abroad.'' During a 2001 trip, for example, two F.D.A. inspectors visited a plant that was exporting acetaminophen to the United States. The plant had never been inspected. ''The F.D.A. inspection team was met at the hotel in Wenzhou by representatives from Wenzhou No. 3 Pharmaceutical Factory and . . . transported by public ferry and then company vehicle to the manufacturing facility on Dong Tou Island off the coast of Wenzhou,'' their report states. ''There is no street address or plot number, and the address of the facility is given only by the county and province.'' 
 Once the team arrived in what seemed like the middle of nowhere, the inspectors learned the drug was being manufactured at another plant -- one that once had a similar name but had recently changed it. ''In fact,'' the report continues, ''inspection found that there were initially three separate and independent firms operating under the names Wenzhou No. 1 Pharmaceutical Factory, Wenzhou No. 2 Pharmaceutical Factory and Wenzhou No. 3 Pharmaceutical Factory. The location of Wenzhou No. 1 Pharmaceutical Factory was also determined by the F.D.A. inspection team during the visit to Wenzhou, and it was learned that the firm is operating under a new Chinese name; however, the English translation of that name was not available.'' So the two inspectors flew back to the 
 United States -- at taxpayers' expense -- never having inspected a thing.
 The F.D.A.'s apparent inability to keep names straight is no trivial matter. One reason the agency failed to inspect the Changzhou plant that produced deadly heparin, for instance, was that someone mixed up the facility's name and concluded that the plant had already been inspected. Chinese plant names, a vestige of its once strictly controlled economy, are often very similar, and translations can vary. For instance, there are 57 separate drug master files -- the basic F.D.A. record of a plant's name, location and approved product -- with ''Shanghai'' in the name. Some are obvious repeats, like the ones for ''Shanghai No. 6 Pharmaceutical Factory'' and ''Shanghai Number 6 Pharmaceutical Factory.'' But others could be separate plants. Or maybe not. It's just too hard to tell.
 Compounding the problem is the F.D.A.'s antiquated technology. Its computer systems are so awful that officials have no way of knowing which names, or which plants, are real. To determine which factories need to be inspected, agency investigators must consult two incompatible databases, one of which lists 3,000 foreign drug plants exporting to the United States and the other 6,800. Which number is right? Nobody really knows. Officials have told House investigators that their best guess for the number of foreign drug plants exporting to the United States is 2,967, while the Government Accountability Office recently guessed 3,249. Neither can the agency tell in many cases when the plants were last inspected (or, more important, which have never been inspected), where they are located or what products they make. 
 The combined ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach receive about 45 percent of all ship-borne trade that comes to the United States, or some 5.2 million containers a year. When I visited one day in May, giant cranes were unloading and loading more than 30 ships, each bearing about 2,500 containers. Some 40 to 50 of those containers -- a tiny fraction of the total -- were trucked to a gigantic warehouse about a half-mile from the ports. There the F.D.A. and Customs and Border Protection cracked open shipping containers that they considered suspicious and then emptied the containers into a large examination area in front of the bays, arranging the boxes and crates as if they were pathologists lining up organs from an autopsy.
 Just about every crate I saw contained some kind of food product. One crate came from Indonesia, and its manifest said it contained products with chicken inside. Indonesia plus chicken suggests avian flu to F.D.A. officials. So they decided to take a look. The crate turned out to contain chicken seasoning, but no actual chicken. Still, the cans were sent off for testing. Deeper into the guts of the container were glass jars of sambal terasi, a hot sauce. They would probably be sent back because the F.D.A. requires makers of low-acid foods in jars or cans to register with the agency. 
 The labels on high-end olives from Italy were lacking the required nutritional information, so back to Italy they went. Jars of jam made of figs and tangerines indicated they were produced close to Ukraine, so an F.D.A. inspector said that he wanted to sample the product for radioactive fallout from the 1986 Chernobyl disaster.
 As I wandered through this cornucopia, I realized that I had seen similar products at specialty grocery stores all over New York. My brother is a gourmet chef, and I bet an F.D.A. inspection of his kitchen cabinets would net a sizable seizure of improperly labeled food of suspicious provenance. The F.D.A., after all, inspects less than 1 percent of all imports.
 This year, 18.2 million shipments of food, devices, cosmetics and drugs are expected to enter more than 300 U.S. ports; the F.D.A. had 454 investigators in 2007 -- one and a half per port -- to scrutinize them. Theirs is an almost hopeless task, made even more frustrating by the inability of one part of the F.D.A. to share even its most basic information with another. Inspectors in Los Angeles, for instance, have no way of knowing which Chinese drug or device imports really ought to be reviewed because they do not have access to records of F.D.A. plant inspections. If the agents knew, for example, that an F.D.A. inspector had found significant problems at a particular facility, they could be sure to check for the maker's name on a shipping manifest. But they have no way of knowing where to focus their attention. ''Our current nonautomated approach to entry screening cannot continue,'' Woodcock of the F.D.A. told Congress. ''We need to be able to assure that both the product and site of manufacture are acceptable before a drug gets into our country.''
 I met Yusuf K. Hamied in the lobby of the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, where he likes to stay when visiting New York City from his home in Mumbai. He greeted me warmly and turned quickly to the matter at hand. ''Let's go eat,'' he said, steering me to a nearby Chinese restaurant where the maitre d' greeted him by name and showed us to a quiet table. 
 Hamied is the chairman and managing director of Cipla, the giant Indian generic drug manufacturer. A small man with thinning white hair and well-tailored suits, Hamied has become something of an international public-health hero. In September 2000, Hamied walked into an international meeting on AIDS and other diseases and promised to sell a cocktail of AIDS drugs for about $600 per patient per year, a fraction of the price then being offered by large drug makers. ''Friends,'' he told the crowd, ''I represent the needs and aspirations of the third world. I represent the capabilities of the third world, and above all I represent an opportunity.'' 
 Until Hamied's announcement, most leaders and even many charitable organizations had dismissed the possibility of treating impoverished Africans and Asians who were infected with H.I.V. Drug combinations that kept the infection at bay cost upward of $15,000 per year, a price even those in rich nations strained to bear. But by defying Western companies that held the patents on the medicines, Hamied, whose offer was later lowered to $350 and then to $80, changed everything. 
 Hamied certainly saved many lives and, in doing so, demonstrated just how cheaply effective drugs could be made. Today, as more and more drug makers are seeking out Chinese and Indian manufacturers, the prices for all kinds of generic drugs have dropped. A result has been lower prices in industrial nations as well as the developing world. The A.A.R.P. announced earlier this year that the prices of 185 widely used generic drugs dropped nearly 10 percent last year while those of the 220 most commonly used brand-name drugs rose 7 percent. 
 If not for the low prices from Chinese and Indian producers, millions of people around the world would likely go untreated. And in the United States, buying generic drugs produced abroad is one way to tamp down the exploding health care costs confronting companies and individuals. But there is a hazard: without proper regulation, some of those drugs could be either ineffective or dangerous. A 2006 study found that more than half of anti-malarial drugs sold in Southeast Asia contained no active ingredients. The World Health Organization has estimated that as much as 10 percent of pharmaceuticals sold worldwide are counterfeit or contaminated. In some poor countries, the share is more than 30 percent. 
 At lunch, Hamied said that his plants are inspected routinely, and he provided an extensive schedule of inspections. Indeed, international drug buyers say that getting a few days to audit a Cipla facility can be difficult because, as a crucial supplier to dozens of companies across the world, the Indian drug maker hosts a never-ending stream of inspectors and auditors. But like everyone else, Cipla acquires an increasing share of its drug ingredients from plants in China. ''Yes, I've heard all those stories about problems in Chinese plants,'' Hamied said. But he added that he trusted his Chinese partners.
 Many international drug buyers said that they are far more comfortable buying from Indian companies than Chinese ones. Language is one reason, but another is that corruption is not as endemic in India. ''We haven't had the problems with the Indians that we've had with the Chinese,'' says William F. Haddad, chairman and chief executive of Biogenerics. ''There's something missing in China, and it has a lot to do with corruption.''
 But a few weeks after my lunch with Hamied, the U.S. Justice Department announced that it had opened a criminal investigation of Ranbaxy, the largest Indian drug maker, with $390 million in annual sales in the United States. In a motion filed in federal court in Maryland, the Justice Department accused Ranbaxy of ''a pattern of systemic fraudulent conduct,'' including filing fabricated drug data to the F.D.A. and using drug ingredients from unapproved and uninspected plants. AIDS drugs purchased by the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief were among the medicines implicated, the Justice Department charged. Leaders of a House committee sent the F.D.A. a letter in July saying that court documents showed that the agency's officials knew of the allegations for 18 months but did nothing. In September, the F.D.A. banned imports of more than 30 generic drugs made by Ranbaxy, citing violations that could lead to contamination and allergic reactions.
 It was a hot day in June, but Dr. Andrew von Eschenbach, the commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, was dressed as usual in a dark suit and tie with a monogrammed white dress shirt. His gold cuff links and the yellow ''Livestrong'' wristband from his ''good friend'' Lance Armstrong were visible. He was clearly excited. 
 I was following von Eschenbach on a visit to the John F. Kennedy airport international mail facility. When I visited the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach in May, the agency agreed only at the last minute to send along its district director. Now I was getting an unusual ride-along with the agency's commissioner. In the intervening weeks, the agency went from defending its oversight of the nation's drug supply as effective to agreeing that the agency was overwhelmed. The reason for the change? A bipartisan chorus on Capitol Hill had been denouncing the agency's failings -- while at last promising more money.
 We were herded into ''the cage,'' a 30-foot-by-20-foot area where customs and F.D.A. inspectors do their work. There are two to three F.D.A. inspectors assigned to police the flood of illegal drug shipments among the nearly 1.3 million pieces of foreign mail that flow through J.F.K. every day. Mail workers pull packages from countries that customs has decided are risky and dump them into ''the cage.''
 Officer James Ng of Customs and Border Protection started the tour by putting a package from China through an X-ray machine. The pictures showed row upon row of vials. ''When it looks like this, it's usually anabolic steroids inside,'' Ng said. He opened the box, put on a pair of half-glasses and took out one of the vials, which was filled with a white crystalline powder. ''It says it's testosterone,'' Ng said and then handed the vial to von Eschenbach.
 ''It's an incredible example,'' von Eschenbach said, his eyes bright. ''It's a steroid from China, but the label is written in Spanish.'' 
 Customs seizes any steroids and narcotics they find, but they give other drugs to F.D.A. inspectors, who laboriously fill out handwritten forms and send letters to intended recipients. If the recipient swears that the drugs are for his or her own personal use, the F.D.A. often releases the detained package. It takes an hour or two to process each package, ''an obstacle that makes their job functionally impossible,'' according to a 2003 Congressional investigation. Thousands of packages can pile up waiting for F.D.A. review, and the agency often releases packages without any investigation for lack of staff. 
 Even when there are inspectors on the job, they cannot be sure every ingredient in a medicine is safe. The F.D.A. confines nearly all of its regulations and much of its inspection oversight to the active part of most pills, which generally constitutes between 1 percent and 10 percent of a pill's volume. Much of a pill is fillers, binders, coatings, colorants and lubricants that are almost entirely unregulated.
 The syrup in which cough and fever medicines are delivered has figured in at least eight mass poisonings around the world in the past two decades, with three of the four most recent cases originating in China. Hundreds died in Panama in 2006, at least 88 children in Haiti died in 1995 and 1996 and some 30 infants died in India in 1998 -- all from toxic syrup. In 1937, 107 people in the United States died because of similar toxic syrup. In fact, it was this incident that led to the creation of the modern F.D.A. But plants making fillers and other nondrug ingredients of pills and syrups are rarely, if ever, inspected by the F.D.A. or any other regulatory agency.
 Providing money to finance the agency has been an issue through both Democratic and Republican administrations. The situation grew so dire in the early 1990s that drug makers, alarmed that it was taking up to three years for the F.D.A. to approve new drugs, agreed to pay fees to speed review times. But the companies put strict limits on how that fee money could be spent, and Congress went along with these limits. The parts of the agency that are not financed by fees, like the inspectorate and those charged with overseeing the safety of already approved medicines, began to whither. Indeed, the number of personnel financed by Congressional appropriations remained unchanged at the F.D.A. between 1992 and 2007. Since 1990, the volume of U.S. imports has increased by more than 900 percent. 
 Several independent assessments of the F.D.A. have called attention to the agency's poor organization and shortage of funds -- and to the hazard those shortfalls pose to the nation's supply of food and medicinal drugs. A board of scientific advisers to the F.D.A. released a report last year that concluded that nothing less than the lives of U.S. citizens were at stake. 
 In February of this year, the president asked Congress to provide the F.D.A. with $1.77 billion for 2009, which included an increase of $50.7 million over the prior year that was not enough to cover even normal salary increases. Over the ensuing months, von Eschenbach endured withering criticism from Congressional Democrats and Republicans. Repeated scandals involving tainted drugs and food led them to conclude that the F.D.A. needed to conduct far more foreign inspections. House Democrats held more than a dozen hearings to highlight the agency's shortcomings and to urge the administration to propose greater expenditures.
 Eventually, after a bruising interrogation by Representative John D. Dingell, the Michigan Democrat who is the chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, von Eschenbach asked Congress in May for $275 million to ensure the safety of imported foods, drugs and medical devices. In June, Leavitt, the Health and Human Services secretary, urged speedy action by Congress, which soon gave the agency an emergency infusion of $150 million for this year and another $150 million for next.
 This could be the moment to make a difference at the F.D.A. There is strong bipartisan support on Capitol Hill to beef up the agency and prevent another heparin scare. Come January, there will be a new administration in Washington, and no matter who wins the presidential election, change is likely: neither Barack Obama nor John McCain is apt to be as philosophically opposed to regulation as the Bush administration has been. Under Bush, the emphasis was on encouraging companies to hire private inspectors, which the F.D.A. has tried to do for some time with little success. That ethos has already changed in Congress. As Representative Joe Barton, the Texas Republican who is the ranking member on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, said recently, when it comes to reforming the agency to increase foreign drug inspections, ''there isn't any daylight between Republicans and Democrats.''
 Unlike reforming Social Security or health insurance generally, fixing the F.D.A. won't mean allocating enormous sums or necessitate reconceiving the system. It just requires some money and will. There are already legislative changes in the works. Bills now circulating on Capitol Hill would require food, medical- device and drug makers to pay annual registration fees to the F.D.A. Those fees would be used to allow as many inspections of foreign firms as domestic ones.
 There also seems to be agreement that our regulatory agencies can't rely on China to police its own factories. The Chinese have lurched between vows of reform and disregard for American concerns about the quality of the country's products. When melamine was first found in Chinese-made pet food, Chinese government officials denied that the taint originated in their country and then, when that claim was disproved, said melamine would not hurt pets. During the heparin scare, Chinese officials admitted the contamination but insisted it wasn't lethal. Last year, however, the Chinese government executed the former head of the agency entrusted with oversight of food and drug industries. He was found to have approved untested medicine in exchange for cash. The punishment shocked many at the F.D.A. but also led some to imagine that the Chinese were signaling a broader crackdown on unsafe foods and drugs, a hope that so far remains unrealized.
 More inspectors will certainly help, but even regular inspections of Chinese plants cannot ensure safety. Inspectors can be hoodwinked; tests can be fooled. ''No matter how many F.D.A. inspections they do,'' says Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, ''our safety is still at risk if the pressure continues to cut costs.'' Brown has introduced a bill to require labels disclosing the source country of key drug ingredients. Some lawmakers have gone as far as to suggest a ban on all drugs made with Chinese ingredients, but China has become such a crucial supplier that a ban would lead to the collapse of the U.S. health care system. And our dependence is only growing: when PricewaterhouseCoopers cited the best place for pharmaceutical outsourcing in the world in an October report to drug companies, its pick was China. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY MARCOS CHIN) (pg.MM45 and 49) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); ANALGESICS (89%); CHEMICALS (89%); CHEMICALS MFG (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS ASSOCIATIONS (77%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (77%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); COUNTERFEITING (60%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (50%)

COMPANY: RHODIA SA (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325199 ALL OTHER BASIC ORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LYON, FRANCE (94%) RHONE-ALPES, FRANCE (92%) CHINA (95%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



71 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 293 words

HEADLINE: THE WEEK AHEAD NOV. 2 -- NOV. 8 Theater

BYLINE: By STEVEN McELROY

 BODY:
Theater
 Steven McElroy
 Attempts to resuscitate the economy seem to be faltering, Broadway shows keep announcing closing dates, and the ''recession special'' at your neighborhood Gray's Papaya hot dog joint recently jumped by almost a dollar. It seems an opportune time to look for a good deal, and ARS NOVA is providing one. This Midtown performance space that develops outside-the-box theater, comedy and music is charging just $10 for each offering in its ANT FESTIVAL. (Drinks at the theater's bar, however necessary to drown out the day's financial news, are not included.) 
 Jason Eagan, the artistic director, said the festival was created to present new work by emerging, innovative artists. The company has had some mainstream success this year: ''From Up Here'' had its initial readings at Ars Nova and went on to an Off Broadway production from Manhattan Theater Club, in association with Ars Nova, last spring. But the mission is still to be ''a point of entry to artists,'' Mr. Eagan said. 
 The festival lineup is eclectic. This week there will be a concert by a band of monsters supposedly cooked up in a lab (''Ladystein Is a Band''), a political theater piece (''So the Arrow Flies''), an adventurous tale of two unlikely neighbors (''Pirates and Ninjas''), an improvised talk show (''The Spotlight With Sean Taylor'') and a hip-hop musical (''Big Apple Turns to Cider''). 
 And the price is certainly a bargain, even for a place where the top ticket cost is just $25. ''We felt like this needed to be at the bottom of our ticket price so we could encourage people to really take a chance on these artists,'' Mr. Eagan said. Thursdays through Mondays (through Nov. 24), Ars Nova, 511 West 54th Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com; $10. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); THEATER (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (79%); MUSIC (76%); HIP HOP CULTURE (71%); RAP MUSIC (71%); TICKET SALES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



72 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; MAIN STREET WESTPORT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: In a Wealthy Town, 'It's Not Like It Was'

BYLINE: By MARGARET FARLEY STEELE

DATELINE: WESTPORT 

 BODY:
 FOR a while this wealthy town on the Long Island Sound seemed insulated from the nation's economic woes, but all that changed six weeks ago with the bankruptcy filing of Lehman Brothers and the subsequent tsunami on Wall Street. Merchants in this posh community 47 miles from Midtown Manhattan are feeling the low rumblings of an economy that is readjusting to the events of the last few weeks.
 Sarah Kaplan received at least 10 bad checks from customers at Dovecote, her home furnishings and jewelry business, in the month after the Lehman shakeup. She doesn't recall any other bounced checks in the six years she has had her store here. 
 Ms. Kaplan, whose interior design fees sometimes reach $500,000, has also had clients suspend their makeovers midstream. ''Everybody is afraid,'' she said from her showroom on the same block as Tiffany & Company, aglitter with crystal chandeliers, but quiet now. ''They want to wait till things settle down.'' 
 With a median family income of $152,894 -- well above the state median of $65,521, according to the 2000 United States Census -- Westport exemplifies the good life, one that has been largely financed by profits on Wall Street. Nearly 20 percent of the city's work force is in the sector of finance, insurance and real estate, according to the census.
 Sixty-minute express trains to New York, renowned schools and an active arts community draw well-to-do, educated families to the community of 26,200.
 But a pall -- however slight so far -- is beginning to settle over the town's business district. Along the brick sidewalks of Main Street, for example, where upscale retailers like Brooks Brothers and Williams-Sonoma vie for investment dollars, pedestrian traffic is lighter and parking spaces easier to come by.
 Some retailers find their business shifting subtly, as people who once had few spending limits are now thinking carefully about each item they purchase. ''People are going either really high end or low end,'' said Lisa Savone, owner of Lucy's, a women's clothing store. ''They're going for the gusto or something really safe.'' At the safe end, buyers want versatility, say a sweater coat, rather than both a sweater and a coat. As a result, she has changed her inventory, bringing in fewer glitzy pieces.
 At the Liquor Locker, wine sales still account for 99 percent of sales, but customers have stopped buying $70 and $80 bottles of California cabernet and Bordeaux, said John Steinberger, an employee. Wines in the $12 to $17 range are the current best sellers. ''It's not like it was,'' he said. 
 But not everyone agrees that Westport will suffer real hardship. Nearby Stamford's relative strength will ease the pain in Fairfield County, economists believe. Royal Bank of Scotland intends to move to Stamford next year, bringing 1,850 employees to its new building there. 
 ''Where the pain lands is hard to predict,'' said Fred V. Carstensen, director of the Connecticut Center for Economic Analysis at the University of Connecticut in Storrs. ''If a lot of residents worked at Lehman Brothers, then it could be painful. If they work at Goldman Sachs, then maybe not.''
 In September, Westport's unemployment was at 4.4 percent, up from an average of 3 percent in 2007 but below the state average of 5.9 percent. The people of Westport have a skills set that will be in demand in fields besides finance, said Jack Condlin, president of the Stamford Chamber of Commerce.
 Unemployment statistics may not tell the whole picture in Westport, Mr. Condlin said. ''The big guns aren't necessarily going to file for unemployment,'' he said. 
 The effects of hard times in places like Westport will trickle down to nearby areas. Reduced income and spending in Westport could mean less income for Bridgeport, for example, which sends baby sitters, house cleaners, painters and day laborers to the rich towns to its west. In September, Bridgeport's unemployment rate was 9 percent, more than twice that of Westport. 
 Home builders and the retailers of luxury goods will feel the effects of the economic downturn the most, said Walter Dolde, an associate finance professor at the at the University of Connecticut's Stamford campus. For auto mechanics and other service providers, the bust will be a boom, he said.
 FOR now, individuals in every occupation have their eyes on the Dow. ''The market's up 400 points!'' exclaimed Nick Aquilino, business manager at New Country Lexus, which is eerily quiet. Sales were way off the last two months: 48 instead of the usual 65 by Oct. 17, even though Mr. Aquilino said credit was available for qualified buyers.
 The median home price is $1.21 million, down from $1.3 million a year ago. ''Real estate is dead now,'' said Mark Basile, a real estate sales agent at Country Living Associates. Priced right, a house will sell, he said, but possibly at a loss.
 At Westport Wash & Wax, the owner, Craig Tiefenthaler, hopes his detailing business will pull him through the slump. ''Retailers all over Fairfield County are laying employees off,'' he said. ''I haven't had to do that,'' although his workers may get fewer hours. 
 In a town where image matters, the women of Westport are known for their smart appearance. But more are shopping at the local Goodwill, said Angelique Shutt, whose family owns Fred and Dolly's Cleaning Station. ''Then they complain, 'It's costing more to clean it than I paid for it,' '' Ms. Shutt said. Customers still bring in their shirts for laundering, but fewer articles for dry cleaning, she said. Some are upset because ''their husbands have made them fire the nanny or housekeeper,'' she said.
 Next door, at the Azena Nail Spa, where a manicure and pedicure combo costs $25, customers who came twice a month now come every two months, said Tina Chen, an employee. ''It's scary,'' she said, scanning the nearly empty salon. 
 Residents are using the Westport Public Library more. ''The library card is the new credit card,'' said Maxine Bleiweis, director, noting membership increased 8 percent in September. ''People have told me, 'I can't continue with my book group unless I borrow the books from the library.' '' Cable TV series on DVD have gained popularity too as viewers cut back their paid cable programming, she said.
 The library's job search seminars, usually attended by 7 to 10 people a session, now attract 30 or more, she said.
 Some businesses are more recession-proof than others. The week that the Dow fell below 9,000 for the first time in five years was one of the year's best for Tony Anastasio, a fence maker who works mostly in Westport, Fairfield and Weston. While there are fewer ''spec'' houses to fence, ''people are still putting in pools,'' said Mr. Anastasio, whose jobs average $8,000 to $9,000.
 Marilynn Lipton, owner of Soleil Toile, a lingerie store, said, ''We still have our customers, but maybe they're buying one or two things instead of three or four.'' Fortunately, she said, ''everybody needs a bra.'' 
 Families are having conversations about whether to forgo or scale back the expensive ski trips, birthday parties, landscaping and more. Teenagers can no longer assume they can snap up cashmere sweaters at J. Crew or Juicy Couture sweats at Wish List, a local boutique, anytime they want. Sharon Kaplove, a certified financial planner at Ameriprise Financial with clients throughout Fairfield, said wise parents see this as a teaching moment. ''It's a great time to say to your children: 'We had wanted to buy a new couch, but we'd rather have the money in the bank right now. We need to be more careful of our spending.' '' 
 Some retailers are rethinking their business models. ''It's easy to expand and get caught up when business is great,'' Ms. Kaplan said. She is making fewer buying trips overseas, stocking up on lower-priced goods, and vowing to ''run my business as though there's a recession all the time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NO INSULATION At the intersection of Elm and Main Streets in Westport, an affluent community where merchants are beginning to feel the effects of an economic downturn.
CHANGES Lisa Savone, owner of Lucy's, a women's clothing store on Post Road East, says clients altering their buying habits has caused her to bring in fewer glitzy pieces. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JANET DURRANS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CT1)
 TRIMMING: More people are checking out the Westport Public Library, left. Below, John Steinberger at the Liquor Locker on Main Street says customers are buying less-expensive bottles of wine. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JANET DURRANS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CT6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CRISIS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (77%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (75%); INTERIOR DECORATING (75%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (74%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (73%); JEWELRY (70%); COOKWARE & KITCHEN STORES (69%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (69%); WINE (67%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (63%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (63%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (60%)

COMPANY: TIFFANY & CO (83%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (74%)

TICKER: TIF (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (83%); NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (83%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (74%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



73 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; NEW YORK CITY MARATHON; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: Elite Women Getting Older, and Better

BYLINE: By JULIET MACUR

 BODY:
After nearly a decade of running marathons -- 19 races that add up to 497.8 pounding miles -- Catherine Ndereba insists there is one thing she cannot live without. Not her coach. Not her agent. Not even the occasional Philly cheese steak, her reward for training 90 to 100 miles a week.
It is her massage therapist.
''When I was younger, I never used to have a lot of fatigue in my muscles -- never,'' Ndereba, 36, said recently in Norristown, Pa., her training base in the United States. ''But now, if I don't have a massage at least twice a week, I feel like I can't move. I don't feel old; I still feel like I'm in my 20s. But, yes, sometimes, there are a few signs that my body doesn't agree.'' 
Ndereba, a four-time winner of the Boston Marathon and two-time Olympic silver medalist for Kenya, is among the 41 elite women in the field for Sunday's New York City Marathon. And many of them have probably noticed uncharacteristically sore muscles or creaky joints.
Their average age is about 33, one of the oldest groups of elite women, if not the oldest, in the history of the race, organizers said. Two-thirds are 30 or older, including the favorites Paula Radcliffe, 34, and Gete Wami, 33. Nearly half are 35 and older.
''It's unusual to see so many really good women of that age, but this is probably a fluke that they are all so good at once,'' Mary Wittenberg, the race director, said. ''I do expect to see a changing of the guard because we are probably looking at the end of a superstar generation.''
''Gete, Paula, Catherine are in a class by themselves, but time is ticking,'' she added. ''They are probably getting close to the point of diminishing returns.''
Those runners are not pioneers in racing marathons -- and often winning -- into their 30s. At that age, many distance runners are in their prime, some experts say, because their bodies are accustomed to the mileage required to train for the 26.2-mile races.
Many also started running marathons only after they had built a foundation in shorter races, to prevent burnout and injuries. A widespread belief is that elite runners have a limited number of marathons in them, so they also tend to use their time in competition wisely.
Grete Waitz was 35 in 1988 when she won her ninth New York City Marathon. The year before, the British runner Priscilla Welch was a seemingly ancient 42 when she crossed the finish line first.
This year in Beijing, Constantina Tomescu of Romania won the Olympic marathon at 38. In September, Irina Mikitenko, 36, won the Berlin Marathon. She began running marathons last year, she said, because she was mentally tough enough to do so after having two children.
To some, the current wave of older women succeeding in marathons makes sense. More women are running the distance these days, they say, so more they are training at a higher level.
More women are also sticking with the marathon because of the economic incentive, said Ryan Lamppa, a researcher for Running USA, a nonprofit organization that tracks trends in distance running.
Top runners like Radcliffe and her peers receive six-figures appearance fees from big-city marathons, agents and race directors said. So a hefty payday is guaranteed just for showing up and finishing. Five of the women in Sunday's field have made at least $1 million in prize money in their careers, according to the Association of Road Racing Statisticians. The top 10 women on Sunday will also receive prize money.
First place is worth $130,000 of the $301,000 purse, second place $65,000, third $40,000, fourth $25,000, fifth $15,000 and so on down to $1,000 for 10th place. In addition, bonuses ranging from $5,000 to $70,000 are paid for reaching certain time standards.
Twenty years ago, though, the total women's purse in the New York City Marathon was $134,500, organizers said, and a decade ago, it was $165,000.
''If the sport was back in its amateur days, you definitely wouldn't see as many 30-plus marathoners than you do now,'' Lamppa said. ''I don't think they're staying in the sport purely for the love of it. It's a nice gig if you can do it long enough. But, you know, it's a painful gig, too.''
To make a decent living at marathon running in your 30s and 40s, Lamppa added, athletes must remain fast enough to finish in the top 10. That could be a challenge for an aging athlete.
Hirofumi Tanaka, an exercise researcher at the University of Texas, said endurance athletes had the edge over sprinters as time marched on. He said sprinters peaked at 22 to 24, and marathoners peaked at 28 to 31. Some marathoners reach peak performance around 35, he added. The trick is finding the way to extend that time frame.
High-level marathoners should be able to do so, said Dr. Vonda Wright, a professor of orthopedics at the University of Pittsburgh. In a study published in March that looked at male and female American masters record-holders in distances from 100 to 10,000 meters for the past 50 years, Wright said she found less than a 1 percent decline per year in performance as they aged from 30 to 50.
The slow-twitch muscles needed in endurance sports do not decline significantly until athletes reach their late 30s or early 40s, she said. But fast-twitch muscles that sprinters rely on begin deteriorating in their late 20s and early 30s.
''If you are a runner in your 30s or 40s, it's really a sweet spot to be in,'' Wright said. ''You've trained longer, so your heart works more efficiently and your lungs exchange oxygen more efficiently. You know your race, you know your body. Biology might not have taken over yet, so you don't see that muscle physiology decline that would prevent them from being amazing.''
That decline, however, could happen any day -- and there is no telling when the athlete will notice it. Waitz, one of the best female marathoners, said from the time she was 35 until she retired at 38, she could sense her body changing.
''The end sneaked up on me,'' she said.
After 10 years and 20 marathons, Waitz said, it took longer to recover from races. She became injured more easily. But she said the change in the mental aspect of the marathon prompted her retirement.
Waitz said she did not feel as hungry to win as she once had, partly because she sensed that her body was not as strong.
''I always say that there are two ages of a person: a running age and your biological age,'' she said. ''So after all those marathons, I was old as a runner but still young as a person. I still felt fast, but I was not. It was time for me to go.''
Ndereba, a marathoner since 1999, said she had no idea when she would retire.
''Now why would I quit if I can still finish in the top five?'' Ndereba said. ''Why would I quit when there are people out there, so many people, who would want to run like Catherine, but they can't? I will run until I feel I can't do it anymore.''
With her massage therapist, she said, she still feels much faster and stronger than she did at 26, when she made her marathon debut in Boston.
Ndereba said she was in so much pain after finishing sixth in that race that she needed to be carted off in a wheelchair.
''So now, I don't need a wheelchair when I finish,'' she said with a smile. ''It shows that I'm only getting better, right?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Catherine Ndereba of Kenya finished second in the marathon in the Beijing Games. She is 36. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANJA NIEDRINGHAUS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) MAP: NEW YORK CITY MARATHON: WATCHING THE ELITE RUNNERS Between Miles 14 and 15 Take the E, G, V or 7 train to 23rd Street in Queens and walk north to the 14-and-a-half-mile mark. To watch near Mile 15: Take the 7, N or W train to Queensboro Plaza and walk west along Crescent Street. Mile 18 Take the 4, 5 or 6 to East 86th Street and walk east to First Avenue to watch the runners just before Mile 18. Fifth Avenue Fifth Avenue north of 90th Street is another recommended spot for viewing. Central Park South of 90th Street in the park is also an option, but it is likely to be more crowded there because it is closer to the finish line. FOLLOWING OTHER RUNNERS Mile 8 The three starts converge at Mile 8 in Brooklyn. To get there, take the C to Lafayette Avenue
the G to Fulton Street
the 2, 3, 4 or 5 to Nevins Street
 or the B, D, N, Q or R to Atlantic Avenue-Pacific Street. It will be about 90 minutes before these marathoners reach Manhattan, so it can be easy to catch up with them again. First Avenue From Mile 8, take the Manhattan-bound R from DeKalb, exit at 59th Street and walk east to First Avenue. It is often crowded, but lively, here. Mile 18 For a possibly lessobstructed view, head north to Mile 18 on First Avenue at East 92nd Street, by taking the uptown 4, 5 or 6 train to 86th Street and walking north then east. Mile 24 By walking west from Mile 18, you can see the marathoners again on Fifth Avenue in the 24th mile, just north of where they enter Central Park. (pg.SP7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARATHONS (90%); RUNNING (89%); OLYMPICS (87%); ATHLETES (78%); MASSAGE SERVICES (76%); SPORTS AWARDS (72%); CELEBRITIES (72%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (72%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); KENYA (92%); CHINA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011



74 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: A Worthy Sobfest That Pares Emotions to the Cellular Level

BYLINE: By NAOMI SIEGEL

 BODY:
Audiences be warned: The second act of ''Apple'' by the Canadian playwright Vern Thiessen, now at New Jersey Repertory Company in Long Branch, contains moments of such anguish -- dealing with terminal illness, the ravages of medical treatment and the specter of imminent death -- that it makes the Nightly Business Report on PBS seem like an upper. And all that follows a first act in which a marriage dissolves, one spouse is tormented by a superior at work, and her husband, a middle-aged government employee, is peremptorily fired. Unemployed and increasingly in despair of finding a job, he begins a secret affair with a sensual, mystical young woman half his age who picks him up in the park. 
 I completely understand if, given the packed agenda of this nearly two-hour sobfest, being held hostage by a playwright with Mr. Thiessen's button-pushing, somewhat manipulative dramatic sense may not be to your taste this November. On the other hand, if his ear for pungent dialogue, ability to mine characters' innermost feelings and insight into contemporary relationships suggest a playwright with the power to deeply engage the audience, then you won't want to miss ''Apple.'' 
 New Jersey Rep, under SuzAnne Barabas's sterling direction, has mounted a close to perfect production of this lyrical work on the nature of love. The cast is outstanding; Carol Todd as Evelyn, Michael Irvin Pollard as her husband, Andy, and Deborah Baum as his muse, Samantha, have created individual portraits that burn with intensity. 
 Ms. Todd's opening monologue, excoriating her nemesis, Darlene, is a zinger. Watching her strip off clothes, jewelry and any veneer of pretense after a frustrating day at work as a real estate broker, we quickly learn enough about Evelyn, or Lyn as she calls herself, to explain her past, present and future. As Andy, Mr. Pollard has the body language and haunted mien of a man robbed of confidence and self-worth. His heartbreak as tears flow in Act II is deeply affecting. 
 Ms. Baum's Samantha sizzles with sexuality. A student of medicine with a somewhat clouded past, Samantha offers ongoing snippets of a lecture on cells that serve as a foreshadowing of Act II. Exuding serenity and composure as she becomes unwittingly entangled in the lives of both Lyn and Andy, she is a soothing counterpoint to their frenetic disquiet. Ms. Baum hits just the right note in the role. 
 Jessica Parks's set includes a trio of raucously hued scrims, lighted beautifully by Jill Nagle, with abstract designs suggesting aberrant cells. They are beautifully integrated into the story line, framing hazy views of the two actresses in varying degrees of dishabille. Rogue cells will ultimately determine the fates of both Lyn and Samantha. The audience is forced to bear witness to the inevitable. 
 ''Apple'' is at New Jersey Repertory Company, 179 Broadway, Long Branch, through Nov. 23. Information: (732) 229-3166 or at www.njrep.org. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: KEEP QUIET: Michael Irvin Pollard and Deborah Baum co-star as lovers in ''Apple'' at New Jersey Repertory Company. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE BARABAS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (91%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); WRITERS (89%); CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT (79%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (67%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Apple (Play)>

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



75 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; CLASSICAL MUSIC; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1505 words

HEADLINE: A Simple Life Doesn't Mean a Slow One

BYLINE: By STEVE SMITH

 BODY:
IT is a rare performer who can endow mundane acts like ironing clothes or washing dishes with a tension that borders on the unbearable. The soprano Dawn Upshaw showed how it is done during her performances of ''Kafka Fragments,'' a demanding vocal work by the Hungarian composer Gyorgy Kurtag, at Zankel Hall in January 2005.
 Hearing Mr. Kurtag's flinty, atonal settings of German texts from Kafka's diaries and letters, some of them only a few words long, you could experience them like Pop Rocks candy exploding in your mouth: an instant of sweetness or tartness followed by a spiky, tingling sensation, then emptiness until the next one comes along.
 The music was potent in itself, but Peter Sellars, the director, wrapped it in an enigmatic tableau. Ms. Upshaw, barefoot and dressed in a baggy flannel shirt and jeans, sang Mr. Kurtag's exactingly detailed music from memory while performing mindless chores. The violinist Geoff Nuttall, similarly attired, provided wordless counterpoint. Each fleeting scene was preceded by an English translation, projected in silent alternation with stark black-and-white photographs by David Michalek. 
 The piece steadily grew more intense over its hourlong span. By the end you were convinced that Ms. Upshaw had given everything she had in her. That the scenario worked as well as it did had much to do with her everywoman image. More than two decades into a career filled with trailblazing accomplishments and prestigious accolades, including a 2007 MacArthur Foundation ''genius'' grant, Ms. Upshaw, 48, still projects a homespun dignity that might not be as readily available to a more willfully glamorous performer.
 Ms. Upshaw, who will perform with the Ensemble ACJW at Zankel Hall on Sunday evening, is to return to ''Kafka Fragments'' with Mr. Nuttall and Mr. Sellars at John Jay College near Lincoln Center on Nov. 12, for the first performances since the original run. The initial rehearsals followed hot on the heels of another taxing collaboration between Ms. Upshaw and Mr. Sellars: the Finnish composer Kaija Saariaho's dramatic oratorio ''La Passion de Simone,'' mounted in August during the Mostly Mozart Festival at Lincoln Center.
 ''In the final weeks of that rehearsal process, Peter said, 'Are you looking at the Kafka yet?' '' Ms. Upshaw recalled recently over brunch at an Upper West Side cafe. ''I said no, and he said, 'Good, don't.' He just wanted me to stay where I was with Kaija's piece.'' Ms. Upshaw was nervous at returning to Mr. Kurtag's intricate music after having been away from it for so long, she said, but she soon found the parts falling back in place.
 ''It was amazing how much was right there and sort of felt like I had just been there with it, even though it's been three-plus years,'' she said. ''When something has such detail and also is so fragmented, the pieces become very distinct and memorable and have very strong impressions. The moods, the flavor of the music, the difference from one fragment to another is so striking, and that makes it all a little more distinctive an experience.''
 The reason so much time passed between the first performances of ''Kafka Fragments'' and its return, Ms. Upshaw said, had largely to do with Mr. Sellars's busy schedule. ''There are so many elements, and it was very important to Peter that wherever we take it, he be familiar enough with the people and the theater to know that it was going to work,'' she added. After the New York performances, the production will travel to Los Angeles and Berkeley, Calif.
 Still, for Mr. Sellars the revival feels timely in light of the economic crisis. ''Kafka wrote these pieces in that strange Weimar twilight, this impossibly high standard of living with absolutely nothing underneath,'' Mr. Sellars said by telephone from Los Angeles. ''We're living right now in this bizarre double world, in which half of us have lost our life's savings and meanwhile the opulence continues. The particular temperature of America at this moment truly returns us to the meaning of the term 'Kafkaesque.' ''
 Nor is that the only reason Mr. Sellars looks forward to dipping back into a ritualistic production he laughingly calls ''a gigantic concerto for detergent and human being.'' Two years ago, Ms. Upshaw was found to have early-stage breast cancer. She immediately put her engagements on hold to begin treatment, and successfully completed chemotherapy early last year.
 ''After what Dawn's been through these past couple of years, she comes to this with even more incredible life force and conviction,'' Mr. Sellars said. ''Those small miracles of one more day on this earth bloom in her mind now in a very new way.''
 Ms. Upshaw takes a less beatific view. ''I think at first I wanted to have this epiphany, and have this be the most beautiful, life-changing experience or something,'' she said. ''And you know, it's just not,'' she added with a resounding laugh. ''It is what it is, a disease that needs to be treated. And it does make me look differently at some of the choices in my life, how I want to live my life. So in that way, it's been interesting and great and rotten and all of the above.''
 Ms. Upshaw has hardly been idle since her first dip back into Mr. Kurtag's music in August. For a Los Angeles Philharmonic gala in early October, she sang works by Stravinsky and John Adams. The next day she was back in New York alongside the composer Osvaldo Golijov, one of her closest artistic collaborators of late, in a series of workshops for young singers and composers, jointly presented by Carnegie Hall's Weill Music Institute and the Bard College Conservatory of Music, where Ms. Upshaw is the artistic director of the vocal program.
 Those workshops are among the offerings that make Ms. Upshaw's work at Bard a source of pride. Her vocal program brings in eight students per class for a two-year curriculum that includes far more than voice lessons. ''I want the program to spark their imagination,'' she said, ''and I want them to learn about themselves as they are receiving good training.''
 Students are exposed to a steady stream of new music, including the work of singers of other backgrounds and in other genres. ''I'm a huge Bjork fan, so I want to make sure that they've heard Bjork sing,'' Ms. Upshaw said. Self-sufficiency is also part of the curriculum: students don't just plan recital programs but also book their own halls and publicize their own events. ''It's not something I was ever taught,'' Ms. Upshaw said, ''but it's something I wish I had known.''
 Ms. Upshaw continues to break new ground for herself as well. With the St. Paul Chamber Orchestra, where she is an artistic partner and helps to plan programming, she presented the premiere of ''Carlos Drummond de Andrade Stories'' by the jazz composer Maria Schneider in late October. Ms. Schneider, a classically trained Minnesota native whose big-band work has earned two Grammy awards, was initially reluctant to take on her first orchestral composition under conditions that would attract so much scrutiny.
 ''I was thinking, 'She's hearing potential here, and I have no idea what it is,' '' Ms. Schneider said by telephone from St. Paul the day after the premiere, which earned glowing reviews. ''She had more faith in me than I had in myself with this thing. I thought it was really amazing that she'd put her trust in that, because as a singer, that's a vulnerable position to be in. Even more than for an instrumentalist, when you're a singer, you're becoming the piece somehow. You don't want to give that to just anybody.''
 Another new work, ''Treny,'' is on Ms. Upshaw's program at Zankel Hall on Sunday. Commissioned for her by the Terezin Chamber Music Foundation, it is based on verse by the 16th-century Polish poet Jan Kochanowski. Michael Ward-Bergeman, the composer and ''hyper-accordion'' player, is among the expanding circle of collaborators Ms. Upshaw has met through Mr. Golijov.
 Beyond ''Kafka Fragments,'' Ms. Upshaw shows no signs of slowing down. She will sing in Mr. Golijov's ''Ainadamar'' at Carnegie Hall in December, then head to Los Angeles for ''La Passion de Simone'' in January. An Australian tour is in the offing, as are European performances with Christina Courtin, a distinctive New York singer and songwriter, and the Knights, a young chamber orchestra from Brooklyn.
 If anything binds all those myriad stylistic strands and activities together, it is simply that Ms. Upshaw is choosing them all herself. She claims to want a simpler life, if not necessarily a slower one.
 ''It's fascinating to work with someone like Peter, who is thinking very much in terms of what he can bring to the world,'' she said. ''I hope someday I will travel toward that kind of ideology. But for now, I feel I'm doing the world -- or my audience -- the most good by bringing things to them that I either feel have an important message or bring perspective or beauty to their lives, and do it as honestly as I can. That's the goal at the moment.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Dawn Upshaw performing with the San Francisco Symphony at Carnegie Hall in September
above, working with her vocal students at Bard College Conservatory of Music
below, at the Ojai Music Festival in California. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BROOKE IRISH/OJAI FESTIVAL
PETE CHECCHIA
 HIROYUKI ITO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (77%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); FESTIVALS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



76 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; SOCIAL Q'S; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: The Trouble With Twins

BYLINE: By PHILIP GALANES. 
For help with an awkward social situation, send queries to socialq@nytimes.com or Social Q's, The New York Times Style Department, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018. Please include a daytime telephone number.

 BODY:
 Last year, I had a brief relationship with a male friend. It ended on less than rosy terms, partly because he was leaving the country, and partly for more sordid reasons. Now his identical twin has moved to town, and we've been hanging out a bit. He's the nice version of his brother, and I feel we could be moving in a romantic direction. Is that appropriate? We haven't discussed my involvement with his brother. Can I assume he knows? If I must tell him, how do I go about that?Maria, St. Petersburg, Fla.
 Finally, my slavish devotion to ''All My Children'' pays off. The identical-twin scenario seems to play out for the show's evil heroine at least once a year. And when it does, she simply engineers a ritual murder, kidnapping, poisoning or fatal car crash for the offending twin without much trouble at all. 
 But it might be easier -- and you may end up spending less time behind bars -- if you just come clean with Brother No. 2. Unfortunately, you can't know what the brothers have discussed, nor can you control their behavior. So once you've decided that your new friendship is headed in a romantic direction, tell the good twin: ''I'm not sure whether you know this, but I had a brief, disastrous affair with your brother last year. I really wish I'd met you first.''
 This lets him know how you feel about him, and it clears the air, too. You will then wait a seeming eternity for his reply, but no matter how he responds you will have acted blamelessly. And whatever you do, avoid their family reunions. Clearly, you're catnip to this particular genetic material, and I'd be worried for your safety in a crowd of them.
 Lawn-Sign Politics
 California has a proposition on the November ballot seeking to reverse the right of same-sex couples to marry. I am a heterosexual, married mother of three, but I find Proposition 8 no different from any other attempt to deny people their fundamental rights. 
 Our neighbors have a ''Yes on 8'' sign on their front lawn and on their many minivans. While I respect differences of opinion, to me this is hate speech and deeply offensive. My meager ''No on 8'' lawn sign hardly seems enough. Can I destroy their sign?
 Anonymous,
 South Pasadena, Calif.
 I applaud your empathy and enthusiasm for the cause. When so many of our neighbors are losing their homes and jobs, and international crises loom around every corner, this seems like a strange moment to worry about keeping people who want to marry from marrying. (Trust me, there's enough confetti to go around.) 
 Still, you may not destroy your neighbor's sign. Nor may you set their garbage pails on fire or trample their flower beds. What you may do is walk across the street, knock on their door, and explain -- calmly, please -- your position on the issue and ask them to reconsider. 
 Who knows what may come of that conversation? They may still vote ''Yes on 8,'' but at least they will have heard a persuasive case from the thoughtful lady next door. Plus, those lawn signs are much harder to beat up than you may think.
 But He Ordered Wine
 Recently, I went to dinner at a restaurant with 15 people. When the check came, some suggested we split the bill equally. When I'm out with a few friends, I see no problem doing this. But several people in this group ordered expensive entrees and bottles of wine, and I was asked to contribute more than double the cost of my food and drink. I felt uncomfortable saying anything, so I agreed. But I'll have to begin declining such invitations because I can't afford them. Is it rude to ask to pay for only my actual share?
 Briana, Astoria, Queens
 Rude? Not at all. Impractical? You betcha.
 With groups as large as yours, asking for separate checks would force all the poor restaurateurs to add teams of forensic accountants to their rolls -- especially where shared bottles of wine are concerned. And unless you happen to be a convention of mathematicians, at-the-table calculations never seem to work out. The waiter either gets stiffed or receives enough for a down payment on a small motorboat. 
 Part of the bonhomie of big group dinners comes from the agreement to share equally in the tab. I don't mean to excuse reckless ordering by piggy gourmands and oenophiles but that's often the price of admission. 
 Next time you're invited to a large group dinner, just say ''no,'' unless you're willing to risk subsidizing certain members of the group. Or you may choose to level the playing field in a different way: Accept the invitation and order the entrecote-for-two. That would be downright economical. You can take the second portion home with you for dinner the next night.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPH NIEMANN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (92%); FAMILY (74%); CHILDREN (74%); GAYS & LESBIANS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (68%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (68%); COHABITATION (66%); REFERENDUMS (61%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (86%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



77 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; AROUND THE BLOCK 2009 CHEVROLET COBALT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: A Cobalt That's More Like a Camel

BYLINE: By EDDIE ALTERMAN

 BODY:
TESTED 2009 Chevrolet Cobalt LS sedan with the XFE designation.
 WHAT IS IT? The lowest-priced -- and highest-mileage -- version of Chevy's compact coupe and sedan.
 HOW MUCH? $15,610 base, $16,330 as tested.
 WHAT'S UNDER THE HOOD? A 2.2-liter in-line 4 with variable valve timing; 5-speed manual transmission. 
 IS IT QUICK? Car and Driver clocked 0 to 60 m.p.h. in a fairly brisk 7.5 seconds.
 IS IT THIRSTY?E.P.A. ratings of 25 m.p.g in town, 37 on the highway, make this version of the Cobalt a class miser.
 XFE stands for extra fuel economy in this version of the Chevrolet Cobalt introduced last spring. Thus, the car represents a remedial effort by General Motors to achieve fuel-economy parity with the Toyota Corolla and Honda Civic -- and a step toward further debasing the nation's spelling standards.
 The gas-sipping XFE package, now standard on basic stick-shift Cobalts, adds such m.p.g.-elevators as low-rolling-resistance tires, mellow engine programming and gearing tailored for economy. The changes bump the mileage by 1 extra m.p.g. in town and 4 on the highway.
 It is admirable that G.M. is scrambling for efficiencies in this era of semiprecious fuels, and doing so without the cost or complexity of a hybrid system. But important questions persist: Why wasn't G.M. doing this before? Do these tweaks detract from the driving experience? And what's a Cobalt?
 There has always been a decent little economy car underneath the skin of this unassuming coupe or sedan. But until recently Chevy has seemed preoccupied with the SS performance versions. Blame the sport-compact craze -- too many G.M. engineers saw ''The Fast and the Furious'' and thought it was a cinematic masterwork, a sort of high-octane ''Gandhi'' with babes and guns.
 Also, you may recall that few Americans cared deeply about mileage until gas prices went airborne. In 2005, when many of today's vehicles were being planned, only 12 percent of American car buyers listed fuel economy as the most important factor in their purchase decision, according to the Department of Energy. Now G.M. is making as many XFEs as it can. Whereas the base Cobalt used to account for just 3 percent of all Cobalt sales, the XFE now makes up 14 percent.
 Because the XFE's high-mileage stuff comes bundled strictly with a five-speed manual, only base trim levels -- the LS and 1LT -- are available. The differences are minimal: the LT gets a center armrest, floor mats, power locks and better cloth upholstery. 
 A weekend in the LS revealed that the Cobalt offers a straightforward and borderline-rewarding driving experience, not just bragging rights. Along with better highway mileage than the Civic or Corolla, the XFE also has the highest horsepower rating (155, up from 148 last year) of the three. 
 After a recent $600 price bump the XFE is no longer the cheapest, but don't worry -- it still feels that way. While marginally less refined than its Japanese rivals, the Cobalt does have a strong engine, engaging steering and a gratifying transmission.
 Dynamically, only the tires exact a price for the better economy. The hard, slippery doughnuts limit the XFE's grip, and braking distances are positively trucklike.
 Tires aside, the XFE is a solid idea, solidly executed. It's remarkable that Chevy was able to lift the Cobalt's fuel economy while delivering more horsepower. Over the course of a highway-intensive driving weekend, I averaged 34 m.p.g. My cries of joy could be heard, if barely, over the squealing front tires. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MISERLY: A higher-mileage Chevy Cobalt sedan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEDANS (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (67%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



78 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 233 words

HEADLINE: Hey, Independents -- Any Plans for Tuesday?

BYLINE: By BILL MARSH

 BODY:
Independents are a prized bloc. But surveys suggest that more than a third of them are ornery or apathetic and probably won't bother to vote -- mostly because they didn't bother to register. 
That leaves candidates to fight over the rest of an independent-minded diaspora that had skewed toward Republicans for many years but has recently flipped. Now, independents are drawn more to Democrats. Independents outnumber Republicans in the electorate this year, according to polling by the Pew Research Center conducted last month: Among independents, just over half lean toward one of the major parties: About one in 10 are the most purely independent -- they refuse to identify with either party but still care very much about who is president. The rest, not so much. Herewith, a map of mindsets proclaimed by America's independents. How to Read This Chart Each '' i '' symbol represents 1 percent of Americans who call themselves independents. Percentages are each group's share of all independents. Independents paired with a donkey lean Democratic. Independents paired with an elephant lean Republican. The higher on the chart they appear, the more liberal they tend to be regarding economic issues. Those positioned lower are more conservative. The more leftward their position on the chart, the more liberal they tend to be on social issues. Those positioned toward the right are more conservative.

GRAPHIC: CHART: A BREAKDOWN OF THE INDEPENDENT DIASPORA (Sources: Pew Research Center
 Cato Institute) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%)

ORGANIZATION: CATO INSTITUTE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



79 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE RECKONING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2892 words

HEADLINE: From Midwest to M.T.A., Pain From Global Gamble

BYLINE: By CHARLES DUHIGG and CARTER DOUGHERTY

 BODY:
''People come up to me in the grocery store and say, 'How did we get suckered into this?' ''
-- Marc Hujik, of the Kenosha, Wis., school board
On a snowy day two years ago, the school board in Whitefish Bay, Wis., gathered to discuss a looming problem: how to plug a gaping hole in the teachers' retirement plan.
It turned to David W. Noack, a trusted local investment banker, who proposed that the district borrow from overseas and use the money for a complex investment that offered big profits.
''Every three months you're going to get a payment,'' he promised, according to a tape of the meeting. But would it be risky? ''There would need to be 15 Enrons'' for the district to lose money, he said. 
The board and four other nearby districts ultimately invested $200 million in the deal, most of it borrowed from an Irish bank. Without realizing it, the schools were imitating hedge funds.
Half a continent away, New York subway officials were also being wooed by bankers. Officials were told that just as home buyers had embraced adjustable-rate loans, New York could save money by borrowing at lower interest rates that changed every day.
For some of the deals, the officials were encouraged to rely on the same Irish bank as the Wisconsin schools.
During the go-go investing years, school districts, transit agencies and other government entities were quick to jump into the global economy, hoping for fast gains to cover growing pension costs and budgets without raising taxes. Deals were arranged by armies of persuasive financiers who received big paydays.
But now, hundreds of cities and government agencies are facing economic turmoil. Far from being isolated examples, the Wisconsin schools and New York's transportation system are among the many players in a financial fiasco that has ricocheted globally.
The Wisconsin schools are on the brink of losing their money, confronting educators with possible budget cuts. Interest rates for New York's subways are skyrocketing and contributing to budget woes that have transportation officials considering higher fares and delaying long-planned track repairs.
And the bank at the center of the saga, named Depfa, is now in trouble, threatening the stability of its parent company in Munich and forcing German officials to intervene with a multibillion-dollar bailout to stop a chain reaction that could freeze Germany's economic system.
''I am really worried,'' said Becky Velvikis, a first-grade teacher at Grewenow Elementary in Kenosha, Wis., one of the districts that invested in Mr. Noack's deal. ''If millions of dollars are gone, what happens to my retirement? Or the construction paper and pencils and supplies we need to teach?''
The trail through Wisconsin, New York and Europe illustrates how this financial crisis has moved around the world so fast, why it is so hard to tame, and why cities, schools and many other institutions will probably struggle for years.
''The local papers and radio shows call us idiots, and now when I go home, my kids ask me, 'Dad, did you do something wrong?' '' said Shawn Yde, the director of business services in the Whitefish Bay district. ''This is something I'll regret until the day I die.''
Selling Risk
Whitefish Bay's school district did not intend to become a hedge fund. It and four nearby districts were just trying to finance retirement obligations that were growing as health care costs rose.
Mr. Noack, the local representative of Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, a St. Louis investment bank, had been advising Wisconsin school boards for two decades, helping them borrow for new gymnasiums and classrooms. His father had taught at an area high school for 47 years. All six of his children attended Milwaukee schools.
Mr. Noack told the Whitefish Bay board that investing in the global economy carried few risks, according to the tape.
''What's the best investment? It's called a collateralized debt obligation,'' or a C.D.O., Mr. Noack said. He described it as a collection of bonds from 105 of the most reputable companies that would pay the school board a small return every quarter.
''We're being very conservative,'' Mr. Noack told the board, composed of lawyers, salesmen and a homemaker who lived in the affluent Milwaukee suburb.
Soon, Whitefish Bay and the four other districts borrowed $165 million from Depfa and contributed $35 million of their own money to purchase three C.D.O.'s sold by the Royal Bank of Canada, which had a relationship with Mr. Noack's company.
But Mr. Noack's explanation of a C.D.O. was very wrong. Mr. Noack, who through his lawyer declined to comment, had attended only a two-hour training session on C.D.O.'s, he told a friend.
The schools' $200 million was actually used as collateral for a complicated form of insurance guaranteeing about $20 billion of corporate bonds. That investment -- known as a synthetic C.D.O. -- committed the boards to paying off other bondholders if corporations failed to honor their debts.
If just 6 percent of the bonds insured went bad, the Wisconsin educators could lose all their money. If none of the bonds defaulted, the schools would receive about $1.8 million a year after paying off their own debt. By comparison, the C.D.O.'s offered only a modestly better return than a $35 million investment in ultra-safe Treasury bonds, which would have paid about $1.5 million a year, with virtually no risk.
The boards, as part of their deal, received thick packets of documents.
''I've never read the prospectus,'' said Marc Hujik, a local financial adviser and a member of the Kenosha school board who spent 13 years on Wall Street. ''We had all our questions answered satisfactorily by Dave Noack, so I wasn't worried.''
Wisconsin schools were not the only ones to jump into such complicated financial products. More than $1.2 trillion of C.D.O.'s have been sold to buyers of all kinds since 2005 -- including many cities and government agencies -- an increase of 270 percent from the four previous years combined, according to Thomson Reuters.
''Selling these products to municipalities was pretty widespread,'' said Janet Tavakoli, a finance industry consultant in Chicago. ''They tend to be less sophisticated. So bankers sell them products stuffed with junk.''
From the Wisconsin deal, the Royal Bank of Canada received promises of payments totaling about $11.2 million, according to documents. Stifel Nicolaus made about $1.2 million. Mr. Noack's total salary was about $300,000 a year, according to someone with knowledge of his finances. And Depfa received interest on its loans.
In separate statements, the Royal Bank of Canada and Stifel Nicolaus said board members signed documents indicating they understood the investments' risks. Both companies said they were not financial advisers to the boards but merely sold them products or services. Stifel Nicolaus said its relationship with the boards ended in 2007. Mr. Noack now works for a rival firm.
''Everyone knew New York guys were making tons of money on these kinds of deals,'' said Mr. Hujik, of the school board. ''It wasn't implausible that we could make money, too.''
A Bank Goes Global
By the time Depfa financed the Wisconsin schools' investment, it had already become an emblem of the new global economy. It was founded 86 years ago as a sleepy German lender, and for most of its history had focused on its home market.
But in 2002 a new chief executive, Gerhard Bruckermann, moved Depfa to the freewheeling financial center of Dublin to take advantage of low corporate taxes. He soon pushed the company into Sao Paulo, Mumbai, Warsaw, Hong Kong, Dallas, New York, Tokyo and elsewhere. Depfa became one of Europe's most profitable banks and was famous for lavish events and large paychecks. In 2006, top executives took home the equivalent of $33 million at today's exchange rates.
Mr. Bruckermann was a gregarious leader who joked that he hoped to make all employees into millionaires. He divided his time between a London home and a vast farm in Spain, where he grew exotic medicinal plants. And his success fueled an arrogance, former colleagues say.
Mr. Bruckermann once told a trade publication that Depfa, unlike German banks, understood how to benefit from the global economy. ''With our efforts, we are like the one-eyed man who becomes king in the land of the blind,'' he was quoted as saying.
Mr. Bruckermann, who left the bank earlier this year, did not respond to requests for an interview.
But as Depfa grew, other European banks began competing with the firm. So executives stretched into riskier deals -- the sort that would eventually send shockwaves across Europe and the United States.
Some of Mr. Bruckermann's employees grew concerned about deals like one struck in 2005 with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority of New York, the agency overseeing the city and suburban subways, buses and trains.
For years, municipal agencies like the M.T.A. had raised money by issuing plain-vanilla bonds with fixed interest rates. But then bankers began telling officials that there was a way to get cheaper financing.
Bankers said that cities, like home buyers, could save money with adjustable-rate loans, where the payments started low and changed over time. What they did not emphasize was that such payments could eventually skyrocket. Such borrowing -- known as variable-rate bonds -- also carried big fees for Wall Street.
The pitches were very successful. Municipalities issued twice as many variable-rate bonds last year as they did a decade earlier.
But variable-rate bonds had a hitch: many investors would purchase them only if a bank like Depfa was hired as a buyer of last resort, ready to acquire bonds from investors who could find no other buyers. Depfa collected fees for serving that role, but expected it would rarely have to honor such pledges.
Mr. Bruckermann's salespeople traveled the world encouraging officials to sign up for variable-rate loans. And bureaucrats and politicians, including some in New York, jumped in.
By 2006 Depfa was the largest buyer of last resort in the world, standing behind $2.9 billion of bonds issued that year alone. It backed a $200 million bond issued by the M.T.A.
But as Depfa grew, it became more reliant on enormous short-term loans to finance its operations. Those loans cost less, and thus helped the bank achieve higher profits, but only when times were good. Indeed, some employees were worried about that debt.
But Mr. Bruckermann plowed ahead, and it paid off. In 2007, even as the global economy was softening, Mr. Bruckermann persuaded one of Germany's biggest lenders, Hypo Real Estate, to purchase Depfa for $7.8 billion. Mr. Bruckermann's cut was more than $150 million. He left the company to grow oranges on his Spanish estate.
The Risks Turn Bad
Last March the delicate web tying Wisconsin, Dublin and Manhattan became an anchor dragging everyone down.
Mr. Yde, the director of business services for the Whitefish Bay district, began receiving troubling messages indicating the district's investments were declining. Worried, he started coming into his office at dawn, before the hallways of Whitefish Bay High School filled with students.
As the sun rose, Mr. Yde searched for explanations by the light of his computer screen. He Googled ''C.D.O.'s.'' He called bankers in London and New York. Each person referred him to someone else.
Then notices arrived saying that the bonds insured by Whitefish Bay's C.D.O.'s were defaulting. It became increasingly likely that the district's money would be seized to pay off other bondholders. Most, if not all, of the $200 million would probably be lost.
As other districts received similar notices, panic grew. For some boards, interest payments on borrowed money were now larger than revenue from the investments. Officials began quietly warning that they might have to dip into school funds.
''This is going to have a tremendous financial impact,'' said Robert F. Kitchen, a member of the West Allis-West Milwaukee school board. Officials say some districts may have to cut courses like art and drama, curtail gym and classroom maintenance, or forgo replacing teachers who retire.
Problems were emerging elsewhere, as well.
Depfa's executives were realizing that their loans to the Wisconsin schools were unlikely to be repaid. Additionally, bonds all over the world were declining in value, exposing the company to the possibility they would have to make good on their pledges as a buyer of last resort. And Depfa was still borrowing billions each month to cover its short-term loans. By autumn, the short-term debt of the bank and its parent company, Hypo, totaled $81 billion.
Then, in mid-September, the American investment bank Lehman Brothers went bankrupt. Short-term lending markets froze up. Ratings agencies, including Standard & Poor's, downgraded Depfa, citing the company's difficulties borrowing at affordable rates.
That set off a crisis in Germany, where officials worried that Depfa's sudden need for cash would drag down its parent company and set off a chain reaction at other banks. The German government and private banks extended $64 billion in credit to Hypo to stop it from imploding.
''We will not allow the distress of one financial institution to endanger the entire system,'' Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, said at the time.
That crisis spread almost immediately to the M.T.A.
The transportation authority, guided by Gary Dellaverson, a rumpled, cigarillo-smoking chief financial officer, had $3.75 billion of variable-rate debt outstanding.
About $200 million of that debt was backed by Depfa. When the bank was downgraded, investors dumped those transportation bonds, because of worries they would get stuck with them if Depfa's problems worsened. Depfa was forced to buy $150 million of them, and bonds worth billions of dollars issued by other municipalities.
Then came the twist: Depfa's contracts said that if it bought back bonds, the municipalities had to pay a higher-than-average interest rate. The New York transportation authority's repayment obligation could eventually balloon by about $12 million a year on the Depfa loans alone.
On its own, that cost could be absorbed by the agency. But, as the economy declined, the M.T.A. had lost hundreds of millions because tax receipts -- which finance part of its budget -- were falling. And its ability to renew its variable-rate bonds at low interest rates was hurt by the trouble at Depfa and other banks. The transportation authority now faces a $900 million shortfall, according to officials. It is ''fairly breathtaking,'' Mr. Dellaverson told the M.T.A.'s finance committee. ''This is not a tolerable long-term position for us to be in.''
In a recent interview, Mr. Dellaverson defended New York's use of variable bonds.
''Variable-rate debt has helped M.T.A. save millions of dollars, and we've been conservative in issuing it,'' he said. ''But there are risks, which we work hard to mitigate. Usually it works. But what's happening today is a total lack of marketplace rationality.''
In a statement, the transportation authority said that it was exploring options to reduce the cost of the Depfa-backed bonds, that its variable-rate bonds had delivered savings even during the current turmoil and that the agency had remained within its budget on debt payments this year.
However, the transportation authority has already announced it will raise subway and train fares next year because of various fiscal problems, and may be forced to shrink the work force and reduce some bus routes. Some analysts say fares will probably rise again in 2010.
The Depfa fallout doesn't end there. Rating agencies have downgraded the bonds of more than 75 municipal agencies backed by Depfa, including in California, Connecticut, Illinois and South Dakota. Officials in Florida, Massachusetts and Montana have cut budgets because of C.D.O.'s or similar risky bets.
And Hypo, the German company that bought Depfa, last week asked the German government for financial help for the third time. Depfa has frozen much of its business, according to Wall Street bankers, and though it continues to honor its commitments, some wonder for how long.
The Wisconsin school districts have filed suit against the Royal Bank of Canada and Stifel Nicolaus alleging misrepresentations. Board members hope they will prevail and schools and retirement plans will emerge unscathed. The companies dispute the lawsuit's claims. Mr. Noack is not named as a defendant and is cooperating with the school boards.
In Mrs. Velvikis's classroom at Grewenow Elementary in Kenosha, students have recently completed a lesson in which each first grader contributed a vegetable to a common vat of ''stone soup.'' The project -- based on a children's book -- teaches the benefits of working together. The schools have learned that when everyone works together, they can also all starve.
''Our funding is already so limited,'' Mrs. Velvikis said. ''We rely on parent donations for some supplies. You hear about all these millions of dollars that have been lost, and you think, that's got to come out of somewhere.''
THE RECKONING: Articles in this series are exploring the causes of the financial crisis.; NPR will present reports on this topic throughout the week on ''Morning Edition,'' ''All Things Considered'' and ''Weekend Edition Sunday'' and on the Planet Money blog and podcast at npr.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IN WISCONSIN ''This is something I'll regret until the day I die,'' said Shawn Yde of the Whitefish Bay schools. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASHLEY GILBERTSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 IN EUROPE: Gerhard Bruckermann, former chief of the Irish bank Depfa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THORSTEN JOCHIM/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg.A26) GRAPHICS: ALL CONNECTED: HOW A CRISIS SPREAD FAR AND WIDE (pg.A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); PARENT COMPANIES (72%); BAILOUTS (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (67%); GLOBALIZATION (64%); BUDGET CUTS (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (88%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



80 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; CONSUMED; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: CONSUMED: GOODWILL HUNTING: 11-02-08

BYLINE: By ROB WALKER

 BODY:
Goodwill
 In the first eight months of 2008, sales at Goodwill stores in the United States and Canada increased by 7 percent over the same period last year. While that obviously runs counter to trends being reported by most retailers these days, it's hard to say whether it counts as good news that more people are evidently buying secondhand goods. After all, many of us probably don't think of Goodwill in terms of retail; we think of it in terms of charity. 
 But operators of some Goodwill stores have been making efforts to prod us to think a little differently, or perhaps more expansively, about the brand -- and quite possibly the present economic gloom has primed us to be more open to that idea. Washington-area Goodwills, for instance, promote their stores with Webcast fashion shows as well as a popular blog, dcgoodwillfashions.blogspot.com, which highlights great bargain finds at their shops. Goodwill Industries of Central Indiana has commissioned advertising for its stores that emphasizes pleasurable bargain hunting at least as much as altruism. Goodwill Industries in the San Francisco area has worked with the Joe Boxer founder, Nicholas Graham, on the creation of a line of new clothes made out of discarded items, under the name William Good. 
 The more than 2,200 retail stores (counting international locations) bearing the Goodwill name all follow certain guidelines set down by Goodwill Industries International. But the management and operation of those stores are decentralized: there are 168 North American ''member agencies,'' each rooted to a particular geographic area. This means that donations stay within a particular region; it also means that stores in different areas can pursue different promotional strategies. Goodwill Industries of Central Indiana, for instance, was operating 23 stores in Indianapolis and surrounding areas in 1996, when its management decided to take the unusual step of hiring an advertising agency as a way to increase sales, says Cindy Graham, the vice president of marketing. Young & Laramore, an Indianapolis agency, helped devise the campaign to position Goodwill stores less as charity and more as discount retail. This meant changing the perception of potential shoppers who might think of Goodwill as a place where poor people bought castoffs, not as a competitor to Wal-Mart. 
 Since then, Young & Laramore helped create two dozen TV spots, mostly lighthearted and upbeat and often featuring an amiable young guy in a Goodwill uniform. The Goodwill Guy picks through donations bearing brand names like Ralph Lauren and Donna Karan or tells the ''scary story'' of the woman who missed out on the perfect bolero jacket because she didn't buy it on the spot. In some of the ads, the Goodwill Guy presents more traditional charitable messages about how your donations help those less fortunate, but always with a light tone. Perhaps the most cunning of the ads combines these ideas, making a case that shopping (at a Goodwill store, anyway) is in and of itself an act of charity. 
 Today, Goodwill Industries of Central Indiana has expanded to 40 locations, and its store revenues have grown apace -- 2007 sales were around $45 million, up 17 percent from 2006. Graham says area population growth, improved customer service and careful management have been factors, too. But, she figures, ''the advertising is a big part of the increased sales.'' And elements of the Central Indiana campaign have been used by Goodwills in 72 other markets in the United States and Canada, according to Ann Beriault of Young & Laramore. 
 Goodwill Industries of Greater Washington has taken a different approach but with similar goals. For the past few years, it has organized a Fashion of Goodwill runway show and Webcast featuring models in outfits plucked from its stores (and subsequently auctioned off). Last year, the retail marketing manager Em Hall took on the role of D.C. Goodwill Fashionista, whose engaging thrifter blogging about discoveries in that region's nine stores attracted attention and even won her an invitation to blog from New York's Fashion Week.
 None of this is to suggest that the nonprofit is backing away from its altruistic mission. The charity says that 84 percent of its total revenues go toward job training and placement and other programs. Even so, these efforts suggest an element of the Goodwill idea that is not simply about good will but also, to be blunt, about how there's something good in it for you. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PETER ARKLE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: USED MERCHANDISE STORES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); TRENDS (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); CHARITIES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (88%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); BRANDING (77%); FASHION SHOWS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (74%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (73%); FASHION & APPAREL (68%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (67%)

COMPANY: YOUNG & LARAMORE CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: GOODWILL INDUSTRIES INTERNATIONAL (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (52%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (52%)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (90%) INDIANA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



81 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; MAIN STREET CHAPPAQUA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1356 words

HEADLINE: Feeling the Wall Street Pinch at Home

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

DATELINE: CHAPPAQUA 

 BODY:
 IN this more-than-comfortable hamlet, shoppers at the Chappaqua Village Market are passing up filet mignon and Delmonico for flank and skirt steaks. People still drink, but the customers at Chappaqua Wine and Spirit are buying $15 bottles of wine rather than $30 bottles. Some residents are heading to Greeley Home and Hardware for paint and wallpaper so they can gussy up their homes themselves rather than hire contractors. Indeed, said Charles Napoli, a local architect, three customers who asked him to design home expansions are putting the projects on hold.
 No one in this hamlet is whistling ''Brother, Can You Spare a Dime?'' but the harshness of the nation's financial crisis is felt even in villages of tidy and venerable homes like this one. 
 The biggest blow has been the loss of jobs in a place where the financial firms of Wall Street and Midtown Manhattan are the daily destination for so many. According to the 2000 census, 17.6 percent of Chappaqua's adults worked in finance, insurance and real estate. With bankers and traders for firms like Lehman Brothers and Bear Stearns now conspicuously absent every morning on the train platform, Chappaqua's upbeat mood has soured. 
 John Barnes, 53, a financial adviser who lives in Chappaqua and works in Stamford, said: ''I know people at Lehman Brothers and Bear Stearns who have lost their jobs, and though UBS and Citibank are still in business, they laid off people I know. I know their names and their kids' names! I just learned that a good friend of mine lost his job. Last night I went to a wake, and the feeling you get on hearing a friend lost a job -- the sadness -- is almost the same.'' 
 Mary Faithorn Scott, an architect, said the phone doesn't ring as often for her services and some clients are scaling back projects, plus the market's slide is affecting her family's 529 college savings fund. She still has to get the younger of her two sons through college -- Ben is a sophomore at Vanderbilt University -- and the last statement for the 529 fund showed a 10 percent drop in its value. 
 ''Talk about toxic loans, it's a toxic mood,'' she said on a day after the stock market plunged 700 points. ''You feel nervous. The market soared on Monday and it felt more positive. People said, 'Oh good, it's behind us,' and then yesterday it went down and you realize Monday was just a blip. The mood changes with the stock market.''
 That's why some signs of frugality have crept into Ms. Scott's daily rituals.
 ''I'm making frittata out of eggs instead of having meat sometimes,'' she said. 
 To be sure, there has been no wave of home foreclosures here and no men standing around idly in midday as you might see in some neighborhoods accustomed to hard times. Janet L. Wells, 66, a former supervisor of the Town of New Castle, which includes the hamlets of Chappaqua and Millwood, said that because of Chappaqua's relative wealth -- the estimated median household income was $198,000 in 2007 -- this community of 9,700 can withstand a crisis like this longer.
 ''Usually it's been a year or two before the change starts to dramatically impact on their lives,'' she said. ''I think there's a bigger cushion that a number of people have.''
 Neal Gomberg, an advertising man in his 40s, said he thought Chappaqua would not ''get a lot of sympathy because it's such an affluent place.'' 
 ''But there's still a lot of pain being felt here,'' he said. ''It's a different level of pain.'' 
 Mr. Gomberg, who has one daughter in college and another in high school, left his job with a major Manhattan advertising firm a year ago. He said he had been doing well creating ads on his own, but lately business has been slow. 
 There have been moments when he has regretted giving up a steady paycheck and company health insurance. ''For the first time in memory,'' Mr. Gomberg said, he has been thinking twice about eating out or buying a luxury good.
 A subtler psychic impact of the financial meltdown is already being felt. Those who work in finance take the tailspins of the day home with them. ''I have hundreds of millions of dollars for customers that I'm responsible for, and a day like this feels like a punch in the gut,'' Mr. Barnes said after the stock market plummeted more than 700 points.
 Even those not directly involved in investment absorb the tension. 
 ''Someone said to me this summer that they felt there would be anxiety levels that compared to the way people felt after 9/11,'' Ms. Wells said. ''People are anxious; they don't know what's going to happen.''
 Chappaqua certainly has had concrete indicators of the economic slump. Bill Holmes, founder of the 40-year-old real estate firm Holmes & Kennedy, said that houses were selling, but the median price was down 12 percent from last year. As of Oct. 13, 142 Chappaqua homes had been sold in 2008 at a median price of $982,000, according to the Westchester-Putnam Multiple Listing Service. For all of 2007, 194 homes were sold at a median price of $1.12 million. 
 ''It's a great time to buy a house -- if you're not working for Lehman Brothers,'' Mr. Holmes said. 
 The Chappaqua Library is lending far more books, films and recorded music as people decide that the cost of entertainment is one area where they can save. Pamela Thornton, director of a library that circulates more than 400,000 items a year, said 17,000 more books, movies and other items were taken out in the first nine months of this year than the same period last year.
 ''Before, they would buy their books, but now they choose to use the library because they can get it for free, and DVDs and music,'' she said. ''Everyone's trying to economize as best they can.''
 Barbara Gerrard, the New Castle supervisor, said the town cut its budget this year by 10 percent and is planning cuts for next year, including eliminating one and a half jobs from its work force of 131 employees. 
 In a town of more than 6,000 homeowners, the number that did not pay their Sept. 30 school tax bill on time stood at 282 as of Oct. 23, though within a week that number had declined to 233. Both figures are higher than last year's figures for tardy payers. A plan to seek a bond issue to pay for building a sidewalk along Route 120 and other projects has been put off until January because of high interest rates. 
 Other indicators of how the local economy is doing come from merchants like Vinny Milazzo, who owns the Village Market with his father, Anthony. He notices that even those who drive up in $100,000 cars watch what they buy at the meat counter. 
 ''The average customer is more frugal,'' Mr. Milazzo said. ''It's psychological. In their mind they're losing a lot of money, and out of conscience think they have to make an attempt to cut costs.''
 Rick Buggee, co-owner of Family Britches, a 38-year-old high-end clothing store, has been cutting back his stock of more expensive-brand suits like Ermenegildo Zegna and Hickey Freeman, but he hopes the Christmas season will turn things around.
 ''People who might buy electronics or other expensive gifts might come in here and buy a sweater as a present,'' he said.
 GINA GORE, owner of Greeley Home and Hardware, has not only been noticing more people coming in to do their own basic home fix-ups, but she has also felt the effect of the crisis in her own needs as a business owner. She has been trying to get a loan to upgrade her 12-year-old store but said she has been told by a number of big banks that ''now it's really tight unless you put up your home as collateral.''
 People are cutting back on pricier restaurants, many of those interviewed said. Mark J. Kramer, the owner of Susan Lawrence, a gourmet shop, said people were choosing take-out meals that are cheaper than restaurant fare. In fact, he says he has had his strongest season ever.
 ''Whenever there's a political crisis or a 9/11 or a dip in the economy, people retreat back to their homes and stop eating out, and home entertaining becomes a security blanket for them,'' he said. ''They might have second thoughts about a vacation to Bora Bora, but dinner tonight is less of a commitment.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TIGHTER BELTS: Greeley Street in Chappaqua, where retailers say customers are economizing. One resident said that, ''for the first time in memory,'' he was thinking twice before eating out.
D.I.Y.: Gina Gore, owner of Greeley Home and Hardware, says she has more business from customers who do their own basic home repairs rather than hire contractors. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUSAN FARLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WE1)
 BOTTOM LINE: Vinny Milazzo, of Village Market,left, and Kirk Sprenger, of Chappaqua Wine and Spirit, below, say they notice less spending.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUSAN FARLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WE6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); DISMISSALS (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); EDUCATIONAL SAVINGS PLANS (66%); CENSUS (54%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



82 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; MAIN STREET GARDEN CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: Another 'Wall Street' With Woes to Face

BYLINE: By PAT WIEDENKELLER

 BODY:
GARDEN CITY
 THE sun was shining, the trees smelled of autumn, and a warm vibe of affluence seemed to rise from the paving stones on a recent morning in downtown Garden City, the village known as Long Island's Wall Street. The Franklin Avenue business district, with its mix of banks and brokerage firms, bistros and high-end jewelry shops, radiated solid prosperity.
 But more than three dozen conversations with lunchtime pedestrians, merchants, white-collar commuters waiting for the train to Manhattan and others revealed a mood darker than the bright October day.
 ''I think it's fear,'' said Michael Sussman, a financial adviser at Raymond James Financial on Franklin Avenue. ''The mood is different.'' 
 ''There's a Morgan Stanley and Wachovia nearby,'' Mr. Sussman said. ''There's a cafeteria in my building that people use where we all see each other, and Merrill Lynch is near me. There's a lot of financial people, and I'm seeing a lot of fear even on the advisers' faces.'' 
 Downtown merchants say regular customers are suddenly reluctant to spend much money in their shops. Restaurants have started offering deals to lure patrons back. A gym saw an exodus from its membership rolls. And landscapers, builders and paving contractors have watched business drop like a rock.
 The tumult in the financial markets is affecting people and industries in every quarter of Long Island, but few places are as directly tied to Wall Street's fortunes as Garden City, a five-and-a-half-square-mile community of 22,000 in the center of Nassau County. A report in Business Week in September put the share of the population of workers in finance and real estate there at 20.22 percent. Last week Gov. David A. Paterson projected that 45,000 people working in the financial services industry would lose their jobs during the economic downturn.
 Stockbrokers, bankers, accountants and information technology specialists crowd the platforms at five Long Island Rail Road stations in the village that offer service to Manhattan. On Franklin Avenue, financial service companies -- Wachovia, Citibank, T. Rowe Price, Charles Schwab, Morgan Stanley -- are lined up like dominoes for half a mile. Shops, services and restaurants cater to a clientele used to living well in Tudor- and colonial-style homes, behind deep lawns in landscaped neighborhoods. The 2000 census put the median household income at $104,176. 
 ''Garden City is a place that's very leveraged to downtown Manhattan,'' said Dan Dolan, a director of wealth management strategies for ALPS Distributors, pausing outside his gym, New York Sports Club. ''And people are very afraid of losing their jobs.'' 
 Many interviewed said they knew others who had already been let go. And most said they were holding on to their cash, cutting back on things like fuel, groceries and dinner out. Businesses that count on the local earning power for their living are feeling the effects.
 At New York Sports Club, the manager, Eric Rochet, said that in September more than 100 clients dropped their memberships, although 60 new members joined, at a rate of $149 with $70 monthly fees. ''They're cutting back. Gym memberships are the first thing to go,'' Mr. Rochet said. ''The last three people who came in here to cancel memberships said they flat-out lost their jobs.''
 Brett Hilton has outfitted homes and businesses in Manhattan and Nassau with computer systems for 11 years, but a 35 percent drop in business led him to cut his hourly rate this year -- to $30 from $50 for a home installation and to $55 from $75 for businesses. He said he had been walking more, riding his bike and buying generic brands to save. ''I can do this for maybe another six months, and then I'll have to take out a loan,'' he said.
 Restaurants that labored last summer to absorb escalating costs related to high fuel prices now face a new challenge of getting customers through the door. 
 At Calagero's, a midprice Italian restaurant and caterer on Franklin Avenue, the chef-owner Saul Monge said she had booked as many as 10 holiday parties by this time last year, each bringing in about $800. ''Right now I don't have any,'' she said.
 She is paring costs to help make up for a 25 percent shortfall in business, ''watching every single item that I'm buying, saving every dollar on every box.'' 
 Like other restaurant owners in downtown, she is leaning into her patrons' cash-flow problems, modifying menus, offering coupons and specials to fill tables. Instead of offering a full veal chop for $34, she said, she makes veal Sorrentino and charges $24.
 Businesses throughout the village struggled to project optimism and prosperity, even as they expressed worries about adjusting to a harsh new reality that they fear is only beginning.
 Mark D. Zaino, general manager of the Cherry Valley Club, one of three private golf clubs in the village, said he had already begun a ''recession planning process'' to look for low-impact cuts in his operation, but was pressing on with a renovation of the club's main ballroom in the spring. ''The contractors are hired, carpets ordered,'' he said. ''When the market comes back, we want to be the same club we were.''
 At H. L. Gross & Brothers, a luxury jeweler at Franklin and Stewart Avenues for nearly 40 years, Brad Gross was scaling back holiday orders after being blindsided by a credit crunch and a 30 percent decline in holiday sales last year. ''A lot of my customers are big guys in the financial industry, but they weren't buying 20- and 30,000-dollar Christmas gifts,'' he said.
 NOT all businesses are suffering. ''I've had a flood of new calls,'' said Dr. Michael Genovese, a psychiatrist who said he draws about 30 percent of his clients from the financial services industry. ''I think a lot of people are really scared. They're concerned about their ability to support their families. There's a lot of stress and anxiety.'' 
 Garden City has seen difficult times before: the 1987 stock market crash, the 9/11 attacks, in which 23 residents died, and its economic aftershocks. The mayor, Peter A. Bee, said he was hopeful that the proximity of so many financial workers in the community's neighborhoods, clubs and other organizations would help them network and find new jobs. 
 But rebounding may be more difficult this time, as many financial industry workers have seen vast amounts of personal wealth evaporate. 
 ''You can't help but own your company's stocks, and on a personal level it can have a dramatic effect,'' said Mr. Dolan, the wealth manager, who lives in Garden City with his wife and four children. ''Someone from Des Moines might not feel bad about well-off people like this losing their money, but people get used to an income level.'' 
 More high-priced houses here -- a million dollars and up -- have come on the market recently as the wealthy have traded down, but there are few takers, even with prices dropped 10 and 15 percent, real estate agents say. The average price for a home in the village has fallen to $863,600, from $904,200 last year, said Tricia Chirco, a Multiple Listing Service spokeswoman. 
 But local agents say the housing market remains an overall bright spot, with brisk competition among buyers looking for midprice homes in ready condition. ''If it's in marginal shape, they don't want it,'' said Norma Quigley, an agent for McMahon Realty, adding that prices and buyers are now ''more realistic.'' ''They don't want to pay the cost of contractors and materials.''
 Rino Gisonda, an Elmont landscaper who was planting garden mums in front of the Hampshire House condominiums on Seventh Street, has felt that restraint. ''In Garden City basically this whole year I must have done one sprinkler installation, maybe two plantings,'' he said. Mr. Gisonda, who owns Vision Landscaping with his father, Vito, said that last year he had 20 jobs here. 
 ''It's the same everywhere, everywhere, everywhere,'' he said.
 Mr. Gisonda said that he recently laid off two workers, and that his business was down 40 percent. He said he expected the election to help turn around the economy. 
 ''Will things get better? They always do,'' he said. ''Once we figure out what direction this country's going to go toward, this is all going to blow away.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SEATS TO FILL: Preparing for the day at Paninoteca on Seventh Avenue in Garden City's Franklin Avenue business district, which is feeling the effects of the nation's economic crisis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL MARINO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
DIAMOND CUTTING: Brad Gross of H. L. Gross & Brothers jewelers, a Franklin Avenue fixture for nearly 40 years, said he was scaling back its orders for the holiday season. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.LI1)
SEEKING HELP: Financial institutions, like Countrywide, left, and Community National Bank, are a major presence in downtown Garden City, where Michael Genovese, below, a psychiatrist, tied ''a flood of new calls'' to the poor economy. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHIL MARINO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.LI5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); JEWELRY STORES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TRAINS (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (74%); SECURITIES BROKERS (73%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (73%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (70%); DISMISSALS (67%); LAYOFFS (67%); CENSUS (66%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (61%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (56%); RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL INC (56%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (52%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%); RJF (NYSE) (56%); SCHW (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



83 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section EDLIFE; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; IN CLASS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: Lessons on an Election

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
Clyde Haberman writes the NYC column for The Times. Dabrali Jiminez contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
ON the same night that Gov. Sarah Palin accepted the Republican nomination for vice president, a public affairs class at Baruch College in Manhattan vigorously debated her qualifications to stand, as the cliche has it, a heartbeat from the Oval Office.
 Some of the 23 students in the class scoffed at a theme echoed by many Republicans, namely that Ms. Palin's brief tenure as Alaska's governor gave her enough executive experience for national office. C'mon, the students said, who is she? She's governor of Alaska. It's a state with fewer than 700,000 people. Brooklyn alone has three times the population.
 But the lecturer, Mario M. Cuomo, waved a cautionary finger. A state's size is not the only thing to consider, he said. A governor is a governor. ''The fact that what you do affects more people,'' he said, ''doesn't change the nature of what you do.'' As a three-time governor of New York, a state with a population of 19 million, Mr. Cuomo, definitely affected many people in his day. 
 The students digested his words. Some seemed surprised, perhaps expecting him, as a prominent Democrat, to take a potshot at the relatively untested Alaskan. But he went with his policy-focused head, not his partisan heart, and gave the students something to ponder about the nature of authority and leadership.
 Which is exactly what he wanted to do this semester when he agreed to teach a course on the presidential election with a veteran professor of public affairs at Baruch, Douglas A. Muzzio. For two and a half hours each Wednesday evening, the two have merged the scholarly imperatives of the classroom and the gritty realities of the arena, through the eyes of a politician who bears the scars of many a battle -- some won, some lost.
 The title of the course is ''The 2008 Presidential Election: Where We Are as a Nation, Where We Want to Be, How We Get There.'' What it really should be called, Professor Muzzio told the class, is ''two guys from Queens talking politics.'' Were Shakespeare around, he might have called it ''The Two Gentlemen of Corona.''
 Around the country this fall, many colleges have devised ways to incorporate the election into their curriculums. Hofstra University in Hempstead, N.Y., offered no fewer than seven campaign-related courses, including one focused on the presidential debates -- no surprise, given that Hofstra was playing host to the final encounter between Senators Barack Obama and John McCain. 
 At another debate site, Belmont University in Nashville, professors are weaving campaign-themed assignments into their usual material. One humanities symposium examined how language and argument figure in political discourse. 
 At American University in Washington, Dotty Lynch, a former senior political editor at CBS News, has supervised her 21 students in putting together their own Web-based polling operation.
 But the marquee attraction of the fall is Mr. Cuomo at Baruch, a division of the City University of New York.
 The undergraduates are clearly delighted to have time with the man introduced to them by Professor Muzzio as ''the most gifted rhetorician of his generation,'' a soft-spoken politician whose thoughts pour forth in long paragraphs.
 ''He can explain things from personal experience, and you can't match that with an ordinary professor,'' said Ben Guttmann, a 19-year-old who was just starting grade school when Mr. Cuomo left office in 1994. But the student was quite familiar with the governor's rousing keynote address at the 1984 Democratic National Convention, the moment that led many Democrats to think of him as a future presidential candidate.
 This doesn't mean these young people are star-struck. On occasion, they have thrown out polite challenges, as one woman did after Mr. Cuomo, 76, argued that affirmative action programs can put the concepts of individual freedom and of social equality at odds.
 The syllabus is ambitious, encompassing culture battles, constitutional law, war and foreign policy. Religious and racial perceptions are no small matter given that Senator Obama is running. This semester, too, the financial crisis hit with a bang, validating Mr. Cuomo's prediction at the get-go that the economy would be the big issue.
 The course has roots in a dialogue that the former governor had in 2007 with Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker. From opposite ends of the political spectrum, the two men joined for a debate at Cooper Union in New York, the purpose being to discuss serious issues seriously and at length, liberated from the tortured constraints of televised debates that reward not wisdom but 90 seconds of glibness. Afterward, the audience was asked what it thought of the format. ''The place went bonkers,'' Mr. Cuomo said.
 He hankered to explore issues in depth. Then along came an offer to teach this class; Florence H. Frucher, a Baruch adjunct professor who worked in the Cuomo administration, is assisting. 
 In the 1960s, well before he entered elective politics, Mr. Cuomo taught law at his alma mater, St. John's University in Queens. He finds his return to the classroom a challenge. ''It's very hard,'' he said. ''I take the stuff so seriously. You have to prepare, you have to know what you're talking about and you have to study. You have to study just to teach.'' 
 In Professor Muzzio's view, a good teacher, like a good politician, needs pacing, humor and a feel for the audience. ''That only comes with doing it,'' he said.
 The students -- shock, shock -- have not always been so well prepared. ''I know you came to listen to the governor,'' Professor Muzzio said in exasperation one evening, the words coming out staccato and his arms sweeping the room in operatic gestures. ''I don't care! You've got to do the readings.''
 In his talks, Mr. Cuomo has reinforced the inherent contradictions of politics. Important as issues are, he said, ''people don't give you a win on the issues.'' Victory or defeat often hinges on gaffes and voters' gut feelings. Mr. Obama ''is the best package of political gifts I've ever seen,'' he said. Yet for all those gifts, ''does he have the answers?'' Ms. Palin opposes abortion rights. Yet is it clear what she might do if in office? ''We know what her own views are,'' he said, ''but not necessarily what her policy is.''
 Truth itself is elusive. One evening, he shook his head when Professor Muzzio told the class that ''lying is an essential component of politics.''
 ''I think it's very much overdone, this notion that you have to deceive,'' Mr. Cuomo said. But trouble lies in wait for those who speak their minds plainly. On another evening, he cited Walter F. Mondale's disastrous race in 1984 against Ronald Reagan. During the debates, Mr. Mondale raised the prospect of new taxes no matter who won the election. Those remarks helped do him in. Mr. Reagan won re-election -- and then pursued tax increases. 
 What's the lesson? ''If you're 100 percent right, 100 percent valorous, 100 percent candid, you lose,'' Mr. Cuomo said.
 Heads in notebooks, the students took it all down. This was an insight into political reality they wanted to remember.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THE HORSE'S MOUTH: At his public affairs class at Baruch College, the former governor Mario M. Cuomo holds forth on the election.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGELA JIMENEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CURRICULA (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (88%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) ALASKA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



84 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: Papa's Gift to the Fire-in-the-Belly Crowd

BYLINE: By DAVID MARGOLICK. 
David Margolick is a contributing editor at Conde Nast Portfolio.

 BODY:
Robert Jordan is a left-wing radical, or was modeled after several of them. He palled around with terrorists, or at least people whom many Americans, of his era and beyond, so thought. His specialty is blowing things up for a cause. He is at minimum a socialist, someone so eager to spread wealth around that he'd lose his life to do it.
 Robert Jordan is also honorable, steadfast, selfless, determined, stoic, generous, tolerant, courageous, conscientious, forgiving, altruistic, tender, wise, loyal, independent, taciturn, disciplined, dutiful, patient, exacting, empathetic, idealistic, introspective, charismatic and handsome. No wonder the beautiful Maria falls for him the first time she sees him, and the earth moves beneath the two the first time they make love.
 Robert Jordan is the hero of Ernest Hemingway's ''For Whom the Bell Tolls,'' an American fighting Franco's Fascists in the Spanish Civil War. And despite his radical roots, he's a literary sensation during this election season. Senator Barack Obama told Rolling Stone that Hemingway's novel, published in 1940, is one of the three books that most inspired him. As for Senator John McCain, few men, real or fictional, have influenced him as much as Jordan. 
 Mr. McCain begins his 2002 book, ''Worth the Fighting For'' (a phrase lifted from Jordan's dying soliloquy), with an extraordinary paean to the character, whom he first encountered at age 12. Having found two four-leaf clovers, young John pulled ''For Whom the Bell Tolls'' off his father's bookcase so he could press them. He and Robert have been together ever since, even in Hanoi. ''I knew that if he were in the next cell to mine, he would be stoic, he would be strong, he would be tough, he wouldn't give up,'' Mr. McCain said in a radio interview in 2002. ''And Robert would expect me to do the same thing.''
 America never embraced the more than 3,000 of its sons and daughters -- many of them Communists and more than half of whom were killed -- who fought in Spain between 1936 and 1938. Rather, they were persecuted, subpoenaed and passed over for jobs when they came home. As late as 1984, Ronald Reagan said that most Americans still believed they had fought on the wrong side. The few veterans of that fight still alive remain unapologetically to the left; Mr. McCain won't find many votes among them. ''He's the very antithesis of what we stood for,'' said Mark Billings, a mechanic during the Spanish Civil War who now lives in El Cerrito, Calif. (He says he is only guardedly optimistic about Mr. Obama.)
 How is it, then, that the radicals' literary stand-in appeals to two mainstream presidential candidates who agree on little else? Well, take an author who was politically skeptical, commercially savvy and damned good. Throw in a movie starring Gary Cooper and Ingrid Bergman. Add ignorance or amnesia, garnish with the passage of time, and you get a role model that comfortably serves two.
 ''Both candidates regard themselves as paladins of democracy, and would be reluctant to acknowledge that their 'hero' might have been a Communist,'' said Paul Preston of the London School of Economics, an authority on the Spanish Civil War. James Benet of Forestville, Calif., who drove ambulances in Spain, agreed: ''If Robert Jordan were alive he'd be way to the left of those guys, and he'd be a lot harder for them to admire.'' 
 Hemingway never revealed on whom he based Jordan, who taught Spanish at the University of Montana before heading to Spain. Cecil Eby of the University of Michigan proposed Robert Merriman, who, like Jordan, was a Westerner and a teacher (he had studied economics in Moscow). But Merriman, who was killed in 1938, was never a guerrilla behind enemy lines, as Jordan was. Three others whom veterans speculate could have been models -- Michael Jimenez, William Aalto, and Irving Goff -- were, in fact, guerrillas; Mr. Goff, a New Yorker who died in 1989, actually blew up bridges, but unlike Merriman, he never met Hemingway. (He once joked that he never met Ingrid Bergman, either; if he had, he said, ''I might still be there.'') Large swaths of Jordan, including his ''red, black, blinding'' temper and his father's suicide, clearly come from Hemingway himself. 
 Among the Americans in what later became known as the Abraham Lincoln Brigade, few claimed to be Jordan's prototype. Most hated the book, in which Hemingway trashed the people leading the fight for the embattled Spanish Republic, particularly the Soviets. In The Daily Worker, Mike Gold dismissed Hemingway as a rich, alcoholic voyeur, ''a sportsman and a tourist.'' The book represented ''a picture so drastically mutilated and distorted as to slander the cause for which we fought,'' the Veterans of the Abraham Lincoln Brigade declared in an open letter to Hemingway.
 And they hated Robert Jordan, mostly for what Peter Carroll, author of ''The Odyssey of the Abraham Lincoln Brigade,'' called his ''extreme individualism.'' Jordan was no ideologue. ''Nobody owned his mind, nor his faculties for seeing and hearing,'' Hemingway wrote. When Jordan dreams of Marx, it is Groucho, not Karl; he fantasizes about taking Maria to see ''A Night at the Opera'' in Madrid once the fighting stops. 
 Allen Josephs, a Hemingway scholar at the University of West Florida, says Hemingway created Jordan as a Communist, but changed his affiliation to ''anti-Fascist'' after his publisher, Charles Scribner, objected. The switch fit Hemingway's own politics and, not coincidentally, made Jordan more commercially acceptable. (So too, surely, did making him a stately Westerner rather than a New York Jew, as so many of the Americans Hemingway encountered in Spain were.) 
 Jordan's willingness to give his life to a cause greater than himself would appeal to anyone from Senator McCain's military background, said William Braasch Watson, a Hemingway scholar and retired professor of history at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. And that appeal, Mr. Watson added, would only have grown in Hanoi, where Jordan's long interior monologues -- questioning himself, his character, his future -- would have anticipated Mr. McCain's experiences.
 Mr. Watson said he could see Jordan's appeal to Mr. Obama, too. ''Like Jordan, Obama's a person with a mission and a larger vision,'' he said. ''He, too, seems remarkably self-contained -- somewhat aloof even -- and he's driven to accomplish his goal.''
 If Mr. McCain does not win on Election Day, he may have even more reason to identify with Robert Jordan. Part of what Jordan has taught him, Mr. McCain has said, is to ''accept your fate, accept your fate.'' But no matter who prevails come Tuesday, one winner is already clear: the much-out-of-fashion Hemingway himself. In the political-literary world, he's this year's Comeback Kid.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: COME TO LIFE: Gary Cooper as Robert Jordan
 Ingrid Bergman is by his side. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HULTON ARCHIVE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); LITERATURE (88%); CIVIL WAR (88%); TERRORISM (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RONALD REAGAN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (76%)

TITLE: For Whom the Bell Tolls (Book)>; For Whom the Bell Tolls (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



85 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Vote For ( )

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Here's what strikes me this election eve: I can't remember a presidential campaign that was so disconnected from the actual challenges of governing that will confront the winner the morning after. When this election campaign began two years ago, the big issue was how and for how long do we continue nation-building in Iraq. As the campaign comes to a close, the big issue is how and at what sacrifice do we do nation-building in America. 
 Unfortunately, you'd barely know that from the presidential debates. Watching them in the context of the meltdown of the financial system was like watching a game show where the two contestants were kept off-stage in a soundproof booth and brought out to address the audience without knowing the context. 
 Since the last debate, John McCain and Barack Obama have unveiled broad ideas about how to restore the nation's financial health. But they continue to suggest that this will be largely pain-free. McCain says giving everyone a tax cut will save the day; Obama tells us only the rich will have to pay to help us out of this hole. Neither is true. 
 We are all going to have to pay, because this meltdown comes in the context of what has been ''perhaps the greatest wealth transfer since the Bolshevik Revolution in Russia in 1917,'' says Michael Mandelbaum, author of ''Democracy's Good Name.'' ''It is not a wealth transfer from rich to poor that the Bush administration will be remembered for. It is a wealth transfer from the future to the present.'' 
 Never has one generation spent so much of its children's wealth in such a short period of time with so little to show for it as in the Bush years. Under George W. Bush, America has foisted onto future generations a huge financial burden to finance our current tax cuts, wars and now bailouts. Just paying off those debts will require significant sacrifices. But when you add the destruction of wealth that has taken place in the last two months in the markets, and the need for more bailouts, you understand why this is not going to be a painless recovery.
 The Bush team leaves us with another debt -- one to Mother Nature. We have added tons more CO2 into the atmosphere these last eight years, without any mitigation effort. As a result, slowing down climate change in the next eight years is going to require even bigger changes and investments in how we use energy.
 Given that Times columnists are not allowed to ''formally'' endorse candidates and given that the context of this election has changed so much from the policy positions the candidates started with, all I can suggest is that you vote for the candidate with these character traits: 
 First, we need a president who can speak English and deconstruct and navigate complex issues so Americans can make informed choices. We have paid an enormous price for having a president who could not explain and reassure us during this financial meltdown. We wasted a huge amount of time pretending that we could punish Wall Street without punishing Main Street -- when, in fact, they are intricately intertwined. 
 A major money market fund -- Reserve Primary -- failed in September because the extra interest it offered customers derived, in part, from the $785 million in high-yielding Lehman Brothers commercial paper and notes it was holding. Depositors who told their congressmen to just let that greedy Lehman Brothers fail were shocked to discover this meant that their own money market would be frozen. No, we don't need a president defending greed on Wall Street, but we do need one who can explain that we are all in the same boat, that a leak at one end can sink everyone and that while we must regulate, we don't want to kill risk-taking and the rewards that go with that -- which are essential to growing our economy.
 Second, we need a president who can energize, inspire and hold the country together during what will be a very stressful recovery. We have to climb out of this financial crisis at a time when the baby boomers are about to retire and going to need their Social Security and eventually Medicare. We are all going to be paying the government more and getting less until we grow out of this hole.
 Third, we need a president who can rally the world to our side. We cannot get out of this crisis unless China starts consuming more and unless Europe keeps lowering interest rates. Everyone is interconnected, and everyone is still looking to America to lead. 
 So, bottom line: Please do not vote for the candidate you most want to have a beer with (unless it's to get stone cold drunk so you don't have to think about this mess we're in). Vote for the person you'd most like at your side when you ask your bank manager for an extension on your mortgage. 
 Vote for the candidate you think has the smarts, temperament and inspirational capacity to unify the country and steer our ship through what could be the rockiest shoals our generation has ever known. Your kids will thank you. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); BAILOUTS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); WRITERS (64%); CLIMATE CHANGE (63%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



86 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; ON LANGUAGE; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: ON LANGUAGE: 08-ISMS: 11-02-08

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE. 
Send comments and suggestions to: safireonlanguage@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The language of political campaigning sparkles with coinages, clangs with old and new symbols and fills the hall with updated echoes of past political struggles. Here's a selection of '08-isms.
 Symbol of the little guy: John Q. Public made his debut as the baseball fan rooting for the 1922 New York Giants. For Franklin Delano Roosevelt, it was the economist William Graham Sumner's the forgotten man, sighted by the new president ''at the bottom of the economic pyramid.'' At the 1956 Republican convention, a dump-Nixon rump movement nominated the nonexistent Joe Smith; he was later replaced by Joe Six-Pack as cultural hero of those in 1864 who hailed the great unwashed and in 1969 emerged victorious as the silent majority. 
 This year, Gov. Sarah Palin modernized the soccer mom with the hockey mom and the Wal-Mart mom. (That chain has a great euphemism for the guy on the way out who makes sure you're not stealing stuff: the exit greeter.) John McCain brought the unforgotten everyman up to date in the third presidential debate as Joe the Plumber. Suddenly, plumber -- a word associated with nefarious leak plugging in the Watergate era -- emerged as the ringing sobriquet of Samuel J. Wurzelbacher of Holland, Ohio. This big, bald, salt-of-the-earth fellow, worried about taxes, elicited a damaging answer from a canvassing Barack Obama that concluded, ''when you spread the wealth around, it's good for everybody.''
 Spreading, or sharing, the wealth -- as against creating the wealth -- was promptly pounced upon and roundly denounced by McCain-Palin conservatives. That was because the phrase has long been used to describe the discredited socialist scheme of income redistribution popularized during the Great Depression: the 1934 Share-Our-Wealth Society was the political organization headed by the Louisiana senator Huey Long, a too-aggressive Progressive. Its slogan was ''Every Man a King,'' taken from a speech by William Jennings Bryan, the perennial Democratic presidential candidate around a century ago. 
 The spread-the-wealth remark enabled McCain to charge, ''Senator Obama's plans are class warfare,'' a charge effectively leveled at Democrats in 2004. Its origin is in the Marx-Engels ''Communist Manifesto,'' as the German Klassenkampf, more accurately translated as ''class struggle.'' 
 Weeks before his evocation of Joe the Plumber, McCain came under fire for his statement seeking to calm the early-October financial panic: ''the fundamentals of our economy are strong.'' That brought the derisive Obama riposte: ''What economy are you talkin' about?'' (The letter g has been stricken from the political alphabet.) Justin Fox of Time magazine said the McCain phraseology, reminiscent of Herbert Hoover's attempt at reassurance, ''may go down as one of the great blunders of presidential campaign history.'' Fox noted, however, that the United States work force and American ingenuity were surely fundamentals, ''and it's not at all crazy to argue that these fundamentals are strong.'' (Updated political adage: ''It ain't what you say, or even the way that you say it -- but it's who said it that way before.'') 
 The derogation of derogation is doing well. Beanbag, a children's game whose object is easy to catch, made a comeback this year. Mudslinging, as a term, is passe; time was, Adlai Stevenson could coin a Confucianist epigram, ''He who slings mud generally loses ground,'' but mud has lost its dirtiness in the vocabulary of dirty tricks. ''It's Sliming Time (Again)'' was a headline in The Nation last month; Eric Alterman, its liberal media columnist, began a paragraph with ''Sure, politics ain't beanbag, but . . . '' The but almost always follows the bag; McCain recently said of politicking: ''It's not an easy business. It's not beanbag. But it is exhilarating. It's exciting.'' Obama, in the spring primaries, added a local touch: ''Politics ain't beanbag; that's what they say in Chicago.'' The aphorism was indeed created in that city, first used in The Chicago Evening Post in 1895 by Finley Peter Dunne, repeated a few years later by Dunne's creation, ''Mr. Dooley,'' in his Irish brogue: ''Politics ain't beanbag. 'Tis a man's game; an' women, childher, an' pro-hybitionists 'd do well to keep out iv it.'' 
 Boneheaded emerged as a favored self-deprecating Obama-ism. He used it first to describe his dealings with the Chicago real estate developer and fixer Tony Rezko and returned to the word last month to characterize a remark he made to San Francisco fund-raisers regarding small-town Pennsylvanians who ''cling to guns or religion or antipathy toward people who aren't like them.'' Obama told Matt Bai in The Times Magazine that it ''was my biggest boneheaded move.'' As an endearing Americanism associated with a baseball blunder, the word is not as severe as ''foolish'' and less insensitive than ''dumb.''
 Heartbeat from the presidency got a good run this year in the sustained belittlement of Governor Palin as potential vice president. Its origin, though without the metaphoric heartbeat, came from Mark Hanna, in 1900 the manager of the Republican William McKinley's presidential campaign, regarding the selection of Theodore Roosevelt as running mate: ''Don't any of you realize that there's only one life between this madman and the White House?'' 
 The Bradley Effect -- a possible misleading of pollsters by voters explored in this space in September -- was a phrase that received much thumb sucking among the punditariat during October and will either enter or permanently depart the political language this week.
 Close the deal keeps popping up, more than in previous campaigns, mainly directed at Obama. Just before the April Pennsylvania Democratic primary, Senator Hillary Clinton asked, ''Why can't he close the deal, with his extraordinary financial advantage?'' (After she won that primary, Obama said, ''The way we're going to close the deal is by winning,'' as he subsequently showed in achieving the nomination.) But that vogue phrase, rooted in business lingo, lasted through October: ''The Speech That Could Close the Deal'' was the Washington Post headline over a column by David Ignatius, and The Times Magazine headlined an article about the working-class vote ''Can Obama Close the Deal With Those White Guys?'' In the cliche derby, the doubting close the deal is running neck and neck with the affirmative the race is Obama's to lose as we approach the finish line. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (LETTERING BY SARAH FRANCE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); BASEBALL (72%); SPORTS FANS (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (58%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (79%); SARAH PALIN (78%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%); FRANCE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



87 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 232 words

HEADLINE: A Shifting Landscape

 BODY:
In the last two months, Senator Barack Obama has gained momentum in some states traditionally won by Republicans. A number of swing states are now either a tossup or leaning toward Mr. Obama in his race with Senator John McCain. The two maps below show estimates by The New York Times of how each state was leaning in the presidential election in August and now 
NEW MEXICO In 2004, President Bush won by a slim margin, making the state among the most competitive. Hispanics, who make up nearly 40 percent of the state's electorate, are a big factor. OHIO This is another state that Mr. Bush won narrowly. Campaign experts predict that Mr. Obama will benefit from the economic and mortgage crisis, which hit the state hard. NEW HAMPSHIRE Once reliably Republican, the state has become more Democratic. Mr. McCain is trying to bring it back into Republican territory, but polls show Mr. Obama ahead.
COLORADO The state has a growing Hispanic population, and the urban areas have become solidly Democratic. But the sparsely populated high plains counties east of Denver remain solidly Republican. NORTH CAROLINA The number of voters is up 9 percent since 2004. Many of the new voters are young and expected to play a pivotal role. FLORIDA Registration and turnout could be critical in Florida this year. Democrats have outregistered Republicans, and recent polls show Mr. Obama leading Mr. McCain.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHICS: A Shifting Landscape: In the last two months, Senator Barack Obama has gained momentum in some states traditionally won by Republicans. A number of swing states are now either a tossup or leaning toward Mr. Obama. The two maps below show estimates by The New York Times of how each state was leaning in the presidential election in August and now.: Aug. 31
 Oct. 31 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POPULATION DENSITY (72%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (70%); CREDIT CRISIS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



88 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: Running a Volunteer Operation With a Do-It-Yourself Attitude

BYLINE: By JODI KANTOR

DATELINE: WINTER PARK, Fla. 

 BODY:
By midsummer, Susan Skolfield, a freckled former actress, had grown a little frustrated with the presidential campaign of Senator Barack Obama. Despite her pleas, it had no plans to open an office here in her hometown, a traditionally Republican city west of Orlando. 
 So Ms. Skolfield opened one herself. She dug into her own pocket for the initial $1,350 in rent, hooked up telephones and computers, hauled in furniture and printed up fliers for an early September opening party that drew nearly a thousand people.
 Eight weeks later, Ms. Skolfield, 51, who has strawberry-blonde hair and a habit of shutting her eyes when she makes a solemn point, spends most of her days hovering at the doorway of her bustling, still-unofficial Obama operation, serving as cheerleader and concierge to the stream of arrivals. 
 When a middle-age woman bursts in, distraught by a news report that 18- to 24-year-olds are not turning out for early voting -- ''Should we go to their homes?'' she asked -- Ms. Skolfield reassures her. An out-of-work roofer appears, explaining he has just walked three miles to cast the first vote of his life. Ms. Skolfield and friends garb him in Obama paraphernalia, the clean, bright cottons contrasting with his tattered clothing. For anyone who completes a round of leafleting, she whoops in appreciation.
 For Tuesday's election, the Obama campaign has created a vast, technologically sophisticated get-out-the-vote machine in Florida, with nearly 500 paid staff members and mountains of finely sifted voter data. The work of Ms. Skolfield and her hundreds of troops would not be possible without this infrastructure. Many met on the campaign's social-networking site, and they coordinate with a paid Obama field organizer, who provides literature and tells them where to drop it. 
 But what is most striking is just how much Ms. Skolfield and her office of volunteers are doing, even beyond the crucial campaign-dictated tasks of door knocking and cold calling.
 Brent Constantinides, 24, and Jennise Belizaire, 26, built their own Obama booth, which they set up every day at a dog run near the office. (Over a few weeks, they registered 400 new voters there). Milly Dawson, 53, distributes leaflets to her neighbors and includes a personal note in every packet, along with an invitation to an election-night potluck party. Marie Ciaravino, a 66-year-old water aerobics instructor, spends her afternoons at bus stops, handing out little cards on which she has scrawled a number to call for a ride to the polls. 
 On Wednesday, several Obama-Biden signs the height and length of small cars mysteriously appeared, stacked outside the office. They were professionally printed, but campaign officials did not send them. So who had? 
 ''I think Santa Claus brought them,'' Ms. Skolfield said. 
 Back in June, she attended a three-day session run by the campaign -- '' me and 199 college students,'' she says -- during which she was trained, the instructor told her, in the same community organizing techniques Mr. Obama once used on the streets of Chicago. The first key to success, she was taught, was to polish her own story. She developed a quick spiel: a former flight attendant and actress, she was raised Republican, opposed the Iraq war from the start and became enamored of Mr. Obama after his 2004 Democratic convention speech.
 Ms. Skolfield grew up in Winter Park, which sprouted up a century ago as a destination for vacationing Northerners. Like many other girls from white, wealthy families, she was cared for by black servants. Now some domestic workers, along with their children, make up a chunk of her volunteers. But the roles almost seem reversed: Ms. Skolfield waits on the older black women, offering them bottled water, driving them to the polls or finding others who will.
 A member of the local historical society, Ms. Skolfield has been putting together video slideshows about some of their stories: how Rose Bynum, 83, was not allowed on the white children's playground as a child, how she was refused service at the counter of an Orlando drugstore.
 Now Mrs. Bynum's neighborhood, once called Colored Town, features an Obama sign in nearly every yard. When a gaggle of middle schoolers crossed the street one day this week, they spotted her lawn sign and whooped in approval. ''GoBama, that's how we roll!'' one cried.
 Though strays have floated in from as far away as Massachusetts, the Winter Park volunteers are mostly homegrown, which suits the Obama campaign's preference for local versus imported volunteers, for turning its activists first and foremost toward their own friends, relatives and church members. Across Florida and the nation, the campaign is running programs with names like Neighbor to Neighbor and Adopt Five, which means see to it that five sporadic voters get to the polls.
 Though most polls show a close Florida race, and there are still plenty of McCain-Palin signs around town, the Winter Park volunteers bask in their seeming success. According to Ms. Skolfield's contacts at the campaign, her office regularly leads the state in the daily tallies of doors knocked on, phone calls made and data entered. On the final day of voter registration last month, the office registered 1,400 people. 
 Though the canvassers hear stray racial epithets, they also hear cheers, even in Latino neighborhoods with uncertain levels of Obama enthusiasm. And every day, a few more longtime Republicans tell the canvassers they will be voting for Obama. 
 Things are so upbeat, in fact, that their two-room office can feel like an idealized refuge from the real world: it is an integrated setting in a still-segregated-feeling town, and while the Orlando economy staggers, resources and donations at 200 North Denning Drive flow freely. Even the snacks have a labor-of-love feel. Most campaign offices run on store-bought junk food, but the Winter Park volunteers sampled homemade banana-walnut bread and fudge, dropped off by supporters who wanted to help.
 For many of the 40 or so core supporters, the place has become something of a personal haven. At night, Ms. Skolfield, who is not married, returns home to her mother, an 84-year-old Alzheimer's patient, and recounts the latest happenings at the office as her mother looks back uncomprehendingly. Recently her mother had been making ''B'' sounds, Ms. Skonick said. She knew it couldn't quite be, but she was hopeful that she was somehow trying to say ''Barack.''
 Mr. Constantinides and Ms. Belizaire, the couple who keep an Obama vigil at the dog run, are out of work, out of money and unsure of how they will provide for Ms. Belizaire's 5-year old daughter, Ayana. ''All we know for sure right now is this office and this little booth,'' said Mr. Constantinides, an electrician, his eyes welling. Lately some of the motherly types in the office have been hiring him for little jobs around their homes. But after the election, the couple is thinking of heading north to look for work.
 Ms. Dawson, the volunteer who writes little notes with her leaflets, lives in a prosperous subdivision, lush with lakes and tropical foliage, but she seems just as lost as to what she will do after Tuesday. Like the others, she has been living full-time in Obamaland for months now.
 ''We are so worried about what we're going to do after the election,'' she said, heading off in the sunshine to deposit more packets on her neighbors' doorsteps.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Susan Skolfield, right, a volunteer organizer, with voters at a campaign office in Winter Park, Fla. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); VOLUNTEERS (71%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (60%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



89 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: HOUSE DIVIDED?: 11-02-08

BYLINE: By MATT BAI. 
Matt Bai writes regularly on politics for the magazine.

 BODY:
''Elections have consequences,''John McCain said during the final presidential debate. It's his way of saying that certain decisions are the prerogative of a president; if you want them to play out differently, win the White House yourself. Should McCain manage to pull out an improbable victory on Tuesday, however, he may well find out how inconsequential elections can actually be. McCain would almost certainly become the first president in 20 years to enter office with a Congress dominated by a hostile opposition, and the scorn he has earned from formerly sympathetic Democrats during what has been, at times, a small and cynical campaign would make the few miles between the Capitol and the White House feel like the distance separating, say, Juneau, Alaska, and Moscow. Narrowly elected amid the inevitable allegations of fraud and divisiveness, McCain in his first year would stand little chance of passing a proclamation honoring Betsy Ross, much less any meaningful legislation on health care, energy or taxes. 
 For Barack Obama, of course, expectations would be significantly higher. In the 40 years since Lyndon Johnson left office, Democrats have spent much of their time and capital defending the programmatic pillars of the New Deal and the Great Society from conservative marauders rather than adding on to that legacy; even Bill Clinton's signature achievements -- welfare reform, the 1994 anti-crime bill, balanced budgets -- were in large part about curbing the excesses of 20th-century liberalism. Now, with the Republican revolution in ruins and the global economy not far behind, Democrats in Washington sense an opportunity not simply to retake power but also to do something momentous with it. If Obama puts his hand to a Bible in January, he may well look out on the highest number of Democratic senators and congressmen since Jimmy Carter took office in 1976 -- a substantial majority for a president who has promised a slate of expansive new programs. 
 If recent history is any guide, however, Obama would need more than raw numbers in his favor. Congressional majorities are, in fact, a lot like corporate profits; they exist on paper, but that doesn't mean they're actually there when you need them. Carter, a reformer who won in an equally anti-Republican year, inherited a 23-seat majority in the Senate and a 149-seat advantage in the House -- and accomplished little. Working with a narrower majority, Clinton barely passed a budget and then failed to win approval for his health care plan before losing Congress altogether. George W. Bush saw his one-seat Senate majority disappear almost immediately when a member of his own party, Jim Jeffords, defected. 
 The problem for all three presidents was, in a sense, more cultural than ideological. Carter, Clinton and Bush were all former governors who had not spent enough time in Washington to take the subway without a map; they were of the same parties as their Congressional allies but not of the same club. Each arrived in Washington assuming he'd earned the right to dictate the governing agenda to his party's leaders, and each soon learned that entrenched Congressional chairmen aren't especially impressed by inaugural balls. Such outsider presidents tend to display a remarkable indifference to the electoral needs and insecurities that can lead legislators to abandon a president of their own party. In retrospect, for instance, it's hard to imagine why Clinton pursued a vote on his anti-crime bill, which included new restrictions on handguns, in August 1994, just three months before a lot of Southern and Western Democrats had to face the voters in their districts. A lot of them lost at least partly as a result, and the lesson that Congressional Democrats took away was that Clinton's vaunted political instincts didn't extend to helping them. 
 Already there have been whispers, even among some Democrats, that Obama could be Carter without the cardigan. Such conjecture, however, ignores vast differences between the two men. Carter was alien to Washington; indeed, Democratic leaders felt closer to his Republican predecessor, Gerald Ford, who hadn't been out of Congress long. Obama, on the other hand, has been in town long enough to know, for instance, that while he may not consider himself a Washington insider, he probably needs a chief of staff who is -- a reality that eluded both Carter and Clinton, who hired confidants instead.
 Such decisions could be critical for Obama, who, if elected, would have to reconcile factions within his own party. The anti-Bush tide this year will most likely carry in more Democratic congressmen from conservative swing districts and red states, and those members, already looking to tough elections in 2010, will be wary of anything that looks like ideological overreach; meanwhile, liberal members who endured the humility of the Bush era will be pushing the new president for bold action. But working with his own party's leaders to design a legislative agenda would satisfy only one part of Obama's stated mission. He has also staked his candidacy on the idea of detoxifying the atmosphere in the capital. That means finding Republicans whom he can deal with, too. 
 Some Democratic insiders expect that a President-elect Obama would offer not just a token, lower-level cabinet job to a member of the opposing party, as previous presidents have done, but might install Republicans in a few more influential positions. He could also try to bridge the partisan divide by reaching past Washington to some of the Republican governors who backed McCain -- working on environmental policy with Arnold Schwarzenegger, for example, or on immigration with Florida's Charlie Crist. A lot of liberals would undoubtedly protest such overtures as unnecessarily conciliatory, given the likely dominance of Democrats in Washington. But Obama has promised nothing short of systemic change. Integrity demands he lead inclusively, even if the mathematics of government do not. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY KARINE LAVAL) CHART: SPLIT TICKET: A table showing when Republicans and Democrats held the House, the Senate and the White House. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (87%); GOVERNORS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); LIBERALISM (75%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (72%); APPROVALS (63%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); JIMMY CARTER (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JUNEAU, AK, USA (79%) ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



90 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1744 words

HEADLINE: A Surge on One Channel, A Tight Race on Another

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- It was a lousy day to be Senator John McCain, Keith Olbermann informed his viewers on MSNBC on Thursday.
Senator Barack Obama's surge in the polls was so strong he was competitive in Mr. McCain's home state, Arizona. The everyman hero of Mr. McCain's campaign, ''Joe the Plumber,'' failed to make an expected appearance at a morning rally in Defiance, Ohio, and the senator's efforts to highlight Mr. Obama's association with a professor tied to the P.L.O. were amounting to nothing.
Wait a minute ... not so fast. Click.
Things were looking up for Mr. McCain, Sean Hannity and Greta Van Susteren told their viewers on Fox News Channel on Thursday. He got a boost at an afternoon rally in Sandusky, Ohio, from none other than Joe the Plumber, who announced his intention to vote for ''a real American, John McCain''; he was gaining new ground in ever-tightening polls, despite the overwhelming bias against him in the mainstream news media; and Mr. Obama's association with a professor sympathetic to the P.L.O. was now at ''the center of the election.'' 
On any given night, there are two distinctly, even extremely, different views of the presidential campaign offered on two of the three big cable news networks, Fox News Channel and MSNBC, a dual reality that is reflected on the Internet as well.
On one, polls that are ''tightening'' are emphasized over those that are not, and the rest of the news media is portrayed as papering over questions about Mr. Obama's past associations with people who have purportedly anti-American tendencies that he has not answered. (''I feel like we are talking to the Germans after Hitler comes to power, saying, 'Oh, well, I didn't know,' '' Ann Coulter, the conservative commentator, told Mr. Hannity on Thursday.)
On the other, polls that show tightening are largely ignored, and the race is cast as one between an angry and erratic Mr. McCain, whose desperate, misleading campaign has as low as a 4 percent chance of beating a cool, confident and deserving Democratic nominee in Mr. Obama. (''He's been a good father, a good citizen, he's paid attention to his country,'' Chris Matthews, the MSNBC host, said Wednesday night in addressing those who might be leaning against Mr. Obama based on race. ''Give the guy a break and think about voting for him.'')
And, perhaps unsurprisingly, each campaign is often at war against its television antagonist, just as the networks are at war with each other.
It is a political division of news that harks back to the way American journalism was through the first half of the 20th century, when newspapers had more open political affiliations. But it has never been so apparent in such a clear-cut way on television, a result of market forces and partisan sensibilities that are further chipping away at the post-Watergate pre-eminence of a more dispassionate approach.
The more objective approach came as the corporate owners of the networks pushed for higher profits and the newspaper industry consolidated and sought broader audiences. ''To sell as many copies as you could to as many people as you could, you became what we considered objective,'' said Richard Wald, a professor of media and society at Columbia University School of Journalism and a former senior vice president at ABC News.
Fox News Channel was founded 12 years ago with an argument that the mainstream news media were biased toward liberals and that nonliberals were starved for a ''Fair and Balanced'' television antidote by day and openly conservative-leaning opinion by night. But it was only in the last couple of years that MSNBC, long struggling for an identity and lagging, established itself as a liberal alternative to Fox News Channel in prime time, finding improved ratings in the mistrust of the mainstream media that had grown among on the left during the Bush years and the Iraq war.
The presidential campaign, and the partisan and ideological intensity surrounding it, has been the perfect subject for both sides, providing endless fodder to play to the persuasions of their audience and mock the views expressed on the rival network.
The result is a return to a ''great tradition of American journalism,'' Mr. Wald said. ''Basically you chose your news outlet if it made you happy, if it reinforced all your views.''
Indeed, voters who primarily get their news from Web sites like The Huffington Post by day and MSNBC by night, and those who primarily get theirs from The Drudge Report by day and Fox News Channel by night would have entirely different views of the candidates and the news driving the campaign year. (At second place in the ratings, behind Fox News Channel, CNN is maintaining a far more traditional approach to news this year.)
When Politico.com reported on Oct. 21 that the Republican National Committee had spent $150,000 on clothing for Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, Mr. Olbermann interrupted his 8 p.m. program on MSNBC to promote the story and discuss it, as did Rachel Maddow, whose program follows.
Fox News Channel reported it first the next morning, on ''Fox & Friends,'' in a segment in which the report was described as sexist and unfair, and Bill O'Reilly and Ms. Van Susteren later criticized the news media on their programs for giving it as much attention as they had.
''It was ridiculous,'' said Mr. O'Reilly, singling out The New York Times in particular for covering the purchase.
That was a role reversal from spring 2007, when news broke that former Senator John Edwards had paid $400 for a haircut out of his Democratic presidential campaign account.
Mr. Olbermann named Mr. Hannity the ''Worst Person in the World,'' a running feature on his program, for making fun of Mr. Edwards's haircut and showing video of him styling his hair before an interview.
Mr. O'Reilly had said of Mr. Edwards at the time: ''He runs around telling Americans the system is rigged, while paying $400 for a haircut. This guy is a one-man sitcom.''
Tom Rosenstiel, director of the Project for Excellence in Journalism at the Pew Research Center, said, ''To some extent, they are reverse images of each other.''
The group has studied the tone and content of the election-year coverage and found that Mr. McCain has been the subject of more negative reports in general than has Mr. Obama on issues that include assessments of their performances in polls, the debates and running their campaigns.
But within that universe, the study found, the share of positive reports on Mr. McCain at Fox News was above the average of the news media at large, and the share of negative reports about Mr. Obama was higher, too. (The study found that the mix of positive and negative was roughly equal for them on Fox.)
And the study found that MSNBC featured a higher percentage of negative reports about Mr. McCain than the rest of the news media and a higher share of positive reports about Mr. Obama. CNN was more generally in line with the average.
Mr. Rosenstiel said Fox News Channel and MSNBC showed ideological differences, ''obviously more so at night.'' And executives at those networks said that opinion was kept to their prime-time lineups and away from their news reporting.
Officials at the Obama and McCain campaigns said in interviews last week that they believed they were treated fairly by the reporters assigned to them at the two networks, including Major Garrett and Carl Cameron at Fox News Channel and Kelly O'Donnell and Lee Cowan at NBC News. (NBC pools some political newsgathering efforts with The New York Times.) And advisers to both campaigns show up for interviews on both networks.
Mr. Obama's campaign aides said they were pleased when Shepard Smith, the Fox News Channel anchor, this week dressed down Joe the Plumber, a k a Samuel J. Wurzelbacher, for agreeing with a voter who called a vote for Mr. Obama ''a vote for the death of Israel.''
Reporting that Mr. Obama supported Israel, Mr. Smith added with exasperation, ''It just gets frightening sometimes.''
And Ms. Maddow has expressed skepticism about Mr. Obama's call for more troops in Afghanistan.
But officials at both campaigns also said there had been plenty of instances when they have perceived bias in regular news coverage. On Fox News Channel, for instance, Gregg Jarrett, referring to Mr. Obama, asked a guest, ''Do economists say that in fact his policies could drive a recession into a depression?'' (The guest, Donald Lambro of The Washington Times, responded, ''Well, I haven't read that, no.'')
Raising a report about Obama campaign suspicions that Mr. McCain got an unfair peek at questions to be asked of him at a joint forum at the Saddleback Church, Mr. McCain's campaign wrote to NBC News in August, ''We are concerned that your news division is following MSNBC's lead in abandoning nonpartisan coverage of the presidential race.''
And sometimes the approaches have been noticeable simply through what the networks cover. After NPR reported late last week that a McCain supporter, former Secretary of State Lawrence S. Eagleburger, questioned whether Ms. Palin was ''prepared to take the reins of the presidency,'' MSNBC repeated it roughly 20 times over the course of the day, CNN mentioned it four times, a review of programming on the monitoring service ShadowTV found. And Fox News Channel did one segment, in which it interviewed Mr. Eagleburger, who apologized and said Ms. Palin was ''a quick study.''
Fox News Channel executives would not comment for this article. Phil Griffin, president of MSNBC, agreed that at night his network gave a decidedly opinionated viewpoint.
''All of our material is based on fact -- our guys work really hard on it, and the point-of-view shows make their conclusions,'' Mr. Griffin said. ''In this modern era, you've got a variety of places that look at the day's events. Some you respect more than others, others you recognize as having a point of view, some you see as factual in a different way, and it all blends together into how you make your decision for what's going on.
''The burden is a little more on the individual.''
Correction: November 5, 2008, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Sunday about different perspectives of the election on MSNBC and Fox News Channel misidentified the Fox News anchor whose question was used as an example of what the Obama campaign said it perceives as bias. He is Gregg Jarrett -- not Greg Palkot, an international correspondent for Fox News Channel.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sean Hannity, left, on Fox News Channel, and Keith Olbermann, on MSNBC, leave viewers with no doubt about their politics. (PHOTOGRAPHS, LEFT TO RIGHT, DOUGLAS C. PIZAC/ASSOCIATED PRESS, ANNE RYAN/MSNBC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); NETWORK TELEVISION (74%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (74%); JOURNALISM (69%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



91 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; THE PUBLIC EDITOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: In the '08 Horse Race, the Cart Pulls Ahead

BYLINE: By CLARK HOYT

 BODY:
''IT'S OVER,'' wrote Charles M. Blow on the Op-Ed page of The Times 15 days ago. ''I've studied the polls and the electoral map for months, and I no longer believe that John McCain can win.'' Blow allowed as how a serious mistake by Barack Obama, the re-emergence of the Rev. Jeremiah Wright or a national security emergency could change the outlook, but he said he was so sure of his prediction that, if wrong, ''I'll take my crow with a six pack of Liquid-Plumr.'' 
 Now that is confidence. But could it be misplaced? My Washington Redskins, 4-1 three weeks ago, were so heavily favored to beat the St. Louis Rams, a team winless and in disarray, that it seemed almost pointless to play the game. The Rams won.
 If McCain somehow pulls off a similar upset, Blow will have plenty of company on the chow line for crow. (Let's forget the Liquid-Plumr.) 
 A recent Newsweek cover story explored ''How a President Obama Might Govern a Center-Right Nation.'' New York magazine's cover last week carried the headline, ''January 20th 2009: What an Obama presidency would look like.'' NBC's political director, Chuck Todd, dismissed McCain's chances this way last week: ''It does seem like it's an uphill climb that's just too steep.'' Within the Republican Party and the conservative movement, the recriminations have already begun.
 For reporters and editors at The Times responsible for news about the election -- as opposed to opinions, like Blow's -- this is a tricky time. They have to walk a careful line, reporting what appears to be current reality without predicting an outcome that nobody can be certain of, no matter what polls indicate. A lot is at stake: the newspaper's credibility and voters' right to decide the winner without being discouraged by coverage suggesting that the result is inevitable.
 The Times and other news media got burned once before this year, in the New Hampshire primary. The coverage, reflecting respected polls and what reporters thought they saw on the ground, strongly suggested that Obama, fresh from victory in the Iowa caucuses, was going to defeat Hillary Clinton. The Times published a front-page article on the day of the voting that reported on a possible shake-up in the Clinton campaign staff and quoted an unnamed supporter as saying, ''We're all resolved to the probability that she's not going to win New Hampshire, and the mood has turned very despondent -- fatalistic, probably.'' Two days later, the newspaper was asking how pollsters and news organizations failed to see the Clinton victory coming.
 Now, Times editors and reporters say they are well aware of the danger of getting too far in front of events. Still, I think the coverage over time has created a strong expectation of an Obama victory and a Democratic sweep in Congress. If it does not happen, The Times and many other news organizations will have a lot of explaining to do.
 The expectation has been built bit by bit in The Times: an online video about the fight for Pennsylvania that briefly mentioned that McCain was relying on Christian voters and then dwelled at length on Obama's thorough organizing to get out his supporters; a front-page article about the risks and rewards for Democrats if they wind up controlling both the White House and Congress; an online article about whether Sarah Palin turned out to be a drag on the Republican ticket. That one said McCain might still win but, ''anticipating that he will fall short, the pre-postmortems have already begun.'' 
 Jill Abramson, the managing editor for news, said, ''It is difficult, even when you do the most diligent editing, not to leave the appearance'' of calling the winner. She said editors talk daily about avoiding stories with ''a predictive tone or premise.''
 Richard Stevenson, the editor in charge of campaign coverage, said: ''There is a great degree of angst now among Republicans about their prospects for president and down the ballot. There is a great degree of optimism among Democrats. That all leads you to a conclusion right now, as a snapshot in time, that Obama is in a better position than McCain is in. That's the reality, and we're not going to put our finger on the scale to pretend otherwise.''
 Adam Nagourney, the chief political correspondent, said, ''I don't think it's over, and I think coverage that suggests it is is irresponsible.'' Still, he said, ''you've got to reflect what's going on.'' What's going on is that Obama is ahead in every national poll; he is drawing huge crowds and raising record amounts of money; he is leading or tied in critical states that McCain must win to have any chance; and McCain is saddled with an apparent recession, an unpopular war and an unpopular president from his party. None of which means he cannot win.
 Nagourney wrote a front-page article on Oct. 24, under the headline, ''In McCain's Uphill Battle, Winning Is an Option,'' that explored the ways the Republican candidate could prevail. The article said McCain would have to hold Republican states where Obama has him on the run and either convert a Democratic state like Pennsylvania or pick up a combination of swing states. ''Not easy, but not impossible either,'' it said. 
 The latest Times/CBS News poll on Friday, giving Obama an 11-point lead among likely voters nationally, indicated that McCain had a long way to go. But presidential elections are not decided by the national popular vote; they are won state by state, and polls in critical states have varied widely. At least 10 surveys of Pennsylvania voters were released last week, showing Obama's lead anywhere from 14 to 4 points.
 Larry Harris of Mason-Dixon Polling and Research, which found the smallest Obama margin, said, ''The cake has not been baked.'' Mason-Dixon has found similarly close margins in Florida, Virginia and other crucial states. Though polls clearly inform the coverage, The Times has treated them with great and appropriate caution in a year when an African-American is atop one ticket for the first time and the outcome could depend on groups -- the young, minorities -- that traditionally do not turn out in proportion to their numbers.
 ''I have no idea who's going to win,'' said Janet Elder, the editor in charge of polling. What the Times/CBS poll can tell you ''is what was on the minds of voters and nonvoters on the days we called them.''
 There are only two days left until the next president is elected. I think The Times would be wise, in the words of my former colleague Tom Fiedler, dean of the College of Communication at Boston University, to ''forgo the temptation of the horse race'' and focus on issues and what the candidates are saying. That is just what the paper did Thursday, with articles on their positions on student loans and summarizing their final stump speeches. 
 Best not to join Blow on his limb. As Abramson, a former Washington bureau chief, told me, ''What I know from politics is anything can happen.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); NEWS REPORTING (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); CONSERVATISM (70%); CAUCUSES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: ST LOUIS RAMS (83%); WASHINGTON REDSKINS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (77%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (90%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



92 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; THE ELECTION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: In 6th Senate District, A G.O.P. Scramble?

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

 BODY:
COULD the crosscurrents of this election -- fear of the economic crisis, the Democratic trend in suburbia, a surge of young voters and enthusiasm among blacks for Senator Barack Obama --combine to turn a traditionally safe Republican State Senate seat into an upset?
 That is the question for the Sixth Senate District, an irregularly shaped swath of central Nassau County stretching from Garden City to Farmingdale.
 The answer could have far-reaching implications in Albany, as Republicans battle statewide to retain their dwindling majority in the Senate, while Democrats are maneuvering to take control there for the first time in four decades.
 In this presidential election year, Long Islanders will also be choosing 5 Congressional representatives; state legislators, including 9 senators and 21 Assembly members; and judges. Nassau County also has a referendum to convert its Board of Assessors' chairman from an elected to an appointed post. 
 In the Third Senate District on Suffolk's South Shore, the longtime Republican incumbent, Caesar Trunzo, faces a tough challenge from Brian X. Foley, a Democrat who is the Brookhaven town supervisor. In the Seventh Senate District in northwestern Nassau, Senator Craig M. Johnson, who last year became the Island's first Democratic senator, is being challenged by Barbara Donno, a Republican.
 While those races have drawn the most attention, the Sixth District could be a sleeper. ''I think we're going to surprise everyone,'' said the Nassau Democratic Party chairman, Jay S. Jacobs. ''The bottom line here is we're either going to win the Sixth District -- and it could be by a comfortable number -- or lose it by a little. But we're not going to lose it by a lot.''
 Not so fast, said Joseph N. Mondello, the Nassau and state Republican Party chairman. While acknowledging that changing demographics have made the district ''an area of concern,'' he predicted that voters would return the incumbent, Kemp Hannon, to office. 
 ''I have to tell you, Kemp is working very hard,'' said Mr. Mondello, who called Mr. Hannon a model senator. ''He's a real thoughtful guy who's brought home so much to his district, and I have to think that so many residents and organizations will remember that.''
 Mr. Hannon, 62, a lawyer from Garden City, seeks re-election after 19 years as a senator and 12 years as a state assemblyman. He has never been defeated. The Senate's health committee chairman since 1995, he has pushed legislation expanding hospital charity care for the needy and health coverage for children and adults, increasing aid to the Nassau University Medical Center and protecting patient rights and safety.
 The Democratic challenger is a political novice: Kristen M. McElroy, 34, also a lawyer from Garden City and a former assistant district attorney in Nassau for three years. Her campaign issues are holding down property taxes, protecting school aid, making health care more affordable and shaking up what she calls ''the dysfunctional State Legislature.'' 
 ''What we need now are new people,'' Ms. McElroy said. Forecasting Democratic control of the Senate, her pitch to voters is: ''You're going to want a senator who's in the majority.'' 
 What makes the district competitive, Mr. Jacobs said, is a political calculus that starts with the last presidential election as the baseline. In 2004, Mr. Hannon won by nearly 16,000 votes, taking 57 percent of the total.
 The Democratic loser, Charles J. Ferzola, spent virtually no money and ''didn't campaign at all,'' Mr. Jacobs said. This time Ms. McElroy is an active candidate and said she hopes to raise up to $350,000 for her campaign.
 National politics have also reversed. Since 2004, President Bush's popularity has plunged to record lows, discouraging the Republican vote or prompting some voters to cross over, Mr. Jacobs said. Conversely, he said, Democratic enthusiasm is greater for Senator Obama than it was for John Kerry four years ago, which should foster a bigger turnout for the party ticket.
 Party enrollments have flipped in the Sixth District. Four years ago, Republicans outnumbered Democrats, 78,153 to 62,362, a lead of about 16,000. Now the parties are almost equal. Nassau's Democratic elections commissioner, William T. Biamonte, said that the latest figures show 75,278 Democrats and 74,844 Republicans. The unaffiliated bloc, which Democrats said often supports their candidates, has also grown, to 38,236 from 35,438 four years ago. 
 The youth vote may favor Democrats. While the 18-to-35 age group is about 24 percent of all voters in the district, it accounts for 58 percent of the district's new voters, mirroring countywide trends. A majority of new, young voters enrolled as Democrats. 
 The turnout in black neighborhoods, which was 55 percent in 2004, should be high for Senator Obama and spill over to other offices on the ballot, Mr. Jacobs said. The part of the Senate district that overlaps the 18th Assembly District has a big black population and has added more new voters than any other part of Nassau, elections officials say.
 Despite all that, Mr. Hannon seems unruffled. ''They're trying to talk it up,'' he said of the opposition, ''but it's not close. The polls don't show that.'' He declined to give details of internal campaign polls. Taking no chances, however, he is advertising heavily on cable television and on Newsday's Web site.
 The fight for the seat ''opens up another battlefront, if you look at this as a war, which you should,'' said Michael Dawidziak, a consultant who has worked for both Republicans and Democrats and is not involved in this contest. But, referring to Mr. Hannon's nearly 16,000-vote margin four years ago, Mr. Dawidziak said, ''that's a lot of votes to make up'' for Ms. McElroy.
 Arthur J. Kremer, a former Democratic state legislator, said that given Mr. Hannon's long incumbency, it would be ''a leap of faith'' for Ms. McElroy to pull off an upset.
 At some recent campaign stops, a number of voters seemed unfamiliar with the candidates or indifferent.
 In West Hempstead, Mr. Hannon made the rounds at Stop & Shop and Pathmark. Pat Monahan, a retired nurse in her late 60s from West Hempstead who is a Democrat, told him: ''I recognize your picture. I just got some mail from you the other day.'' She declined to say how she would vote but said of Mr. Hannon, ''I guess he's doing a good job.''
 At the Wal-Mart in East Meadow, shoppers often brushed past Ms. McElroy and her placard-carrying volunteers.
 ''I regret I don't know anything about these candidates,'' said David Connolly, 41, of East Meadow, who works on company publications. His wife, Lainie, 39, a pharmacist, said, ''I'm very up in the air.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FACEOFF: Kristen M. McElroy, Democratic challenger to Kemp Hannon, the incumbent in the Sixth Senate District. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIRK CONDYLES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.LI1)
 CAMPAIGN TRAIL: Kristen M. McElroy in East Meadow seeking votes to defeat Kemp Hannon, in West Hempstead, looking to retain his State Senate seat. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIRK CONDYLES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.LI5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); SUBURBS (78%); REFERENDUMS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); CHILDREN (65%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (62%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



93 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1466 words

HEADLINE: Obama-Inspired Black Voters Find Politics Is for Them, Too

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY; Reporting was contributed by Robbie Brown, Catrin Einhorn, Malcolm Gay, Christopher Maag and Karen Zraick.

 BODY:
Growing up in St. Louis in the 1950s and '60s, Deddrick Battle came to believe that the political process was not for people like him -- a struggling black man whose vote, he was convinced, surely would not count for much of anything. The thought became ingrained as an adult, almost like common sense.
But a month ago, at age 55, Mr. Battle registered to vote for the first time.
Senator Barack Obama was the reason. 
''This is huge,'' Mr. Battle, a janitor, said after his overnight shift cleaning a movie theater. ''This is bigger than life itself. When I was coming up, I always thought they put in who they wanted to put in. I didn't think my vote mattered. But I don't think that anymore.''
Across the country, black men and women like Mr. Battle who have long been disaffected, apolitical, discouraged or just plain bored with politics say they have snapped to attention this year, according to dozens of interviews conducted in the last several days in six states. They are people like Percy Matthews of the South Side of Chicago, a 25-year-old who did vote once but whose experience was so forgettable that he cannot recall with certainty whom he cast a ballot for or even what year it was. Now an enthusiastic Democrat, he says the old days are gone.
And Shandell Wilcox, 29, who registered to vote in Jacksonville, Fla., when she was 18, then proceeded to ignore every election other than the current one. She voted for the first time on Wednesday.
Over and again, first-time and relatively new voters like Mr. Matthews and Ms. Wilcox, far past the legal voting age, said they were inspired by the singularity of the 2008 election and the power of Mr. Obama's magnetism. Many also said they were loath to miss out on their part in writing what could be a new chapter of American history -- the chance to vote for a black president.
Mr. Battle, for one, remembers growing up in the Pruitt-Igoe housing project in St. Louis and how intimidated the adults were about voting, and that left an impression on him. The older women he knew were afraid to walk to the polls, he said, for fear of being attacked. ''I didn't think it was for black people, period,'' he said of politics before the Civil Rights era. ''We didn't have any rights, really. We were just coming into voting and everything.''
Fast-forwarding to the present, he continued: ''I never thought that I'd see this day. I never thought I'd see the day where an African-American was standing at the podium getting ready to be president.''
The swelling ranks of the newly enthusiastic are also the result of extensive nationwide voter registration drives and new early voting procedures in many states that have made the process easier and more accessible.
David A. Bositis, senior political analyst at the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies in Washington, said the states with the largest increases in early voting had been those where the black population was proportionally the highest. In Georgia, for instance, blacks represented a quarter of all voters in the 2004 presidential election. So far this year in early voting alone, they make up 35 percent of all voters.
''I am fully expecting record black turnout,'' Mr. Bositis said. ''It's not just a question of Obama as the first black nominee; it's also that African-Americans have suffered substantially under the Bush years and African-Americans have been the single most anti-Iraq-war group in the population.''
''Obama is like the icing on the cake,'' he added, ''but it's not just a question of Obama.''
One early voter in Georgia was Armento Meredith, 43, who waited in line for two hours Thursday at the Fulton County Government Building in downtown Atlanta to vote for the first time. ''It's time for a change,'' said Mr. Meredith, a telephone operator. ''I want to see something different.''
The result is likely to be a level of black participation in the electoral process that is higher than ever before. If sustained, some of those interviewed said, it might also translate into a reinvigorated sprit of democracy in some communities where it has been long dormant.
''In the black community, I see a great many people coming out who were apathetic since '84,'' said Bob Law, 63, an activist in New York City and former radio host who worked on the Rev. Jesse Jackson's campaign for the presidency in 1984, the first time a black candidate was a serious national contender. But in the years since, he said, blacks' enthusiasm had waned.
''People didn't vote before because they really didn't think their vote was going to make a difference,'' Mr. Law said. ''Whenever black voters felt like there was a reason to vote, like it might mean something, they've turned out.''
That is exactly how Mr. Battle, the janitor in St. Louis, feels. In the past, he said, ''I felt like Democrat or Republican, it didn't matter who won.''
''But my guy Obama?'' he continued. ''I think it's going to be a change if he wins. He's speaking my language.''
For some black men and women, the sense of pride is overwhelming, as is the feeling that they are participating in what could become a touchstone moment, something that children and grandchildren will want to hear about.
''I'd feel bad forever if I didn't get out this time,'' said Ms. Wilcox of Jacksonville, a cafeteria worker. ''I'd feel like I didn't do my part to put him in the office. How would I explain that to my little girl? 'Oh, I had something better to do?' And sure, it's partially because he's African-American. But he also says there will be change, and I believe him.''
Timothy Hairston, 47, a bartender in Brooklyn who has never voted before, shared that point of view. ''I wanted to be a part of a historical moment,'' Mr. Hairston said, ''to say that I was involved in history in the making, that I was an active participant as opposed to someone on the sidelines rooting for change but not involved in the process of making change.''
He added of Mr. Obama: ''I think it's a testament to his campaign that he can inspire. At the end of the day, no matter what party you vote for, I think every once in a while there are inspirational moments that call for people to wake up from their deep sleep and become alive and get involved. And I think Barack at the very least is an inspirational figure.''
For some, coming back to political life was a slow process that unfolded over months. Others said they were struck by something in Mr. Obama's life or what he stands for and that conversion was immediate.
Ms. Wilcox saw some of her own biography reflected in Mr. Obama's. They were both born to single mothers and raised mostly by their grandparents in modest settings. She said she felt validated, motivated and inspired all at once when she first heard Mr. Obama's life story during the primary season. ''I began to think that we had a lot of life features in common,'' she said. ''It gave me hope.''
Bianca Williams, 20, a hair stylist in Brooklyn, said the campaign had changed her life. After seeing Mr. Obama in the first debate, Ms. Williams decided to go back to community college part-time. ''After seeing his success, I started thinking maybe I could help my community like he did,'' she said. ''If he could do it then I could do it. It woke me up, careerwise. It just gave me the willpower to go on.''
That is true for Mr. Matthews, who works in a Chicago coffee shop. Not too long ago, he said, he lied to his mother about having voted in an election so she would stop nagging him to get out and vote. What a difference this year has made: he said he watched the party conventions and three of the four presidential and vice-presidential debates. He followed coverage of the candidates in the local papers. He voted in the primary, and he cannot wait to vote on Tuesday.
''As I'm talking now,'' he said, ''I'm getting goose bumps.''
For Darnell Harris of Cleveland, an 18-year-old private in the Marines, the legal voting age could not come fast enough. ''I'm excited that the first time I get to vote, it's for Barack,'' he said. And echoing many others, he said that race is only part of the reason. ''Obama cares about everybody, whether they're white, black, Chinese, whatever. He's not just for one little group.''
For some new voters, family and peer pressure certainly played a role.
''Most of my life I didn't want to get involved with anything political,'' said Damien Henderson, a 26-year-old merchant seaman. ''But everywhere I go lately, people are talking about Barack Obama. I could be standing in line at a grocery, and somebody's going to ask me what I think about Barack Obama.''
Mr. Henderson said he started paying attention and fell for Mr. Obama's charisma. He voted on Monday for the first time, for Mr. Obama.
How did it feel to cast that first vote?
''It actually felt really good,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Percy Matthews, 25, of Chicago, has voted just once in his life, but said he wasn't certain for whom. This election is different. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMANDA RIVKIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Armento Meredith, 43, right, a first-time voter, waited hours in Atlanta to vote on Thursday. ''It's time for a change,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID WALTER BANKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); POLITICS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); WOMEN (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MEN (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); HISTORY (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (74%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



94 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Forced to Defend State Senate After 70 Years of Dominance

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
They have sent microfilm clerks and security guards from their desks in the Capitol to the hustings of eastern Long Island and the Buffalo suburbs. They have brought in a dozen outside consultants, including a firm that produced the Swift Boat campaign against John Kerry, to cut advertisements and raise money. They have spent millions of dollars to fight for seats that were once safely Republican.
 No effort is being spared by New York Republicans in the final days of this election season, which will determine whether they continue to control the State Senate, their only outpost of power in an increasingly Democratic state. Even veterans like Senator Caesar Trunzo -- 82 years old and running against the son of a candidate he beat a quarter-century ago -- are making eight appearances a day to shake hands and ask for votes.
 ''We just keep going along, doing what we have to do, and then hope for the best,'' Mr. Trunzo said recently as he rushed off to a campaign rally in Patchogue, on Long Island. ''It's so important that we control the New York State Senate.'' 
 Republicans have held a majority in the Senate for all but one of the last 70 years, outlasting governors and presidents, Watergate and Jack Abramoff, seemingly immune to the ebb and flow of national politics. The Senate majority has helped Republicans garner millions of dollars for their campaigns and 10 times that in state aid for their mostly suburban or rural districts. It has been the party's storehouse of institutional knowledge, the career springboard for generations of politicians and operatives, and the lifeblood of some of Albany's most powerful lobbyists.
 But now the Republican majority is down to a single seat, provoking the most intense, expensive and sweeping campaign in years. Eight Republican seats are being seriously contested, double the number in most recent election years. 
 ''It's different, because they're fighting for their survival,'' said Michael D. Dawidziak, a Republican consultant. ''They haven't fought for survival in any of their lifetimes.''
 The potential loss of the Senate majority is usually mentioned only glancingly on the campaign trail, in veiled references to the need for ''balanced government.'' But it is the urgent undercurrent to conversations in campaign offices, in the hallways of the Capitol and among Republican activists.
 ''Our troops, the committeemen, the volunteers -- they are very aware of the Albany piece, where they usually are not,'' said James P. Domagalski, the Republican chairman of Erie County. ''They understand what would happen if we lose the Senate.''
 The long tenures of many Republican senators fighting to survive -- some came into office in 1972 during President Richard Nixon's landslide re-election -- is a testament to the Senate Republicans' endurance and agility. But facing the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, a party name damaged by an unpopular administration in Washington, and the chance that Senator Barack Obama's presidential bid will bring a surge of Democratic voters to the polls, the challenge has never seemed so great.
 ''This is a national tide,'' said Alfonse M. D'Amato, a lobbyist and a former United States senator, who has been a major fund-raiser and booster for State Senate Republicans. ''Sometimes the tide comes in.''
 Mr. D'Amato said he was convinced that Senate Republicans would hold on this year. And publicly and privately, Republican senators and aides scoff at the suggestion that this will be the year the majority cracks.
 ''I'm confident we're going to be victorious, and I'm not thinking about 'what if,' '' said Senator Charles J. Fuschillo Jr., of Long Island. ''Because we're not going to have to deal with the 'what if.' ''
 On the trail, Republicans have used their fund-raising advantage to expand the playing field, devoting hundreds of thousands of dollars to races in which Democrats have shown unexpected weakness, to offset possible Republican losses. On Friday, they sent Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, a key ally, to campaign with Senator Serphin R. Maltese of Queens, who is the Democrats' top target. 
 In recent weeks, Republicans have aggressively stoked fears that communities upstate and on Long Island would suffer from a Democratic takeover of the Senate, which would leave the governor's office and both legislative leadership posts in the hands of Democrats from the five boroughs. They are blunt about what is at stake.
 ''The biggest fear is that if we lose the majority, all funding goes to New York City,'' said Mr. Fuschillo.
 After a surprising loss in February in an upstate special election, Republicans revamped their campaign committee, bringing on new senior staff members, several with experience on presidential campaigns. Since that race -- where much of the television advertising was handled by a firm linked to a former party chairman -- the committee has broadly expanded its roster of campaign and advertising consultants, bringing in highly regarded talent from the Beltway.
 ''We learned from the special that the TV in particular has to be top-notch. It can't be the same old, same old. You can't use the same old political tactics,'' said Senator Thomas W. Libous, an upstate Republican and a leader of the party's campaign effort. 
 Facing an unprecedented number of races, Senate Republicans have devised a buddy system, as it is known internally, to send senators from safe districts to campaign for and advise incumbents in tight races. Party officials say they have also gotten safe incumbents to contribute more money than in the past to their more vulnerable colleagues. 
 ''They now say, 'Instead of trying to drive up my margins in my district, I should spend that time trying to help one of the weaker guys win his race,' '' Mr. D'Amato said.
 Republicans are also preparing to unveil the kind of technology more familiar from presidential campaigns that have hundred-million-dollar budgets. In several key races on Tuesday -- party officials would not say which ones -- workers will use BlackBerrys to check off Republican voters as they arrive at polling places and send the lists to a central database, making the party's turnout operation far more efficient.
 In some races, the Republicans have resorted to methods that are lower-tech but no less intensive. In Westchester County, where Republicans are hoping for an upset victory, the Republican candidate, Liz Feld, has been sending handwritten notes to voters to ask for their support.
 The loss of the majority, Republicans say, would not only put their districts at a disadvantage in Albany. It could also cripple the party itself. The majority, after all, comes with roughly $85 million in earmark spending and hundreds of extra staff jobs in Albany and in district offices. In most areas of the state, Republican senators sit atop a well-established political food chain, providing patronage jobs, smoothing disputes and running local party organizations. 
 Vincent F. Liguori, who is active with the Republican committee in Islip, on Long Island, said that having Mr. Trunzo as his senator was ''like having my father looking out for me.''
 ''It's like they say: To the victor belong the spoils,'' he added. ''There's going to be a lot of people looking for work if he loses.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Caesar Trunzo, 82, of Long Island, is seeking his 19th term. Republicans hold a one-seat majority. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MELANIE FIDLER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A39) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); RICHARD NIXON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



95 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 114 words

HEADLINE: Closing Arguments

 BODY:
Senator John McCain
 At a rally in Newport News, Va.
 ''With our troops engaged in two wars, with a force in need of rebuilding, we're getting a glimpse of what one party rule would look like under Obama, Pelosi and Reid, and we don't like that. Apparently it starts with lowering our defenses and raising our taxes.'' 
 Senator Barack Obama
 At a rally in Pueblo, Colo.
 ''George Bush may be in an undisclosed location, but Dick Cheney's out there on the campaign trail because he'd be delighted to pass the baton to John McCain. He knows that with John McCain you get a twofer: George Bush's economic policy and Dick Cheney's foreign policy. But that's a risk we cannot afford
 to take.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (65%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (74%); DICK CHENEY (74%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); NANCY PELOSI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PUEBLO, CO, USA (54%) COLORADO, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



96 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1583 words

HEADLINE: Guess Who's Coming to Dinner

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
AND so: just how far have we come?
 As a rough gauge last week, I watched a movie I hadn't seen since it came out when I was a teenager in 1967. Back then ''Guess Who's Coming to Dinner'' was Hollywood's idea of a stirring call for racial justice. The premise: A young white woman falls madly in love with a black man while visiting the University of Hawaii and brings him home to San Francisco to get her parents' blessing. Dad, a crusading newspaper publisher, and Mom, a modern art dealer, are wealthy white liberals -- Katharine Hepburn and Spencer Tracy, no less -- so surely there can be no problem. Complications ensue before everyone does the right thing. 
 Though the film was a box-office smash and received 10 Oscar nominations, even four decades ago it was widely ridiculed as dated by liberal critics. The hero, played by the first black Hollywood superstar, Sidney Poitier, was seen as too perfect and too ''white'' -- an impossibly handsome doctor with Johns Hopkins and Yale on his resume and a Nobel-worthy career fighting tropical diseases in Africa for the World Health Organization. What couple would not want him as a son-in-law? ''He's so calm and sure of everything,'' says his fiancee. ''He doesn't have any tensions in him.'' She is confident that every single one of their biracial children will grow up to ''be president of the United States and they'll all have colorful administrations.'' 
 What a strange movie to confront in 2008. As the world knows, Barack Obama's own white mother and African father met at the University of Hawaii. In ''Dreams From My Father,'' he even imagines the awkward dinner where his mother introduced her liberal-ish parents to her intended in 1959. But what's most startling about this archaic film is the sole element in it that proves inadvertently contemporary. Faced with a black man in the mold of the Poitier character -- one who appears ''so calm'' and without ''tensions'' -- white liberals can make utter fools of themselves. When Joe Biden spoke of Obama being ''clean'' and ''articulate,'' he might have been recycling Spencer Tracy's lines of 41 years ago.
 Biden's gaffe, though particularly naked, prefigured a larger pattern in the extraordinary election campaign that has brought an African-American to the brink of the presidency. Our political and news media establishments -- fixated for months on tracking down every unreconstructed bigot in blue-collar America -- have their own conspicuous racial myopia, with its own set of stereotypes and cliches. They consistently underestimated Obama's candidacy because they often saw him as a stand-in for the two-dimensional character Poitier had to shoulder in ''Guess Who's Coming to Dinner.'' It's why so many got this election wrong so often.
 There were countless ruminations, in print and on television, asking the same two rhetorical questions: ''Is He Black Enough?'' and ''Is He Tough Enough?'' The implied answer to both was usually, ''No.'' The brown-skinned child of biracial parents wasn't really ''black'' and wouldn't appeal to black voters who were overwhelmingly loyal to the wife of America's first ''black'' president. And as a former constitutional law professor, Obama was undoubtedly too lofty an intellectual to be a political street fighter, too much of a wuss to land a punch in a debate, too ethereal to connect to ''real'' Americans. He was Adlai Stevenson, Michael Dukakis or Bill Bradley in dark face -- no populist pugilist like John Edwards.
 The list of mistaken prognostications that grew from these flawed premises is long. As primary season began, we were repeatedly told that Hillary Clinton's campaign was the most battle-tested and disciplined, with an invincible organization and an unbeatable donors' network. Poor Obama had to settle for the ineffectual passion of the starry-eyed, Internet-fixated college kids who failed to elect Howard Dean in 2004. When Clinton lost in Iowa, no matter; Obama could never breach the ''firewalls'' that would wrap up her nomination by Super Tuesday. Neither the Clinton campaign nor the many who bought its spin noticed the take-no-prisoners political insurgency that Obama had built throughout the caucus states and that serves him to this day.
 Once Obama wrested the nomination from Clinton by surpassing her in organization, cash and black votes, he was still often seen as too wimpy to take on the Republicans. This prognosis was codified by Karl Rove, whose punditry for The Wall Street Journal and Newsweek has been second only to Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert as a reliable source of laughs this year. Rove called Obama ''lazy,'' and over the summer he predicted that his fund-raising had peaked in February and that he'd have a ''serious problem'' winning over Hispanics. Well, Obama was lazy like a fox, and is leading John McCain among Hispanicsby 2 to 1. Obama has also pulledahead among white women despite the widespread predictions that he'd never bring furious Hillary supporters into the fold. 
 But certainly the single most revelatory moment of the campaign -- about the political establishment, not Obama -- arrived in June when he reversed his position on taking public financing. This was a huge flip-flop (if no bigger than McCain's on the Bush tax cuts). But the reaction was priceless. Suddenly the political world discovered that far from being some exotic hothouse flower, Obama was a pol from Chicago. Up until then it rarely occurred to anyone that he had to be a ruthless competitor, not merely a sweet-talking orator, to reach the top of a political machine even rougher than the Clinton machine he had brought down. Whether that makes him more black or more white remains unresolved. 
 Early in the campaign, the black commentator Tavis Smiley took a lot of heat when he questioned all the rhetoric, much of it from white liberals, about Obama being ''post-racial.'' Smiley pointed out that there is ''no such thing in America as race transcendence.'' He is right of course. America can no sooner disown its racial legacy, starting with the original sin of slavery, than it can disown its flag; it's built into our DNA. Obama acknowledged as much in his landmark speech on race in Philadelphia in March. 
 Yet much has changed for the better since the era of ''Guess Who's Coming to Dinner,'' thanks to the epic battles of the civil-rights movement that have made the Obama phenomenon possible. As Mark Harris reminds us in his recent book about late 1960s Hollywood, ''Pictures at a Revolution,'' it was not until the year of the movie's release that the Warren Court handed down the Loving decision overturning laws that forbade interracial marriage in 16 states; in the film's final cut there's still an outdated line referring to the possibility that the young couple's nuptials could be illegal (as Obama's parents' marriage would have been in, say, Virginia). In that same year of 1967, L.B.J.'s secretary of state, Dean Rusk, offered his resignation when his daughter, a Stanford student, announced her engagement to a black Georgetown grad working at NASA. (Johnson didn't accept it.) 
 Obama's message and genealogy alike embody what has changed in the decades since. When he speaks of red and blue America being seamlessly woven into the United States of America, it is always shorthand for the reconciliation of black and white and brown and yellow America as well. Demographically, that's where America is heading in the new century, and that will be its destiny no matter who wins the election this year. 
 Still, the country isn't there yet, and should Obama be elected, America will not be cleansed of its racial history or conflicts. It will still have a virtually all-white party as one of its two most powerful political organizations. There will still be white liberals who look at Obama and can't quite figure out what to make of his complex mixture of idealism and hard-knuckled political cunning, of his twin identities of international sojourner and conventional middle-class overachiever. 
 After some 20 months, we're all still getting used to Obama and still, for that matter, trying to read his sometimes ambiguous takes on both economic and foreign affairs. What we have learned definitively about him so far -- and what may most account for his victory, should he achieve it -- is that he had both the brains and the muscle to outsmart, outmaneuver and outlast some of the smartest people in the country, starting with the Clintons. We know that he ran a brilliant campaign that remained sane and kept to its initial plan even when his Republican opponent and his own allies were panicking all around him. We know that that plan was based on the premise that Americans actually are sick of the divisive wedge issues that have defined the past couple of decades, of which race is the most divisive of all. 
 Obama doesn't transcend race. He isn't post-race. He is the latest chapter in the ever-unfurling American racial saga. It is an astonishing chapter. For most Americans, it seems as if Obama first came to dinner only yesterday. Should he win the White House on Tuesday, many will cheer and more than a few will cry as history moves inexorably forward.
 But we are a people as practical as we are dreamy. We'll soon remember that the country is in a deep ditch, and that we turned to the black guy not only because we hoped he would lift us up but because he looked like the strongest leader to dig us out.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FILM (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (68%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (66%); TROPICAL DISEASES (66%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (55%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (52%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII (57%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%); JOE BIDEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



97 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 157 words

HEADLINE: The Chatter

 BODY:
''The ground is moving from underneath us.'' Diane Swonk, chief economist at the investment firm Mesirow Financial, on the state of the economy. 
 ''A harsh storm seen only once in 100 years is raging.'' Prime Minister Taro Aso of Japan, as he unveiled the country's second stimulus package in about two months.
 ''You don't just suddenly lose $120 billion overnight.'' Donn Vickrey of the research firm Gradient Analytics, on the American International Group. The company is rapidly running through $123 billion in emergency lending provided by the Federal Reserve, raising questions about how a company claiming to be solvent in September could have developed such a big hole by October.
 ''It's so great to have license to be an idiot.'' Joel Moss Levinson, who has won 11 contests, earning more than $200,000 in money and prizes, by turning out wacky homemade corporate commercials -- what advertisers call a form of user-generated content.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); PRIME MINISTERS (56%); USER GENERATED CONTENT (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (71%); GRADIENT ANALYTICS INC (57%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (71%); 8685 (TSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: TARO ASO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



98 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: CANDIDATES MAKE THEIR FINAL PUSH ON RESHAPED MAP

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Michael Cooper and Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Senators John McCain and Barack Obama began their final push for the White House on Saturday across an electoral map markedly different from four years ago, evidence of Mr. Obama's success at putting new states into contention and limiting Mr. McCain's options in the final hours.
Mr. Obama was using the last days of the contest to make incursions into Republican territory, campaigning Saturday in three states -- Colorado, Missouri and Nevada -- that President Bush won relatively comfortably in 2004. In what seemed as much a symbolic tweak as a real challenge, Mr. Obama bought advertising time in Arizona, Mr. McCain's home state. 
Mr. McCain started the day in Virginia, a once-solidly Republican state that Democrats now feel is within their grasp. But he then turned his attention to two states that voted Democratic in 2004 -- Pennsylvania and New Hampshire -- reflecting what his aides said was polling in both states that suggested the race was tightening.
Still, his decision to spend some of his time in the final hours on Democratic turf signaled that Mr. McCain had concluded that his chances of winning with the same lineup of states that put Mr. Bush into the White House was diminishing. Mr. McCain's hopes appear to rest in large part on his ability to pick up electoral votes from states that Senator John Kerry won for the Democrats four years ago.
Across the country, there was abundant evidence of just how much excitement the contest had stirred: In Colorado, 46 percent of the electorate has already voted in that state's early voting program. Voters in states like Missouri, Montana, North Carolina and Virginia were getting knocks on their doors, telephone calls and leaflets slipped under their windshield wipers.
And Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain used their last hours on the public stage to return to the themes that have marked their candidacies.
''After 12 months and three debates,'' Mr. Obama said in Henderson, Nev., ''John McCain has not been able to tell the American people a single major thing that he would do different from George Bush on the economy.''
Mr. McCain warned that an Obama presidency, combined with a Democratic Congress, would lead to higher taxes.
''Presidential elections have a way of settling on a few great questions as the moment of decision arrives,'' Mr. McCain said in a radio address. ''And this has happened in the closing days of the election of 2008. We've learned that Barack Obama's economic plan for America is to redistribute the wealth of America with higher taxes.''
At a rally in central Florida for Mr. McCain's running mate, Gov. Sarah Palin, supporters chanted ''John McCain! Not Hussein!'' Mr. Obama's middle name is Hussein, and some of his opponents use it to falsely suggest that he is Muslim.
The campaign's final days brought a reminder of how Mr. Obama's financial might had allowed him to redraw the political map. In addition to the states he visited on Saturday, Mr. Obama was planning stops Sunday in Florida, North Carolina and Virginia, which went Republican four years ago.
His campaign manager, David Plouffe, said the campaign was confident of holding onto New Hampshire and Pennsylvania. ''All the Kerry states right now are in good shape for us,'' he said.
Mr. McCain and his advisers said they saw evidence they were gaining on Mr. Obama as Mr. McCain hammered away at his message that Mr. Obama would raise taxes.
''We have never been as convinced as others by some of the discouraging numbers,'' said Nicolle Wallace, a senior McCain adviser, adding, ''We are certainly encouraged by the tightening of the polls.''
But the bulk of his last-minute campaign spending and appearances by Mr. McCain and Ms. Palin were in places like Florida, North Carolina and Virginia. ''If the race were closer, the states he'd be going to would be blue states,'' said Matthew Dowd, chief strategist to Mr. Bush in 2004. ''He's campaigning as if he knows he's significantly behind.''
Tad Devine, who was senior adviser to Mr. Kerry, said Mr. Obama was in a substantially stronger position than Mr. Kerry was.
State-by-State Reports
Dispatches from Times reporters in key election states:
ColoradoFloridaGeorgiaMissouriMontanaNew HampshireNorth CarolinaOhioPennsylvaniaVirginia

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: McCain supporters spending a day replacing vandalized campaign signs in Derry, N.H. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHERYL SENTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Ryan Brandorf, 12, left, Adam McBournie, 11, and Kyle Zeller, 11, worked the phones.
 Obama supporters reviewed data before visiting registered Republicans in Arvada, Colo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); SARAH PALIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



99 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: Who's The Question Mark?

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

 BODY:
In the final moments of the most gripping campaign in modern history, John McCain is still trying to costume Barack Obama as a dangerous enigma.
 But, in an odd and remarkable reversal, it is McCain who is the enigma, even though he entered the race with one of the best brands in American politics. 
 And it is Obama, who sashayed onto the trail two years ago as an aloof and exotic mystery man with a slim record and a strange name, now coming across as the steadier brand. 
 The McCain campaign specializes in erratica, while the Obama campaign continues to avoid any dramatica.
 McCain pals around with Joe the Plumber and leaves Tito the Builder to Sarah Palin, exactly the kind of inane campaign silliness that the McCain formerly known as Maverick would have mocked mercilessly.
 He's getting a little traction on taxes, as he latches on to every possible scary image about Obama -- except the suggestion that the Democrat's gray Hart Schaffner Marx suits are red. 
 Before he was bubbled by Bushies, McCain was one of the most known and knowable quantities in American politics. For most of his long public career, he prided himself on his openness with the press -- he even allowed some reporters to watch the results of January's New Hampshire primary in his hotel suite in Nashua. He relished spending all day being challenged by voters and reporters.
 Last summer, tapped out and unable to afford a paid staff of political professionals, he talked freely, telling reporters he would have a White House that would be the polar opposite of the secretive and dismissive Bush-Cheney operation. He imagined weekly press conferences and talked of subjecting himself to a version of British question time in Congress. While acknowledging he was a tech tyro, he promised to try ''a Google,'' as he called searching the Web, to put government spending online so citizens could bird-dog it.
 He even went so far as to spin a dream of a West Wing in which he would cut back on his Secret Service so he wouldn't feel so constrained.
 In the end, ''The Bullet,'' or ''Sarge,'' as McCain calls his replacement campaign manager Steve Schmidt, was the one who did the shackling, turning the vibrant and respected McCain into a shell of his former self.
 Schmidt abruptly cut off the oxygen supply to McCain's brain. No more of the oldest established, permanent floating crap game of press confabs. No more audiences that weren't vetted for friendliness. No more of McCain's trademark insouciant mocking the process even as he participated in it.
 Whether it was the five years he spent in a hole in Hanoi or just his gregarious makeup, McCain seemed to feed off of the company of people who interested him, be it reporters, voters or the pols in his posse, like Joe Lieberman and Lindsey Graham.
 Unlike Obama, He Who Walks Alone, McCain always rejected the solitary in favor of the social. But ever since Sergeant Schmidt put Captain McCain into a sterile brig on the trail, the candidate has become a question mark.
 Why would he repeat that oblivious line about the fundamentals of the economy being strong, saying it once in August and again in September?
 Why would he threaten to not show up for a debate (after denouncing Obama for not rising to the challenge of joint town halls) so that he could go to Washington and play the shining knight if he had no plan and no prospect for success?
 Why did he allow his campaign to become a host body for a Bush virus looking for someplace to infect? After working so hard to erase the image of what Senate aides called ''the Bush hug,'' McCain inexplicably hugged Bushies, surrounding himself with mercenaries trained in the same Rovian tactics that tore up his family -- and tore apart his campaign -- in 2000.
 Why did a politician who once knew how to play the game so well, who was once so beloved by people of very different political stripes, allow his campaign to get whiny, angry, vengeful and bitter? 
 Why Palin? 
 (Her latest instant classics came Friday, when she entered a rally in York, Pa., to the tune of ''Thriller'' and when a conservative radio station broadcast an interview in which she accused reporters of threatening her First Amendment rights by attacking her for negative campaigning that she feels justifiably calls out Obama ''on his associations.'')
 Why did he allow his staff to put Palin on a couture catwalk in a tin-cup economy and then, when the price tags were exposed, trash her as a ''diva'' and ''whack job,'' thus becoming the rare Republican campaign devoured by Democratic-style vicious infighting?
 The ultimate riddle is this: Why doesn't McCain question why he has become a question mark? 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KIM BOST) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HISTORY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); SEARCH ENGINES (65%); INTERNET & WWW (62%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (53%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); SARAH PALIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHUA, NH, USA (54%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



100 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 49 words

HEADLINE: Corrections: For the Record

 BODY:
An article last Sunday about surging unemployment in Rhode Island misspelled, in some editions, the surname of a spokeswoman for Gov. Donald L. Carcieri who said that historically the state is one of the first to feel hard times and one of the last to come out of them. She is Amy Kempe, not Kemp. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

PERSON: DONALD CARCIERI (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



101 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: Sheepish, Proud or Set to Flip A Coin, They're Still Undecided

BYLINE: By MARK LEIBOVICH

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Senators Barack Obama and John McCain have stood (or sat) for 36 debates, endured thousands of interviews, and spent hundreds of millions of dollars on advertisements and the better part of two years trying to convince voters that they are worthy of the presidency, or at least a vote.
 But with only days left until Election Day, a small cluster of holdouts -- 4 percent, according to a New York Times/CBS News poll -- are still wrestling with the ''Who are you voting for?'' question.
 Which raises a follow-up: What is up with these people? 
 ''I do not like being an 'undecided,' '' said a sheepish Doug Finke, a 66-year-old executive at an international relocation service in Louisville, Ky. ''Last time at this point, I definitely was decided. Not this time. I find it unnerving.''
 Mr. Finke, a Republican, voted twice for George W. Bush. He describes himself as an economic conservative and said he had been ''very impressed'' with Senator John McCain. It sure sounds as if Mr. Finke is leaning toward Mr. McCain, the Arizona Republican, right?
 Not so fast.
 ''I'm socially more liberal,'' Mr. Finke said. ''I think Obama is bright and has been very steady in this campaign.'' He added that it would be ''very exciting for the United States to elect a black president.'' Besides, he does not think Mr. McCain's running mate, Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, would be ready to step into the top job if something happened to Mr. McCain (who, Mr. Finke pointed out, ''is pretty old'').
 Where does this leave Mr. Finke? ''I plan on doing a lot of reading this weekend,'' he said.
 If the country is divided between red and blue, Mr. Finke resides in a gray state, along with a proud -- or embarrassed -- corps of undecideds. They are a shrinking cohort of confused, procrastinating, indifferent or just plain indecisive consumers of democracy. 
 Mr. Finke lives in a red state, Kentucky, with his wife, Shelley, who is also a gray state citizen. She works out of their home, where she helps manage her husband's second career as a jazz trombonist. 
 ''I tend to be a procrastinator,'' said Ms. Finke, 44, who said she operated best with deadlines. 
 She voted for Mr. Bush twice and describes herself as ''a conservative person at heart.'' At the beginning of the campaign, she was suspicious of Mr. Obama ''because of the whole Hollywood thing,'' but she has since warmed to him. 
 ''My opinion of Obama has definitely risen during this campaign,'' Ms. Finke said. ''And my opinion of McCain has fallen.'' 
 So it sure sounds as if Ms. Finke is moving toward Mr. Obama, the Illinois Democrat, right?
 Not so fast.
 ''I'd say I'm leaning towards McCain,'' she said. ''For as awful as things are with this Republican administration, there's something about the whole conservative thing that appeals to me.'' Put her down as ''leaning McCain'' then.
 ''But maybe I'll vote for Obama,'' she said. ''How many days are left?'' 
 Two, as of Sunday. While many people in this campaign-saturated country are relieved that the election will soon be over, some of the undecideds figure, What's the rush? 
 ''I might flip a coin,'' said Vasilios Gerovasiliou, 64, of Concordville, Pa. His two grown sons -- like him, veterinarians -- are split along party lines. His wife, Helen, said she was ''disgusted with both sides.''
 Mr. Gerovasiliou, who emigrated from Greece 35 years ago, said there were things he liked about both Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama. But he also believes that ''neither of the candidates always speaks the truth'' and that ''none of them will be able to do all of the things they are promising.'' 
 Mr. Gerovasiliou supported Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, loved Bill Clinton and pretty much vowed to support anyone not named Barack Obama after he defeated Mrs. Clinton in the Democratic primaries. 
 But the Clintons' endorsement of Mr. Obama went a long way. ''Time healed things,'' Mr. Gerovasiliou said. Plus, he likes Mr. Obama's running mate, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of neighboring Delaware, who is ''friends with a lot of the Greeks around here'' and patronizes the local Greek diners. He likes Mr. McCain, too, however. He admires his service, patriotism, and grit, and also likes that Ms. Palin comes from a small town, just as he did from one in Greece.
 Would he really flip a coin? No, he would not. ''I will just have to make a decision,'' Mr. Gerovasiliou said. By the end of a 15-minute phone interview, he sounded a little closer to making one. ''I think I am leaning a little bit to someone now,'' he said. 
 And that would be?
 ''Biden.''
 Talking does not necessarily bring undecideds closer to deciding. ''The more I chat, the more confused I get,'' said Laura Wolpo, a Brooklyn native who lives in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. She was fresh from a golf outing that was filled with political conversation and left her head spinning. ''People get so wacky about this stuff,'' she said.
 Ms. Wolpo, 76, has usually picked a candidate by the end of the conventions. That was the Democrats Al Gore in 2000 and John Kerry in 2004. 
 Mr. Obama? ''I have great misgivings,'' she said. 
 ''We are of the Jewish faith,'' she said, ''and I don't really know his stance on the Middle East and Israel.'' She also worries about his ''share the wealth ideas'' and says that Michelle Obama comes on a little too strong. (''And someone should teach her how to dress, too.'')
 Mr. McCain? ''I like the man,'' she said. ''I have a great deal of respect for him.'' 
 But she has problems with him, too, some big ones. First, she is a strong believer in abortion rights (which Mr. McCain is not.) ''The government does not belong in our bedroom,'' she said. And then there is Ms. Palin.
 ''Oh, my God,'' Ms. Wolpo said. ''Some of what she says is very stupid.''
 Ms. Wolpo vows to vote Tuesday. She raises the possibility of a ''toss of the coin,'' but then rejects the notion. 
 When pressed, Ms. Wolpo said there was probably a 60 percent chance she would support Mr. McCain. She does not buy the Obama campaign argument that Mr. McCain is just like Mr. Bush. ''McCain knows in his heart that Bush is a loser,'' she said.
 Either way, Ms. Wolpo said her decision did not keep her awake at night. ''I have enough to worry about,'' she said, explaining that her youngest son, who is in his 40s, suffered a stroke last spring. He has good days and bad days, she said, and that puts everything else in perspective. 
 ''This other thing is just an election,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Doug Finke, 66, and his wife, Shelley, 44, of Louisville, Ky., said they were still undecided. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEOFF OLIVER BUGBEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A32) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LIBERALISM (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (60%); RELOCATIONS (54%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); SARAH PALIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (90%) KENTUCKY, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



102 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; THE ELECTION WESTPORT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: New Voter Registration Buoys Democrats' Hopes

BYLINE: By GREGORY B. HLADKY

 BODY:
WESTPORT
AS it has in many other states, interest in this year's presidential election has spurred a surge in new voter registrations in Connecticut, including nearly 50,000 in the first half of October alone.
But in a trend that gives pause to some Republican candidates, like United States Representative Christopher Shays, only 13.2 percent of the more than 217,000 new voters who signed up called themselves Republican.
In what leaders of both parties consider the tightest of Connecticut's five United States House races this year, Mr. Shays is running for an 11th term in the Fourth Congressional District. His rival is Jim Himes of Stamford. Mr. Himes and fellow Democratic candidates are hoping to ride the coattails of Senator Barack Obama, who has had a strong lead in Connecticut in the major polls.
Well aware of the odds he faces, Mr. Shays has started comparing himself to an animal on the verge of extinction. 
''Democrats say they care about endangered species,'' he said in a recent Westport debate with Mr. Himes. ''But I wonder. I'm the only Republican left'' in Connecticut's Congressional delegation.
He added, ''If you want to protect an endangered species, I'm it!''
Susan Bysiewicz, Connecticut's secretary of the state, said that this year, 94,342 new voters have registered as unaffiliated, 92,752 as Democrats, 28,652 as Republicans and 1,380 as minor-party voters.
Overall, more than two million residents are eligible to vote in the election, which also features contests for 187 state House and Senate seats and two statewide ballot questions. ''All indicators are pointing toward a record turnout on Election Day,'' Ms. Bysiewicz said.
Democratic leaders are counting on a big turnout by supporters of Mr. Obama, who had a lead of 25 percentage points statewide, 56 to 31, over John McCain, his Republican rival, according to a recent University of Connecticut-Hartford Courant poll. This in spite of the support Mr. McCain is getting from Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, who left the Democratic Party two years ago to run as an independent.
A UConn poll conducted in late October showed Mr. Himes, a Greenwich resident and a former Goldman Sachs vice president, pulling even with Mr. Shays, who lives in Bridgeport.
In debates and in television ads, Mr. Himes has tried to tie Mr. Shays to the Bush administration on the economy and the Iraq war. Mr. Shays has emphasized his credentials as a maverick, saying he was not afraid to vote against his party if necessary.
''In this political climate, it's very difficult for Republican candidates,'' said Scott McLean, chairman of Quinnipiac University's political science department.
David Wasserman, the House editor of The Cook Political Report, agrees. ''This is the wrong year to be a Republican in Connecticut or anywhere else in the country,'' he said. ''Chris Shays could do just about everything right this year and still be in a very tough race.''
According to Mr. Wasserman, national Republican strategists initially believed that their candidate in Connecticut's Fifth Congressional District, State Senator David J. Cappiello of Danbury, had a decent chance to defeat the Democratic incumbent, Chris Murphy.
Mr. Cappiello has tried hard to distance himself from President Bush, and recently complained that his opponent was spending too much time during debates attacking the president rather than talking about Fifth District issues.
Mr. Murphy, of Cheshire, pulled off an upset two years ago to win his first Congressional term. But Mr. Wasserman said the Republicans no longer considered him vulnerable because of the increase in the number of Democratic voters and expectations that Mr. Obama's popularity will translate into a heavy pro-Democratic turnout.
''I think David Cappiello would be an exceptional Republican candidate in any other year,'' Mr. Wasserman said, adding that Republican strategists ''are no longer looking at this district.''
Another Democratic first-term member of Connecticut's delegation, Representative Joe Courtney of Vernon, appears to have a commanding lead in the Second Congressional District. A UConn poll conducted in September showed Mr. Courtney with a lead of more than 25 percentage points over his Republican challenger, Sean Sullivan of Ledyard, a political newcomer.
''It's really surprising that this one isn't closer,'' said Professor McLean of Quinnipiac. The Second District, which includes most of eastern Connecticut, has long been considered a swing district with a history of nail-biting races.
The other two Democratic representatives, both long-term incumbents, are considered safe in their re-election bids this year: In the First District, John B. Larson of East Hartford is facing the Republican Joe Visconti of West Hartford and the Green Party's Stephen E. D. Fournier of Hartford. In the Third District, the incumbent, Rosa L. DeLauro of New Haven, is being challenged by the Republican Bo Itshaky of Bethany and the Green Party's Ralph A. Ferrucci of New Haven.
Voters will also cast their ballots this year to elect a new General Assembly, including all 151 House members and 36 senators. Democrats currently have a veto-proof majority in the House, 107 to 44, and a 22-to-14 majority in the Senate, one vote short of the number needed to override a veto by Gov. M. Jodi Rell, a Republican.
Nancy DiNardo, the state's Democratic chairwoman, believes the current economic malaise will help her legislative candidates. ''People are worried, and they tend to blame the Republicans,'' she said.
Her Republican counterpart, Chris Healy, disagrees. ''I think it's an anti-incumbent feeling,'' he said. ''People are frustrated and angry because of the institutions that have let us down.''
Arthur Paulson, a Southern Connecticut State University political science professor, said that anti-incumbent feelings and this election season's pro-Democratic trend might offset each other in legislative contests. Given the General Assembly's incumbent re-election rate of more than 90 percent, major shifts in the legislature appear unlikely, he said.
Connecticut voters will also find two questions on this year's ballot.
One will ask whether the state should have its first constitutional convention in more than 40 years.
Conservative groups are pushing hard in favor of the convention, arguing that Connecticut needs an amendment to allow direct ballot initiatives. They believe voters, rather than the legislature, should have the chance to decide on issues like gay marriage.
Opponents of the proposal, including many state unions and liberal groups, say that a convention could become a lobbying playground for right-wing special-interest groups. So far, the anti-convention forces have raised more than $830,000 to campaign for a no vote, compared with barely $12,000 raised by one pro-convention group.
The second question proposes amending the state's Constitution to allow 17-year-olds to vote in primaries if they will turn 18 by Election Day. Advocates say the change will encourage more participation in the political process.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: RIVALS: Jim Himes, left, a Democrat, is challenging Representative Christopher Shays, a 10-term incumbent. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JANET DURRANS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CT1)
 CHALLENGING: United States Representative Chris Murphy,left, before a debate in Farmington last week with his Republican challenger, State Senator David J. Cappiello. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE RUHE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CT6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); BIOLOGY (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); TRENDS (77%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (74%); BALLOTS (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (90%); JIM HIMES (90%); CHRISTOPHER S MURPHY (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (73%) CONNECTICUT, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011



103 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: Entangling Alliances

BYLINE: By JOSEF JOFFE. 
Josef Joffe teaches American foreign policy at Stanford, where he is a fellow of the Institute for International Studies and the Hoover Institution.

 BODY:
FROM COLONY TO SUPERPOWER
 U.S. Foreign Relations Since 1776
 By George C. Herring
 Illustrated. 1,035 pp. Oxford University Press. $35
 This is an ambitious work and a steal -- a thousand pages for $35. Such heft is rare these days, and such ambition is even rarer: a single-volume history of American foreign policy from George Washington to George W. Bush. For a similar try, you have to go back half a generation to Eugene V. Rostow's ''Breakfast for Bonaparte'' or to the four-volume (and four-author) ''Cambridge History of American Foreign Relations.'' 
 Professionals and interested laymen will always want such a book: an up-to-date, two-inch-thick repository of facts and quotations, with the what, when and wherefore of, say, Manifest Destiny laid out at your fingertips. Or, who first warned against ''entangling alliances''? No, it wasn't Washington but Jefferson. 
 True, you can also find that in Wikipedia, but minus the imprimatur of the Oxford History of the United States series, of which ''From Colony to Superpower'' is the seventh volume. And wouldn't you rather rely on an established historian who is also the former editor of the journal Diplomatic History? 
 The strength of this book is the author's Herculean power of synthesis. Ours is the age of merciless specialization -- no grand prizes for grand sweeps. Yet Herring recaptures a quarter-millennium of American foreign policy with fluidity and felicity. Wisely or warily, he avoids taking sides in the great controversies; a good teacher, he presents the ''on the one hand'' along with the ''on the other,'' copious references included. 
 Though the book lacks original research, and rarely cites primary sources, it is not a textbook -- or if so, it is a very sophisticated one with about a hundred footnotes per (short) chapter and a 31-page bibliographic essay. Neither is it an interpretative, let alone argumentative history of American diplomacy. For that, a reader will have to go to Walter A. McDougall's ''Promised Land, Crusader State'' or Walter Russell Mead's ''Special Providence.''
 Herring's argument comes rather by way of indirection. From the first to the last page, this book whispers that the conventional narrative of America insulata is dead wrong. Never did the United States follow as a ''great rule of conduct'' the advice laid out in Washington's Farewell Address: ''to have . . . as little political connection as possible'' with Europe. Isolationism has been a myth and a fighting word, but not a policy. 
 The ex-colonists could never have won the war against the British without the French. When Jefferson doubled the country's size through the Louisiana Purchase, he was playing diplomatic hardball with the best of them, pitting France, Britain and Spain against one another. ''Regime change'' is not W.'s invention. During the four-year war against the pirate-extortionists of Tripoli, Jefferson and Madison launched the ''first U.S. attempt to replace a hostile foreign government'' by trying to topple the Pasha and install his exiled brother. Did Americans really despise power politics as a corrupt game of princes? By 1851, Secretary of State Daniel Webster crowed that America would eventually ''command the oceans, both oceans, all the oceans.'' 
 Americans think the Civil War was all theirs; in fact, both sides ''recognized that their success or failure'' depended on the ''European great powers.'' During the Gilded Age, the nouveau riche Republic felt cocky enough (in the words of The New York Herald) to tell Britain: ''She need not bother with this side of the sea. We are a good enough England for this hemisphere.'' At the end of the century, hyperbole knew no limits. ''We are a great imperial Republic destined to exercise a controlling influence upon the actions of mankind,'' a pundit of the period declared. 
 Even in the post-1919 heyday of ''isolationism,'' America's foreign entanglements actually thickened. Direct investment in Europe more than doubled in the 1920s; some 1,300 American companies were established there. Though the Senate vetoed membership in the League of Nations, American financiers and diplomats saved postwar Europe from economic disaster (see the Young and Dawes Plans). 
 Another between-the-lines argument is about the interconnectedness of it all. This is not as trite as it sounds because a vast majority of the literature on American diplomacy focuses on specific regions and countries. Herring diligently draws out the global dimensions of the nation's foreign relations. Still, when he takes a jab at ''Eurocentricity,'' he loses his balance. About the 1920s he complains: ''In a strange, almost surreal way . . . the postwar world remained Eurocentric.'' Considering what followed -- Stalin, Fascism, Hitler, World War II -- the problem, one would think, was rather too little ''Eurocentrism.'' 
 And this problem is symptomatic of a larger failing. ''From Colony to Superpower'' is a tale without a theory. Herring writes about the grand sweep of history without providing even a middling idea about its drivers; it's like composing music without themes, tempos and crescendos. The fateful progression toward war with Japan gets about the same amount of space as do relations with Latin America. 
 Worse, because the book lacks a conceptual framework, the titanic power struggle of states dwindles into a string of all-too-human mishaps. Japan's ambassador to the United States, Kichisaburo Nomura, and Secretary of State Cordell Hull ''often talked past each other'' in the run-up to the war, Herring reports. ''They spoke without an interpreter, and Nomura's limited understanding of English at times misled him regarding the progress that had been made.'' Get your English right or get an interpreter is apparently the wide-eyed moral of this story. 
 Personalization leads easily to demonization, as when Herring invokes a naval clash in the Atlantic three months before Hitler declared war to claim that ''an opportunist F.D.R. used an allegedly unprovoked attack to escalate the naval war'' against Germany. Gee, if Roosevelt had been a bit nicer, he could have kept the country out of war. And let Hitler have Britain and all of Europe? 
 Herring takes the same approach to the cold war, ever so softly fingering Truman as culprit with suggestive sentences like: His ''first moves did not mark Truman's abandonment of F.D.R.'s effort to cooperate with the Soviet Union.'' Hmm, is that to say he did abandon the effort? Yes, 32 pages later: ''The dramatic initiatives of 1947-48'' like the Marshall Plan ''hardened the division of Europe.'' 
 This is a mildly revisionist version of history that authors like Gar Alperovitz began to push full blast in the 1960s. But the issue here is trying to distinguish between contingency and necessity. Thucydides wrote about the foibles of the players in the Peloponnesian War, but in the light of an overarching theme -- that the growth of Athenian power had made war with Sparta inevitable. And so too, regarding wars in modern times, with Japan and Nazi Germany (hot) and the Soviet Union (cold). 
 The closer Herring comes to the present, the shakier the ground on which he walks. There are some classics he seems not to have read, like Robert E. Osgood's ''NATO: The Entangling Alliance,'' the standard account of coalition-building in the cold war. Or Samuel Huntington's monumental volume ''The Common Defense.'' Curiously, he uses ''Gulliver's Troubles'' as the title for his chapter on Kennedy and Johnson, but he does not cite Stanley Hoffmann's study with the same name. 
 We have long been waiting for a single-volume history like this one, and ''From Colony to Superpower'' deserves a place on the bookshelf, if only for sheer effort and sweep. But it won't replace the volumes of the Cambridge History, or a few dozen of the classic authors from Samuel Flagg Bemis to Norman Graebner, from George F. Kennan to John Lewis Gaddis. Sometimes more is less.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stephen Decatur and Daniel Fraser in combat during the Barbary Wars. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ENGRAVING FROM ''FROM COLONY TO SUPERPOWER'') 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); HISTORY (76%); ETHICS (76%)

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

TITLE: From Colony to Superpower (Book)>; From Colony to Superpower (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



104 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; OHIO; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: City and Rural, Tooth and Nail

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL

DATELINE: CHILLICOTHE, Ohio 

 BODY:
Two grandfathers, each with two grandchildren grabbing their hands, walk down the sidewalk in this city in the rolling Appalachian hills.
 They incarnate the presidential election in this city and this state: Dan Young, 56, a pulp mill manager, is voting for Senator John McCain ''because that man's got the wisdom.'' 
 Richard Hawkins, a 60-year-old nurse, favors Senator Barack Obama ''because the last eight years have just bully whipped us economically, and McCain doesn't know what it's like to be in debt and hurting.''
 Polls show Mr. Obama with a narrow lead , but even partisans put little stock in those. Hard experience has shown that Ohio tends to offer intense matches and bleary eyes while awaiting election-night returns.
 Heavily Republican counties line the western and central parts of the state, and Democrats dominate in Columbus, Dayton and Cleveland. But the electoral war is fought out in hazier confines like Chillicothe, a predominantly white city of 21,000 that mirrored the statewide results in the last two elections by going narrowly for President Bush. 
 Enthusiasm runs high. Here and across the state, officials expect one third of the voters to vote early. ''The enthusiasm is amazing, off the charts,'' said Diane Carnes, the Ross County Republican chairwoman and a real estate agent in Chillicothe. ''I've got Democrats walking in and asking to volunteer for McCain.''
 Gov. Ted Strickland, who hails from hilly southeastern Ohio, has worked his home precincts hard for Mr. Obama. The governor helped Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton win there in the Democratic primary.
 ''Any Democrat who neglects the rural voters won't win; it's that simple,'' said Mayor Michael B. Coleman of Columbus. ''And Obama has put a lot of effort -- a lot -- into winning there.''
 Polls show that Mr. McCain's running mate, Gov. Sarah Palin, has turned off centrist independents. But she has excited her party's powerful evangelical base.
 ''If McCain wins here, he'll owe her a debt,'' said Mark Caleb Smith, director of the Center for Political Studies at Cedarville University. ''She is much more populist and anti-elite than Republicans are used to, and she articulates a lot of their cultural angst.''
 Evangelical leaders were slow to warm to Mr. McCain, but they have rallied. On a radio station Friday, evangelical pastors prayed for God to help voters ''avoid wickedness'' and help deliver ''electoral miracles on Election Day.''
 MICHAEL POWELL 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); RELIGION (85%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); REAL ESTATE (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); PULP INDUSTRY (57%); PULP MILLS (57%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); SARAH PALIN (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); TED STRICKLAND (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (90%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); DAYTON, OH, USA (56%) OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



105 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1304 words

HEADLINE: In Florida, Organizing and Fighting for Every Last Vote

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla. 

 BODY:
Lew Oliver's McCain-Palin T-shirt advertised his intentions, and the woman in the S.U.V. gave him an opening. ''I'm undecided,'' said Nicole Ellington, 31, a paralegal with two young children. ''You have two minutes. Go.''
 Mr. Oliver knew that her family leaned Republican because she was on his get-out-the-vote list, and he rapidly delivered a pitch honed over 22 years of volunteering for local campaigns. ''Wow, you're good,'' she said. And as she drove away, Mr. Oliver smiled with satisfaction.
 But did he really win her over? Ms. Ellington had pointed to the ''Palin'' on his T-shirt and said, ''I'm worried about this one.'' 
 ''I don't know,'' Mr. Oliver said after giving it some thought. ''She may have been being polite.'' 
 Mr. Oliver, 47, a real estate lawyer who walks and talks in bursts, is the kind of party regular who is not usually one to doubt. He has been the Orange County Republican Party chairman since 1999, and with his encyclopedic knowledge of the neighborhoods and demographics of Orlando, he built the grass-roots effort that pushed George W. Bush to victory here and statewide in 2000 and 2004. 
 But this year, Mr. Oliver said, the challenge is tougher. Part of it is the ''collapse of the economy of the Western world,'' he said. Part is the competition, a campaign by Senator Barack Obama that has poured more money and people into the state than Senator John McCain. Even the most seasoned Republicans now acknowledge that they face an uphill fight.
 ''This is as difficult an environment for Republicans as there's been since Watergate,'' said George LeMieux, the former campaign manager for Gov. Charlie Crist, a Republican. 
 Mr. Oliver agrees. And like many Republicans trying in the final days to push their party to victory, he says he has found inspiration in Mr. McCain, the perseverant prisoner of war who came from behind to seize the Republican nomination. The current call to arms is simple: ''If anyone can pull it off, it's John McCain.'' 
 The same could be said for Mr. Oliver. Even his counterparts in the local Democratic Party describe him as one of the best organizers in Florida, a tireless terrier of campaigns who has missed only four of the county party's meetings in 22 years. 
 Mr. Oliver claims to dislike politics, seeing it as a way to fulfill the civic duty that led his father and two brothers to the military. But he is single and admits that the Republican Party consumes much of his free time. 
 On Thursday, his day began at 9 a.m., calling his Orlando neighbors from a phone bank list he carries everywhere so he can reach voters during down times. By 10 a.m., he was inside a local TV news studio, where he debated the race with the local Democratic Party chairman. 
 On camera, Mr. Oliver emphasized that ''no one is giving up.'' He said that the polls were close in Florida and that slight movement could bring victory. 
 During a commercial break, though, he quoted Bill Clinton (''It's the economy, stupid'') and said, ''If I had a videotape of Barack Obama shooting someone, he'd still be up in the polls.''
 What really frustrated him, he said, was that voters did not seem to be recognizing what he admired about John McCain: his pragmatism, his toughness, his proven willingness to buck his party and reach across the aisle on tough issues like immigration. 
 But lately, Mr. Oliver's task has become complicated as he finds himself competing with a burning fear voiced by some McCain supporters. It can be seen in the anti-Obama book at the McCain office in Altamonte Springs; or in Maitland, where someone posted a letter on the wall that said: ''This is the scariest election we as Christians have ever faced, and from the looks of the polls, the Christians aren't voting Christian values.'' 
 Just a few feet away, a larger poster near an American flag stated: ''Obama -- too dangerous for our America.''
 Mr. Oliver, when told about the messages, said they did not reflect the party's official position and would be taken down. At the Orlando headquarters, where he usually spends his time, no such language was visible.
 But in an unscientific show of hands among 30 volunteers, more people said they were motivated by a fear of Mr. Obama than by a love of Mr. McCain or Gov. Sarah Palin. Such passions are double-edged: some party officials worry that the negative tone alienates independent voters; on the other hand, it has pushed volunteers to great lengths. 
 About half of the volunteers at the headquarters had come from outside Florida, representing at least eight states, including Alaska, Georgia and Texas. Many said they were volunteering for the first time, spending as much as $2,000 of their own money to try to keep the Democrats from winning. 
 Krista Parrett, 37, said she came from Syracuse to volunteer because she feared that an Obama victory would make the United States like Uzbekistan, a former Soviet state ruled with an iron fist, where she once lived. Marlene Heineman, 58, a flight attendant who had come to the office during a long layover, said she worried about who might be behind Mr. Obama's rapid rise to prominence. 
 ''He has a lot of shady connections,'' Ms. Heineman said. ''He hasn't been forthcoming.''
 Other interviews brought similar sentiments, though one volunteer, Michael Walzak, 46, a member of the county's Republican Executive Committee, said he was ''disappointed that so many people are that fearful.''
 Mr. Oliver, for his part, has stayed focused on what he knows: how to win. At 3:30 p.m., he returned from his law office, speeding into the campaign headquarters in Nike running sneakers and jeans, with not just a McCain-Palin shirt but also a hat. 
 The operation had just shifted from asking voters whether they had received and sent in their absentee ballots to the get-out-the-vote effort. 
 This two-pronged emphasis, on absentee ballots and getting voters to the polls, has been the party's focus in Florida for decades. Mr. Oliver says that it works in part because Republicans tend to be less transient than Democrats, making them easier to reach, and because they have historically been more loyal to their party. 
 As an example, he said that 81 percent of registered Republicans in Orange County voted in 2004 compared with about 75 percent of Democrats.
 To try to continue that tradition, Mr. Oliver grabbed a list of 181 addresses in Baldwin Park, an area of working professionals. 
 The first house he visited took him to James Sims, 50, who said he was happy to see fellow McCain supporters in the neighborhood. The second voter he encountered also promised to vote Republican. ''No matter how sick you are?'' Mr. Oliver said. ''Even if you have to drag yourself there on a wagon?''
 ''Yes,'' the woman said. 
 It was a well-honed pitch. In his 22 years, he said he had learned a few things about voter contact. First, knock and ring the doorbell. Second, step a few feet back to avoid looking threatening. And third, use humor. Introductions like ''Hi'' -- big smile -- ''we're not selling anything'' are usually effective. 
 Or at least they get the conversation going. What happens next, this year at least, seems more unpredictable. Just after Mr. Oliver said he had not yet found a house with Republicans who said they would vote for Barack Obama, he encountered two of them in a row. 
 Beth Moriarty said that her 62-year-old husband, for the first time in his life, was going to vote for a Democrat. 
 Patricia Millar, 50, a registered independent, also said that sheand her husband, Jeffery Bergenthal, a Republican, were not voting for Mr. McCain. A blue Obama sign fluttered in her lawn. She seemed unsure of how to break the news. 
 ''We think he's a great guy,'' she said of Mr. McCain. ''We're just a little disappointed with the ticket this year.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 9, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A note last Sunday with an article about get-out-the-vote efforts in Florida's Orange County, along the Interstate 4 corridor, misstated Florida's vote in the 2000 presidential election in some editions. President Bush won by 537 votes statewide, not in Orange County alone.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lew Oliver, chairman of the Republican Party of Orange County, Fla., going door to door. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Map details the Interstate 4 corridor of in Florida. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); POLITICS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); PARALEGALS (72%); REAL ESTATE (69%); CHILDREN (57%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); CHARLIE CRIST (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



106 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NORTH CAROLINA; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: First Real Race In a Generation

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: ROCKY MOUNT, N.C. 

 BODY:
At a rally here with Michelle Obama the other day, little slips of paper were tucked into the windshields of cars in the parking lot. They announced a free breakfast, paid for by local Democrats, on behalf of Senator Barack Obama on Saturday, the last day of early voting. 
 The fliers were a small reminder of something big: the Obama organization in this state.
 North Carolina has not seen a real presidential race for a generation. But in one of the biggest surprises of this long campaign season, Mr. Obama has pulled even in the polls with Senator John McCain.
 Mr. Obama has more than twice as many offices, more than twice as many paid staff members and thousands more unpaid volunteers. He has outspent Mr. McCain more than eight to one on television advertising, although Mr. McCain has increased his spending in recent weeks.
 Both campaigns have stepped up their face time here, with Mr. McCain's running mate, Gov. Sarah Palin, appearing Saturday and Mr. Obama expected to be back on Monday.
 A record number of people have voted early; twice as many were Democrats as Republicans.
 ''My people didn't always have the right to vote,'' said Joseph Scott, 40, who works in banking, as he stood in line in Greensboro for more than an hour to vote for Mr. Obama.
 Blacks like Mr. Scott make up about 21 percent of registered voters, and the degree to which they turn out for Mr. Obama will be a critical piece of the puzzle.
 But Mr. McCain's selection of Ms. Palin has inspired cultural conservatives. Her rallies are energetic; she had the country stars Gretchen Wilson in Asheville belting out ''I'm a Redneck Woman'' and Hank Williams Jr. in Elon singing his own ''McCain-Palin Tradition.''
 Through rallies, commercials and automated calls, the McCain campaign casts Mr. Obama as a radical.
 ''He's a socialist,'' Bob Hartsock, 78, who works in real estate in Concord, said after a McCain rally there.
 Working to Mr. Obama's advantage is an influx of new voters -- potentially more moderate -- and the mounting economic crisis.
 Ruby Hill-Benjamin, 53, a registered nurse, was one of hundreds of people in an overflow room here shrieking for Mrs. Obama. She said she had voted for President Bush because she liked his faith initiative. But Mr. McCain is ''running on the past,'' she said, and she is inspired by the Obamas: ''They are speaking for all Americans.''
 KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (70%); NURSES & NURSING (69%); CONSERVATISM (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (54%); VOLUNTEERS (54%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (54%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); SARAH PALIN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (79%); ROCKY MOUNT, NC, USA (57%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (57%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



107 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: Tuesday Night's Party Lines

BYLINE: By JAN HOFFMAN

 BODY:
THIS Tuesday night, as history of one sort or another is being made, where will you be watching election returns?
 If you happen to be in Alaska, know that the doors of the Wasilla Multi-Use Sports Complex will be flung open at 3 p.m. for food, beer, wine and -- in between updates on giant televisions -- dancing to a new local rock band, Sarah and the Pit Bulls. Although this Civic Festival is ostensibly nonpartisan, it is billed on the Web as a ''victory celebration.''
 At the same hour in Washington -- 7 p.m., East Coast time -- the doors to the New Bethel Baptist Church will be flung open for what the Rev. Walter E. Fauntroy, a former aide to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., calls a ''watch-night service,'' also replete with food and televisions (but minus the alcohol).
 ''I am cautiously optimistic that before the night is out,'' said Mr. Fauntroy, the church's pastor, ''I will experience what I do at weddings: someone singing, 'This is the moment.' '' 
 On the evening of Nov. 4, true believers from each party will gather at churches, meetings halls, block parties, bars and parks between Wasilla and Washington, anticipating a communal exaltation of historic dimension.
 But for millions of others, it will be a night infused with body-quaking fear on a seismic scale, about the economy, employment, war. Conversations last week with quotidian voters -- as well as not-so-quotidian ones -- suggest that many people may want to gather less for a party than for a huddle, a support group. Republicans are hedging their bets. Democrats say they are wary, skeptical, superstitious even. Judging by them, and not the polls that favor Senator Barack Obama, if there's a donkey braying in the land, that would be Eeyore.
 ''I don't know anyone who is planning to whoop it up,'' said Diane Asadorian Masters, an Obama supporter from West Lafayette, Ind.
 Kyle T. Smoke, chairman of the College Republicans at the University of Texas at Dallas, said that his group will not attend the student government's bipartisan party. Instead, members will watch with the grown-ups at the Dallas County Republican Party's gathering. ''Tensions are high,'' he said. ''We think it's in the best interest to be with our own people so we can either celebrate or sulk together.''
 Ayelet Waldman, a novelist from Berkeley, Calif., who campaigned hard for Mr. Obama, will fly to Chicago on Tuesday to work the phones, knocking wood and spitting over her shoulder as she does so. ''I cannot take comfort in the polls,'' said Ms. Waldman, who, with her husband and four children, planned to gather with Obama supporters that evening in Grant Park. 
 Referring to the tight races in 2000 and 2004, she said: ''It's like Charlie Brown and the football: once, twice, a million times burned. I'll be in Chicago because I either want to celebrate with Barack or grieve with him''
 Pam Young, a Republican mother of three from Fort Worth, Tex., said she would probably have a few friends over. ''I think my guy is going down for the count,'' she said, referring to Senator John McCain. She has many liberal friends with whom she traded nyah-nyah text messages during the debates. On Tuesday night, she said, with a sigh, ''They will abuse me with it.''
 The evening presents an emotional challenge for Susan Bodnar Schatsky, a Manhattan Democrat. She'll be struggling to contain her battle-scarred cynicism, even as she encourages the excitement of her children, 9 and 11, who baked money-raising cookies and knocked on doors in Pennsylvania for Mr. Obama. ''Our kids need to be allowed to idealize,'' she said. ''We'll acknowledge that it's a special, fun night. But if it doesn't work out, we need to have a protective place for their tears.''
 Bob Casselman has his protective place ready. Mr. Casselman, a middle school teacher from Zionsville, Ind., said he was voting for Mr. McCain but was apprehensive about the outcome of the evening, which he intended to spend at home with his wife. He has a shrinking retirement account and two college tuitions to cover. ''I'll certainly watch the returns,'' he said, ''but I'll also be reading a fun book'' -- David Baldacci's ''Stone Cold'' -- ''so I can take my mind off the serious stuff. I've been saving it for election night.''
 By contrast, the ebullience of organizers of Tuesday night's events in Wasilla and Washington seemed unassailable. Perhaps that was because they will be celebrating themselves as much as their candidates. 
 In Wasilla, Mr. McCain and the Republican Party seem like afterthoughts, wafting after what is essentially a love-fest for Sarah Palin and small-town Alaska.
 Typically on an election night, said Lynn Gattis, an organizer of the Wasilla event, ''We go to a local bar or watch on our own TVs, but this one is a big hoo-hah.''
 The festival will feature gun-safety sessions, a flag ceremony from the Boy Scouts and vendors hawking Palin memorabilia, including wineglass charms -- trinkets to identify one's glass at an event -- in shapes like lipstick and high-heeled shoes. The Colony High School Marching Band from nearby Palmer will perform what Mrs. Gattis contended would be a special preview.
 ''The band is going to the inaugural parade!'' Mrs. Gattis said. ''We bought their uniforms on eBay, and they've been practicing. I've got my inaugural ball gown, tan-spray can and all.''
 Across the country, Mr. Fauntroy, a founding member of the Congressional Black Caucus, sees in Mr. Obama the fulfillment of a dream more than 40 years old. ''This is the great harvest,'' he said, his voice breaking. ''The moment for which Martin Luther King Jr. gave his life. I've been saying to people ad nauseam: 'Pray and then vote. Put feet to your prayers.' ''
 He expects at least 500 people at New Bethel on Tuesday night. ''I am so full of anticipation that I am ashamed of myself,'' Mr. Fauntroy said. ''I can almost hear the children singing and the church bells ringing.''
 As if to defuse their anxiety, some hosts have intentionally created bipartisan guest lists. The marquee bipartisan party in New York is likely to be the one given by Harvey Weinstein, the ardent Democrat (and film and theater producer), and Georgette Mosbacher, the ardent Republican (and top executive at Borghese, the beauty company), along with Cindi Leive (undeclared) and Jim Nelson (Democrat), the editors in chief, respectively, of Glamour and GQ.
 During a conference call with Ms. Mosbacher and Mr. Weinstein, that notion of friendship trumping partisanship was almost savaged, especially when Ms. Mosbacher, alluding to the candidates' tax proposals, described herself as ''a small-business owner.''
 Mr. Weinstein all but gagged.
 ''I have a $100-million business,'' Ms. Mosbacher explained. ''I have to make a payroll on the first and the 15th of the month!''
 Their guest list includes Robert. M. Morgenthau, the Manhattan district attorney; Eva Mendes, the actress; and Salman Rushdie, the writer. There will be, Mr. Weinstein chimed in, ''a lot of small-business owners of $100 million and above.''
 ''And a lot of limousine liberals,'' Ms. Mosbacher shot back.
 Each acknowledged the gravity of the election, as well as the historic symbolism. If and when a winner is announced, Champagne will be served. 
 ''If Barack wins, I'm buying,'' Mr. Weinstein said.
 ''And if McCain wins, he'll still be buying,'' she added.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: RECIPES: McCain, above, and Obama mixes. Shaken and Stirred, Page 8. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GABRIELE STABILE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST1)
PARTYING FOR PALIN: Lynn Gattis is an organizer of the ''victory celebration'' in Sarah Palin's hometown, Wasilla, Alaska. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA BOROUGH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 VOTES AND PRAYERS: The Rev. Walter E. Fauntroy expects a crowd at church. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BEER & ALE (77%); FESTIVALS (76%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (74%); RELIGION (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (72%); POP & ROCK (71%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (71%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (70%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); SARAH PALIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (66%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%) ALASKA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



108 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: Was There A Loan It Didn't Like?

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
AS a senior mortgage underwriter, Keysha Cooper was proud of her ability to spot fraud and other problems in a loan application. A decade of vetting mortgage documents had taught her plenty, she says. 
 But as a senior mortgage underwriter at Washington Mutual during the late, great mortgage boom, Ms. Cooper says she found herself in a vise. Brokers squeezed her from one side, her superiors from the other, she says, and both pressured her to approve loans, no matter what. 
 ''At WaMu it wasn't about the quality of the loans; it was about the numbers,'' Ms. Cooper says. ''They didn't care if we were giving loans to people that didn't qualify. Instead, it was how many loans did you guys close and fund?'' 
 Ms. Cooper, 35, was laid off a year ago and is still unemployed. She came forward to discuss her experiences at the bank in order to help shareholders recover money from WaMu executives. 
 Ms. Cooper is one of 89 employees whose stories fill a voluminous complaint filed against officers of the company by the Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan board, a big shareholder. Topping the list of defendants is Kerry K. Killinger, the WaMu chief executive who was ousted in mid-September.
 WaMu was seized by federal regulators in late September, the biggest bank failure in the nation's history. It was sold to JPMorgan Chase for $1.9 billion.
 The shareholder complaint depicts WaMu's mortgage lending operation as a boiler room where volume was paramount and questionable loans were pushed through because they were more profitable to the company. 
 When underwriters refused to approve dubious loans, they were punished, she says. 
 MS. COOPER started at WaMu in 2003 and lasted three and a half years. At first, she was allowed to do her job, she says. In February 2007, though, the pressure became intense. WaMu executives told employees they were not making enough loans and had to get their numbers up, she says. 
 ''They started giving loan officers free trips if they closed so many loans, fly them to Hawaii for a month,'' Ms. Cooper recalls. ''One of my account reps went to Jamaica for a month because he closed $3.5 million in loans that month.'' 
 Although Ms. Cooper couldn't see it, the wheels were already coming off the subprime bus. 
 ''If a loan came from a top loan officer, they didn't care what the situation was, you had to make that loan work,'' she says. ''You were like a bad person if you declined a loan.''
 One loan file was filled with so many discrepancies that she felt certain it involved mortgage fraud. She turned the loan down, she says, only to be scolded by her supervisor. 
 ''She told me, 'This broker has closed over $1 million with us and there is no reason you cannot make this loan work,' '' Ms. Cooper says. ''I explained to her the loan was not good at all, but she said I had to sign it.''
 The argument did not end there, however. Ms. Cooper says her immediate boss complained to the team manager about the loan rejection and asked that Ms. Cooper be ''written up,'' with a formal letter of complaint placed in her personnel file. 
 Ms. Cooper said the team manager told her to ''restructure'' the loan to make it work. ''I said, how can you restructure fraud? This is a fraudulent loan,'' she recalls.
 Ms. Cooper says that her bosses placed her on probation for 30 days for refusing to approve the loan and that her team manager signed off on the loan. 
 Four months later, the loan was in default, she says. The borrower had not made a single payment. ''They tried to hang it on me,'' Ms. Cooper said, ''but I said, 'No, I put in the system that I am not approving this loan.' ''
 Brokers often tried to bribe Ms. Cooper to approve loans, she says. One offered to pay $900 to send her son to football summer boot camp if she would approve a loan that had been declined by a host of other lenders. ''I told him no and not to disrespect me like that again,'' Ms. Cooper says.
 Hidden fees meant brokers could easily make between $20,000 and $40,000 on a $500,000 loan, Ms. Cooper says.
 ''WaMu was allowing brokers to get 6 to 8 percent off one loan,'' she says. ''If I had a loan where the borrower was already tight and then I saw the broker is getting $10,000 or $20,000, I would cut their fees back. They would get so upset with me.''
 Ms. Cooper says that loans she turned down were often approved by her superiors. One in particular came back to haunt WaMu.
 Vetting a loan one day, Ms. Cooper says she became suspicious when a photograph of the house being bought showed one street address while documents deeper in the file showed a different address. She contacted the appraiser, and recalls that he said that he must have erred and that he would send her the correct documents. 
 ''So then he sent me an appraisal with a picture of the same house but this time with the right number on it,'' Ms. Cooper recalls. ''I looked the address up in our system and could not find it. I called the appraiser and said, 'Please investigate.' '' 
 The appraiser came back, reporting that a visit to the California property had found everything in order and in agreement with the original appraisal. ''I was so for sure that it was fraud I wanted to get on an airplane,'' Ms. Cooper says. 
 The $800,000 loan was approved, but not by Ms. Cooper. Six months later, it defaulted, she says. ''When they went to foreclose on the house, they found it was an empty lot,'' she recalls. ''I remember clear as day this manager comes over to me and asks, 'Do you remember this loan?' I knew just what she was talking about.'' 
 Rejecting loan after loan, however, gave her battle fatigue. ''The more you fight, the more you get in trouble,'' she says. She was written up three or four times at WaMu. 
 After WaMu's mortgage lending unit laid her off, she applied for work in its retail banking division. She was turned down, she suspects, because of the critical letters in her personnel file. 
 Ms. Cooper's biggest regret, she says, is that she did not reject more loans. ''I swear 60 percent of the loans I approved I was made to,'' she says. ''If I could get everyone's name, I would write them apology letters.''
 CHAD JOHNSON, a partner at Bernstein, Litowitz Berger & Grossmann, is lead counsel for shareholders in the suit. He said: ''Killinger pocketed tens of millions of dollars from WaMu, while investors were left with worthless stock.'' With WaMu gone, he added, ''it is all the more important that Killinger and his co-defendants are held accountable.'' 
 The lawyer representing WaMu and Mr. Killinger did not return a phone call seeking comment. 
 Ms. Cooper hopes to return to the mortgage business soon. ''I loved underwriting because it's about being able to put a person in their dream home,'' she says. ''But messing these borrowers around was wrong.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kerry K. Killinger was Washington Mutual's C.E.O. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROL T. POWERS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); APPROVALS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); LAYOFFS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%); HISTORY (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); PENSION FUNDS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); BANK FAILURES (72%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (67%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (90%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (90%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (90%)

PERSON: KERRY K KILLINGER (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



109 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; QUESTIONS FOR JAMES K. GALBRAITH; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: The Populist

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SOLOMON

 BODY:
Do you find it odd that so few economists foresaw the current credit disaster? Some did. The person with the most serious claim for seeing it coming is Dean Baker, the Washington economist. I saw it coming in general terms.
But there are at least 15,000 professional economists in this country, and you're saying only two or three of them foresaw the mortgage crisis? Ten or 12 would be closer than two or three. 
What does that say about the field of economics, which claims to be a science? It's an enormous blot on the reputation of the profession. There are thousands of economists. Most of them teach. And most of them teach a theoretical framework that has been shown to be fundamentally useless.
You're referring to the Washington-based conservative philosophy that rejects government regulation in favor of free-market worship? Reagan's economists worshiped the market, but Bush didn't worship the market. Bush simply turned over regulatory authority to his friends. It enabled all the shady operators and card sharks in the system to come to dominate how we finance.
So you claim in your recent book, ''The Predator State,'' but will President Bush actually be leaving Washington a richer man? Presidents don't make money in office; they do so afterward. In his case, I hope he won't. Maybe his friends will abandon him.
What do you think the future holds for Vice President Cheney? I suspect that Cheney will spend much of his life fending off legal challenges, but that is a different area. I'm quite sure that the human rights issues will follow him for the rest of his life.
Any thoughts on Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson, who engineered the bailout? He is clearly not a superman. This is the guy who had the financial crisis on his plate for a year, and when it finally became so pervasive that he couldn't handle it on a case-by-case basis, the best he could do was send Congress a bill that was three pages long.
What's wrong with that? Maybe he's pithy. It shows he wasn't adequately prepared. The bill did not contain protections for the public that Congress had to put in.
Regulation is the new mantra, and even Alan Greenspan in his mea culpa before Congress seemed to regret he hadn't used more of it. I would say a day late and a dollar short. Greenspan blotted his copybook disastrously with his support of deregulated finance. This is a follower of Ayn Rand, an old Objectivist. His belief was you can't really regulate and discipline the market and you shouldn't try. I think Greenspan bears a high, high degree of responsibility for what has happened.
As a longtime professor at the University of Texas, where you hold a chair in the LBJ School of Public Affairs, what do you do with your own money? As little as possible. I am in the happy position of not having too much.
That sounds vaguely communistic. Well, maybe academic life has a touch of that, but it's comfortable compared with the real thing.
Over the years, you've stayed loyal to the liberal ideas of your celebrated father, John Kenneth Galbraith. That's right.
Did you go through any kind of Oedipal crisis when you were younger? No, I went through the non-Oedipal crisis of having a father who was always one step ahead.
Now that the economy has tanked, do you think that progressive economists will come to enjoy a new glamour? I personally never suffered a deficit of public attention.
That sounds a little smug. That's true. Let's add that a great many other progressive economists have basically suffered a deficit of attention, and these events should raise their profile enormously.
INTERVIEW CONDUCTED, CONDENSED AND EDITED BY DEBORAH SOLOMON

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW MAHON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BAILOUTS (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); DEREGULATION (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); CONSERVATISM (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (67%); HENRY PAULSON (55%); DICK CHENEY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011



110 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; FLORIDA; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: Wrong House, But Right State?

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla. 

 BODY:
Perhaps no state in recent presidential politics is more resonant than Florida, which Democrats would love to recapture after two straight defeats that included the bitter recount of 2000. And Florida is a state that Senator John McCain must win to seize the presidency. But after coasting through the summer, Mr. McCain, the Republican nominee, is falling behind in many recent polls. 
 Emblematic of the challenge was the experience of two Republican canvassers who appeared at Beth Moriarty's door in Orlando on Thursday looking for her husband's vote. Her response was blunt.
 ''Y'all are totally at the wrong house,'' Ms. Moriarty said. ''My husband, he's 62, he has never voted for a Democrat in his entire life. Until Tuesday.''
 Senator Barack Obama, the Democratic presidential nominee, has a litany of structural advantages to help him. With only days to go, the Obama campaign has more of just about everything: offices (100 to Mr. McCain's 80), advertising money (outspending the McCain campaign four to one in some weeks) and voter registrations (a 660,000 Democratic edge over Republicans, up from 280,000 in 2006). 
 None of this is destiny, of course, in such an unpredictable state. Every poll since Sept. 12 (50 of them) shows a gap of single digits between the candidates, which could be closed by any number of last-second surprises. 
 Mr. McCain, who spent time stationed here in the Navy, has recently revived what had been a flagging effort. On Oct. 23, he crossed Florida from Daytona Beach to Sarasota, hammering energetically on an economic theme, telling audiences that ''Obama's tax increases would put even more people out of work.'' 
 With unemployment in Florida at its highest rate in 14 years, the message will no doubt be heard. The state and national Republican Party have also amplified the argument with television advertisements and one particularly blunt mailer that said, ''Barack Obama's solution is to take more of your money!'' 
 But, according to analysts and voters, the shift toward economic issues amounts to Mr. McCain playing on the Democrats' turf, putting Florida once again in the crosshairs of both campaigns.
 ''We need to bring our best game these last couple days before the election,'' said George LeMieux, the former campaign manager for Gov. Charlie Crist, a Republican. He expressed hope that the Republican field operation would prevail.
 ''There are a lot of Republicans who have been through a lot of battles before,'' he said. ''They know the game.'' DAMIEN CAVE 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (68%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (63%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); CHARLIE CRIST (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (73%); DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (58%) FLORIDA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



111 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; THE ELECTION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: 2 House Races Could Widen Edge Held by Democrats

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON

 BODY:
VOTERS throughout New Jersey will cast ballots in local and county races on Tuesday, but the campaigns for two seats in the House of Representatives, both held by departing Republicans, have drawn national attention -- and money -- in the battle to shape the next Congress.
 Democrats hope that winning even one of those seats will cement New Jersey in the ranks of other reliably Democratic northeastern states.
 ''We have become a more Democratic state, at least in elections for president and the three statewide offices,'' said John Weingart, associate director of the Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers, referring to the governorship and New Jersey's two Senate seats. ''At the same time, we have a lot of people who vote Republican, and our House delegation is split, seven Democrats and six Republicans, and it has been that way for a decade.''
 There was a time when the state was more like its neighbor Pennsylvania, a classic industrial swing state that alternated its choices for president between the two parties largely in synch with the rest of the country. 
 But the rise of a new suburban professional class and a flood of immigrant voters has nudged New Jersey further in the Democrats' direction. After the state resisted even the Reagan landslides, it has been painted blue by both parties. Some forecasters briefly put the state in the tossup column after Senator John McCain's post-convention surge, but even Republicans seem to think the state is now so solidly for Senator Barack Obama that neither candidate has bothered to pay it much attention except as a source of campaign cash.
 The question that Tuesday's voting will settle is whether those once-safe Republican House seats will fall to the Democrats, giving the state a delegation lopsided in favor of the Democrats for the first time in a generation.
 There is one statewide race this year, in which Frank R. Lautenberg, a Democrat seeking re-election to the United States Senate, is running ahead of former Representative Richard A. Zimmer, his Republican challenger. Mr. Zimmer hopes that Mr. Lautenberg's age -- he is 84 -- and a history of New Jersey voters splitting their ballots, can help him overcome the tide of Democratic sentiment in other races. New Jerseyans split between parties in the major races in 1988, voting Republican at the top of the ballot for the first President Bush, but electing Mr. Lautenberg to his second Senate term.
 ''There is no question that Barack Obama has engendered a lot of enthusiasm,'' Mr. Zimmer said in an interview. ''But I think there are a number of people who will vote for him for president and vote for me for the Senate.'' Why? ''Americans generally don't like the presidency and both houses of Congress under the control of the same party.'' 
 Yet Mr. Lautenberg has raised about twice us much money as Mr. Zimmer, and he has the endorsements of environmental and union groups with the kind of numbers and organization that can swing elections in a small, urbanized state.
 The enthusiasm Senator Obama has generated may be reflected in the number of new voters registered since the June 3 primary: 175,000, with Democrats making up 55,000 against the Republicans' 13,500. Democrats now outnumber Republicans in the state by about 700,000 voters. (About 45 percent of the people on the voter rolls are not registered as members of either party.)
 Stephanie Salvatore, the elections superintendent for Gloucester County, personally registered four shoppers at the Heritage's Dairy Store in Mantua when they approached her on the Oct. 14 deadline. She said enthusiasm for the election was running higher than she had ever seen.
 ''People are calling, they're coming in,'' she said. ''They're talking about high taxes or the economy, or it's historical because there's a woman vice president or an African-American for president -- they all just really want to vote this year.''
 The two open Republican House seats are in the Seventh District, where Representative Mike Ferguson is retiring after four terms, and the Third, where Representative H. James Saxton is stepping down after 13 terms. Stuart Rothenberg, the Washington political analyst, puts both on his list of the ''Dangerous Dozen'' open House seats.
 On the map, the Seventh District wiggles over the horse country in Hunterdon County and the frothy Wall Street mansion-land of Somerset County and into western Union County. The district went for President Bush in the two past elections. 
 The Republican candidate is State Senator Leonard Lance of Flemington, 56, an urbane, soft-spoken moderate who lost a Senate leadership position for being insufficiently partisan, a quality that may help him on Tuesday, particularly among the growing number of Asian voters in the district, who have tended to favor centrist positions. 
 His opponent is Assemblywoman Linda Stender of Union County, who showed strength among Republicans by coming within two points of defeating Mr. Ferguson two years ago. Like other Democrats, Ms. Stender has sought to tie Mr. Lance to the Bush administration, and has been more dovish on the Iraq war. Both are abortion rights advocates and are moderate on other social issues. Polls show Mr. Lance with a narrow lead.
 The polls show a much closer race in the Third District, which stretches across Burlington County from the Philadelphia suburbs to shore communities of Ocean County. It favored Al Gore for president in 2000, but backed President Bush for re-election in 2004.
 The Republican is Chris Myers, 42, the mayor of Medford and an executive -- on leave -- from Lockheed Martin, a major employer in the district and a source of money and votes for him. A Navy veteran of the Persian Gulf war, he has stressed common Republican themes of tax cuts, national security and service to the nation. 
 His Democratic opponent is State Senator John H. Adler, 49, of Cherry Hill, a lawyer who has sought to tie Mr. Myers to President Bush and has emphasized his plans for energy independence, retiree benefits and, Obama-like, the promise of change in Washington. 
 Each of the Republican candidates has sought to blunt the Democrats' anti-Bush arguments by echoing Mr. Zimmer's campaign against the prospect of one-party control of the federal government. Cliff Zukin, a professor of public policy at Rutgers, said he doubted that either leader had enough name recognition in the state to make the charge effective.
 ''Democracy is a very blunt instrument,'' Dr. Zukin said, ''and any time you have a president's job approval rating the lowest it's been since 1952 and you're in recession, it's hard to find any argument that will work for a Republican right now.''
 There is one referendum question on the statewide ballot, which would require voter approval before independent state authorities could borrow money. Currently, voter approval is required only for bonding by the state government.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: STATEWIDE: Representative Richard A. Zimmer, left, a Republican, is challenging Senator Frank R. Lautenberg. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AUGUSTO F. MENEZES/HOME NEWS TRIBUNE VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)(NJ1)
OPEN SEATS: In two Congressional districts where Republicans are retiring, from left, State Senator John Adler, a Democrat, faces Mayor Chris Myers of Medford
 and State Senator Leonard Lance, a Republican, is opposed by Assemblywoman Linda Stender. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)(NJ6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); BALLOTS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (79%); POLITICS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%)

PERSON: FRANK LAUTENBERG (89%); JOHN ADLER (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); LEONARD LANCE (59%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NORTHEAST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



112 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 8066 words

HEADLINE: THE AFFLUENCER

BYLINE: By SUSAN DOMINUS. 
Susan Dominus, a longtime contributor to the magazine, writes the Big City column for The New York Times.

 BODY:
 Back in mid-July, on one of those blithely sunny, long-gone summer days, Lauren Zalaznick, an executive at NBC Universal, met with two of her subordinates for a status report on Bravo Media, the network she took over in 2004 and turned into one of cable's most remarkable success stories. Many of the development projects discussed that day in her office, at 30 Rockefeller Plaza, captured the glossy, upscale, insider sensibility that has come to characterize Bravo under Zalaznick's watch. She heard updates on an untitled project about polo players, a reality show about high-end detox centers and another about ''Filths'' -- an acronym for Fathers I'd Like to Have (or, as Zalaznick explained, ''Very wealthy dads'').
 The conversation eventually turned to ''Top Chef,'' a cooking competition that is one of Bravo's most popular shows. For its fifth season (which begins Nov. 12), the show would be set in New York City. One contestant being considered, it turned out, had a seafood allergy. ''That's funny,'' Zalaznick said, giving a purely professional assessment. ''Let him do a seafood challenge.'' 
 Andy Cohen, the head of original programming and development at Bravo, floated a proposal for ''Top Chef'' that would involve, early on in the new season, a surprise challenge and the swift elimination of a contestant. Zalaznick and company wouldn't allow me to give away what is known in the genre as ''the reveal'' -- the unexpected dramatic twist -- but suffice it to say, the challenge was an otherwise mundane cooking task that, when performed under pressure, would thoroughly unnerve the chefs. ''I really like it,'' Zalaznick said. For her, the idea neatly captured the ruthless way in which the big city can chew up and spit out even the best provincial talents: ''It's like, you've really arrived in New York -- it's where you fight for your terrible pot-washing job after you've been executive chef back in wherever, and then you get fired for washing your pot wrong.'' 
 ''You don't think it's a little gratuitous?'' asked Frances Berwick, the general manager for Bravo.
 ''Guess what?'' Zalaznick said. ''It's the toughest city in the country.'' She and Cohen tossed around a few ways they could ramp up the drama even more. Berwick laughed and shook her head. ''That's terrible.''
 Terrible if you're living it, great if you're watching it -- that is one of the basic formulas for reality TV, a genre that has been wildly popular for years, if never exactly hip. Zalaznick's innovation has been to take this form of mass entertainment and make it boutique and chic, aiming for a small but young and affluent audience, the kind that advertisers covet. 
 Since she arrived at Bravo four years ago, Zalaznick has been polishing the genre of reality TV to a high sheen, taking its contestants off primitive islands and placing them squarely in sophisticated corners of cities like New York and Los Angeles. Instead of eating insects, navigating obstacle courses or flaunting their physical charms to woo lonely rich guys, the contestants on Bravo compete, with just as much zeal, to show their good taste and talent in high-status fields like food, fashion and design.
 The formula may be lowbrow -- attractive people pitted against one another, ruthless eliminations -- but the content is, if not exactly highbrow, then certainly high-style. It's voyeurism for the voyeur with a good eye.
 Not all of Bravo's original programming revolves around competition, but the shows all start with reality, at least the reality of competitive, urban, coastal professionals -- the gymgoers, the restaurant patrons, the trendy shoppers, the interior decorators. An entire subset of Bravo programming has been devoted to the world of high-end hair salons: ''Blow Out'' followed the hairstylist Jonathan Antin as he strove to expand his merchandising empire; ''Shear Genius'' engages hairstylists in heated competition; ''Tabatha's Salon Takeover'' features tough-love makeovers for mismanaged businesses.
 Long known as the network that brought you ''Queer Eye for the Straight Guy,'' Bravo is probably best known these days for ''Project Runway,'' the popular fashion-design competition. The show's producer, the Weinstein Company, is trying to move it to the Lifetime network, but NBC recently won a preliminary injunction barring Lifetime from marketing, promoting or running the show. Regardless of the show's future, Zalaznick has been building a repertory of programming to satisfy her viewers' fashion lust. ''The Rachel Zoe Project'' tags along with the celebrity stylist Rachel Zoe as she manages her team or shops for the right belt to capture her slouchy, carefully haphazard aesthetic. And madcap shopping sprees are a recurring feature on Bravo's ''Real Housewives'' series -- which chronicles the competing, parenting, consorting and, most of all, clothes-consuming of very wealthy women in Atlanta, New York City and Orange County.
 Bravo's shows have a knack for flattering the viewers' sense of their own good taste, whether the viewers are judging fashion designs on the runway or scrutinizing the women on the ''Housewives'' series for fashion faux pas (entire plot lines turn on the sins of overdressing). To watch Bravo is to feel like an insider -- to be taken inside a gated community or the back office of the exclusive gym (as in ''Work Out,'' a documentary-style soap about the athlete and entrepreneur Jackie Warner). To watch Bravo is also to be let in on the joke: ''Lauren has really cultivated that special brand of reality television that is winking at you, that's letting you feel good about watching a guilty pleasure,'' says Randy Barbato, an executive producer of ''Million Dollar Listing,'' a Bravo reality show that follows young brokers in Los Angeles as they try to sell expensive homes.
 A certain kind of advertiser, naturally, likes shows about high-end taste and consumption. Zalaznick's real feat has been making sure that high-end viewers like the shows, too. Among women ages 18 to 49, Bravo is the fastest growing of the top 20 entertainment cable networks, and its viewers are the most educated and upscale (about a quarter of them make more than $100,000 a year), a demographic that advertisers are desperate to try to reach. Berwick, the general manager, came up with a catchy name for this premium demographic: the affluencers. The network even created for advertisers a one-off magazine called Bravo Affluencer, which depicted on its cover two quintessential affluent influencers: an attractive man and woman, both in their late 20s, shopping bags and P.D.A.'s in hand, passports visible in pockets, dressed casually but stylishly, looking savvy, plugged in, on top of it. The two could easily be the sitcom characters Will and Grace; in fact, Bravo executives actually use the phrase ''Will and Grace'' to describe a subset of their viewers: urban gay men and single female professionals, two categories of viewers particularly drawn to shows like ''Project Runway'' and ''Top Chef.'' 
 Without working too hard, you can also see the young woman on the magazine cover as a different Bravo audience archetype: a ''P.T.A. trendsetter,'' the young mom who lives in a suburb like Winnetka, Ill., but who still wants to eat at the new hot restaurant in the city and shows up at preschool pickup with a Marc Jacobs bag. The young man could be what Bravo calls a Metrocompetitor -- a tech-friendly affluent young male, a viewer drawn to Bravo's reality shows like ''Million Dollar Listing'' and ''Flipping Out,'' about an obsessive-compulsive high-end house flipper and renovator.
 However you break it down, Bravo's is a savvy audience, and the network recognizes this. To borrow a phrase that Michael Hirschorn, a former head of programming at VH1, once used to describe his own network, Zalaznick makes television for people who are ''hip to television.'' Her viewers can enjoy all the vapid consumerism on, say, ''The Real Housewives of Orange County,'' without imagining that they're falling sway to the very forces that make that show catnip for advertisers. So far, Zalaznick has been able to serve, ingeniously, these two masters at once.
 NBC Universal, Bravo's parent company, is apparently eager to see what else Zalaznick can pull off. She's now in charge of integrating sales across all the company's women-oriented properties. Not long after NBC acquired Oxygen, the struggling women-oriented cable network, it turned over the channel as well as the languishing Web site iVillage to her. At 45, Lauren Zalaznick may not yet be the most powerful woman in television, but she is certainly one of the most influential.
 When Andy Cohen swung by Zalaznick's office one morning this summer to ask his boss a quick question, he got pulled into a conversation about a mildly painful exchange he had with her a few weeks earlier, a dialogue that suggested just how seriously Zalaznick takes the business of being hip.
 ''It was horrible,'' Cohen remembered aloud. The confrontation happened at the downtown Manhattan restaurant Pastis, at a breakfast meeting during which Cohen made a passing reference to an exercise mixtape that he made for himself. He had called it ''Fit-n-40.'' (''I was being ironic!'' Cohen said in her office, defending himself. ''It was all new Mariah, new Madonna.'')
 As Cohen and Zalaznick ate their breakfast, discussing various other work projects, Zalaznick's mind was still on the questionable-sounding mixtape. And there were, to Zalaznick's mind, a few other false notes that Cohen struck over the course of the conversation. Suddenly, Zalaznick let him have it. ''She says: 'Just so you know, you have become that person who thinks he knows what is going on in the universe, but you really don't. You're really out of it. You don't have the same reference points as anyone,' '' Cohen recalled.
 This was a style intervention? ''I don't intervene,'' Zalaznick explained. ''It was a refocusing.'' 
 Confronting her now in her office, Cohen wanted his boss to know that he'd done a self-evaluation in the weeks since her critique. He'd decided that she had been wrong. ''I don't find myself to be out of it,'' he said. ''I'm all good with myself.'' 
 ''Big time!'' Zalaznick said, amused. ''And you're ultrafit.''
 If Zalaznick came down hard on Cohen, it's because she relies heavily on employees like him -- trendy, about town -- to help her figure out the precise moment when, say, Bushwick, not Williamsburg, becomes the place where hipsters in Brooklyn live; when people under 30 start watching her shows more on Web cast than on television; when a word like ''fierce'' is so tired it's officially over and when it has been safely resurrected as mainstream camp. By Zalaznick's logic, it's the fabulous 40-year-olds who run the risk of falling behind, even more than a working mother of three like herself. ''Us boring people with our 6:30 dinner reservation -- we know how unhip we are,'' she said to Cohen. ''We know we've gotta work extra hard.''
 In recent years, Zalaznick has distinguished herself in the industry not only as a hard worker but also as a fresh thinker. Her role in the creation myth of Bravo by now passes as legend in the relatively young cable industry. It goes like this:
 In the beginning, there was ''Queer Eye for the Straight Guy.'' The show, which was already in its heyday when Zalaznick took over at Bravo, was a makeover program in which five gay men showed straight men how they, too, could groom and consume in good taste. Its blockbuster success transformed Bravo, formerly a sleepy, arty network best known for ''Inside the Artist's Studio'' and a show about Cirque du Soleil. 
 Just as Lifetime had become the weepy-movie network, Bravo could have become, in the hands of another executive, the ''Queer Eye'' network, creating spinoff after spinoff until the channel collapsed under the weight of all that derivative material. Zalaznick's insight was to create or champion programming that took the thematic components of ''Queer Eye'' -- fashion, design, pop culture, food and beauty -- and made something new. She did it with ''Project Runway,'' and again with ''Top Chef'' and ''Top Design,'' to name just a few shows. ''She's seen as the true innovator and best practitioner in this one form of television building,'' says Evan Shapiro, president of IFC TV and the Sundance channel. ''She was able to take a hit and use it as a departure point to create extensions and brands, rather than having the network rise and fall based on the lifespan of that one show. It's one of the most influential theories in television, especially reality television, in the last five years.''
 Bravo's docudramas and competition shows, as different as the two genres are, bridge, as ''Queer Eye'' did, the gay-straight divide. A show like ''Project Runway,'' cast heavily with gays and minorities, plays so earnest it's downright straight -- the viewer roots weepily for the talented son of a hardscrabble truck driver, or the striving daughter of a hardworking Korean immigrant. And shows with straight white characters like ''The Real Housewives of Orange County'' play as pure camp, with all that excessive decor and high hair, and all those drag-queen bust lines. Somehow, the shows have a core commonality, not least in the uniformly high production values and pitch-perfect casting. ''The shows all go through some weird Bravo-ization,'' says Randy Barbato, the producer. 
 Almost all the shows feature egocentrics who are self-aware enough to realize that they are egocentric, and who have the redeeming feature of generally being very good at what they do. They may be occasionally appalling, but they're usually presented in such a way that some small part of each Bravo viewer -- likely competitive and driven herself -- can relate, at least a little. 
 Certainly Zalaznick herself can relate. ''Lauren's quirky and creative, but she wants to play within the corporate environment of NBC Universal, of G.E.,'' says Jeff Zucker, president and C.E.O. of NBC Universal, which is owned by General Electric. ''She'll roll her eyes and complain about the bureaucracy and wonder why she has to make another command performance -- and by the way, she's first in line to make the command performance. And she's always great about it. She loves to be on that stage -- she loves center stage.''
 Most television producers spend their days trying to figure out what other kinds of people want -- housewives in the Midwest, 17-year-old boys in the suburbs. With Bravo, Zalaznick has created for herself the luxury of making television for an audience, in effect, of her co-workers, her dinner-party guests, her successful, liberal neighbors in Manhattan's West Village. ''What do all the shows have in common?'' asks Fenton Bailey, a producer and longtime friend of Zalaznick's. ''Lauren.'' 
 A few years ago, during the shooting of the first season of ''Project Runway,'' Tim Gunn, a regular on the show, attended a judging session for one of the design competitions. The designers were defending their work in front of the judges, droning on as sometimes happens in real, unedited life, when a woman who'd been standing in the auditorium, along with Gunn, approached him. He'd already noticed her, a long line of a woman in a crisp white shirt and sleek khaki pants, and decided she must be some sort of producer. ''She sidestepped right next to my shoulder and turned her head to me and asked with a whisper, 'Who's going to watch this?' '' Gunn remembers. ''And I looked at her and said, 'You're confirming my worst nightmare about this show.' ''
 Gunn could be forgiven for not realizing that he was dismissing his own show to the very person who would determine its future. Whatever a network executive is supposed to look like, Zalaznick, her colleagues invariably say, doesn't look like it.
 Zalaznick's hair is gray and occasionally untamed. She paints her toenails canary yellow. She recently showed up at the pool party of one of her producers wearing sheer Pucci pants. Zalaznick also doesn't sound like most network executives, who generally don't introduce themselves to strangers by announcing just what they think, good or bad, about a project in production. ''Most people who are in a position like that will relentlessly hype what they do and tell you how amazing everything is,'' Hirschorn, the former VH1 executive, told me. ''With Lauren, there's kind of a refreshing jolt of self-criticism.'' He paused to try to figure out what it was about her that made her unusual as executives go. ''You sort of get the sense,'' he went on, ''that she's part of the game but not fully submerged in it.''
 Unlike most NBC executives, Zalaznick didn't work her way up through the ranks. She didn't go to business school; as an undergraduate at Brown, she majored in semiotics, a theoretically supercharged approach to cultural criticism. After graduating from college, she worked for a few years doing production work on big-budget films, but by her mid-20s, she'd thrown herself into the independent-film world, producing, along with Christine Vachon of Killer Films, small, arty critical darlings like ''Swoon,'' a black-and-white film based on the murderous lovers Leopold and Loeb, and ''Kids,'' the gritty, disturbing film, written by Harmony Korine, about a set of debauched New York City teenagers.
 The leap from producing ''Kids'' to producing ''Tabatha's Salon Takeover'' may look, to some, more like a fall. To Zalaznick, though, independent film and cable television present essentially the same challenges and require the same sort of executive resourcefulness. ''I've got no budget, no stars -- but I've got to win,'' she told me. But Zalaznick also wants to make the case that Bravo's docudramas are on the same end of the artistic continuum as ''Kids.'' ''They're right there,'' she said, putting her hands close together. She offered a comparison between the delinquent protagonist of ''Kids'' and a character on ''Real Housewives'': ''Here's this kid, you have no idea what's going on with him, and this woman, you have no idea what's going on with her and her friends and what they all do, all day every day, and you don't know ... and now you do. And they're both kind of disturbing, and they're both kind of amusing, and they're always really interesting.''
 Zalaznick still sounds more like a semiotics major than like the typical corporate cheerleader. To her, what she's producing isn't rampant consumerism on display to be emulated or mocked, or both -- it's a form of social anthropology, a cultural text as worthy of analysis as any other, an art form suitable for her intellect. She invests even the small details of pop culture with great significance: correctly guess the year that a minor film -- say, ''Private Benjamin'' -- was made (1980), and Zalaznick will grant a cool, appraising ''Good for you.'' She doesn't say it lightly; she says it as if maybe she has underestimated you, as if there's some useful cultural attunement going on in your brain after all. What others might consider a useless piece of trivia, Zalaznick sees as a moment of our history: that which represents now, yesterday or tomorrow.
 If Zalaznick's name sounds familiar, it may be because it still appears in the production credits on countless reruns on VH1, where she entered corporate America after spending all those years working in independent film.
 On Feb. 26, 1996, a young producer named Tad Low sent his agent a fax updating her about a meeting he'd just had with Zalaznick, who'd recently been bumped up to vice president of original programming and development at VH1. ''She's a fresh breath of competency in an otherwise-clueless network,'' Low wrote.
 Zalaznick was hired at VH1 in 1994, as vice president of on-air promotion, to help the channel define its image. (Throughout Zalaznick's indie-film years, she and Phelim Dolan, her husband and business partner, made commercials and promos for MTV and other networks.) In the halls of Viacom, Zalaznick was an improbable figure. Her short hair, which was prematurely gray, ''looked like it had been cut by a Cuisinart,'' Low recalls. ''She didn't care, and that was the point.''
 At the time, Low was fighting for a concept he and his partner, Woody Thompson, had hit on: a show that would run music videos while peppering them with little talk-bubbles of commentary, revealing insider tidbits about the musicians or the making of the video: that Jewel lived in her car for two years; that the Jackson family used a wax dummy of Michael Jackson from Madame Tussaud's for the 1984 video ''Torture'' because he never showed up for the shoot. Often the tidbits were slightly mocking, giving the viewer a kind of prepackaged critical distance from the videos. With backing from select VH1 executives, chief among them Zalaznick, the show, ''Pop-Up Video,'' became both a critical and commercial success, helping define a clear identity for the struggling channel: hip, knowing and self-referential.
 Zalaznick, a bit of an intellect with a low threshold of patience for the entertainment world's pretensions, was the perfect champion for the project. Low says that she often knew how to navigate the system when lawyers wanted to keep the tidbits light and controversy-free. ''She saw the necessity to keep the facts truthful, regardless of whether they ruffled feathers,'' Low says. ''She knew if we were going to pull punches, it wasn't going to work.''
 At the time, some critics argued that the show's success signaled the advent of a new level of multitasking entertainment for the MTV generation. But in retrospect, the show's popularity spoke to an even more significant shift in cultural consumption: a desire for entertainment that reflected everyone's assumed collective boredom with the artifice and conventions of entertainment. Like a softer version of its MTV cousin ''Beavis and Butt-head,'' ''Pop-Up Video'' was television that let the viewer enjoy the medium while also enabling him to feel a little bit superior to it. 
 Zalaznick still takes great pleasure in various forms of self-referential television. She points, for example, to a favorite Bravo promotional segment that ran in the middle of a series of commercials during Bravo's ''A-List Awards Show,'' hosted by Kathy Griffin, which was shown last spring. The segment appeared to be a cooking contest taking place in the middle of the awards ceremony; in actuality it was a so-called pod-buster, an ad designed to thwart DVR users from skipping over it. When one of the chefs in the ''contest'' asks Kathy when the commercial break starts, she tells him, ''You're in commercial.'' 
 ''That's amazing,'' Zalaznick says. ''That's a wink to the audience that says, hey, you're watching commercials, and we know that you know that we know you're watching commercials ... here are some more commercials. And when you get back, we're going to be doing the same thing, as if we were actually here right now, live at the Hammerstein Ballroom, when you know that we know that you know, because you have looked at red-carpet photos for two weeks, that we're not.''
 Riding the success of ''Pop-Up Video'' and of other shows that followed -- ''The RuPaul Show,'' ''The VH1 Fashion Awards'' -- Zalaznick became a powerful player at the network. ''People were terrified of her,'' says Fenton Bailey, who worked with Zalaznick at VH1. ''She doesn't mince words, and she says exactly what she knows, and she knows everything. And I think people find that intimidating.''+
 In 2000, when Zalaznick was still working at VH1, she and Bailey and Randy Barbato had a public contretemps that many thought would sever their collaboration. Barbato accidentally sent Zalaznick an e-mail message that he intended for Bailey. In the e-mail, he complained that Zalaznick was trying to get rid of their writers' credits and suggested she was controlling and overcritical of him. Most infamous, he referred to her using a crude epithet, probably the crudest one reserved for women.
 Zalaznick's response was telling. She neither laughed it off nor fired anyone. Instead, a few weeks later, she wrote an essay about the experience and published it on a literary Web site called Open Letters. The essay is a thoughtful, brutally honest meditation on the expectations of a woman in power. ''I'm probably regarded as being tough, fairly hardhearted, outspoken,'' she wrote. ''I am occasionally criticized for digging in and being less accommodating to other people's ideas and criticisms than I 'should be.' But this is a weird sort of (double) standard to be held to, especially in a 'creative' job where passions are usually what get ideas heard.'' 
 She didn't soften any of the rough edges of the experience. She didn't even try to soften her own edges. Explaining her reasoning about whether to sever the relationship, she wrote, ''In the end in this business, it's all a matter of who needs who the most.'' You can only give someone the kiss-off for good, she went on, ''if you really, truly, never need that person again, and you can never really be certain of that. One Emmy Award and we'd be begging to be back in business with them.'' 
 In retrospect, Zalaznick's open letter resembles nothing so much as the kind of spectacle you see daily on a Bravo show like ''Work Out'': a woman in power articulating her own calculations, her means of obtaining power and holding on. In analyzing the experience and exposing it to the world, Zalaznick seemed to find a way to neutralize it, somehow. No longer just a personal hurt, it became an artifact of a cultural moment, disseminated via a burgeoning medium, for group analysis. She has continued working with Bailey and Barbato, and today counts them among her close friends. After the first round of apologies, years went by before they ever discussed the episode again.
 When she's visiting Los Angeles, Lauren Zalaznick prefers to stay at the Sunset Tower Hotel, a small boutique hotel that, like Bravo itself, is a little off the beaten path and extremely high-style. In late July, Zalaznick was in town for a conference where the various networks were presenting their new lineups to the press. Whenever she can, she takes her family with her when she travels, and the five of them -- Zalaznick; her husband; her son, Dale, 6; and her daughters, Lucy, 11, and Ada, 13 -- sat at their usual table out of the sun on the deck by the pool overlooking the Hollywood Hills.
 Dale was soon crawling on the floor among some very intriguing patio furniture. ''Excuse me, sir,'' Zalaznick said. Dale remained in a crouched position. ''Sir,'' Zalaznick repeated. ''Would you care to join us, sir?'' Ada, in a role that seems familiar to her, hopped up to persuade Dale to join the table, which he did in good humor, and the meal resumed. The girls, tall and funny like Zalaznick, amused each other discreetly throughout the meal before going off to swim. Dale wandered off and came back occasionally to climb onto his father's lap.
 As the interview stretched on, not one of the children interrupted Zalaznick, and she interrupted herself only to insist that Dale not eat artificial sweetener directly from the packet. ''I will cause strawberries to be brought to you,'' she said. Zalaznick talks to her children the way she talks to everyone else, with great seriousness that's used for comic effect as often as it is used to convey genuine gravity. Her children seemed to have a firm grip on when their mother was in official, not-to-be-disturbed work mode. 
 ''I'm extremely lucky,'' Zalaznick said, ''because my family cuts me a tremendous amount of slack. I'm a lot of person, every day, all day.'' That means, diva-style, she invariably demands they pick up and move to a better hotel room. It means she once insisted that they all pose for a family photograph every single day for 365 days. It means that she briefly had to stop everything on Sunday, every week for a year, in order to enter into a database some details about that day's obituaries in The New York Times. (She wanted to make a point about the gender discrepancy and ultimately published an article about it in Fast Company magazine.) 
 Her intensity also means that like most powerful people, she rubs some people the wrong way, at least at the outset. The first year or two for Zalaznick at Bravo -- at NBC Universal -- did not foreshadow the success that she has since had. Series after series that she experimented with came and went -- ''Sports Kids Moms and Dads,'' ''Showdogs' Moms and Dads,'' to name just two -- and Zalaznick experienced a sense of fish-out-of-water alienation. ''The first couple of years at NBC, people didn't get her,'' says Jeff Gaspin, who heads up NBC's cable entertainment operations and hired her to run Bravo. ''There were definitely some top executives who sort of felt, 'I'll take your word for it,' '' about his faith in his hire, he remembers. 
 After leaving VH1 but before arriving at NBC and Bravo, Zalaznick ran Trio, a small cable channel, which she built into a successful brand like Bravo, only less commercial -- it's best known for the show ''Brilliant but Canceled,'' about worthy TV shows that were canceled early on. Once Zalaznick arrived at NBC, bringing a cable sensibility to NBC required a series of small, daily fights, right down to getting the NBC peacock off her Bravo stationery. Zalaznick also asked for her own research department, her own sales teams. ''I still have conversations with Lauren about picking and choosing your own battles,'' says Gaspin, who was also Zalaznick's boss at VH1. ''You can't win every one.'' 
 At the outset, in the early days of Bravo, ''Project Runway'' was well on its way to the brilliant-but-canceled files, but Zalaznick took an old trick from her VH1 days and started running the show around the clock during the week between Christmas and New Year's, when people would most likely be flipping channels with time on their hands. It worked; people started watching.
 Even though the show was already in development when Zalaznick arrived at Bravo, it seems fitting that it would prove Zalaznick's breakout success: it stars, after all, competitive people with strong personalities trying to make something creative, often on a tight budget, while negotiating how much to self-promote and how much to collaborate. In Season 4 of ''Project Runway,'' a designer named Victorya was put in an uncomfortable position, forced to give some harsh critiques to a designer with whom she had been asked to team up. Victorya apologized to the other designer but said that she couldn't help it because she's a passionate person who has to say what she thinks.
 Did Zalaznick feel, while watching that episode, a flash of sympathy for Victorya? Does she, in general, see herself as a certain reality-television type? 
 ''I would answer that more as a purveyor of reality TV,'' Zalaznick told me. ''We're presenting over and over again the tightrope that the contestants face when they get sent home because their dish stunk on 'Top Chef' because the boss of that three-person challenge said, 'I want you to do it that way,' and you see them muttering, and the judge says, 'You've got a boss, but you've got to show us who you are, and you're going home.' And then you have the other moment when she gets sent home because she dug in her heels and didn't work well with a team. That's not me, really, but that's their life, and that's most life. And that's why reality shows are all about the very daily choices that we all have to make to get on in life.'' 
 Suddenly, Zalaznick no longer sounded like the dispassionate executive observing the form of a show -- she sounded like someone who could very well be a contestant on it. ''And you look around,'' she went on, quietly but intently. ''And you're a part of a corporation, and you're part of a team, and your boss says use an NBC salesperson, and no, don't have a head of research, and 'She's a fighter,' and 'She doesn't know when to give up.' '' The pool overlooking the Hollywood Hills, the kids playing in it -- it all suddenly looked very far away; Zalaznick was in virtual close-up. ''Well, when should I have given up?'' she asked. ''When I didn't hit my number? When I didn't grow the channel 149 percent in three years? When should I have given up?''
 Earlier that month, Zalaznick was overseeing a meeting with her top management at Oxygen when someone opened the door of the conference room to announce good news. A few months earlier, when Zalaznick took over Oxygen, she and the network's new general manager, Jason Klarman, decided to put their money on a show called ''Tori and Dean: Home Sweet Hollywood,'' and the show, for the first time, had exceeded a million viewers that Tuesday night. Everyone broke out into a brief round of enthusiastic applause. 
 Under the watch of Zalaznick and the network's management team, Oxygen expanded the show, about the married life of the actress and heiress Tori Spelling and her husband, Dean McDermott, from a half-hour to an hour, turned the Oxygen Web site into a glitzy, interactive ''Tori and Dean'' photo album and started promoting the show more aggressively on the network. It helped that Tori Spelling gave birth -- by scheduled C-section -- the week that press packets went out about the show's new season. ''That is a photogenic baby,'' Zalaznick remarked at one point. ''That is a ridiculous baby that knows how to look directly into the camera.'' 
 After the meeting broke, Zalaznick wandered out into the hallway, where a circle of Oxygen staff members were enthusiastically celebrating their recent success. Klarman was doing a little cheer, the kind of silliness that goes far to endear new management to a nervous staff. 
 Zalaznick watched from a short distance with what looked like detached amusement. When Zalaznick and Klarman first started working with Oxygen earlier this year, she said, they surveyed the team about its corporate culture. One thing the struggling network's staff members said they were good at, Zalaznick said, was ''celebrating their wins.'' She did a quick triple take, a common comic trick of hers. It's a wide-eyed, subtle bit of slapstick that could mean a few things -- Wow, that's great, or How dumb is that. ''Good,'' she said, as if addressing the Oxygen staff. ''So win.'' 
 Zalaznick and Klarman, who ran marketing and digital at Bravo, now face the task of making their gift for niche somehow more mass, proving that they can take the idea of a ''bespoke'' cable channel wider and work, once again, the same marketable magic they brought to Bravo.
 To come up with the new slogan for Oxygen, Klarman and Zalaznick tried to find the common threads in what was working on the network. They looked at what the more successful shows -- ''Tori and Dean'' and ''The Bad Girls Club,'' a reality show about a bunch of overopinionated, hard-drinking and -fighting women living together -- had in common, just as they tried to pin down what it was that made ''Queer Eye'' so successful at Bravo. ''I thought it was a network for women who do whatever they want and don't give a thought to what other people think,'' Klarman told me, although he threw in some profanities to emphasize just how much they did whatever they want and how little they cared about what other people think.
 A branding expert they hired came up with a phrase that Klarman thought was close: ''Breathe Out Loud.'' It wasn't quite right -- a little too New Age, a little too ''Calgon, Take Me Away.'' He preferred another alternative suggested by a different branding company: ''Mix It Up.'' Zalaznick instead chose a version of the original line that Klarman had tweaked to perfection: ''Live Out Loud.'' It's a tag line with legs and has become a catch phrase among Zalaznick's crew. The rap star Coolio, who is starring in a new show on Oxygen, says something humiliating about his daughters to the press? He's living out loud. The phrase does just what Zalaznick says she hopes her programming achieves: it takes behavior that some might dismiss as base and gives it value, even virtue.
 In the age of the DVR, television executives are searching for new ways to bolster their bottom lines. That's why Zalaznick changed Bravo's name to Bravo Media and started selling branded cookbooks and guides to style. It's why reruns of the ''Real Housewives'' series feature a small graphic at the bottom of the screen that asks viewers if they like the outfit they're looking at and that directs them to Bravotv.com, where they can click on a link to buy something just like it. (Online, those show segments are called shopisodes.) That's why contestants on ''Project Runway'' are running rampant through a Hershey's store looking for design inspiration or listening earnestly to a design executive at Levi's tell them their challenge is to capture ''the spirit of originality and creativity'' of Levi's jeans. 
 Zalaznick, like NBC itself, has always been bullish on product integration -- at least that's something she can creatively control. (Network executives are as bored by most TV commercials as everyone else.) On ''Project Runway,'' Tim Gunn invokes the Bluefly Accessories Wall with a reverence and regularity that's more ritual than rote. There's nothing coy about the sponsorship, which announces itself so obviously it's almost retro chic. 
 But every once in a while, the network's integration of sponsorship misses the right balance of irreverence and bravado. On Bravo's ''A-List Awards,'' which ran last June, the Chrysler Award for design innovation went to Wii Fit, a game produced by Nintendo. Here was an award named for a major sponsor, Chrysler, going to a heavy-hitting advertiser. Even having Simon Doonan, the beloved design pundit and the creative director of Barneys, introduce the award (with a sincere paean to Chrysler's history of design innovation) couldn't sprinkle enough sparkly dust on the moment to cover up the layers of grease.
 Discussing the subject over lunch early this summer, Zalaznick sounded as if she found the whole subject of brand integration, to borrow a word her underlings dread seeing in her e-mail feedback, ''bo-ring.'' ''I have very high regard for personal responsibility,'' Zalaznick told me. ''I think that you have a high responsibility to watch Warner Brothers cartoons and somehow impart knowledge to yourself or your child that hitting someone over the head with a frying pan isn't that funny, and your head won't be shaped like a frying pan until you shake it out and a sound effect pops in.'' 
 Zalaznick's untroubled embrace of product placement seems a little hard to reconcile with her overall aversion to all things phony. This is a woman who considers dyeing your hair a sign of inauthenticity, who's known, and loved, and a little bit feared, for her willingness to say what she thinks. Here's a woman whose creative strength lies in trying to capture -- whether it's in ''Kids'' or in ''The Real Housewives of Orange County'' -- some essence of the mundane, though real, details of people's lives. 
 But the leap from the programming she has developed to product placement isn't that far, considering that her shows, like so many others, often expose the realities of television-making itself. There's a dotted line connecting ''Pop-Up Video'' and reality TV at its most clever -- for example, Bravo's ''Kathy Griffin: My Life on the D List,'' which takes viewers on her auditions to be a spokeswoman for QVC or deconstructs, in great detail, the process by which celebrities get their pictures into tabloids. If 66 percent of consumers surveyed by Entertainment Weekly say they don't mind product integration, that's because they've been placed squarely inside the industry process. Insult our intelligence with product placement? Impossible, since we know that they know that we know exactly how this business works.
 For the past five years or so, marketers have been throwing around the term ''masstige'' to describe a new interest in the middle and upper-middle classes in achieving luxury items -- maybe they can't afford the BMW, but they can swing the $400 Coach bag and certainly the $5 Starbucks latte, as opposed to the cup of coffee from the corner deli. The rise of masstige has surely been fed by a sense of reciprocity that has characterized celebrity coverage: ''Just like us!'' promises Us Weekly. If Martha Stewart can shop at Costco, the P.T.A. Trendsetter can shop at Louis Vuitton. 
 Masstige is all over Bravo, a premium purveyor of luxury goods with a viewership that's affluent but not exactly rolling in money. Television has always served primarily to sell stuff (after or before all those scenes at E.R.'s and precincts and coffee shops). Zalaznick's innovation was to make the actual narrative itself about people selling stuff, and buying it too, whether it's clothing, as on ''Real Housewives,'' or real estate, on shows like ''Flipping Out.''
 What has made the programming watchable, all along, is the same thing that might keep it relevant as the economy changes, which is a certain winking skepticism about buying and selling. It's what's ingenious, or insidious, depending on the perspective, about the complexity of the Bravo programming. Even as the programs allow the viewer a way out -- we all know all this spending is over the top -- they still seem to work magic for advertisers. Consider the hairstylist Jonathan Antin on the defunct show ''Blow Out'' being filmed making a commercial for his new hair-care line. The plot is that he's a diva. The dialogue is Jonathan Antin saying over and over, as he films different takes for his pitch, some variation of the following: ''Shampoo is an incredibly important first step for your day.'' He is laughable, this statement is laughable. And yet, if you sell shampoo, could you ask for a better advertising environment? 
 Zalaznick says she doesn't like to describe her shows as ''ironic'' -- she prefers ''layered.'' ''You want to be a little bit like one of them?'' she says of the shows. ''Here's a guidebook. You want to laugh at them? Go ahead. My sister was a devotee of 'Real Housewives' early on -- 'Oh, my God, I can't believe what a good mother I am.' '' 
 ''The Rachel Zoe Project,'' ''Flipping Out,'' ''Real Housewives'' -- they're all entertaining personality portraits but also morality plays about consumerism that still drive people to go and buy things. ''Darn tooting!'' Zalaznick says, sounding more Tina Fey than Sarah Palin. ''We know for a fact Bravo is the most engaged network -- the most people who see a commercial on Bravo, of any other network, remember that ad and think more highly of a product! So think about that statistic! That statistic is true!'' Sixty-three percent of Bravo's viewers recall the name of the brands they've seen advertised on Bravo, and 26 percent say that after seeing a product placement on Bravo, they have an improved opinion of the product. 
 ''That's nuts, right?'' Zalaznick says. ''But what's my job? My job is to entertain people and deliver a bottom line at a company. Now I've done both, and I can punch the clock, punch out and go home. I'm done. That was my shift.'' 
 Like everyone else, Zalaznick has been trying to figure out what the new economic reality means for what she sells, and to whom she's selling it. ''For two years, we've been thinking to ourselves and saying out loud in strategy meetings and in elevator rides, hey, ours is the most affluent, most educated cable entertainment audience ... what happens if they're less affluent? What do we do?'' Zalaznick said from her office late last month. If she had stepped outside for lunch, she would have seen, within a few feet of her office, the news running across the NBC news ticker an hour or so later: ''Germany approved a $650 billion package for country's financial markets ... part of a coordinated European bailout effort amid volatile markets. Chrysler's chief executive is refusing to comment on reports of accelerating merger talks between Chrysler and General Motors. ''
 One answer, said Zalaznick, might be a nightly show in which a host would interview characters from the various other shows, about the relation between events on their shows and current events. ''We know we just showed you an episode about someone buying $1,500 shoes,'' she said. ''Here's what's important about that, or here's what's funny about that, here's this person sitting on my couch to talk about that, given what's going on in the world. It's providing a little context, less inference -- it's not a time for subtlety.'' 
 But don't expect a programming revolution on the network, which isn't quite ready to give up its proven escapist formula. ''The answer,'' Zalaznick said, ''is that our shows were never about money.'' The money is the backdrop, she said. ''They're about extreme personalities. Our stories are about the meanings of these things, and their stories and their struggles of how you get it. There's a lot going on in the layers of their lives -- someone dies, someone gets divorced, their kids are leaving the house.'' Even the most jaded viewer may genuinely feel affection and concern for some of the stock characters on Bravo's so-called docusoaps, the wise-beyond-their-years teenage daughters and sons of the characters, the young Greek chorus providing the voice of reason through the programming.
 Zalaznick also expects that the financial crisis will simply play out in the narratives, as it already has (on ''Million-Dollar Listing,'' which was filmed two years ago, the deals were closing so slowly they had to extend the production cycle far beyond what they'd imagined). Bravo's now starting a new show called ''Miami Social,'' about the lives of a circle of glamorous 20-something friends, one of whom is in advertising, one of whom is a club promoter. ''And my guess is that we're about to start shooting, and she will have ad-sales problems, and he will have no one in his clubs. And it's about their friendship, and you see all these linkages kind of coming together and going apart.''
 Is she worried no one wants to watch a show about an empty club? ''Why are you watching Zoila clean Jeff Lewis's house?'' Zalaznick asked, referring to a long-suffering maid on the show ''Flipping Out.'' ''I don't know!'' All she knows is that they do. 
 In a tight financial environment, television will most likely continue on in the direction it's going, only more so: more product placement, more overt sponsorship, more television about the making of commercials for products that can be bought on the network's Web sites. (On MTV in late October, there was Paris Hilton on ''My New BFF'' directing a bevy of competitors to make the best commercial for one of her products -- ''Sex always sells!'') 
 The wealthy characters on the shows will probably be a little less wealthy, but they won't be moving in with their parents, and they might not even curb their spending. Bailey said he tried to pitch a show to another network about people getting their debt under control and learning to live within their means, and was told no one would watch it. Now he and Barbato are talking to Bravo about a new show, one that would be set in Dubai, ''the new frontier, the new location of the American dream, where there's no income tax, people go to reinvent themselves.''
 Zalaznick says she's also not so sure that the world that she and her colleagues portray, satirize, document and deconstruct is changing so fast. She promised to forward to me an e-mail invitation for an incredibly lavish party that someone passed on to her, for her amusement, just a few days after the new bailout plan was announced. ''I mean, there was time to cancel, right?'' she said. ''They could have canceled.''
 She forwarded the invitation, which was for a bat mitzvah that included, for the bat mitzvah girl's bevy of friends and family, a luncheon at Le Bernardin and then, a few days later, a party at the Chanel store in SoHo, which the family had closed down for their festivities. 
 Whatever else she made of such excess, Zalaznick recognized that it was good for business. Her parting words: ''Rock on, Real Housewives of N.Y.C.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 16, 2008

 CORRECTION:
 The cover article this weekend about Lauren Zalaznick, a television executive, misstates part of the address of her Manhattan office. It is 30 Rockefeller Plaza, not Center.
2nd correction 
 The cover article this weekend about Lauren Zalaznick, a television executive, misstates part of the address of her Manhattan office. It is 30 Rockefeller Plaza, not Center.
The cover article on Nov. 2, about Lauren Zalaznick, head of the Bravo TV network, misstated a word in the title of one its programs. It is ''Inside the Actors Studio,'' not Artist's Studio.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Form her office to your (probably well appointed) living room: Zalaznick, a current queen of cable. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FINLAY MACKAY) (pg.MM37)
Project Runway, The Rachel Zoe Project, Tim Gunn's Guide to Style, Top Design (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, FROM LEFT: VIRGINIA SHERWOOD/BRAVO: PHOTO (1,3)
KURT ISWARIENKO/BRAVO
PETER TANGEN/BRAVO PHOTO) (pg.MM38 and 39)
Flipping Out, Top Chef, Tori and Dean: Home Sweet Hollywood (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, FROM LEFT: KELSEY MCNEAL/BRAVO PHOTO: BARBARA NITKE/BRAVO PHOTO
MICHAEL LAVINE/OXYGEN MEDIA PHOTO) (pg.MM40 and 41)The Real Housewives of Orange County, The Real Housewives of New York City, The Real Housewives of Atlanta (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, FORM LEFT: MITCHELL HAASETH/BRAVO PHOTO
JAY SULLIVAN/BRAVO PHOTO
 VIRGINIA SHERWOOD/BRAVO PHOTO) (pg.MM42 and 43) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); REALITY TELEVISION (78%); FOOD ALLERGIES (66%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITIES (55%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (58%)

PERSON: CHRISTIE HEFNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008



113 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THIS LAND; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: Financial Foot Soldiers, Feeling the Weight of the World

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

DATELINE: New York 

 BODY:
 ''What's up, Lenny,'' a broker on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange says, just before the ringing of the Pavlovian bell that opens the financial market. Lenny answers this morning bid with the customary response: ''What's up.''
 Posed less as a sincere inquiry into one's well-being than as a passing nod to another day in the financial scrum, the greeting can also be interpreted in these uncertain times as a question baldly seeking reassurance: What's up? 
 Stocks? Hopes? Layoffs? Blood pressure? 
 Leaving unexplored the phrase's deeper meaning, the two brokers melt into a blue-coated sea on the main floor of the exchange, where the Lennys have come to personify the amorphous, temperamental, life-altering thing called Wall Street -- an all-encompassing name for the stock market, the economy, your 401(k).
 From the balcony above this gladiator's pit, photographers crouch to capture expressions of joy, of anguish, of bewilderment, that are then presented as clues to how we should feel -- even though that broker's frown may reflect nothing more than digestive disagreement with a wolfed-down fried egg sandwich.
 Not long ago, a floor broker named Danny Trimble cocked a finger to his head and placed it against his temple, for reasons unrelated to the market; soon an image of Mr. Trimble ''shooting'' himself made the newspapers. No matter that he is not a hedge fund manager, bank C.E.O. or fat cat; no matter that he is just a financial foot soldier from Jersey, hoarse from shouting at his son's Pop Warner football games.
 Mr. Trimble, 41, works at the edge of the exchange's main floor, shoulder to shoulder with six other men in a booth the size of an elevator car. Not everyone graduated from college, but all are resident scholars of the hurly-burly floor, educated in reading markets, hunting for matches and executing buy-and-sell orders. They are worth their commissions, they say, because they provide things a computer cannot, things like experience, intuition -- a ''feel.'' 
 Crammed into this booth with no place to sit are Mike Ackerman, Paul Davis, Billy Johnson and Nick Stratakis, of B and B Securities; Mr. Trimble and Chris Martin, of Greywolf Equity Partners; and Ralph Roiland, a clerk. Scrappy independents, all; no one works for Goldman Sachs.
 Still, when they step onto Broad and Exchange Streets to breathe the autumn air, they sometimes get blamed for the world's economic crisis. ''You walk out there and people think you're what's wrong with this country,'' says Mr. Martin, father of three, of Morristown, N.J.
 With the opening of the market imminent, the men in the booth send instant messages to clients, asking, hoping, for interest in trading stock. But the volatile activity in recent weeks has unnerved many investors; some respond with noncommittal ''Thanks'' and ''I'm away from my desk.'' 
 At 9:30 on the dime the opening bell rings, clanging off the century-old walls of white marble, the ornate ceiling of gold. Brokers rush to the center of the floor, where specialists in individual stocks track the last best data. Shouts of ''Buy off 10,000, pair off 10,000,'' and ''How's Marathon?'' feed the low roar of business.
 After a while, though, quiet returns. Brokers study computer screens in their booths, some to monitor stocks, some to play virtual games. In one corner, a man is deciphering a crossword puzzle, while three beside him play cards. The stock exchange has a different rhythm now, its denizens say, because of technological advances and the shrinking of the once-dominant house firms. It's not like before.
 Many of the men, and it's still almost all men, remember the days when they stood several deep around the specialists, nudging, pushing, staying put for several straight hours, shouting ''Squad!'' for pages to hustle handwritten notes to clerks on the wings, jockeying at the banks of phones now hanging from hooks like relics.
 Those were the days when black humor and practical jokes helped to blow off steam and show affection for comrades. The one-liners would fly minutes after, say, the space shuttle Challenger went down. A trader would return to work, disfigured, after a serious car accident to find at his station a toy car, burned and crushed. And he would laugh.
 Billy Johnson, 48, a burly former firefighter from Oceanport, N.J., recalls how his floor colleagues helped him to toast his approaching marriage: by ripping his jacket and covering him with shaving cream, perfume and potato chips.
 The jokes and put-downs still go on, and lately someone has been beeping a horn concealed in his jacket. But the humor is not quite as black. 
 ''A lot of that stopped after 9/11,'' says Doreen Mogavero, 53, an experienced floor broker who points out that ground zero is a couple of blocks away. ''It wasn't that funny anymore.'' 
 Gone too is the loud physicality. Headsets and hand-held computerized pads mean less running around, fewer clerks, softer voices, a smaller chance for error. Those technological advances have opened the market to just about anyone with a computer, making floor trading seem almost quaint. Many traders retired rather than change their ways; others were laid off, including one now walking through the exchange. Selling insurance, someone says.
 Of the 1,366 broker's licenses available for an annual fee of $40,000, only 553 are being used. In 2006 there were 3,534 people working on the floor; today there are 1,273.
 ''The stress now is the lack of business,'' says Benedict Willis III, 48, a senior broker who started here in 1982. Moments later he is interrupted by applause. It is the sound of a lost job: a floor broker of 20 years has just been laid off from a major firm, and now his colleagues are showing their respect.
 ''They're clapping him off,'' Mr. Willis says. ''It's the second one this week.''
 One of the brokers in that small booth, Mike Ackerman, leads a Scandinavian delegation on a brief tour of the exchange, past computer screens flashing red and green, past taped-up photographs of family members, closed baseball stadiums and the Lower Manhattan skyline when it was intact. As he takes them to the balcony, a delegate asks a question in halting English: Does Mr. Ackerman feel personally responsible for the collapsing economy?
 Good question, answers Mr. Ackerman, 39, father of three, from Basking Ridge, N.J. Good question. But -- no. 
 He and all the people down on that floor are executing trades on behalf of others, using a hybrid method that combines a computer's technology with a human's gut instinct. They do not deal in subprime mortgages; they do not get golden parachutes. But hey: Good question.
 These brokers make money whether the market goes up or down; their earnings depend on the volume of trades, and the floor averages 117 million orders received a day. Still, they prefer north to south. ''It's political economics,'' Mr. Willis explains. ''We want to reassure investors that it's O.K. to come back.''
 Tomorrow the market will plummet in the very last minutes. Beaten brokers will repair to bars like Bobby Van's across the street, where the bartenders know their drinks before they've ordered. 
 But right now the market climbs with every tick toward the 4 p.m. closing, as though willed to rise by all the Lennys now eyeing the electronic board. Up, up, up.
 ''Two minutes to go,'' someone says at 3:58. ''A lifetime.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BUY, SELL, TRADE: In a booth on the edge of the main floor of the New York Stock Exchange, from left, Nick Stratakis, Ralph Roiland, Paul Davis, Mike Ackerman and Danny Trimble. With advances in technology, the loud physicality of the floor is almost gone. ''The stress now is the lack of business,'' one senior broker said.
 The New York Stock Exchange, draped with the American flag. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); US 401K PLANS (67%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (63%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (50%); SPORTS (50%); YOUTH SPORTS (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2008



114 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1940 words

HEADLINE: For Leyritz, Future In Balance After a Fall

BYLINE: By KATIE THOMAS

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. 

 BODY:
Autumn had always been good to Jim Leyritz.
 Most of the time, Leyritz was just a workaday Yankee on a team of stars, but the postseason seemed to be his stage, as he twirled his bat at the plate and hit home runs when it mattered most.
 But this has been a very different fall for Leyritz. Now 44 and eight years into his retirement from baseball, he has been shunned by the Yankees. The nearly $11 million he earned as a player is gone, along with his lucrative speaking career. Leyritz is awaiting trial in Florida on charges of manslaughter and driving under the influence of alcohol after a crash last December that killed 30-year-old Fredia Ann Veitch. If convicted, he faces up to 15 years in prison.
 The player once known for his designer sunglasses and outsize swagger is so broke that he said he had sought aid from the Baseball Assistance Team, a charity that helps former players through tough times. ''They basically have been a savior,'' Leyritz said in a recent interview. ''If it wasn't for them, I don't know what I would have done.'' 
 The fable of the self-destructive athlete has been told before, and the Leyritz version follows a familiar outline: misspent fortune, messy divorce, fast lifestyle and a trip to the county jail. But other details of his life do not fit as easily into the typical narrative.
 Leyritz is the primary caregiver to his three sons, ages 13, 12, and 7, who live with him in the spotless home he rents in Davie, a Fort Lauderdale suburb. After his divorce and custody battle, friends say, Leyritz started over and began earning a comfortable income from television appearances and corporate speaking engagements.
 Then came the crash. A jury will decide whether it was the result of criminal behavior, and the trial is scheduled to begin next Monday. Leyritz's friends and advocates say that no matter the outcome, his children need him for emotional and financial support.
 A day after Veitch died, one of her children sent her a text message, writing, ''I love you momma!! Rest in peace,'' according to telephone records in the state attorney's file.
 Howard Pomerantz, a lawyer for Veitch's family, said no one was helping her 14-year-old daughter and 5-year-old son. He described Leyritz as ''someone who has destroyed the lives of a number of people'' and questioned the propriety of giving him assistance.
 ''I'd be interested in learning whether the Baseball Assistance Team takes into consideration whether they're pouring salt in the wounds in the victims in this case,'' he said. 
 Jim Martin, the executive director of the Baseball Assistance Team, spoke about the program only in general because of privacy restrictions, and declined to say whether Leyritz was receiving help. In 2008, the charity has awarded more than 175 assistant grants to people affiliated with baseball. But he said he did not pass judgment on those in need, especially when children were involved.
 ''It's not the kids' fault when someone does something stupid,'' Martin said.
 Leyritz's predicament is starkly different from his days as a Yankee. He was with the team from 1990 through 1996, then in 1999 and 2000. He is probably best known for his three-run homer in Game 4 of the 1996 World Series, which tied the score and led to a victory over Atlanta. 
 In the clubhouse, Leyritz had a reputation as a brash upstart, and he was overshadowed by teammates like Don Mattingly and Derek Jeter. Still, fans appreciated his clutch performances in the postseason. By the time he left baseball in 2000, Leyritz had earned at least $10.7 million in 11 major league seasons, according to the Web site baseball-reference.com.
 My Children, 'My Life'
 Like many professional athletes facing retirement, Leyritz struggled with living an ordinary life. He and his wife, Karri Leyritz, consumed lavishly during his Yankees career. In court filings, Leyritz's lawyer acknowledged that they had spent most of his baseball earnings by 2002, when he filed for divorce. By then, little was left to fight over besides their three sons. 
 The 12 volumes of divorce records on file at the Broward County courthouse depict a vicious battle in which the couple bickered over everything from who should get the Ford Expedition to the whereabouts of Leyritz's 1999 World Series ring.
 In 2004, a social worker concluded in a custody evaluation that neither Leyritz was an ideal parent. Karri Leyritz's live-in boyfriend had a long criminal history, and in 2003, she tested positive for benzodiazepines, antianxiety drugs for which she did not have a prescription. Jim Leyritz, according to the report, used amphetamines and drank heavily as a player. The social worker also reported that a marriage counselor determined that he was struggling with ''issues centered around learning to cope with life transitions and adjusting to life without baseball.''
 He and his wife, Leyritz told the social worker, had led a ''partying lifestyle.'' But he also said: ''My life is my children. I have had my fun, now they are more important to me.'' 
 The social worker ultimately recommended that the Leyritzes share parenting responsibilities, but that Jim Leyritz be the primary residential parent.
 Although the Leyritzes were unemployed, they frequently placed the children in after-school day care and, in Karri's case, left them with baby sitters, according to the custody evaluation and the transcript of a hearing before the divorce judge. Teachers reported that the children were often absent when in Karri's care, and when they did attend, they did not have lunch, were missing socks or wore disheveled, torn uniforms.
 Judge Lawrence Korda admonished the Leyritzes to spend more time with their children. ''To me, if two parents aren't working and both of them are posing as incredibly involved parents, then go get your kids,'' he said.
 After an initial interview in September, Leyritz declined to answer further questions, including inquiries about his divorce, saying he was speaking exclusively to another publication. But Karri Leyritz said the breakup coincided with his exit from professional baseball and was a difficult period for both of them. ''We were both just going through a terrible time,'' she said.
 Now, Karri Leyritz said, the children spend nearly equal time with each parent. She said they had begun to settle into a routine.
 ''He's a great father and that's really all,'' she said. ''Obviously, we didn't get along as husband and wife, but you have to come to an understanding.''
 Leyritz's easygoing, charismatic demeanor made him popular on the speaking circuit. Last year, he received repeat requests to appear at corporate sales meetings, Little League banquets and Yankees luxury suites, engagements that his agent, Andrew Levy, said paid up to $7,500 each. Leyritz said he attended 50 events in 2007, in addition to working that season as a Yankees reporter for ESPN Radio in New York. His contract for 2008 was not extended, a decision that was made before he was arrested.
 ''He was starting to turn a corner,'' said Todd Watson, a close friend. ''He was starting to become a household name.''
 Whose Fault?
 Everything changed early on Dec. 28, 2007. After a night out with friends to celebrate his birthday, Leyritz ran a red light about 3:20 a.m. and crashed into a car driven by Veitch, who had been drinking after finishing her shift as a bartender, according to authorities. She was thrown from the car and later died. 
 An officer on the scene described Leyritz as having bloodshot, glassy eyes and a flushed face. The officer reported smelling a ''slight odor of alcohol coming from his breath as he spoke.'' Leyritz refused to submit to a breath test and failed a field sobriety test. His blood alcohol level, tested at 6:10 a.m., was 0.14, well above Florida's limit of 0.08.
 Leyritz is also the defendant in a civil case filed this year by Veitch's estate. Although he declined to speak about the accident, court records show that the defense will probably argue that Leyritz cannot be entirely blamed for Veitch's death because she was also drunk -- her blood alcohol level was 0.18 -- and she was not wearing a seat belt, according to the autopsy report.
 ''I think the evidence is so favorable on his side that ultimately he's going to be exonerated of all charges on the criminal case, and I think we're going to succeed in the defense of the civil case,'' said Jeff Ostrow, a lawyer for Leyritz. ''Not only was he not negligent, but she was the direct and proximate cause of the accident.'' 
 Her lawyer holds the opposite view. ''Whether or not she was intoxicated is not relevant, because she was driving with a green light, in her own lane of traffic, within the speed limit, not breaking any laws and she was not in any way the cause of this accident,'' Pomerantz said.
 In a deposition for the civil case, an eyewitness, Karen Rivera, reported that Leyritz tried to shake Veitch's leg after the accident and asked if Veitch had been drinking. According to a police video taken on the scene, Leyritz told an officer, ''She hit me pretty good,'' and later did not appear to react when he was told Veitch had died. 
 Friends say that Leyritz was in shock after the accident and that his involvement in it -- guilty or not -- has been difficult.
 ''He came and stayed with me for the first three days,'' Karri Leyritz said. ''It was horrendous. I don't wish that pain on my worst enemy. Believe me, it hit him.''
 In the interview, Leyritz declined to comment on his feelings about the accident. But he did sometimes show frustration at those who have avoided him since the crash. He said he was not invited to the All-Star Game in the Bronx or to the Yankee Stadium finale this year. Leyritz said that he had a ticket to the final game but that he was ejected from the V.I.P. area by a security guard and sat in the stands with fans instead.
 The Yankees did not respond to requests for comment.
 ''Am I disappointed that there's not a little bit more support there?'' Leyritz said. ''I would say a little bit. But at the same time, I really, truly understand the reasonings.''
 Watson said his friend deserved better.
 ''He's not a leper and he's innocent,'' Watson said. ''You're guilty until you're proven innocent in this country, unfortunately.''
 Leyritz said the Yankees were not alone in snubbing him. 
 ''If it was just them doing it, I would say yeah,'' he said. ''But you know what? It's everything.'' 
 Second Chances
 In the year since the accident, Leyritz has made unpaid appearances at just three events. In September, he posed with fans and signed autographs at Suburban Golf Club in Union, N.J., to benefit the local chamber of commerce. 
 Bill Liederman, the event organizer, said his friend Leyritz was still a Yankees hero.
 ''This is a country of second chances,'' said Liederman, the former owner of Mickey Mantle's Restaurant in Manhattan. ''There is no Yankee fan alive who doesn't think, regardless of the outcome of the trial, that he deserves one.'' 
 Levy, Leyritz's agent, said that since the accident, corporate event organizers have asked to book Leyritz, only to say a few hours later that ''it's just not going to work out for us right now.''
 Levy did not have to ask why they canceled. ''I knew the reason,'' he said.
 For now, Leyritz continues to depend on payments from the Baseball Assistance Team, and he hopes that if he is exonerated, the work will return. The charity is not paying his legal bills, he said, just basic living expenses.
 ''Things so I am able to put a roof over my kids' head and food on the table,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The former Yankee Jim Leyritz is awaiting trial in Florida on manslaughter and D.U.I. charges after a 2007 crash. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BROWARD COUNTY SHERIFF'S OFFICE)(D1)
Jim Leyritz, a Yankee from 1990 through 1996 and again in 1999 and 2000, was involved in a crash that killed Fredia Ann Veitch, far left. In September, he posed with fans in Union, N.J., to benefit the chamber of commerce. (PHOTOGRAPHS LEFT TO RIGHT, MIKE STOCKER/THE SUN-SENTINEL, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS, UNION TOWNSHIP CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
 CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); CHILDREN (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); JURY TRIALS (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (75%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (75%); MANSLAUGHTER (75%); JAIL SENTENCING (74%); LAWYERS (71%); FAMILY LAW (70%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (68%); EXECUTIVES (62%); TEXT MESSAGING (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (88%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2008



115 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: Elections Are Fertile Ground for Testing Market Soothsayers

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
In 1967, after several years of research, a young market forecaster named Yale Hirsch unveiled a grand theory of the relationship between presidential elections and the stock market. 
 Tracking data back to 1833, Mr. Hirsch found that on average, stocks performed better in the final two years of a presidential term, a trend he attributed to maneuvering by the party in power to better its chances of re-election. 
 ''As presidents and their parties get anxious about holding on to power, they begin to prime the pump in the third year, fostering bull markets, prosperity and peace,'' reads a recent edition of the ''Stock Trader's Almanac,'' the venerable perennial founded by Mr. Hirsch that collects financial tidbits, gentle market humor and reams of historical data. 
 But as with its older cousin in the almanac business, Poor Richard's, the pattern described in the book has not always panned out. With the Dow Jones industrial average down 30 percent this year, it would seem 2008 is going to be such a year. 
 A decline so startling might suggest that predicting the market by watching American election patterns is not a practice to, er, put a lot of stock in. Mr. Hirsch's theory, however, was only an early entry in a long tradition of market watchers seeking connections between two of America's favorite pastimes: picking presidents and picking stocks. 
 Many analysts, looking for a jump on Tuesday's results, have pointed out that declines in the stock market right before a presidential election generally point to an advantage for the challenging party. 
 Investors looking to make a quick buck this week can dig up research showing that stocks tend to do better the day after a Republican presidential victory than a Democratic one. And bullish types expecting a Barack Obama victory have noted that over time, stocks perform better under Democratic administrations. 
 Or, perhaps, there is no connection at all. 
 Without doubt, declines in the stock market can be indicative of broader problems in the economy, and the performance of the economy influences how people vote. But to forecast the market based on a political event is to enter the murky realm of distinguishing chance correlations from true cause and effect.
 ''To me, things like the weather, the Super Bowl and presidential elections are basically coincidental,'' said Laszlo Birinyi Jr., an investment adviser and head of Birinyi Associates in Westport, Conn. 
 ''I would never consider it in terms of investment decision-making,'' he said. ''You will find people who will wax rhapsodically on it, but quite frankly to me, it's an exercise in futility.''
 With stocks facing their worst declines in decades, this year may be particularly difficult to predict. Some investors say the problems in the economy are so far-reaching that the winner of the election could, in the short-term at least, hardly matter at all.
 ''The amount of attention being paid to the election is less than it would be under more normal circumstances,'' said Russ Koesterich, a strategist at Barclays Global Investors. ''Right now, people are still focused on gaining clarity about the solvency of the financial sector.''
 Sharp differences divide the candidates on matters like tax policy and government regulation, and their proposals could eventually be enacted into law. But Mr. Birinyi noted that campaign speeches are far removed from the hurdles and compromises of Capitol Hill. 
 ''The process of legislative government is so long and drawn out,'' he said. ''To isolate the issue and the impact is, to me, to try to find the function of a bay leaf in a recipe of coq au vin.''
 Indeed, some investors expect the market to stay focused on the problems in the economy, including the credit freeze and rising corporate layoffs. ''The market realizes that whoever comes into the administration, it's not going to have much of an impact on growth over the next couple of quarters,'' Mr. Koesterich said.
 Despite the cautions of such sober analysts as Mr. Koesterich, it is difficult for people to resist looking for patterns that supposedly predict the future. 
 Jeremy J. Siegel, a professor at the Wharton School, studied presidential election cycles for his 1994 book, ''Stocks for the Long Run,'' and found that when a Republican wins a presidential election, stocks tend to perform better the day after.
 Professor Siegel attributed that to the relatively conservative leanings of the investor class. ''The first flush is, 'The Republicans won; I'm happy,' '' he said. ''But once it plays out, the Democrats in the long run have had historically better returns.'' 
 Mr. Siegel studied stock returns from 1888 to 2004. From Monday to Wednesday of presidential election weeks, stocks moved higher by an average of 0.7 percent in the event of a Republican victory. Stocks fell 0.5 percent on average when the Democrats took the White House. 
 The study, which used the Standard & Poor's index as a gauge, comes with caveats. In the postwar election years, from 1948 to 2004, the average return on a Republican win was zero, while stocks dropped 0.2 percent on Democratic victories. Stocks also tended to do better when the branches of government were divided between the parties, with the best performance under a Democratic president and Republican Congress.
 But on a longer time scale, much of a president's legacy -- at least that part of his legacy measured by the Dow Jones industrial average -- has really been determined by ''whether markets are high or low when you came into office, not what sorts of policies you bring in to spark it up,'' Professor Siegel said. 
 And what of Mr. Hirsch's theory of presidential elections? Mr. Hirsch declined to be interviewed. But his son Jeffrey who has taken the reins of the business, defended the theory.
 ''The advantage of the cycle is it works most of the time, and it provides you an overarching theme as to when most of the markets' gains and losses are made,'' the younger Mr. Hirsch said.
 ''Nothing's 100 percent perfect,'' he added. ''It's not something used in a vacuum. It's not that you look at the stars and the calendar, and only follow that.''
 And his thoughts for 2009? ''Next year might not be as bad. Or, conversely, there's something horrible going on, something negative in this global crisis, which could mean next year will be even more difficult.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Yale Hirsch and his son Jeffrey run the ''Stock Trader's Almanac,'' a compendium of financial tidbits. (pg.B4) CHART: ELECTION DAY EFFECT: The change in the S.& P. Total Return index from one day before to one day after each election. (Source: Prof. Jeremy Siegel, Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania) (pg.B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); HISTORY (78%); POLITICS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); TRENDS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (72%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%)

COMPANY: AMERICA'S FAVORITE CHICKEN CO INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2008



116 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Hints of Comeback for Nation's First Superhighway

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER MAAG

DATELINE: LITTLE FALLS, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Most people do not believe that Tim Dufel can push 2,000 tons of steel all the way across New York State. Isn't the old Erie Canal dried up, they ask him, its locks broken, its ditch filled in and forgotten?
 They ask these questions even on days like this one, when Mr. Dufel is standing in an orange life vest, watching brown water flood Lock 16 here and lift his loaded barge like a toy battleship in a bathtub.
 ''Sixty percent of the people I meet have no idea the Erie Canal is even still functioning,'' Mr. Dufel said. He is assistant engineer on the tugboat Margot and an owner of the New York State Marine Highway Transportation Company, one of the largest shippers on the canal. 
 After decades of decline, commercial shipping has returned to the Erie Canal, though it is a far cry from the canal's heyday. The number of shipments rose to 42 so far this year during the season the canal is open, from 15 during last year's season, which lasts from May 1 to Nov. 15. 
 Once nearly forgotten, the relic of history has shown signs of life as higher fuel prices have made barges an attractive alternative to trucks.
 ''We anticipated we might have an increase in commercial traffic, but nowhere near what we're seeing today,'' said Carmella R. Mantello, director of the New York State Canal Corporation, a subsidiary of the New York State Thruway Authority that operates the Erie and three other canals.
 Along the Erie Canal, business owners who never gave the sleepy waterway much thought are exploring new ways of putting it to use.
 ''There aren't too many wagon trails left, but we still have the canal,'' said John Callaghan, a mate on the Margot. ''Sure it's history, but it's still relevant. We're making money here.''
 Completed in 1825, rerouted in parts and rebuilt twice since then, the Erie Canal flows 338 miles across New York State, between Waterford in the east and Tonawanda in the west. It carved out a trail for immigrants who settled the Midwest, and it cemented the position of New York City, which connects with the canal via the Hudson River, as the nation's richest port. In 1855, at the canal's height as a thoroughfare for goods and people, 33,241 shipments passed through the lock at Frankfort, 54 miles east of Syracuse, according to Craig Williams, history curator at the New York State Museum in Albany.
 Though diminished in the late 1800s by competition from railroads, commercial shipping along the canal grew until the early 1950s, when interstate highways and the new St. Lawrence Seaway lured away most of the cargo and relegated the canal to a scenic backwater piloted by pleasure boats.
 The canal still remains the most fuel-efficient way to ship goods between the East Coast and the upper Midwest. One gallon of diesel pulls one ton of cargo 59 miles by truck, 202 miles by train and 514 miles by canal barge, Ms. Mantello said. A single barge can carry 3,000 tons, enough to replace 100 trucks.
 As the price of diesel climbed over $4 a gallon this summer -- the national average is now about $3.31 a gallon -- more shippers rediscovered the Erie Canal. On one trip in mid-October, the Margot motored down the canal at about seven knots, pushing a barge loaded with a giant green crane. The machine was being transported from Huger, S.C., to the Pinney Dock, operated by the Kinder Morgan Company in Ashtabula, Ohio. 
 ''It really just came down to economics,'' said Lee Demers, the dock's manager. The other option was to move the crane through the St. Lawrence Seaway, adding more than 1,000 miles and greater fuel costs to the trip.
 A few miles east of Little Falls, the canal sat flat as glass, reflecting the orange and red leaves on either bank. As the barge plunged through, the surface curled into a mirrored wave two feet high before breaking into gray chop.
 ''I've worked the East Coast, the West Coast and the Panama Canal, but up here is some of the most beautiful country you can ever see,'' said John Schwind, 62, the captain of the Margot, who first learned to pilot tugs here in the 1970s. 
 A little further on, the barge pitched to port as it rammed muddy sediment along the bottom. After rains flood the canal's tributaries, the mud occasionally becomes so deep that the tug's propellers cannot turn the load, and the barge drifts dangerously close to the bank. 
 ''You have to pay constant attention,'' Mr. Schwind said. ''You can run into trouble real fast.'' 
 The canal was dug at least 12 feet deep. But decades of diminished shipping revenue left the canal corporation struggling to keep up with maintenance. Last year, the corporation paid $3 million for a new dredger -- its old machine dated from the 1950s. 
 The agency does not have money for advertising, so this year's growth happened almost entirely by word of mouth. Much of the interest comes from new energy businesses. An old building in Fulton that has been converted into the Northeast Biofuels plant sits on the shore of the Oswego River, which serves as the Oswego Canal and connects to the Erie. The site will also include a carbon dioxide recovery plant, which required moving four large metal tanks there, said Eric Will II, one of the owners of Northeast Biofuels. 
 Moving the tanks by truck or rail would have required cutting them into pieces and reassembling them at the site, adding tens of thousands of dollars to the cost, Mr. Will said. Instead, the manufacturer delivered the tanks whole by barge.
 ''It's a nifty thing to do,'' Mr. Will said, ''and it can be a very cost-effective.''
 Some proponents worry that as oil prices drop, the canal could lose its price advantage, and shipping might again slide into oblivion. Others expected this summer's spike to continue because it reminded people that the canal exists. 
 When a company called Auburn Biodiesel decided to convert an old factory in Montezuma into a biodiesel plant, the building's location beside the canal ''was merely an incidental consideration,'' said David J. Colegrove, the company's president. But after watching the number of cargo shipments along the canal grow, Mr. Colegrove said he hoped to bring soybeans in by barge and use the canal to ship finished product to New York City.
 ''The amount of money you can save is really eye-popping,'' he said. ''I'm fascinated by the history of the canal, and I'm intrigued by how well it still works.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A MODERN MULE: The tugboat Margot nosed a barge along the Erie Canal and through a lock, below, in Little Falls, N.Y. Shipping along the canal has increased.
 SHIPPING LANE: The canal system connects the Great Lakes with the Hudson River and Lake Champlain. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUNG PARK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: NEW YORK STATE CANAL SYSTEM 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); RIVERS (77%); PORT AUTHORITIES (77%); HISTORY (71%); SHIPMENTS (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%); RECREATIONAL WATERCRAFT (50%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); GREAT LAKES (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2008



117 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: Accounts, People, Miscellany

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Accounts
 AT&T, Dallas, named the Chicago office of DDB Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group, as its creative agency for business-to-business advertising, an assignment that had been at another Omnicom agency, Rodgers Townsend, St. Louis. Billings were estimated at $120 million. A third Omnicom agency, BBDO Worldwide, is the lead creative agency for AT&T ads aimed at consumers. 
 Quaker Oats Company, Chicago, a division of PepsiCo, chose Goodby, Silverstein & Partners, San Francisco, part of the Omnicom Group, as lead creative agency. The assignment, with spending estimated at $120 million, had been at another Omnicom agency, Element 79 Partners, Chicago. Goodby, Silverstein will create campaigns for products like Quaker Oats, Quaker instant oatmeal, Cap'N Crunch cereal, Quaker Chewy granola bars and Life cereal. 
 The New York office of Bartle Bogle Hegarty resigned as the creative agency for Levi Strauss & Company in the United States by declining to take part in a review for the creative assignment in the Americas region that Levi Strauss began recently. Spending on the account, which the office had handled since 2001, was estimated at $70 million. Other offices of Bartle Bogle continue to create campaigns in Asia and Europe for Levi Strauss, which is based in San Francisco.
 The Sherwin-Williams Paint Store Group, Cleveland, selected McKinney, Durham, N.C., as agency of record, to handle the creative and media planning assignments that had been at Wyse Advertising, Cleveland. Spending was estimated at $40 million. Media buying continues to be handled internally Sherwin-Williams.
 American Cancer Society, Atlanta, chose the Martin Agency, Richmond, Va., part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, to handle its advertising, which had been handled by T. G. Madison Advertising, Atlanta. Spending was estimated at $20 million. Brodeur Partners, Boston, part of the Omnicom Group, will handle public relations, which had been handled by the Atlanta and Washington offices of Porter Novelli, also owned by Omnicom. 
 Compass Bank, Birmingham, Ala., part of the Compass Bancshares division of the BBVA Group of Spain, appointed GSD&M Idea City, Austin, Tex., part of the Omnicom Group, as its creative agency, replacing Crispin Porter & Bogusky, Miami, part of MDC Partners. Spending was estimated at $10 million.
 Interstate Bakeries Corporation, Kansas City, Mo., named Grey New York as advertising agency of record for brands like Wonder Bread, Twinkies snack cakes and Home Pride bread. The assignment had been handled by Campbell Mithun, Minneapolis, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Spending was estimated at $5 million to $10 million. Grey New York is part of the Grey division of the Grey Group, owned by the WPP Group.
 Waterford Crystal, part of Waterford Wedgwood USA, Wall, N.J., hired Cossette New York, part of the Cossette Communication Group, to handle its creative and media accounts. Spending was estimated at $5 million. The duties to create print advertising had most recently been handled by Chillingworth/Radding, New York, and the media duties had been handled internally at Waterford.
 People
 Kelly Clark, chief executive for the Europe, Middle East and Africa region at GroupM, part of the WPP Group, was promoted to a new post, worldwide chief executive at the Maxus unit of GroupM. Mr. Clark will move to New York from London to take on his new duties.
 Fiona McBride joined Amalgamated, New York, as partner and president. As president, she assumes duties from Charles Rosen, who remains chief executive. Ms. McBride had most recently been at the New York and Toronto offices of BBDO Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group, in posts that included director for account management. Scott Karambis also joined Amalgamated, as partner and planning director; he had been director for brand planning at Mullen, Wenham, Mass., part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
 Camela Morrissey will join Dorland Global Public Relations, Philadelphia, part of the Dorland Global Corporation, as president, effective on Nov. 10. She will succeed Nancy Bacher Long, who will serve as a consultant, the agency said. Ms. Morrissey had most recently been vice president for public affairs, marketing and patient satisfaction at New York Hospital Queens, part of the New York-Presbyterian Healthcare System.
 Arthur M. Cohen, chief executive at LaPlaca Cohen, New York, added the post of president as Michael LaPlaca leaves the agency after 15 years to move to Italy. Also, Tom Zetek, director for creative services, was promoted to executive creative director.
 Connie Garrido joined MPG North America, New York, part of the MPG unit of Havas, as president of a new unit, Chrysalis, which will specialize in fields like out-of-home media and event marketing. She had most recently been a partner at Media Link. Also, Ray Rotolo joined Chrysalis as senior vice president and managing director; he had most recently been in charge of the alliance and sponsorship programs for Meadowlands Xanadu, a retail and entertainment complex in the New Jersey Meadowlands. 
 Miscellany
 The American Legacy Foundation and Susan G. Komen for the Cure are protesting plans by the Philip Morris unit of the Altria Group to sell two varieties of Virginia Slims cigarettes, aimed at women, in ''purse packs'' that will be colored pink. The Komen organization, which raises money to fight breast cancer, is unhappy about the decision because pink has become symbolic of efforts to prevent, treat and cure breast cancer among women. The foundation and the organization joined forces last year to protest the introduction by the R. J. Reynolds unit of Reynolds American of a cigarette aimed at women, Camel No. 9, which comes in packages colored pink, teal and black. That brand remains on the market and its packaging is unchanged.
 Avenue A/Razorfish, part of the Microsoft Corporation, was renamed Razorfish and also acquired Wysiwyg, an agency in Barcelona, Spain; that agency's name was inspired by the phrase ''What you see is what you get.'' Wysiwyg will operate as Wysiwyg, a Razorfish company.
 The flagship New York office of BBDO Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group, opened DesignWorks, to be led by Craig Duffney as design director. DesignWorks will handle design tasks for brand identities, stores, offices, packaging and clothing.
 The growth rate for digital advertising outside the home -- increasingly popular in recent years -- will start to slow, according to a report from PQ Media, as the medium is affected next year by the weak economy and a consolidation among owners of digital companies. But it will return to stronger growth starting in 2010, the report forecasts. Revenue is expected to increase to $2.43 billion in 2008 compared with $2.18 billion in 2007, the report predicts, a gain of 11.2 percent compared with increases in the 20 percent range in recent years. By 2012, the report says, spending will exceed $4 billion. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (89%); BUSINESS TO BUSINESS MARKETING (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (77%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); SNACK FOODS (76%); PRINT ADVERTISING (72%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (71%); COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (65%); PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (65%); BAKERIES (60%)

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (96%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (93%); QUAKER OATS CO (83%); LEVI STRAUSS & CO (83%); COSSETTE INC (73%); BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA SA (65%); HOSTESS BRANDS INC (63%); GSD&M IDEA CITY LLC (63%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (63%); GREY GLOBAL GROUP INC (58%); WPP PLC (58%); PEPSICO INC (57%); GOODBY SILVERSTEIN & PARTNERS (57%); SHERWIN-WILLIAMS CO (55%); WYSE ADVERTISING INC (54%); MDC PARTNERS INC (52%); WEDGWOOD USA (50%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (96%); IPG (NYSE) (93%); BVA (LSE) (65%); BBVA (NYSE) (65%); BBVA (MCE) (65%); BBVA (BMV) (65%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (58%); WPP (LSE) (58%); PEP (NYSE) (57%); SHW (NYSE) (55%); MDZ.A (TSX) (52%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (96%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (96%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (96%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (83%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (83%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (73%); NAICS541430 GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (73%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (65%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (65%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (63%); SIC2051 BREAD & OTHER BAKERY PRODUCTS, EXCEPT COOKIES & CRACKERS (63%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (55%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (55%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (76%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (54%); DURHAM, NC, USA (54%) TEXAS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (70%); ASIA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2008



118 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 53 words

HEADLINE: Four Crises

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 As we prepare to vote for a new president, we can review the four major events of the past eight years:
 1. 9/11.
 2. The Iraq war.
 3. Katrina.
 4. The mortgage disaster and economic meltdown.
 Were we well prepared for any of these? Did we handle them well?
 Stephen Addiss
 Richmond, Va., Oct. 31, 2008 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); IRAQ WAR (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (86%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (65%) VIRGINIA, USA (90%) IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2008



119 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: A Transformative Time, a Remarkable President

BYLINE: By JOHN STEELE GORDON

 BODY:
WAKING GIANT
 America in the Age of Jackson
 By David S. Reynolds
 Illustrated. 466 pages. Harper/HarperCollins. $29.95
 The time between the end of the age of the founding fathers and the beginning of the Civil War era was for a long time something of a historical black hole for many Americans. The presidents in this period, with one notable exception, are barely remembered today for anything other than having been president. Politics often revolved around now obscure issues like the tariff, the Second Bank of the United States and ''internal improvements.''
 Well, the emptiness has been filled. In 2005 the Princeton historian Sean Wilentz published ''The Rise of American Democracy,'' covering at great length (1,044 pages) the 19th century up to the Civil War. Last year saw the publication of Daniel Walker Howe's ''What Hath God Wrought: The Transformation of America, 1815-1848,'' which won the Pulitzer Prize. It too is no airplane read, coming in at 904 pages, but he covers the period extremely well. 
 And now David S. Reynolds, distinguished professor at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York and winner of the Bancroft Prize for his book ''Walt Whitman's America,'' offers his take in ''Waking Giant: America in the Age of Jackson'' at a mere 466 pages. That length is in many ways a virtue, and not just for people who like to read in bed and breathe at the same time.
 This period saw a remarkable transformation. There were only 18 states in 1815 but 30 by 1848. Florida, Texas and vast stretches of the North- and Southwest were added to the national territory. The population of the United States increased to nearly 23 million from 8 million. And that population became much more diverse as immigrants began to pour in from Europe and spread out across the continent with increasing speed. 
 Americans were a remarkably bumptious, self-confident, ambitious and materialistic group. The Englishwoman Frances Trollope (mother of the novelist Anthony Trollope) reported a resident Englishman telling her that ''he had never overheard Americans conversing without the word DOLLAR being pronounced between them.'' And yet the country was also in the midst of a major religious revival, often called the Second Great Awakening. This was the period when Joseph Smith was founding the Mormons and William Miller the Adventists, when revival meetings were sometimes attended by tens of thousands. 
 Economically the country became much richer and much more diverse as industry developed in the North, cotton spread through the lower South, and the Midwest turned into one of the world's great grain-producing areas. Transportation improved radically as roads, canals and then, after 1830, railroads began to connect the various parts of an immense country and to weld it into a single, continent-wide market. 
 The Erie Canal was by far the most important of these new avenues for it linked the fertile soils of the Midwest directly to the East Coast. The produce that once had to flow down the Mississippi began increasingly to flow through the canal to New York City, which became the greatest boom town the world had ever known. 
 Curiously, three men who never became president (although they wanted the office badly) -- Henry Clay, Daniel Webster and John C. Calhoun -- are more familiar to most Americans than many of the men who did reach the White House. But one president dominated the era to the extent that he gave his name to the age and received the ultimate historical accolade of having that name turned into an adjective to describe his times and policies.
 That, of course, was Andrew Jackson. He was the first president to be born poor, the first not to come from Virginia or Massachusetts. He shaped the future of American politics so profoundly that the great 19th-century historian George Bancroft thought him the last of the founding fathers. It was in Jackson's time that property qualifications for voting were largely abolished and what we would recognize as democracy (at least for white men) took firm hold. The modern two-party system evolved in this period as well, as Jackson became the father of the present-day Democratic Party. And in the 1850s the anti-Jackson Whigs would give way to the Republicans.
 Mr. Reynolds brings this remarkable man to life. After an attempted assassination misfired, Mr. Reynolds reports: ''Jackson once said he never felt frightened in any situation, and he certainly was not now. He lifted his cane and charged his assailant. Dropping the pistol, the man pulled out another, aimed and fired. Again the gun failed. Others wrestled the gunman to the ground. Jackson calmly continued his day, remarking that he 'was not born to be shot by an assassin.' '' Mr. Reynolds's book is, necessarily, a tour d'horizon of the period. And he describes it thoroughly in a manageable amount of space. Given the vast size of the subject, the number of people to be discussed and the number of topics to be covered to give a sense of this period, that is no small accomplishment. 
 To achieve his goal Mr. Reynolds deviates from a strictly chronological approach. Instead he covers many major subjects, like the religious revival, separately. He has a chapter on the literary and artistic accomplishments of the time, when the country began forging a separate identity in the arts. Edgar Allan Poe, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Nathaniel Hawthorne, James Fenimore Cooper and others gave America a distinct literary voice. Artists like Thomas Cole, Asher B. Durand, George Catlin and William Sydney Mount painted American subjects in new ways rather than copying European styles.
 There's a chapter on inventions that even covers fads. McCormick's reaper would revolutionize agriculture; Morse's telegraph speeded up communications by orders of magnitude; Colt's pistol changed manufacturing profoundly. Spiritualism and phrenology arose, as did dietary nostrums like those promoted by Sylvester Graham (who, at least, left the graham cracker as a lasting legacy of his nutty ideas on nutrition).
 Mr. Reynolds covers so much with such economy that you sometimes get the feeling the book was written on index cards. But ''Waking Giant'' is, in whole, a terrific introduction of succinct length to a period in our history that was once ignored, a period increasingly recognized as a time when the foundations of much of modern America were laid.
 John Steele Gordon is a regular contributor to Commentary. 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 6, 2008

 CORRECTION:
The Books of The Times review on Monday, about ''Waking Giant: America in the Age of Jackson,'' by David S. Reynolds, misspelled the middle name of a writer mentioned in a chapter on the literary and artistic accomplishments of the time. He was James Fenimore Cooper, not Fennimore.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY HOLGER THOSS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RELIGION (88%); HISTORY (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); WRITERS (74%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (68%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

TITLE: Waking Giant (Book)>; Waking Giant (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2008



120 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Less Finance May Be Just Fine

BYLINE: By EDWARD HADAS

 BODY:
Job cuts are the order of the day in finance -- the business of money and promises. As painful as it may be, particularly in financial centers like New York and London, this shrinkage may mark a welcome reversal of a long-running trend. 
 The financial expansion didn't start with the booming housing markets of the early 2000s or even with the stock market bubble of the 1990s. Finance has been a growth industry for six decades. In 1947, the sector accounted for 2.3 percent of United States gross domestic product. By 2007, it had grown to 8.1 percent, and the increase has been remarkably steady. 
 To listen to some politicians, finance may sound like a bad thing from top to bottom. That's wrong. Finance is tremendously helpful. Banks, brokers and their colleagues collect money from those who have it and distribute to those who need it. This industry helps manage inventories, build factories and spread economic risks around so societies can afford to take on more of them. 
 But finance helps the economy in much the same way the way a police force or an army helps keep the peace. Countries would be delighted to get the same order with fewer forces. They should be equally happy to get the same production and trade with less finance. Finance is a cost -- not a benefit -- of maintaining a complicated economy. 
 Some police officers and soldiers think the glamour and danger that come with their jobs make them worthwhile. Some financial types, especially those at the top of the heap, are similarly enthusiastic. But how many of them really earn that generous keep by increasing economic efficiency? 
 The answer probably can't be calculated precisely, but any gains have to be set against three sorts of harm. 
 First, a distressingly large portion of activity in the financial world is little more than gambling. When shares and bonds, or derivatives based on them, are bought and sold, the gains and losses almost cancel each other out. Such trading may be fun -- portfolio management is a common hobby -- but it does almost nothing for the nonfinancial economy. 
 As in organized gambling, the losses in financial trading are actually a bit greater than the gains because the house takes its share. In recent years, the financial house -- brokers, exchanges, fund managers -- has augmented its gains by playing from the inside. Until the crisis came along, such trading often paid off handsomely. 
 The second problem is not with the financiers but with the financial economy itself. Finance works primarily with credit rather than cash, and credit has been expanding greatly. The ratio of debt outstanding to gross domestic product in the United States has increased from 161 percent in 1974 to 354 percent in mid-2008. Half of that growth has been within the financial sector itself -- from 17 percent to 114 percent of G.D.P. 
 Loans are promises to pay, which are much easier to make than to keep. The more credit-laden the economy, the greater the potential damage from broken promises. To see how a trickle of credit losses can turn into a cascade, just look around. 
 Finally, there is a psychological, even a moral, problem with finance. A country gets rich by making stuff, not by seeming to make money from money. But when people see huge financial profits -- on Wall Street or just from owning a house -- they tend to want more of them. The economically illusory gains of finance distract people from more valuable tasks. 
 So will the United States, and the world, decide that it has had too much of this not particularly good thing? Not necessarily, since a four-decade trend has the momentum of a speeding train. But the current hurricane of financial destruction might just be strong enough to derail it. 
 A durable reversal of finance's fortunes would be tough on Wall Street, the City of London and all whose livelihoods depend on keeping the industry running. But less finance need not cause any broader economic damage. 
 There's more than money involved. For at least a generation, finance has been taken up as a career by a disproportionately large proportion of the world's most talented people. If more of the best and the brightest were to take up careers in industry, education or the arts, everyone would be better off. EDWARD HADAS 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At Lehman Brothers on Sept. 15, the day that the company filed for bankruptcy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); HOUSING BUBBLE (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); ARMIES (74%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (72%); ARMED FORCES (66%); POLICE FORCES (66%); GAMING (62%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2008



121 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Rejects G.M.'s Call For Help In a Merger

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC and MICHELINE MAYNARD

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
The Treasury Department has turned down a request by General Motors for up to $10 billion to help finance the automaker's possible merger with Chrysler, according to people close to the discussions.
 Instead of providing new assistance, the Treasury Department told G.M. on Friday, the Bush administration will now shift its focus to speeding up the $25 billion loan program for fuel-efficient vehicles approved by Congress in September and administered by the Energy Department.
 Treasury officials were said to be reluctant to broaden the $700 billion financial rescue program to include industrial companies or to play a part in a G.M.-Chrysler merger that could cost tens of thousands of jobs. 
 But it remained unclear whether the officials were also seeking to avoid making any decision that would conflict with the goals of a new presidential administration. The Democratic candidate, Senator Barack Obama, has said in recent days that he supports increasing aid to the troubled auto companies, while Senator John McCain has not said whether he would support aid beyond the $25 billion. 
 While G.M. and Chrysler continue to talk, no deal is expected until the government clarifies its role, if any. Potential investors in the deal have been hesitant to back the merger without federal assistance.
 G.M.'s chairman, Rick Wagoner, had lobbied Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. to provide emergency aid to the auto companies under the bailout program to stabilize the financial markets.
 The Bush administration is still considering a range of options to aid the Detroit automakers, which are losing billions of dollars and rapidly depleting their cash reserves, said auto industry and administration officials, who did not want to be identified because of the sensitive nature of the discussions.
 The first step is to get the Energy Department to expedite the release of the $25 billion in low-interest loans for G.M., Chrysler and the Ford Motor Company.
 Beyond that, the administration is also bringing the Commerce Department into discussions about channeling additional aid to the automakers.
 With auto sales deteriorating to their lowest level in 15 years, Detroit's traditional Big Three are struggling to stay solvent and avoid bankruptcy.
 The deepening troubles led G.M. into merger talks in September with Chrysler's majority owner, the private equity firm Cerberus Capital Management, and the request to the Treasury Department for assistance.
 Auto industry executives and analysts said over the weekend that the loan program is essential to retooling plants and developing vehicles that meet more stringent government fuel-economy mandates.
 Getting the loans will allow G.M., Ford and Chrysler to redirect money already budgeted for cleaner cars to other capital needs.
 ''The auto companies are clearly running out of cash, and badly in need of more liquidity,'' said David Cole, chairman of the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich. ''Releasing the $25 billion in loans is a necessary first step.''
 The Detroit companies employ more than 200,000 workers in the United States and provide health care and pensions to more than one million Americans. The companies are also a lifeline to thousands of dealers and countless suppliers.
 Support for aiding the industry is growing among political leaders in states with heavy automotive employment. Last week, the governors of Michigan, Ohio, New York, Kentucky, Delaware and South Dakota wrote a letter to Mr. Paulson and the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, urging ''immediate action'' to assist the industry.
 ''While all sectors of the economy are experiencing difficult times, the automotive industry is particularly challenged,'' the letter said. ''As a result, the financial well-being of other major industries and millions of American citizens are at risk.''
 Cerberus, which bought Chrysler last year for $7.4 billion, has been unable to reverse a steady decline in the fortunes at the company, the smallest of Detroit's Big Three. While overall auto sales in the United States are down 12.8 percent this year, Chrysler's sales have fallen 25 percent, mainly because of its focus on gas-guzzling sport utility vehicles and pick-up trucks.
 Cerberus has had discussions with the Japanese automaker Nissan Motor and its French partner, Renault, about bringing Chrysler into their international automotive alliance. But people familiar with the discussions said Cerberus is now focused solely on a potential G.M. deal.
 The depth of the Big Three's problems will become even more evident this week with the release of October sales figures and third-quarter earnings announcements by G.M. and Ford.
 Industry sales fell 26.6 percent in September, but October's totals could be even worse. The auto research Web site Edmunds.com forecasts that sales of new vehicles during the month will drop nearly 30 percent from the same period last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MERGERS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); GOVERNMENT SUPPORT OF BUSINESS (77%); LOBBYING (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); APPROVALS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); PRIVATE EQUITY (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%); FORD MOTOR CO (85%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%); RICK WAGONER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); JOHN MCCAIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2008



122 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 236 words

HEADLINE: Forum to Dish About Your Job

BYLINE: By BRAD STONE

 BODY:
Forum to Dish
 About Your Job
 Plenty of people will probably be bookmarking Glassdoor.com soon. The four-month-old Web site can come in handy for navigating an era of heavy layoffs and endemic unemployment. 
 Glassdoor.com, based in Sausalito, Calif., allows workers anywhere to anonymously list their salaries and rate their employer. Since the site was introduced in June, it has become a window into what employees privately think about 14,000 companies in 98 countries. The evaluations of various chief executives range from the scathing (Randy Falco of AOL and John J. Donahoe of eBay) to the generally laudatory (Lloyd C. Blankfein of Goldman Sachs and Alan G. Lafley of Procter & Gamble).
 Glassdoor seems to be resonating with investors too. Last Tuesday the company announced that it had raised $6.5 million from the venture capital firms Sutter Hill Ventures and Benchmark Capital, which spearheaded a round of fund-raising last year. The company will use the money to pay salaries and keep up with surging traffic.
 Though Glassdoor is ad-supported and unprofitable thus far, Robert Hohman, the chief executive, does not rule out charging companies for some aspects of the service.
 ''There are always two sides to a story,'' he said. ''What we want to do is give employers the tools to let them tell their side of the story, although we have a responsibility to remain committed to the truth.'' BRAD STONE

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); FINANCING ROUNDS (74%); VENTURE CAPITAL (74%); EXECUTIVES (70%); FUNDRAISING (68%)

COMPANY: BENCHMARK CAPITAL (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); SUTTER HILL VENTURES (56%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%); PGP (PAR) (56%); PG (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (56%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (56%)

PERSON: ALAN LAFLEY (55%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (55%); JOHN DONAHOE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2008



123 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1840 words

HEADLINE: BATTLING ON ALL FRONTS WITH ONE DAY TO GO: G.O.P. SCRAMBLING

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE; David M. Herszenhorn contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Outspent and under siege in a hostile political climate, Congressional Republicans scrambled this weekend to save embattled incumbents in an effort to hold down expected Democratic gains in the House and Senate on Tuesday.
With the election imminent, Senate Republicans threw their remaining resources into protecting endangered lawmakers in Georgia, Minnesota, Mississippi, New Hampshire, North Carolina and Oregon, while House Republicans were forced to put money into what should be secure Republican territory in Idaho, Indiana, Kentucky, Virginia and Wyoming.
Sensing an extraordinary opportunity to expand their numbers in both the House and Senate, Democrats were spending freely on television advertising across the campaign map. Senate Democrats were active in nine states where Republicans are running for re-election; House Democrats, meanwhile, bought advertising in 63 districts, twice the number of districts where Republicans bought advertisements and helped candidates.
''We are deep in the red areas,'' Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said on Sunday. ''We are competing now in districts George Bush carried by large margins in 2004.'' 
What seems especially striking about this year's Congressional races is that Democrats appear to have solidified their gains from the 2006 midterm elections and are pushing beyond their traditional urban turf into what once were safe Republican strongholds, creating a struggle for the suburbs.
Trying to capitalize on economic uncertainty, House Democrats are taking aim at vacant seats and incumbents in suburban and even more outlying areas -- the traditional foundation of Republican power in the House. With many of the most contested House races occurring in Republican-held districts that extend beyond cities in states like Florida, Michigan, Minnesota and Ohio, Democrats said expected victories would give them suburban dominance.
The same is true for Senate Democratic candidates, who are seeking to nail down swing counties outside urban centers and move the party toward a 60-vote majority. That majority could overcome a filibuster, if party leaders could hold the votes together.
Among open House seats Democrats say they have a good chance of capturing include those being vacated by Representatives Ralph Regula and Deborah Pryce in Ohio, Jim Ramstad in Minnesota, Jerry Weller in Illinois and Rick Renzi in Arizona.
On the list of incumbents Democrats believe they can defeat are Representatives John R. Kuhl Jr. in New York, Joe Knollenberg in Michigan, Tom Feeney and Ric Keller in Florida, Don Young in Alaska, Robin Hayes in North Carolina and Bill Sali in Idaho.
Democrats say they have been able to peel away suburbanites by emphasizing Republican culpability for the economic decline, a point they say House Republicans helped make themselves by initially balking at the $700 billion bailout and sending the markets into a tailspin that depleted retirement and college savings accounts.
''Suburban voters are angry that their quality of life and standard of living is under attack,'' said Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, chairman of the House Democratic Caucus and a leading advocate of Democrats trying to broaden their appeal in the suburbs.
The partisan spending gap was stark. As of last week, Senate Democrats had spent more than $67 million against Republican candidates, compared with $33.7 million in advertising by Republicans. In the House, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee had spent $73 million, compared with just over $20 million for the National Republican Congressional Committee, according to campaign finance reports.
Most of the House Republican money was spent on behalf of incumbents or in districts where a Republican is retiring, emphasizing how much the party was playing defense. By contrast, House Democrats spent most of their money in the last month going after Republican seats in Colorado, Nebraska, Washington, West Virginia and elsewhere. On Sunday, Democrats prepared one last radio advertisement to begin running Monday in an effort to claim the seat of Thomas M. Reynolds, a Republican retiring from his upstate New York district near Buffalo.
''That kind of says it all,'' said Representative Thomas M. Davis III, a retiring Virginia Republican whose own suburban seat is likely to go Democratic on Tuesday. Mr. Davis said Republicans simply faced too many disadvantages heading into Election Day, including a higher number of retirements in the House and Senate, an unpopular president and an economic collapse.
''You like to see a fair fight,'' said Mr. Davis, a former chairman of the Republican Congressional campaign committee, ''but basically we are playing basketball in our street shoes and long pants, and the Democrats have on their uniforms and Chuck Taylors.''
Neither of the national Senate campaign arms was advertising in Colorado, New Mexico or Virginia, indicating that Republicans were virtually ceding those states, where members of their party are retiring, to the Democrats. Senate Democrats were also optimistic about the prospects of unseating Senator John E. Sununu in New Hampshire and Senator Ted Stevens in Alaska, where Mr. Stevens campaigned despite being newly convicted on felony ethics charges.
Democrats said they saw themselves with the advantage in Minnesota, North Carolina and Oregon, giving them a reasonable chance at claiming eight seats and enlarging their Senate majority to 59 if they hold their current seats.
If Democrats swept those races, it could leave the potential 60th vote to break filibusters resting on the outcome in Georgia, Mississippi or Kentucky, where Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader, is in a competitive race with Bruce Lunsford, a businessman. Polls show Democrats trailing but within striking distance in all three races, with the final results potentially hinging on the presidential race and turnout among Democratically inclined black voters.
In Mississippi, which has not sent a freshman Democrat to the Senate since John C. Stennis was elected in 1947, Senator Roger Wicker, a Republican appointed last year to fill the seat left vacant by Trent Lott's resignation, is in a tight race with former Gov. Ronnie Musgrove, a Democrat.
''We feel we have a lot of momentum,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, ''but we are ever mindful that getting to 60 is an extremely difficult thing to do because we are in so many red states.''
Republicans privately acknowledged that there was little hope for some of their candidates, including Senator Elizabeth Dole of North Carolina. But Republicans have not given up on the idea of unseating Senator Mary L. Landrieu in Louisiana, a state where Senator John McCain was running well against Senator Barack Obama in the presidential race. A victory over Ms. Landrieu by John Kennedy, the state treasurer, would be a significant moral victory for Republicans, and they pointed to internal polls that show a close race.
In Louisiana, North Carolina and Oregon, Republicans were trying to energize voters with the threat of Democratic dominance in Washington, running advertisements that warn voters about ''complete liberal control of government.''
''We agree with Chuck Schumer that this is a tectonic election,'' said Rebecca Fisher, spokeswoman for the National Republican Senatorial Committee. ''And if Democrats get their way, this country will shift so far left it will take generations to get back on track.''
Both parties were focusing substantial final energies on the Senate race in Minnesota, where Senator Norm Coleman, the Republican, was in a heated clash with his Democratic challenger, Al Franken, a former comedian and radio talk show host.
The race remained close as Mr. Coleman was named in a last-minute lawsuit in Texas alleging that a businessman had funneled $75,000 to him through his wife's business. Mr. Coleman, who has filed an unfair campaign practices complaint accusing Mr. Franken of broadcasting falsehoods in his advertisements, denied any impropriety, but the lawsuit led to a flurry of news accounts only days before the election.
In Kentucky, Mr. McConnell enlisted hundreds of volunteers to knock on doors and to make phone calls in the remaining hours. He was to embark on a fly-around of the state's cities Monday in his effort to repel the serious challenge from Mr. Lunsford, who brought in one of Kentucky's favorite daughters, the actress Ashley Judd, to campaign on his behalf in the closing days.
Strategists for both parties said it seemed increasingly possible that the full Senate picture might not even be settled Tuesday, given that a third-party candidate could cause both Senator Saxby Chambliss, Republican of Georgia, and his Democratic opponent, Jim Martin, to fall short of 50 percent of the vote, forcing a runoff on Dec. 2.
Party operatives also warned that Tuesday was likely to produce some surprises, considering the strong resentment toward Congress that has been reflected in polls for months. They predicted upsets of some House incumbents not thought to be in trouble.
Republicans said they believed some top Democratic targets, like Representative Dave Reichert of Washington and Christopher Shays of Connecticut, would be able to hang on because they, and others, had run strong campaigns built on their individual images and records.
''Republican candidates who have established their own personal brand, and have framed their respective races around creating a clear choice, will succeed on Election Day despite the turbulent political environment,'' said Ken Spain, a spokesman for the National Republican Congressional Committee.
One problem for House Republicans was that freshmen lawmakers who gave Democrats control of the House after the 2006 elections were faring much better than party leaders had expected. Some, like Representative Kirsten Gillibrand, who represents the Hudson Valley in New York, became prime Republican targets virtually from the moment they were elected but are now favored to win second terms after raising formidable sums of money and cultivating moderate voting records that insulated them from attack.
Representative John Yarmuth of Kentucky, the president of the Democrats' 2006 freshman class, said only two of its members were in serious trouble: Representative Nick Lampson of Texas, who represents a heavily Republican district south of Houston, and Representative Tim Mahoney of Florida, who has been entangled in a scandal over extramarital affairs.
Mr. Yarmuth credited House Democratic leaders with pursuing an agenda that gave the freshmen substantial achievements to promote back home, especially a generous new education benefit for veterans that counterbalanced the Democrats' opposition to the war in Iraq
''I think that was a trademark of this last Congress that created a moderate image that we were pro-military, pro-troops,'' Mr. Yarmuth said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Norm Coleman, Republican of Minnesota, faces a tough challenge from Al Franken in his bid for a second term. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD MARSHALL/PIONEER PRESS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Senator Elizabeth Dole, Republican of North Carolina, is in danger of losing her seat to State Senator Kay R. Hagan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON M. MICZEK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A17) CHARTS: THE RACES FOR CONGRESS: THE SENATE: THE HOUSE (Sources: TNS Media Intelligence/CMAG
Cook Political Report
 Queens College Department of Sociology) (CHARTS: AMANDA COX AND FARHANA HOSSAIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); SUBURBS (86%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (79%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (70%); LIVING STANDARDS (69%); BAILOUTS (64%); CREDIT CRISIS (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (55%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (56%)

PERSON: RIC KELLER (58%); JIM RAMSTAD (58%); JOE KNOLLENBERG (58%); JERRY WELLER (58%); AL FRANKEN (58%); BILL SALI (58%); JOHN R KUHL JR (58%); ELIZABETH DOLE (58%); RALPH REGULA (58%); DEBORAH PRYCE (58%); RICK RENZI (58%); CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (58%); TOM FEENEY (58%); NORM COLEMAN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



124 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Hefty Discounts CouldArrive on Big-Screen TVs, but Buyers May Be Resistant

BYLINE: By ERIC A. TAUB

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- As the American economy prospered, no other consumer electronics product was more desired than the big-screen digital TV. As the economy sputters and consumers hold back on spending, those TVs are still desired, just not as frequently purchased.
This holiday season, retailers may have no choice but to resort to aggressive pricing, especially on low-end TVs, as they try various strategies to draw more people into the stores.
The price cutting could begin before Black Friday, the day after Thanksgiving when stores offer one-day bargains. According to DisplaySearch, a market research firm, prices could go as low as $400 for a 32-inch LCD, and $600 for a 42-inch plasma set -- about $200 off current prices.
While Stan Glasgow, president of Sony Electronics, said his company will not match those prices, he said, ''those numbers do not shock me.'' 
''The watchword everyone has is uncertainty,'' said Stephen Baker, vice president for industry analysis at the NPD Group, a market research firm that owns DisplaySearch.
Consumers hoping to pick up a Blu-ray player at a rock-bottom price will probably be out of luck. To squeeze out additional profits, prices will not drop much lower than $250 this season, Mr. Baker said. ''There is not enough demand for Blu-ray to grow its installed base. Look to Christmas 2009 for aggressive pricing.''
Even with better value for money, the question remains whether consumers will even venture into the stores to look. ''People are afraid to spend money,'' Mr. Baker said, and there is not a lot one can do to stimulate demand.
It is clear that the consumer electronics industry has already slowed drastically. According to Paul Semenza, senior vice president of DisplaySearch, unit sales in the United States of LCD TVs increased 22 percent in September compared with the same month in 2007; but that was less than the 28 percent increase in August, and July's 32 percent gain.
On a weekly basis, year-over-year sales increased just 3 percent for the week that ended Oct. 18, compared with an 18 percent gain for the week that ended Sept. 20. (The data does not include sales in Wal-Mart and club stores like Costco.)
Nevertheless, some of the manufacturers are hoping for the best. ''In past recessions, consumer electronics has fared rather well,'' said Mr. Glasgow of Sony. ''I believe we'll sell more TVs than last year.''
Bob Perry, Panasonic's senior vice president for marketing, concurred. ''We've been through wars and national calamities,'' he said. ''I just don't see sales dropping off.''
Analysts are not so sanguine. ''The anecdotal evidence is that the stores are pretty quiet,'' Mr. Semenza said. ''There is a whisper in the industry that the retailers are ordering fewer units.''
Many retailers are cutting costs because they expect a lighter selling season. Best Buy announced that it would hire 16,000 to 20,000 seasonal employees, a hefty drop from last year's 26,000 seasonal hires.
Best Buy's comparable-store sales in September dropped 2 percent from the year before. ''We'll see less traffic,'' Brian Dunn, Best Buy's president, said. ''We'll grow our share by offering the right solution, product and service. We're not looking to get every dime out of you. If a customer just wants the lowest price on a TV set, we'll give it to them with a smile.''
And to increase the likelihood that customers will pull out their wallets, several manufacturers, including Panasonic and Sharp, are working with retailers to offer extended financing with either same-as-cash interest or deferred payment plans.
Some believe that bundling items, like a flat-screen TV with a Blu-ray player or an audio system, will provide that extra value that will push consumers to buy.
Best Buy will offer a bundle ''targeted to middle America,'' Mr. Dunn said. And Panasonic will offer bundles that use its proprietary Viera Link technology that allows all Panasonic components to work with one remote, encouraging consumers to stay with the brand.
But not everyone believes in bundling. ''Putting a bundle out is absolutely the wrong thing to do,'' said Mr. Baker of NPD. ''It raises the absolute price.''
To bolster sales, manufacturers like Sharp and Sony have introduced lower-price lines for big-box stores. This spring, Sony began marketing its M line of TVs through Costco, Target and Wal-Mart. Sharp's lower cost line, stripped of its Aquos brand, is marketed to mass merchants.
Samsung, which sells the most flat-panel TVs in the United States, sees consumers deserting the midprice segment. ''We may see some shifting toward entry-level and step-up models,'' said Jonas Tanenbaum, vice president for LCD television marketing at Samsung Electronics America. ''It's the middle area that may not do as well.''
The sets that do sell will probably be smaller. While TV manufacturers speak of LCD and plasma TVs in the 42-inch range as their ''sweet spot,'' for many consumers a TV that big may remain only a wish. The most popular TVs are in the 30-inch to 34-inch range. They account for about 26 percent of all sales. TV screens from 40 and 44 inches represent 20 percent of unit sales.
''The momentum was heading toward the 42-inch size, but now that's off track. That size is the aspirational sweet spot,'' Mr. Semenza said.
To capture those with more limited budgets, Sony this year is selling LCD TVs in the 19-, 26- and 32-inch sizes. ''There are hundreds of dollars of difference in price between these and step-up models,'' Mr. Glasgow said.
One other hope of the manufacturers and retailers: the conversion this February to a digital broadcast signal that makes most old tube TVs hooked to an antenna obsolete. Consumers can buy digital-to-analog converter boxes, but the industry is hoping many will use the conversion as the excuse to buy a new TV.
Sharp's 32-inch set -- at about $600, its best-selling size -- is appealing to consumers looking to replace a 27-inch tube set, said Bob Scaglione, senior vice president of the Sharp Electronics Marketing Company of America.
''Consumers usually buy based on a set dollar amount,'' Mr. Scaglione said. ''However, we believe they may concentrate on slightly smaller screen sizes this holiday season. The majority will try to hang on to 32- and 42-inch sets.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Doubts remain on whether holiday shoppers will even go into stores to look. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIEN JOURDES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (92%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (91%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (90%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); BLUE LASER DISC TECHNOLOGY (78%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (78%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); RETAILERS (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); CHRISTMAS (77%); THANKSGIVING (77%); PRICE CUTTING (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%)

COMPANY: SONY ELECTRONICS INC (56%); PANASONIC CORP (50%)

TICKER: PC (NYSE) (50%); 6752 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335221 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3631 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCES (56%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



125 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 484 words

 BODY:
MORE COMPANIES IN TROUBLE The list of American companies in trouble keeps growing, and the ripples across an already sour economy could prove to be more of a tsunami of bad news. 
NO FEDERAL HELP FOR MERGER The Treasury Department has turned down a request by General Motors for up to $10 billion to help finance a possible merger with Chrysler. [B1.]
ROUGH TIMES FOR REDSTONESumner Redstone, the chairman of CBS and Viacom, has a full plate. He has had to sell $200 million in shares, he has lost hundreds of millions of dollars on a video game investment and, at the age of 85, he and his wife are divorcing. [B1.]
NEW MEDIA AND THE ELECTION The election campaign has been like no other, and not just because of the issues. Four years ago, there was no YouTube, no Huffington Post, and most voters relied on evening newscasts for what was happening. For the effect on this year's election, stay connected. [B1.]
CBS DISCOVERS YOUNG VIEWERS CBS, which has long envied its competition's ability to attract audiences in the 18-to-49 age group, suddenly finds itself at the top of the heap. The reason, apparently, is that viewers find refuge from economic woes in a lineup of police dramas and comedies. [B1.]
ELECTIONS AND STOCK MARKETS Depending on which theory you prefer, stock markets improve during a year of presidential elections, on the day after a Republican is elected, during a Democratic administration or none of the above. [B1.]
LOAN COMPANY SETTLES Goal Financial is the latest student loan company to reach a settlement agreement with the New York attorney general, who found that some were using deceptive tactics and offering prizes to attract borrowers. [B4.]
NEWSPAPER ADS GO TO THE WEB Many local newspapers, like the Knoxville News Sentinel in Tennessee, have established Web sites in an effort to hold ads. But they have watched in frustration as advertisers find other forums, like Web portals and stand-alone Web sites. Advertising. [B6.]
TOP BANKER IN A BAD YEAR Some people might not think this would be a particularly good year to name a ''banker of the year.'' But editors of the trade publication American Banker were undeterred, so they chose Kenneth D. Lewis, the chief executive of Bank of America, above. [B10.]
YAHOO NEWS AWAITS RECORD TRAFFIC The presidential election campaign is drawing to a close, and Yahoo News -- one of the most popular sites on the Web for news -- expects a record number of visitors as the results come in. [B10.]
BIG-SCREEN TVS ON WISH LIST Even in a sour economy, no consumer electronics item is more desired than big-screen TVs. But even they are not selling as well as they once did. [B8.]
WHERE WILL ALL THE EMBEDS GO? Now that the presidential election campaign is drawing to a close, the ''campaign embeds'' -- the off-air reporters assigned to travel with the campaigns -- will be looking for other work in the shrinking field of journalism. [B10.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); MERGERS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (86%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (77%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (69%); CONSUMER LENDING (69%); PRINT ADVERTISING (68%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (68%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (68%); INTERNET & WWW (67%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (65%); STUDENT LOANS (64%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (64%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (62%); SEARCH ENGINES (61%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); VIACOM INC (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); KNOXVILLE NEWS-SENTINEL CO (53%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); VIA (NASDAQ) (57%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

PERSON: KENNETH D LEWIS (56%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



126 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Lame Duck Summit

 BODY:
President Bush will be the lamest of ducks by Nov. 15, when leaders of 20 nations meet in Washington to discuss the global financial crisis. With only two months left in office, he will not be around to implement any policy changes he proposes or agrees to. 
 Mr. Bush's bigger problem is his utter lack of credibility when it comes to the central question of how to regulate national and global financial markets to ensure that this disaster never happens again. Eight years and a huge financial crash later, and Mr. Bush is still extolling the corrective powers of unrestrained markets. 
 Still, the meeting could not, and should not, wait until a more opportune time in America's political cycle. With the world entering a United States-led recession, the global economic powers need to air their concerns and global markets need to see that political leaders are ready to work together to restore stability.
 What this first meeting should not do is try to impose any real policy changes. With the crisis still unfolding, it's too soon for extensive reforms. Philosophical differences are also too deep and with Mr. Bush on his way out, the Americans are in no position to sign anything. 
 When he first proposed a meeting last month, President Nicolas Sarkozy of France called for everything from the ''moralization of financial markets'' to stricter bank supervision and government aid for national industries. Mr. Bush emphasized the need to preserve ''free markets, free enterprise and free trade.'' 
 The two finally agreed that the meeting would ''review progress'' on settling the crisis and ''seek agreement on principles of reform.'' At this point even that is probably too much.
 The summit meeting could still be useful if the leaders used it to begin a serious discussion about the roots of the financial crisis and agree to a series of future meetings to discuss substantive reforms. 
 They could start the process by calling for formation of an international high-level group of nongovernment experts to analyze the causes and implications of the crisis. Once there is some agreement, another group of experts could lay out a list of potential policy changes. That would give the next president a running start.
 We congratulate Mr. Bush for insisting that the invitation list be expanded beyond the wealthiest industrial nations to include other economically important ones like China, India, Australia and Brazil. They are also being hard hit by the made-in-America crisis, as turmoil in the financial markets weakens economies worldwide, threatening vital trade. And these countries deserve a voice in any long-term solution. 
 We'd like to believe that Mr. Bush, after eight years of disdaining diplomacy and anything with the word multilateral attached to it, has finally figured that the United States cannot go it alone. 
 Given the country the next president will inherit -- heavily indebted, oil-dependent and the source of the prevailing financial calamity -- he will be in no position to dictate terms to the rest of the world. If the Nov. 15 meeting can set the stage for real collaboration, it will be a success. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); BRAZIL (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2008



127 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: Fuel Costs and Busy Airports Renew Passenger Train Focus

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
After a half-century as more curiosity than convenience, passenger trains are returning to prominence in some parts of the nation.
 The high cost of fuel, along with traffic and airport congestion, is drawing travelers back to trains for commuting and for travel between cities as much as 500 miles apart.
 Californians are considering selling billions of dollars worth of bonds to start on an 800-mile system of bullet trains that could travel at 200 miles per hour, linking San Francisco and San Diego and the cities in between. 
 In the Midwest, transportation officials are pushing a plan to connect cities in nine states in a hub-and-spoke system centered in Chicago.
 The public is way ahead of policymakers in recognizing trains as an attractive alternative to cars and planes, said Representative James L. Oberstar, a Minnesota Democrat who is chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.
 ''I think we're at a transformational point in intercity passenger rail service,'' Mr. Oberstar said.
 Amtrak, which struggled for years to attract riders, drew a record 28.7 million in the year ended Sept. 30. That is 11 percent more than the year before and the sixth straight year that ridership has increased. Ticket revenue hit a record $1.7 billion, a $200 million increase from a year earlier.
 Rail travel is gaining greater favor in Congress, which provides subsidies to keep Amtrak rolling. Lawmakers are trying to find ways to deal with high energy prices, congested and aging infrastructure, and an air traffic control system that relies largely on World War II-era technology.
 Congress recently passed legislation setting a goal of providing Amtrak $13 billion over five years, a major vote of confidence. The measure also encourages the development of high-speed rail corridors and contains $2 billion in grants to states to enhance or introduce service between cities. The money still must be appropriated.
 President Bush, an Amtrak critic who has opposed anything more than minimal money for the rail service over the past eight years, signed the bill Oct. 16.
 With the economy in crisis and credit tightening, rail supporters acknowledge that there is uncertainty in securing all the money.
 Congress has ''a lot of mouths to feed on the transportation side,'' said Joe McHugh, vice president for government affairs at Amtrak.
 Unlike Europeans, whose cities are connected by passenger rail networks, relatively few Americans travel by rail except in the popular corridor from Washington to Boston, in parts of California and routes extending from Chicago. Outside the Northeast, ticket fares usually do not cover direct operating costs.
 Critics say it is unfair to require people in areas where there is no Amtrak service or infrequent service to subsidize the train travel of people in the few corridors where there is frequent, fast service.
 ''I do not think you can justify many, perhaps most, of the routes Amtrak is running,'' Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama, said in a Senate debate last month. ''Fundamentally, the romantic view that we are going to have some sort of major international rail system does not seem to be realistic.''
 Still, some states are pushing for more and better passenger train service. In California, voters will decide Tuesday whether to start the most ambitious rail project undertaken by any state. The ballot measure would authorize nearly $10 billion in bonds to pay for planning and construction.
 Proponents say a high-speed rail system could help reduce congestion at California airports, lessen dependence on foreign oil and decrease greenhouse gases. Critics say that the state could be forced to raise taxes to pay off the bonds and that the money would be better invested in urban transit systems and highway construction.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Amtrak ridership hit a record 28.7 million in the year ended Sept. 30, up 11 percent over the previous year. Left, the Capitol Limited pulling into Union Station in Washington from Chicago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACQUELYN MARTIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (92%); TRAINS (91%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (90%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (90%); LEGISLATION (88%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); TICKET SALES (73%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (72%); BONDS (71%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (55%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (55%)

PERSON: JIM OBERSTAR (69%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2008



128 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1510 words

HEADLINE: Campaigns Focus on States Their Parties Lost in 2004

BYLINE: By SHARON OTTERMAN; Contributing reporting were Michael Cooper, Jeff Zeleny, John M. Broder, Julie Bosman and Michael Falcone.

 BODY:
On the last Sunday before the election, the presidential candidates and their running mates kept up a relentless pace by visiting states their respective parties had lost in 2004.
 Senator John McCain, the Republican nominee who is trailing in national polls, was making appearances in two states that voted Democratic in 2004, Pennsylvania and New Hampshire, where he will hold his final town hall. On Monday, he will visit five swing states -- starting with a midnight rally in Florida then Virginia, Indiana, New Mexico and Nevada -- along with a stop in Tennessee before flying home to Arizona for Election Day.
 ''Now let me give you a little straight talk about the state of the race today,'' Mr. McCain said hoarsely at a morning rally at Strath Haven High School in Wallingford, Pa. ''There's just two days left. We're a couple of points behind in Pennsylvania. The pundits have written us off, just like they've done before.''
 Then his voice cleared: ''My friends, the Mac is back!'' 
 Senator Barack Obama, the Democratic nominee, spent Sunday speaking at rallies in the largest cities in the hotly contested state of Ohio, with Bruce Springsteen taking the stage Sunday evening in Cleveland to warm up the crowd. On Monday, he will visit three states that voted Republican in 2004, Florida, North Carolina and Virginia, before heading home to Chicago.
 ''We are at the crossroads, and its been a long, long, time coming,'' Mr. Springsteen said, strumming a guitar before breaking into a song, ''The Rising.'' ''I am honored to be on the same stage with Senator Obama. From the beginning, there's been something in Senator Obama that's called upon our better angels.''
 Mr. Obama entered the stage all smiles.
 ''I've got to tell you the last couple of days I've just been feeling good,'' he said, adding that it was in part due to the presence of his wife, Michelle, and daughters Malia and Sasha on the campaign trail. ''You start to think we might be able to win an election on Nov. 4.''
 But he warned against complacency, urging his supporters to go to the polls on Election Day: ''We can't give up now, not when there is so much at stake. We got to go out there and win this election.''
 Mr. Obama spent the morning in Columbus addressing tens of thousands of people on the grounds of the Ohio State House. ''It won't be easy, it won't be quick, but you and I know it's time to come together and change this country,'' Mr. Obama said. ''We can't let this slip away.''
 Gov. Sarah Palin, the Republican vice-presidential nominee, was also appearing in Columbus on Sunday during her own four-city Ohio tour. 
 ''The time for choosing is near, and the choice is going to come down to what we believe in, Ohio,'' she said in Canton. ''We believe in the forward movement of freedom, not the constant expansion of government.''
 Senator Joseph R. Biden. Jr., Mr. Obama's running mate, addressed supporters in Florida, starting in Tallahassee, moving on to Gainesville before a final appearance in Daytona Beach. In his first stop, he said the country's divisive politics must end.
 ''We cannot stay blue and red, really, we cannot stay divided,'' he said on the campus of Florida State University on Sunday afternoon. ''We can't strengthen the economy if we are pitted one against the other.''
 ''We cannot move past the politics of division unless we reach out to those people in the parking lot,'' he added, referring to a dozen noisy pro-McCain protesters nearby.
 Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, also speaking on ''Face the Nation,'' said that Senator McCain was poised to make a final surge.
 ''Well, what we've seen in the last two weeks is very much a tightening of the race in the states that matter,'' Mr. Graham said. ''We see closing in Nevada, New Mexico and Colorado, Missouri, Pennsylvania and Ohio. We have him [Mr. Obama] under 50, in the margin of error.'' 
 For all of the last-minute campaigning, many Americans have already voted. A record 27 million absentee and early votes were cast in 30 states as of Saturday night, according to The Associated Press. 
 Off the trail, the Obama campaign tried to make the most of Vice President Cheney's support of Mr. McCain in a speech in Laramie, Wyo., on Saturday night. By Sunday morning, the Obama campaign had produced a television ad highlighting Mr. Cheney's remarks as an ''endorsement.'' The ad ends with two photos of Mr. McCain with President Bush, emphasizing Mr. Obama's refrain of linking the two.
 While Mr. McCain has spent months distancing himself from President Bush and his policies, he did take the unusual step of praising the president during his Wallingford, Pa., appearance on Sunday. The remarks came after he had been introduced by Tom Ridge, the former Pennsylvania governor and Homeland Security secretary.
 ''I think that Tom Ridge -- and President Bush -- deserve some credit for the fact there's not been another attack on the United States of America since 9/11,'' Mr. McCain said.
 Meanwhile, the Republican Party in Pennsylvania released a new attack ad featuring Rev. Jeremiah Wright, Mr. Obama's controversial former pastor. The McCain campaign said it had not authorized the ad.
 The 30-second spot, titled ''Judgment,'' juxtaposes images of Mr. Obama and Mr. Wright. A narrator says: ''Barack Obama -- he chose as his pastor a man who blamed the U.S. for the 9/11 attacks. Does that sound like someone who should be president?''
 It was unclear how often the ad had been broadcast, and the state group was raising money on its Web site to get more air time.
 For the most part, the candidates hammered home the central messages of their campaigns in rally after rally.
 In Columbus, Mr. Obama vowed to not raises taxes on any American earning less than $250,000 a year, and reminded voters he was the candidate who would move quickly to get troops out of Iraq.
 ''It's time to stop spending $10 billion a month in Iraq while the Iraqi government sits on a huge surplus,'' he said. ''As president, I will end this war.''
 Mr. McCain, meanwhile, continued to play on comments by Senator Biden indicating that Mr. Obama would likely face an international crisis during the first six months of his campaign. 
 ''My friends, I have been tested, Senator Obama hasn't,'' McCain said at an afternoon rally Scranton, Pa., with Senator Joseph Lieberman of Connecticut standing behind him. ''And we know, Senator Obama won't have the right response to that test, because the short time he's been in the Senate we've seen the wrong response from him over and over again.'' 
 The night before, Mr. McCain had appeared on ''Saturday Night Live.'' He opened the show doing a mock QVC segment, with Tina Fey as Sarah Palin on his side.
 Standing in a suit and tie, Mr. McCain hawked knives for cutting pork for the shopping network; and offered 10 blank commemorative plates celebrating the joint town-hall-style meetings that he had wanted to have with Mr. Obama. His wife, Cindy McCain, displayed shiny gold necklaces named after his signature campaign finance reform bill, McCain-Feingold.
 At one point, the fake Sarah Palin went rogue, attempting to sell Palin 2012 T-shirts.
 The skit was a wry take on Mr. Obama's half-hour television spot on Wednesday, which cost his campaign more than $3 million. ''Look, would I rather be on three major networks?'' Mr. McCain said. ''Of course. But I'm a true maverick -- a Republican without money.''
 Keeping with the joking theme, the real Sarah Palin unwittingly took a prank telephone call Saturday from a Canadian comedian posing as President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, who told her she would make a good president someday.
 ''Maybe in eight years,'' replies a laughing Palin, who spent several minutes on the call bantering with the fake president about hunting and other subjects before being told it was a prank.
 The call was made by Marc-Antoine Audette, who with his comedic partner, Sebastien Trudel, is notorious for prank calls to celebrities and heads of state.
 Meanwhile, the government was investigating whether any laws had been broken in the disclosure that Barack Obama's aunt was living in the country illegally.
 The Associated Press reported on Friday that Mr. Obama's half-aunt on his father's side, Zeituni Onyango, has been living in Boston public housing even though she was ordered to leave the country in 2004. 
 The Homeland Security Department is not permitted to disclose details about an individual's immigration status, but two sources, one of whom is a federal law enforcement official, told The A.P that Ms. Onyango was in the country illegally. The A.P. said it could not establish whether anyone at a political level in the Bush administration or in the McCain campaign had been involved in the information's release.
 Mr. Obama's campaign pledged on Saturday to return her $265 in campaign contributions, which Ms. Onyango, a 56-year-old Kenyan citizen, donated in increments in as small as $5. Only American citizens are allowed to donate to political campaigns. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (88%); BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (55%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2008



129 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (Bravo) FIRST CLASS ALL THE WAY Partridge hunting, anyone? Flying in the face of the economic meltdown, this new series is an exercise in excess. Sara Ryan Duffy, right, recently crowned an A-list travel agent by Travel & Leisure magazine, fulfills the outrageous demands of her well-heeled clients, starting by sending five wealthy, presumably real housewives (it's Bravo, after all) to Monaco for a private tour of that royal family's art collection and a meeting with Albert II, Prince of Monaco. Watch it and weep.
7 A.M. (NBC) TODAY A final election poll, and Darrell Hammond and Fred Armisen of ''Saturday Night Live'' do their thing. 
10 A.M. (55); 3 P.M. (NBC) THE ELLEN DeGENERES SHOW Cher, Missy Elliott and the Pussycat Dolls perform.
11 A.M. (ABC); 2 P.M. (55) RACHAEL RAY Ms. Ray peeks in on the ''Hey, Can You Cook?!'' competition at Walt Disney World.
8 P.M. (13, 49) ANTIQUES ROADSHOW Subtitle this one ''Politically Collect.'' This special edition celebrates the ghosts of elections past, including an extensive collection of campaign buttons; a court affidavit submitted by Jimmy Carter to the State of Maine on the eve of the 1976 election appealing its decision to list him on the ballot as James Earl Carter; a desk and chair used in the United States House of Representatives from 1857 to 1873; and signed photographs of Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson, valued at $75,000.
8 P.M. (CW) GOSSIP GIRL Serena (Blake Lively) is surprised to learn that Aaron (John Patrick Amedori) has been withholding information; Blair (Leighton Meester) tries to pave the way into Yale by baby-sitting the teenage daughter of a big-time donor; and Jenny (Taylor Momsen) and Agnes (Willa Holland) plan a fashion show that could mean the beginning of everything. Or the end.
8 P.M. (NBC) DEAL OR NO DEAL In celebration of the show's 200th episode three contestants compete in special speed rounds in which they have only 20 seconds to decide if they will accept the banker's offer or continue to forge ahead toward that $1 million.
8 P.M. (Bravo) INSIDE THE ACTORS STUDIOGoldie Hawn talks with James Lipton about her career, her tattoo and her mother's death.
9 P.M. (Fox) PRISON BREAK Upstairs, downstairs: while Michael (Wentworth Miller), Linc (Dominic Purcell), Bellick (Wade Williams) and Sucre (Amaury Nolasco) scour the basement of the Gate Building in search of a way to bust into the Company headquarters, T-Bag (Robert Knepper) is questioned by a police detective delving into the disappearance of Andrew Blauner (Dameon Clarke). Meanwhile Gretchen (Jodi Lyn O'Keefe) meets with Pad Man (Leon Russom), Wyatt (Ravil Isyanov) has a proposal for Sara (Sarah Wayne Callies) and Mahone (William Fichtner) waits for his chance at the Company cleaner.
9 P.M. (NBC) SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE PRESIDENTIAL BASH 2008 ''SNL'' pulls out its best impersonations in this lampoon of politicians past and present. The two-hour compilation show features sketches culled from the current season as well as the show's 33-year history, interspersed with new skits, including one in which the real Gov. Sarah Palin gives a wink and nod.
9 P.M. (Sundance) PRIMARY (1960) D. A. Pennebaker, Richard Leacock and Albert Maysles chronicle the final week of the 1960 Wisconsin primary campaign and its two Democratic presidential candidates, Senator Hubert H. Humphrey Jr. of Minnesota, above right, and Senator John F. Kennedy of Massachusetts. Among the memorable scenes: Humphrey delivering a populist appeal to a small group of farmers; Kennedy delivering a message of optimism before a packed Milwaukee auditorium; and Jacqueline Kennedy addressing that same audience, most of whom were Polish Roman Catholics -- in Polish.
9:30 P.M. (CBS) WORST WEEK The baby ate it: Sam (Kyle Bornheimer) loses one of the wedding rings given to him by a grandmother (Olympia Dukakis) of Mel (Erinn Hayes) to use on their wedding day.
10 P.M. (Military) TOUR OF DUTY This British documentary series, new to the United States, follows members of the Tigers -- the infantry regiment of the British Army more officially know as the Princess of Wales's Royal Regiment -- in central Amarah, Iraq, as they come under siege in their base, a former governor's residence overlooking the Tigris River. Andy McNab, a former soldier in the Special Air Service, provides briefings on weapons and tactics. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); FAMILY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (75%); ART COLLECTING (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (71%); FASHION & APPAREL (70%); FASHION SHOWS (70%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (70%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (85%); WALT DISNEY WORLD CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (55%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (55%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); JIMMY CARTER (74%); RACHAEL RAY (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE, USA (79%) MONACO (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



130 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: Soldiering On, Clinton Preserves Her Options

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

DATELINE: WINTER PARK, Fla. 

 BODY:
Her crowds are smaller now, and most of the reporters are gone. The campaign posters say his name, not hers. And instead of championing her ideas for health insurance or tax relief, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton is giving out 1-800 numbers and Internet addresses for Senator Barack Obama's campaign.
 Watching Mrs. Clinton campaign for her old rival, masking what friends say is lingering disappointment, it is easy to recall happier days. While she often said, during her 17-month race, that it took ''a Clinton to clean up after a Bush,'' she has now tweaked that line a bit.
 ''It took a Democratic president to clean up after the first President Bush,'' she said to cheers at a rally here on Saturday in the political battleground of central Florida. ''It will take a Democratic president to clean up after the next President Bush!'' 
 Moments later, she made another comment that echoed a Clinton campaign advertisement that ran on the eve of the Pennsylvania primary in which Mrs. Clinton warned voters not to ''take a leap of faith'' with Mr. Obama to protect the country.
 But for the crowd in Winter Park, Mrs. Clinton had this to say: ''I'm not asking anyone to take a leap of faith, I'm just saying, look at the evidence,'' arguing that Mr. Obama's economic proposals were far better than Mr. McCain's.
 The bitterness of that long primary battle, however, is the last thing that Obama supporters brought up about Mrs. Clinton in Florida last weekend. Of 20 interviewed, all effusively praised her. All 20 said that if Mr. Obama won, they hoped that she would be his secretary of state or that she would shepherd his health care or energy bills through the Senate. All 20 said they hoped she would run for president again.
 ''I would have supported her this year if not for her vote for the Iraq war and the fact that she never said it was a mistake,'' said Jocelyn Bartkevicius, a Democrat and writer and editor who attended the rally here. ''But she has been so strong for Obama this fall, such a good sport. I wouldn't hold a long-term grudge. I'd be with her next time.''
 For the friends and allies already thinking about Mrs. Clinton's political future, the possibility of a victory by Senator John McCain on Tuesday would upend an array of assumptions, not least of which that Mrs. Clinton -- if she were to run again -- would not do so until 2016, when she would be turning 69. At the same time, under a McCain presidency, Mrs. Clinton could be well positioned, given her friendship with him and good standing among Washington Republicans, to help him with a Democratic-led Congress on alternative energy, which they have both highlighted on the campaign trail.
 While Mrs. Clinton's high profile in Democratic politics has been fortified by her work for Mr. Obama, her friends say it is too soon to say what the future holds for her. For one thing, they say, she is not over her primary loss: some days it is hard for her, even a little heart-breaking, to campaign for Mr. Obama, given how much she wanted to be president. 
 Others say that she is being a good soldier because she wants to be a power player in Washington if Mr. Obama wins but that she is not sure what her role might be. ''She is a human being,'' said Jill Iscol, a good friend and former supporter of Mrs. Clinton. ''She's a real person, and so she has her feelings, but what matters to her most right now is making sure Obama wins. ''
 Mrs. Clinton told Fox News last month that there was ''probably zero'' chance of her becoming Senate majority leader. Several Senate Democratic aides concur, noting that many of her colleagues supported Mr. Obama for president. Asked about the chances that she would run again for president, she said, ''Probably close to zero.'' (The question was not predicated on whether Mr. Obama would win or lose on Tuesday.) Supreme Court nominee? ''Zero,'' she said. ''I have no interest in doing that.''
 While Mrs. Clinton still has a campaign debt of several million dollars, she has been steadily raising money for her political action committee, which advisers say could become a means to champion women's issues.
 Mrs. Clinton won about 17 million votes in her presidential primary campaign, and by all accounts she will emerge on Election Day as a respected force in the eyes of not only her allies but also of people around Mr. Obama, for whom she has raised several million dollars and done more than 75 rallies, fund-raisers, conference calls and other tasks.
 ''It's one of those times where she has won by losing, in a very real sense,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, her Democratic colleague from New York. ''Whether people were with her, like I was, or not with her, I think everyone's respect for her in the Senate has gone up in the way she has handled herself since the end of the race.''
 Over the long term, some political allies believe that Mrs. Clinton would be a strong choice to lead the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee in 2010, given her fund-raising contacts, her eye for political talent and her proven ability to raise money for the party. She has helped several Senate candidates this year.
 Mr. Schumer also led the senatorial committee in 2006; he said he would not think until after Tuesday about doing it again. Some advisers to Mrs. Clinton said that the idea was intriguing but that they did not know how she felt about it. She declined to be interviewed for this article.
 In the near term -- the first year of the next presidential administration -- several associates said she would like to be an ally of the White House's next occupant, whoever that is. 
 For a President Obama, her favorite, Clinton advisers say she might be positioned to be a point person on his proposal for expanding access to health insurance or for his energy plan, two issues that she and Mr. Obama promoted during the primaries.
 Her hand in health care depends largely, her advisers say, on Senator Edward M. Kennedy, given his experience with health care issues and his seniority. Mr. Kennedy has been in the Senate for 46 years, Mrs. Clinton for 8, and she does not hold a committee chairmanship, where real power resides. 
 Mr. Kennedy has been battling cancer, and many Washington Democrats believe that he will be too ill to carry a major legislative program. But Mrs. Clinton, like other Democrats, would defer to him.
 For a President McCain, on the other hand, Mrs. Clinton might be an emissary between his White House and a Democratic-led Congress.
 ''She has done more for Obama than Dean did in 2004 for Kerry, more than Bradley did for Gore in 2000, more than Kennedy did for Carter in 1980,'' said James A. Thurber, the director of the Center for Congressional and Presidential Studies at American University in Washington, D.C. ''As much as this must hurt her, she has been the ultimate trooper this fall.''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 6, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's political future misstated the number of votes she received during her campaign for the 2008 Democratic presidential nomination. It was about 18 million, not about 17 million.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton at a campaign rally on Saturday for Senator Barack Obama, her former rival, in Winter Park, Fla. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); TAX LAW (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); WRITERS (73%); IRAQ WAR (64%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (88%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2008



131 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2270 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times, November 3, 2008

 BODY:
International
FIGHTING IN CONGO STIRS FEAR
That Instability Could Spread
The relatively small-scale bush fighting in Congo over the last week has attracted intense diplomatic activity. The reason is that violence in Congo, a vast country that borders nine nations in the heart of Africa, usually ends up involving its neighbors. And many foreign officials believe that if Congo collapses, it will drag other countries down with it. PAGE
CHINA CRACKS DOWN ON TAINTED FEED
Facing growing concern that China's animal feed industry could be contaminated by an industrial chemical, regulators there said that they had confiscated and destroyed more than 3,600 tons of the animal feed tainted with the substance, called melamine. The government also said it closed 238 feed makers in a series of sweeps that involved more than 369,000 government inspectors. PAGE A8 
LIBYAN LEADER VISITS RUSSIA
In his first visit to the region since the collapse of the Soviet Union, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, the leader of Libya, visited Moscow over the weekend for talks on oil and natural gas deals. The trip to Russia came just months after he met with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, and it suggested that Colonel Qaddafi is maneuvering to play Russia and the United States against each other for commercial and political favors. PAGE A11
THE TALIBAN'S WIDENING SHADOW
Fear of the Taliban and other militant groups has trickled down to Lahore, Pakistan, long considered the country's cultural and intellectual capital. Lahore's liberal and tolerant outlook has been under attack from Taliban-style moral policing, and anonymous threats have led many shopkeepers to stop selling their wares. ''We didn't want to take any chances,'' one trader said. PAGE A8
ISRAEL TO HALT SETTLEMENT FINANCING
Ehud Olmert, the departing prime minister of Israel, announced several measures in response to a rise in violence by extremist Jewish settlers in the West Bank. One of those measures included halting all direct or indirect government financing of illegal outposts -- an acknowledgment that public money was still being spent on the outposts. PAGE A9
DELEGATES DEFECT FROM A.N.C.
The events of this weekend may go down in South African history as a watershed: a time when 6,400 political delegates from around the nation defected and charted a new course that loosened the African National Congress's grip on government power. Then again, the movement might turn out to be a flop, a lot of batting of wings without sustained takeoff. PAGE A11
NATIONAL
THE FOOT SOLDIERS
On the Floor of Battle
It is still the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, still the center of the amorphous, temperamental, life-altering thing called ''Wall Street.'' But it is quieter now, the humor is not quite as black, and the brokers are a dwindling bunch. Not all leave of their own volition. This Land, by Dan Barry. PAGE A12
GOVERNOR SAID TO BE CLEARED
Gov. Jim Gibbons of Nevada has been cleared by the Justice Department of any wrongdoing in connection with an inquiry into whether he helped a friend win defense contracts in exchange for gifts, his lawyer said. The lawyer, Abbe D. Lowell, said the investigation spanned 18 months and began when a former staff member of a technology company run by a friend of the governor made accusations of influence peddling. PAGE A14
FOR PALIN, A TENDER CONNECTION
Among the many drawn to see Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, the Republican vice-presidential nominee, are those who come because they see in her an advocate for children with special needs. Ms. Palin, 44, is herself the mother of a child with Down syndrome. The families look to her not only because of her promise of improved policies, but because she offers a connection to their struggles and needs. PAGE A19
WELCOME TO A GAWKERS' PARADISE
As he does every year to celebrate the day Nevada became a state, Dr. Lonnie Hammargren opened his house to the public on Sunday. Once a one-story house, it now has three floors and is attached to houses on each side that Dr. Hammargren has bought and similarly overloaded with a lifetime of acquisitions fit for a proud, eccentric pack rat. ''Eclectic'' does not begin to describe it. PAGE A13
OBITUARIES
MILTON KATSELAS, 75
An iconoclastic acting teacher whose 30 years in Hollywood raised him to guru status in the eyes of hundreds of actors, many of them famous. He was a pragmatist who declared himself open to any and all acting theories if they got results. PAGE A29
RABBI MOSHE COTEL, 65
An acclaimed pianist and composer whose works were often infused with themes emanating from his deep Jewish roots, a weave of influences that only later in life led him to the pulpit. Rabbi Cotel was ordained five years ago and since then had been spiritual leader of Temple Beth El in Manhattan Beach, Brooklyn. PAGE A29
BUSINESS
FORECASTERS LOOK TO READ
Wall Street's Political Tea Leaves
Market forecasters like to find a link between presidential election results and the stock market. Some have pointed out that declines in the market immediately before voting generally favor the challenging party. Some research shows that stocks tend to do better the day after a Republican presidential victory. Other data shows that, over time, stocks perform better under Democratic administrations. Or maybe there is no connection at all. PAGE B1
A NEW MEDIA LANDSCAPE
Consider that when Senator John Kerry ran against President Bush in 2004, YouTube did not exist to host candid videos of politicians (like the clip of Barack Obama and a voter, above), The Huffington Post had not yet debuted, and Facebook barely reached beyond the Ivy League. But when election returns start coming in on Tuesday night, the expanded number of new-media options available for getting the newswill even include some old-media entries. PAGE B1
TELEVISION AS COMFORT FOOD
CBS, which supposedly does not fixate on the 18- to 49-year-old demographic, has twice as many shows in the Top 20 among young adult viewers as any of its network competitors. Its lineup -- of police procedurals where the criminals always get caught and sitcoms that are reliably funny in unchallenging ways -- seems to be becoming a safe haven for viewers worried about their jobs and mortgages. PAGE B1
A GROWING INTERNET AD PIE
Local advertisers are expected to spend $12.9 billion online this year, almost five times what they spent in 2004, according to Borrell Associates, a local media research firm. Small businesses are helping drive the growth, and some newspapers are changing their approach in hope of capturing a bigger portion of the sales. PAGE B6
THE END OF THE RIDE
Among those who are not looking forward to the end of the election season are the staff members, variously called ''campaign embeds'' or ''off-air reporters,'' that news media outlets hire to shadow candidates during the campaign. They may end up with great tales to tell, a great resume filler -- and no job. PAGE B10
WORDS YOU CAN'T SAY ON MTV
MTV's muzzling of Weird Al Yankovic; Internet gossip sinks Frank magazine; American Banker chooses its Banker of the Year in a decidedly off-year for bankers; and the bottom falls out for ''Wall Street Warriors.'' Media Talk. PAGE B10
Persian Gulf Asked to Increase Aid B4
Student Loan Company Settles B4
Microsoft Reports Security Status B9
NEW YORK
A HISTORIC WATERWAY
Shows Signs of a Comeback
After decades of decline, commercial shipping has returned to the Erie Canal, though it is a far cry from the canal's heyday. The number of shipments rose to 42 so far this year during the season the canal is open, from 15 during last year's season. Once nearly forgotten, the relic of history has shown signs of life as higher fuel prices have made barges an attractive alternative to trucks. PAGE A23
TURNING TO CONGRESS FOR HELP
Some 600 other survivors of Nazi Germany and Vichy France, so far unsuccessful in a federal lawsuit that accuses the national French railroad of carrying more than 72,000 Jews and thousands of others to Nazi camps, have pinned their hopes on a bill in Congress that would permit their class-action suit to go forward. PAGE A27
A STEP UP IN CLASS
Ylon Schwartz beat out more than 6,800 competitors to get to the finals in the World Series of Poker Main Event, which is considered the unofficial world championship. Even the last-place finisher will take home $900,000. It is a far cry from the day he won $340 by managing to throw a lemon across Church Street from Liberty Plaza and onto the roof of a Burger King near the World Trade Center. PAGE A26
SPORTS
A KNACK FOR ODD CONVERSATION
And Winning Football Games
Mike Leach is a law school graduate who never played football in college and is given to conversations that have nothing to do with the game. He is also coach of the Texas Tech football team, which scored the biggest victory in its history, beating the nation's No. 1 team, Texas, on Saturday night. And with just two years remaining on his contract, he could become one of the most sought-after candidates for coaching jobs at places like Clemson and Washington. PAGE D1
LIFE WITHOUT BASEBALL
Eight years into his retirement from baseball, Jim Leyritz has been shunned by the Yankees. The nearly $11 million he earned as a player is gone, as is his lucrative speaking career. He is awaiting trial in Florida on charges of manslaughter and driving under the influence of alcohol after a fatal crash in December. But not every detail of his life fits the fable of the self-destructive athlete. PAGE D1
GUARD PASSES IN WOMEN'S TENNIS
A year ago Justine Henin and Maria Sharapova played one of the best finals in the 36-year history of the women's season-ending championships. But when the Sony Ericsson Championships begin on Tuesday in Doha, Qatar, neither Henin nor Sharapova will be in the eight-woman field. PAGE D8
Arts
PROFESSORS' LIBERALISM CONTAGIOUS? NEW STUDIES SAY PROBABLY NOT
An article of faith among conservative critics of American universities has been that liberal professors politically indoctrinate their students. A few weeks ago Michael Barone, a fellow at the conservative American Enterprise Institute, warned in The Washington Times that ''the liberal thugocracy'' seems to be taking ''marching orders'' from ''college and university campuses.'' But three new studies have found such worries to be overwrought. The three sets of researchers concluded that professors have virtually no impact on the political views of their students. PAGE C1
GIVING VOICE TO MANY, AND HIMSELF
Studs Terkel's radio voice was unforgettable, as if each phrase scraped the ear with a scoop of gravel. What remains in memory, too, is the earnestness that could turn both fervent and sentimental, Edward Rothstein writes of Mr. Terkel, who died last week. And there was the music -- jazz and blues that often provided a respite from the trademark persona. But what Mr. Rothstein remembers of Mr. Terkel's radio shows in Chicago is that even though Mr. Terkel had some terrific guests, he rarely stood aside. PAGE C1
CELLO FAILS TO FIND HIGH SUITOR
It was a remarkable cello, with an equally remarkable pedigree, and by all accounts it was primed to draw a record price as serious bidding began on the Web site of Tarisio, auctioneers of fine stringed instruments and bows. There was the first bid, $1.35 million. And then there was silence. When the auction ended, there was only that first bid, which was lower than the cello's confidential reserve price. The 1717 cello, one of only 60 or so made by Antonio Stradivari, went unsold. PAGE C3
SEX, DEATH AND CABARET
Karen Kohler's new two-act show, ''Little Death: Songs of Coming and Going,'' at the Zipper Factory on 37th Street in New York, is as cosmopolitan a work of musical theater as the critic Stephen Holden can remember. ''Little Death'' fearlessly blurs the lines separating cabaret, theater and rock 'n' roll, he writes, and Ms. Kohler is a performer who stretches her resources to their limits and sometimes beyond. Between the first act, ''Sex Act,'' and the second, ''Death Act,'' she transforms from a prowling seductress with her hair loose to a more demure mourner. PAGE C2
EYES THAT ARE MOVING
Priyadarsini Govind, who specializes in the South Indian dance tradition of Bharata Natyam, turns into a mischievous Krishna, a grieving mother and a spurned lover at the Skirball Center for the Performing Arts in Greenwich Village. The focal point, whether conveying tragedy or comedy, is Ms. Govind's searing, kohl-lined eyes.
Biker Chicks Rule in Dance C5
'America in the Age of Jackson' C7
Editorial
LAME DUCK SUMMIT
President Bush will be the lamest of ducks by Nov. 15, when leaders of 20 nations meet in Washington to discuss the global financial crisis. But the meeting cannot wait. The global economic powers need to air their concerns, and global markets need to see that political leaders are ready to work together to restore stability. PAGE A26
Op-Ed
WILLIAM KRISTOL
The bad news for liberals is that John McCain could still win the election. The good news? That wouldn't be so terrible for them. PAGE A27
PAUL KRUGMAN
Defeat should cause some Republican soul-searching, as the party asks itself how it lost touch with the national mainstream. But my prediction is that the party will become even more extreme. PAGE A27
NO MORE ECONOMIC FALSE CHOICES
The next president, according to the prevailing wisdom, will have to make hard choices: between increasing public spending and reducing the deficit, between improving regulation and protecting free markets. In an Op-Ed article, Robert E. Rubin and Jared Bernstein write that these decisions, in many important ways, should not be viewed as tradeoffs. PAGE A27

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (A2
 A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); LIVESTOCK FEED (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ANIMAL FOODS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (70%); JEWS & JUDAISM (63%); RETAILERS (63%); STOCK EXCHANGES (63%); HISTORY (62%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (53%); JPM (LSE) (53%); 8634 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (72%); EHUD OLMERT (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); AFRICA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



132 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Republican Blues

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

 BODY:
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. 
 Fazal Fazlin has an American story. Raised in Karachi, Pakistan, he came to the United States in 1969 with an engineering degree and little else. Now he lives on a five-acre estate in the waterfront mansion that once belonged to Nelson Poynter, luminary of the newspaper business.
 Poynter, who died in 1978, was the owner of The St. Petersburg Times, a bastion of journalistic excellence and liberal tradition. 
 Liberalism was never Fazlin's thing. For most of his rags-to-riches American life, he was a Nixon Republican.
 ''I felt Nixon was a great President,'' Fazlin, a dapper 58, told me. ''He opened relations with China, and that's what kept inflation down. He had a really good command of the world.'' 
 So perhaps it's surprising to see ''Obama for President'' signs outside the Poynter-Fazlin mansion and learn that Fazlin, joining long lines of early-voting Florida residents, has already cast his ballot for the Democratic candidate after twice voting for Bush.
 But I'm not surprised. Lifelong Republicans turning to Obama has been one of the themes I've picked up in this campaign, ever since, back in January, I ran into Bryant Jones, an Idaho-raised Republican who'd volunteered for Obama in South Carolina.
 For Jones, it was disenchantment with ''my-way-or-the-highway politics and the same old faces.'' For Fazlin, the Republican Party has ''forgotten itself.''
 That phrase resonated. This election has also been about the ideological exhaustion of a party. What was John McCain's vice-presidential pick but a Hail Sarah pass reflecting the desperation of a Republican trying to succeed Bush?
 Fazlin's Republican Party, he told me over lunch, ''was for less government and it was fiscally conservative. But look at the spending under Bush. We are trillions in debt. My granddaughter will pay for that.''
 His Republican Party believed in a link between hard work and reward rather than between securitized toxic mortgage loans and instant fortunes. His Republican Party believed in transactions based on reality. ''I had to jump through hoops for my first mortgage,'' Fazlin said.
 The party's cultural shift also troubles him. In the party he joined, the Christian Right was insignificant. He sees a link between its rise and ''an attitude toward Muslims that I really don't like. Muslim cannot mean terrorist, but some of the emails I get suggest Republicans don't see the difference.''
 A Muslim himself, Fazlin was pleased to hear another Republican-to-Obama convert, Gen. Colin Powell, say: ''Is there something wrong with some 7-year-old Muslim-American kid believing he or she could be president?''
 American openness allowed Fazlin to make his way. He worked for Zenith in Chicago, then Control Data in Minneapolis, where he came up with ''a process to change the surface energy of Teflon.''
 I associate Teflon with easy-to-flip eggs, but apparently I missed something, which is probably why I'm a hack and he's rich.
 Fazlin's breakthrough was important for circuit boards of high-speed computers. He moved on to plasma technology, founding Advanced Plasma in St. Petersburg in 1980.
 Nineteen years later, he sold the company ''for a few bucks,'' enough to buy the Poynter estate. It was here that his far-flung family (from Pakistan, Canada and Australia) gathered for his birthday in June -- and gave him the decisive prod into the Obama camp.
 They asked: What's happened to America? Why is it so heavy-handed? Why won't it sit down, eyeball to eyeball, with its enemies and try to work things out? Fazlin considered those good questions.
 He switched allegiance, helping to organize a fundraiser for Obama in Orlando. There, he met Obama and liked ''the way he looked me in the eye, the way he wasn't on a pedestal, but one of us.'' He also liked Obama's efficiency (and believes it could save the government money). They talked politics and Pakistani cuisine.
 The Fazlin conversion is significant. Among Republicans flipping to Obama I've detected three core feelings: we have to do something different; we cannot be the party of fiscal irresponsibility; we cannot be the angry party of an ''America-first'' jingoism that alienates the world.
 There's something more, something unspoken. Reagan's line was, ''It's morning again in America.'' Bush has been about American dusk. Republicans are hard-headed but not to the point they want hope banished from the national vocabulary.
 Enter Obama.
 In Miami, I found more of the Fazlin phenomenon. Andy Gomez, an assistant professor at the University of Miami and a Cuban-American, told me his immediate family is made up of five registered Republicans and one Democrat.
 Of that heavily Republican band, five, including Gomez himself, are voting Obama.
 ''Cuba's not the issue,'' he said. ''It's education, health care, the economy.''
 Florida's still a toss-up, but there's Obama movement.
 As Fazlin swept his Mercedes up the drive, I suggested the colonnaded mansion with its cascading bougainvillea was a Spanish colonial.
 ''What? I just think of it as Fazal style,'' he said.
 This is a great country. Hispano-Pakistani is fine. The past is prelude. Only the future counts. It looms tomorrow. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); POLITICS (75%); TERRORISM (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (66%); GRANDCHILDREN (61%); SECURITIZATION (61%); TOXIC ASSETS (61%); RELIGION (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (91%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2008



133 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1511 words

HEADLINE: Anticipating Cuts in Military Spending, Budget Planners Sharpen Their Pencils

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and CHRISTOPHER DREW; Thom Shanker reported from Washington, and Christopher Drew from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
After years of unfettered growth in military budgets, Defense Department planners, top commanders and weapons manufacturers now say they are almost certain that the financial meltdown will have a serious impact on future Pentagon spending.
 Across the military services, deep apprehension has led to closed-door meetings and detailed calculations in anticipation of potential cuts. Civilian and military budget planners concede that they are already analyzing worst-case contingency spending plans that would freeze or slash their overall budgets. 
 The obvious targets for savings would be expensive new arms programs, which have racked up cost overruns of at least $300 billion for the top 75 weapons systems, according to the Government Accountability Office. Congressional budget experts say likely targets for reductions are the Army's plans for fielding advanced combat systems, the Air Force's Joint Strike Fighter, the Navy's new destroyer and the ground-based missile defense system. 
 Even before the crisis on Wall Street, senior Pentagon officials were anticipating little appetite for growth in military spending after seven years of war. But the question of how to pay for national security now looms as a significant challenge for the next president, at a time when the Pentagon's annual base budget for standard operations has reached more than $500 billion, the highest level since World War II when adjusted for inflation. 
 On top of that figure, supplemental spending for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan has topped $100 billion each year, frustrating Republicans as well as Democrats in Congress. In all, the Defense Department now accounts for half of the government's total discretionary spending, and Pentagon and military officials fear it could be the choice for major cuts to pay the rest of the government's bills.
 On the presidential campaign trail, Senators John McCain and Barack Obama have pledged to cut fat without carving into the muscle of national security. Both have said they would protect the overall level of military spending; Mr. McCain has further pledged to add more troops to the roster of the armed services beyond the 92,000 now advocated by the Pentagon, a growth endorsed by Mr. Obama.
 Some critics, citing the increase in military spending since Sept. 11, 2001, say it would be much easier to cut military spending than programs like Social Security and Medicare at a time when most people's retirement savings are dwindling because of the financial crisis. Representative Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat who is chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, has raised the idea of reducing military spending by one-quarter.
 At the Pentagon, senior officials have taken up the mission of urging sustained military spending. Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, has asked Congress and the nation to pledge at least 4 percent of the gross domestic product to the military. And Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates has warned against repeating historic trends, in which the nation cut money for the armed services after a period of warfare.
 ''We basically gutted our military after World War I, after World War II, in certain ways after Korea, certainly after Vietnam and after the end of the cold war,'' Mr. Gates said. ''Experience is the ability to recognize a mistake when you make it again.''
 Mr. Gates acknowledges that military spending is almost certain to level off, and he expressed a goal that the Pentagon budget at least keep pace with inflation over coming years.
 Apprehension over potential budget cuts has trickled down the Pentagon bureaucracy to those who each year draft the military's spending proposals.
 ''If that's what they want, they have to know that we simply cannot do everything we are doing now, but for less money,'' said one Pentagon budget officer who was not authorized to speak for attribution. ''So if there's going to be less, it's up to the president, Congress and the public to tell us what part of our national security mission we should stop carrying out.''
 Much of the Pentagon budget pays for personnel costs, which are difficult to cut at any time, and particularly while troops are risking their lives in combat.
 Mr. Obama has said his plan to begin drawing down American forces from Iraq would ease a wartime taxpayer burden that now totals over $10 billion a month. But budget analysts at the Pentagon and on Capitol Hill say that even troop reductions in Iraq -- whether at the cautious pace laid out by President Bush and endorsed by Mr. McCain or at the more rapid pace prescribed by Mr. Obama -- would present little savings in the first years.
 Moving tens of thousands of troops and their heavy equipment home from the Persian Gulf region is a costly undertaking. And housing at stateside bases is more expensive than in the war zone, so savings would be seen only in subsequent years.
 Calls by both presidential candidates to shift troops from Iraq to Afghanistan actually would add costs to the Pentagon budget, according to military planners and Congressional budget experts. It is significantly more expensive to sustain each soldier in Afghanistan than in Iraq because of Afghanistan's landlocked location and primitive road network.
 The federal budget is due to Congress in February, but that document is expected to be little more than an outline, arriving soon after Inauguration Day. Congressional officials predict the new president will require several months to put his imprint on a detailed spending plan that would actually be worth debating on Capitol Hill.
 On the campaign trail, Mr. Obama has said he would initially maintain overall military spending at current levels.
 ''Obama has made it very clear that he doesn't see how the defense budget can be cut now given the commitments we have,'' said F. Whitten Peters, a former Air Force secretary now advising Mr. Obama on national security policies. ''His sense is that there is not money to be cut from the defense budget in the near term.''
 But in looking to future Pentagon budgets, he added, it is clear that ''all the weapons programs cannot fit.'' 
 ''So,'' he continued, ''you're going to have to make some hard decisions.''
 Mr. McCain, a former Navy combat pilot who was taken prisoner during the war in Vietnam, is known for taking on what he has seen as wasteful Pentagon spending.
 According to one of his advisers on military policy, Mr. McCain ''feels very strongly that the whole procurement process is totally dysfunctional.'' 
 ''He believes that putting order, discipline and accountability back into the process will stop the gold-plating and bring costs down,'' said the adviser, who asked not to be named in order to discuss the candidate's views frankly. 
 These budget pressures also seem quite likely to add to the tensions between Congress and the Pentagon over the best balance between supporting the troops fighting insurgencies and developing weapons that might be needed in larger wars.
 ''I think we need a complete review of this whole thing,'' said Representative Neil Abercrombie, a Democrat from Hawaii who is chairman of a House Armed Services subcommittee. ''You cannot make a case for undermining the readiness of the Army and the Marines in the circumstances that we face today with a commitment of so much money to weapons systems that are at best abstract and theoretical.''
 Executives at the leading defense contractors say they realize that the Pentagon's spending is likely to be more restrained. Boeing's chief executive, W. James McNerney Jr., recently wrote in a note to his employees: ''No one really yet knows when or to what extent defense spending could be affected. But it's unrealistic to think there won't be some measure of impact.''
 Ronald D. Sugar, the chief executive of Northrop Grumman, told stock analysts last month that financing for the company's projects seemed locked in for the coming year. But, Mr. Sugar added, ''Clearly the pressures are going to increase in the out years.'' 
 A number of scholars who have examined the subject, including David C. Hendrickson, a political scientist at Colorado College, predict that ''defense will not prove to be 'recession proof.' '' 
 ''Serious savings could be had by reducing force structure and limiting modernization,'' said Professor Hendrickson, who posted a ''blogbook'' on the financial crisis at pictorial-guide-to-crisis.blogspot.com. ''Though American power has weakened on every count, there is no reconsideration of objectives. Defining a coherent philosophy in foreign affairs and defense strategy that is respectful of limits is vital.''
 Other analysts, like Loren B. Thompson of the Lexington Institute, a policy research center, say that weapons spending will be fiercely defended by many in Congress and their allies in the weapons industry as a way to stimulate the economy. Buying new armaments and repairing worn-out weapons, Mr. Thompson said, protects jobs and corporate profits, and therefore benefits the economy over all.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Joint Strike Fighter program, which rolled out a jet in 2006, is said to be a target for cuts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE FUENTES/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(A12)
Representative Barney Frank, top, has raised the idea of cutting military spending. Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates has warned against it. (PHOTOGRAPHS, ABOVE BY MITCH DUMKE/REUTERS
 BELOW BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE SPENDING (95%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); ARMIES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); MEDICARE (75%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (73%); AIR FORCES (73%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (56%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (56%); US AIR FORCE (56%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (58%); BARACK OBAMA (54%); BARNEY FRANK (54%); JOHN MCCAIN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2008



134 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: Level of White Support For Obama a Surprise

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
If Tuesday's election were confined to white America, polls show, Senator Barack Obama would lose.
 And yet Mr. Obama's strength across racial lines lies at the heart of his lead in the polls over Senator John McCain heading into Election Day. Remarkably, Mr. Obama, the first black major party presidential nominee, trails among whites by less than Democratic nominees normally do.
 America's political parties grew decisively polarized by race after 1964, the year President Lyndon Johnson signed civil rights legislation that his Republican presidential opponent, Barry Goldwater, opposed. Since then, election pollsters estimate, Democratic nominees have averaged 39 percent of the white vote. In last week's New York Times/CBS News poll, Mr. Obama drew 44 percent support among whites -- a higher proportion than Bill Clinton captured in his general election victories. 
 Analysts ascribe that success to changing racial attitudes, Mr. Obama's deftness, Republican missteps and the economic crisis. Whatever the cause, when combined with his two-to-one edge among Hispanics and his 10-to-1 edge among blacks, it has given him a national election-eve lead.
 The race is not over, and Election Day could bring surprises. And Mr. McCain is capturing a majority of the white vote, according to these same polls. Yet population shifts have made racial and ethnic diversity an unavoidable fact of American life. When Ronald Reagan won re-election in 1984, whites made up 86 percent of the electorate; by 2004, they had dropped to 77 percent.
 With that backdrop, some observers say racial attitudes have diminished as an independent force, fading into the broader fabric of cultural concerns that shape voters' choices like religion, abortion and gun control. 
 ''Anybody who votes against Barack Obama because of the color of his skin, the Republicans would have gotten on another cultural issue,'' said David Saunders, a consultant in Virginia who advises Democratic candidates on attracting white rural and working-class voters.
 The presidential historian Michael Beschloss credits Mr. Obama with reprising the approach adopted by John F. Kennedy in his 1960 breakthrough as the first Roman Catholic to win the presidency. ''He was running to be president of all the people, not president of a faction,'' Mr. Beschloss said. 
 A recent NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll documents Mr. Obama's success in making that case. Asked whether an Obama presidency would favor the interests of blacks over other Americans, 8 in 10 whites said it would not.
 For Democratic strategists who have spent their careers laboring to regain white voters' allegiance, that alone is a striking achievement. In the mid-1980s, research by the pollster Stan Greenberg in Macomb County, Mich., concluded that middle-class whites resented the ''raw deal'' they received from a political debate in which Democrats appeared focused on racial minorities and the poor.
 Like Mr. Greenberg's client Bill Clinton in 1992, Mr. Obama has emphasized broad-gauged assistance for the middle class. ''He's managed to campaign in ways that may not have changed their world view but have allowed them to put those feelings aside,'' Mr. Greenberg said. He added with a note of bemusement, ''Maybe he has crossed over into Tiger Woods territory.''
 Frustrated Republicans see Mr. Obama's steady performances on the stump and in debates as only part of the explanation for his surprising level of white support. Just as responsible, some argue, is that President Bush's unpopularity in threatening economic times has veered close to Herbert Hoover territory. ''You've got to give Obama an awful lot of credit for his likability,'' said Tom Slade, a former FloridaRepublican Party chairman, who abandoned his own Democratic allegiance in 1964 in the early phase of white conservatives' political migration. More important, he said, ''We have done a miserable job of managing the affairs of government.''
 In the early 1990s, the political reporter Peter Brown wrote ''Minority Party,'' a book exploring the pitfalls of the Democrats' identification with the interests of African-Americans. He credited Mr. Obama with providing ''a comfort zone'' for white voters, but pointed to the major boost he received this fall from the financial crisis on the watch of a Republican president.
 ''The most important color is green,'' said Mr. Brown, now assistant director of the Quinnipiac University Polling Institute. ''When Lehman Brothers went under, this thing changed dramatically. People are just terrified about their financial futures.''
 In the spring, some Democratic strategists feared Mr. Obama might be crippled in states where he lost working-class white primary voters decisively to Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. In Ohio, carried by Mr. Bush in 2000 and 2004, polls now show Mr. Obama is competitive; in Pennsylvania, a top target for Mr. McCain, he is ahead in the polls.
 With a message muting racial concerns, Mr. Obama didn't begin his presidential bid with overwhelming strength among blacks; that came only after he defeated Mrs. Clinton in the white-dominated Iowa caucuses. ''Ironically, the biggest difficulty about race for Obama was the doubts among African-Americans about his ability to succeed in the nominating process,'' said Tad Devine, a top strategist for Al Gore in 2000 and John Kerry in 2004.
 ''It's amazing to me -- almost unreal,'' Representative John Lewis of Georgia said. Earlier this fall Mr. Lewis, the civil rights movement veteran, accused Mr. McCain's campaign of ''sowing the seeds of hatred'' in a way that was reminiscent of George Wallace during the 1960s, an attack that the Republican nominee called ''brazen and baseless'' and that Mr. Obama distanced himself from.
 More recently, Mr. Lewis added, the campaign has made him ''sort of sad'' since leaders of that movement, including the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and President Johnson, cannot witness Mr. Obama's candidacy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POPULATION DECLINE (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ETHNICITY (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); GUN CONTROL (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (63%); RELIGION (63%); HISTORY (61%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (83%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); BILL CLINTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2008



135 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: What Happens to Public Financing, When Obama Thrived Without It?

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

 BODY:
As Senator Barack Obama spends the last of hundreds of millions of dollars donated to his presidential campaign, the debate over how future campaigns will be financed is set to begin in earnest. 
 The outcome promises to have a profound impact on future presidential runs, either upping the fund-raising ante irrevocably or forcing sweeping changes to prevent such large amounts of cash from coursing through campaigns again. But just as it has in this election cycle, it is quite likely that politics, as much as principle, will shape the jockeying. 
 Democrats, in particular, who have traditionally supported limits on campaign spending, are grappling with whether they can embrace Mr. Obama's example without being seen as hypocritical. They are keenly aware that they have developed through the Internet a commanding fund-raising advantage over Republicans, much like the direct mail money machine that conservatives used to lord over them. 
 ''I think there is going to be tremendous reluctance on our side to yield any of that advantage,'' said Tad Devine, a senior strategist for Senator John Kerry's presidential campaign in 2004.
 Bob Kerrey, a Democratic former senator from Nebraska who serves as an honorary chairman of a group that fights for public financing of federal races, wrote an opinion article in The New York Post last week in which he confessed to newfound ambivalence on the issue in light of Mr. Obama's success among small donors and the energy he had seen in the election this year.
 Mr. Kerrey said in an interview that part of his change of heart might indeed be because the existing system was benefiting Democrats, and he said he believed that many others in his party were wrestling with the issue anew because of the changed calculus. But he added that Mr. Obama's army of small donors had altered the terms of the debate, causing him to believe that he had been wrong about the need for such limitations. 
 ''I think the reformers' arguments have been substantially undercut by the facts on the ground,'' Mr. Kerrey said.
 Both candidates have campaigned as reformers and declared that repairing the public financing system for presidential campaigns would be a priority in their administration. But Mr. Obama, the Democratic nominee for president, apparently did not absorb much by way of political cost when he broke a pledge to accept public financing if his opponent did as well. 
 Mr. Obama built a huge financial advantage over the Republican nominee, Senator John McCain, which may have written the epitaph for the current system. 
 A recent USA Today-Gallup poll found most Americans did not even know who was taking public financing and who was not; only Mr. McCain opted for the $84 million in public financing. But the survey also found most of those polled supported limits on campaign spending. 
 House and Senate leadership aides said it was highly unlikely that the issue would earn much attention next year, given other priorities like the economy and the war in Iraq. There is also the matter of the brewing debate among Democrats, who will probably control Congress, over whether such limits are even warranted.
 ''Democrats may decide this is working pretty well,'' said Representative David E. Price, Democrat of North Carolina, who last year was the lead sponsor of a measure in the House to update the presidential public financing system. ''I don't really know what might materialize in the way of views on our side.''
 Campaign finance reform has been a signature cause for Mr. McCain, though he declined in recent years to sponsor bills updating the presidential public financing system. Yet if Mr. McCain were to win on Tuesday, the resistance in Democratic circles to new financing rules would presumably only grow as they plot another assault on the Republicans' White House grip in 2012. 
 The existing presidential public financing system began in the 1970s after the Watergate scandal to limit the influence of money in politics, but it has not kept pace with the escalating spending. The 2004 race marked the first time both major nominees, Mr. Kerry and President Bush, decided to bypass the federal matching funds for the primary. Mr. Obama became the first major party candidate to opt out of the system for the general election. The move allowed him to continue raising private donations while Mr. McCain could not.
 But advocates for tighter restrictions on campaign finance said they were alarmed by the more than $1.5 billion that had been raised by the presidential candidates in the primary and general elections this year -- the first time presidential aspirants have topped $1 billion. (The Obama campaign alone has raised more than $600 million.) The advocates said that they were poised to begin aggressively lobbying for changes to the public financing system and that they hoped the issue would be taken up quickly by the new president and Congress. 
 The bill they are promoting seeks to offer new incentives to participate in the public finance system by substantially increasing the amount of public money available to candidates. Its provisions include increasing the ratio of public matching funds available in the primary, eliminating state-by-state primary spending limits and increasing the size of the grant for the general election. 
 Advocates for the bill said they were not convinced of Mr. Obama's argument, now being embraced by many fellow Democrats, that by raising unprecedented sums from small donors he had addressed the problem of big-money influence in politics. Skeptics note that Mr. Obama raised record amounts from large donors as well. 
 In addition, they said, the presidential campaign this year highlighted new issues, like megadonors to joint fund-raising committees that benefit the candidate and the party. There are also questions about whether Internet donations are being vetted adequately, which has drawn increased scrutiny in recent weeks with regard to contributions to the Obama campaign. 
 ''Whether we get to move this meaningful campaign reform forward is going to depend largely on the leadership of either Obama or McCain,'' said Craig Holman, a lobbyist for Public Citizen, a watchdog group. ''If either one of them decides they don't care, we're going to have a hard time convincing Congress to take up the issue.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); INTERVIEWS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); POLITICS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (73%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2008



136 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; AN APPRAISAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: He Gave Voice to Many, Among Them Himself

BYLINE: By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN

 BODY:
The voice is unforgettable, as if each phrase scraped the ear with a scoopful of gravel. What remains in the memory too is the earnestness that could turn both fervent and sentimental. And there was the music, jazz and blues that often provided a respite from the trademark persona. 
 But after hearing that Studs Terkel had died on Friday, I thought about his WFMT radio shows, which I had heard during my years in graduate school in Chicago. He seemed to be without pretense and compassionate but not terribly revealing or comforting. He had some terrific guests, but he rarely stood aside. 
 Since Mr. Terkel's death, testimonials have proliferated. ''I think he was the most extraordinary social observer this country has produced,'' Robert Coles, professor of psychiatry at Harvard, told The Los Angeles Times.
 ''He was the quintessential American writer,'' Representative Dennis J. Kucinich wrote on The Nation's Web site, thenation.com. ''He was our Boswell, our Whitman, our Sandburg.'' (Though wasn't Whitman already our Whitman and Sandburg our Sandburg?) 
 And without Mr. Terkel's radio program, which was broadcast daily between 1952 and 1997, and without his books of oral history -- including one that won him the Pulitzer Prize -- it is difficult to imagine that National Public Radio would have evolved in the way it did, or that Ken Burns could have made oral history into a cinematic tradition. Just dip into some of the imposing volumes of oral history, in which Mr. Terkel took on the social world of the 20th century -- ''Hard Times,'' ''The Good War'' or ''Working'' -- and you are amazed at the range of people who spoke with him about the Depression, the Second World War or the world of the workplace: the bookmaker and the stockbroker, the carpenter and the washroom attendant, the mayor and the supermarket cashier. Mr. Terkel anticipated the academic movement of recent decades to tell history from below -- not from the perspective of the makers of history but from the perspective of those who have been shaped by it. He once said he was interested in the masons who might have built the Chinese Wall, or the cooks in Caesar's army. That is also one of oral history's implicit ambitions: using a populist style to tell populist history. The oral historian does little more than hold up a mirror, just making sure the glass is clean. The practice claims to be self-effacing and world-revealing. How can a collection of interviews be anything else? 
 But if you look closely at these oral histories, you can never forget who has shaped them and to what end. It often seems easy to guess whom Mr. Terkel liked and who is there to make a particular point or provide ironic contrast. When in ''Working'' -- compiled in the early 1970s -- we read about a public-school teacher who is unfashionably strict in her classroom, the rhetorical blade cuts the shape of the account. She ends by telling of her most memorable pupil who was ''special'' and ''never any trouble,'' later a cashier at a supermarket who ''gives no one trouble today either'' and ''has the same smile for everyone.'' Neither the teacher nor her star pupil is meant to be admired.
 The most admired are those who, because of personal gifts, transcend the monotony of working life; the most respected are those who come to recognize those horrors most clearly and speak of them. The interviews fit the intellectual framework set up by the ''Working'' introduction: ''This book, being about work, is, by its very nature, about violence -- to the spirit as well as to the body.'' That means it includes, in Mr. Terkel's list, ulcers, accidents, shouting matches, fistfights, nervous breakdowns, daily humiliations and ''scars, psychic as well as physical.'' There are some, he says, who may enjoy their work, but these cases may ''tell us more about the person than about his task.'' He seems to cheer the questioning of the ''work ethic,'' though he himself clearly relished it and relied upon it. 
 This vision of work, though, is an obvious translation of a traditional Marxist view of the alienation of labor -- the sense of disassociation that comes from the capitalist workplace. The most transformative accomplishment would be to recognize the causes of that alienation, because that would help usher in a new world; this is what Mr. Terkel seems to cherish in his most admired laborers and what he hopes to accomplish in the book itself. 
 It is, in fact, impossible to separate Mr. Terkel's political vision from the contours of his oral history. You grow more cautious as you keep reading. Mr. Terkel seems less to be discovering the point latent in his conversations than he is in shaping the conversations to make a latent point. 
 This is not something often recognized about these books. Yet when Mr. Terkel's 1970 oral history of the 1930s Depression, ''Hard Times,'' was reissued in 1986 in the heart of the Reagan administration, Mr. Terkel's new introduction worked strenuously to show how the two eras were comparably nightmarish -- though the 1980s never had anything like the 25 percent unemployment of the earlier era. Mr. Terkel writes: ''In the '30s, an administration recognized a need and lent a hand. Today an administration recognizes an image and lends a smile.'' Similarly, Mr. Terkel's 1985 Pulitzer Prize-winning book, ''The Good War,'' has a title in ironic quotation marks because the emphasis, again and again, is on World War II's shadows and injustices, with allusions, in the words of one interviewer singled out for attention, to a contemporary ''meanness of soul.'' 
 All this is saying, perhaps, is that Mr. Terkel was a man of the political left -- something of which he made no secret. The difficulty is for readers who presume they are being presented history without perspective, just a series of oral histories. But its perspective actually seems to guide its strategy, so one is no longer sure what is being omitted and how much is being fully seen. No part of history or human experience should be ignored, but all of it needs to be placed in a larger context.
 Part of Mr. Terkel's wide appeal was that he seemed to be a scrappy liberal in his choice of causes and concerns, but look more closely and it becomes less clear where his liberalism slips into radicalism. Though Mr. Terkel was not a theorist, nearly every one of the positions approvingly intimated by him seem to fit models shaped by Marxist theory; he even wore something red every day to affirm his attachment to the working class. 
 Mr. Terkel also provided a blurb for the memoirs of William Ayers, the Weatherman bomber whose connection with Barack Obama has been a point of controversy. ''A deeply moving elegy to all those young dreamers who tried to live decently in an indecent world,'' Mr. Terkel wrote. ''Ayers provides a tribute to those better angels of ourselves.'' 
 Mr. Terkel presented himself as an avuncular angel with close contact with the salt of the earth, a populist with a humane vision of the world. There are times such gifts are evident, but there are also times when such dreamers should make us wary. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Studs Terkel in 1992, taking a bus home after working on his show at WFMT radio in Chicago. Among Mr. Terkel's oral-history books: ''Working'' (1974). (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS WALKER/THE CHICAGO TRIBUNE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 President Bill Clinton and Hillary Rodham Clinton in 1997 with Studs Terkel, recipient of a National Humanities Medal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RON EDMONDS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: An Appraisal

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); HISTORY (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); INTERVIEWS (76%); WRITERS (73%); JAZZ & BLUES (72%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); PUBLIC RADIO (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); PSYCHIATRY (69%); WORLD WAR II (63%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (51%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (74%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (74%); DENNIS KUCINICH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2008



137 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CAMPAIGN NOTEBOOK; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: As Time Runs Out, Names, Dates and Other Details Trip Off the Tongue

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
When you speak thousands upon thousands of words in public each day, some of them are bound to come out a bit twisted from time to time -- especially during the grueling, sleepless, what-state-are-we-in final days of a presidential campaign. 
 Most of the time they are not so much gaffes as odd verbal hiccups. So there was Senator John McCain, the Republican presidential nominee, on Sunday in Wallingford, Pa., offering up a novel description of supply-side economics with his observation that ''keeping taxes low creates jobs, keeps money in your pants and strengthens our economy.''
 And Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. in Melbourne, Fla., on Tuesday, mangling the name of the Republican vice-presidential nominee as ''Sarah McCain,'' and making each day seem extraordinarily long when he said there were ''seven more weeks'' until the election.
 Time -- often an elastic concept on the trail -- also tripped up his Republican counterpart, Gov. Sarah Palin, who may be hoping that none of her supporters in Canton, Ohio, wait until Wednesday to vote. On a campaign stop there Sunday Ms. Palin told them, ''Now with just three days from the election, the time for choosing is near.'' Two hours later in Marietta, she corrected herself: ''We are just two days away from the election!'' 
 And Senator Barack Obama, the Democratic presidential nominee, mixed up his fictional do-gooders Sunday in Columbus, Ohio, as he reached for a new simile to make his argument that Mr. McCain has been a ''sidekick'' to President Bush. ''He is like Kato to the Green Lantern,'' he said. ''You all remember that, those of you over a certain age?''
 If the remark drew little crowd reaction, perhaps it was because Mr. Obama had the wrong green guy. He apparently meant to say Green Hornet, to whom Kato (memorably played by Bruce Lee) was the sidekick. MICHAEL COOPER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (55%); JOB CREATION (55%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (76%); JOHN MCCAIN (76%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); JOE BIDEN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (69%) OHIO, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2008



138 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: New Beltway Debate: What to Do About Iran

BYLINE: By CAROL GIACOMO

 BODY:
It is a frightening notion, but it is not just the trigger-happy Bush administration discussing -- if only theoretically -- the possibility of military action to stop Iran's nuclear weapons program. 
 Of course, no president or would-be president ever takes the military option off the table, and Barack Obama and John McCain are no exception. 
 What is significant is that inside Washington's policy circles these days -- in studies, commentaries, meetings, Congressional hearings and conferences -- reasonable people from both parties are seriously examining the so-called military option, along with new diplomatic initiatives. 
 One of the most thorough discussions is in a report by the Washington-based Bipartisan Policy Center, founded by four former senators -- the Republicans Robert Dole and Howard Baker and Democrats Tom Daschle and George Mitchell -- to devise policy solutions both parties might embrace. 
 The report warns that the next administration ''might have little time and fewer options to deal with this threat.'' It explores such strategies as blockading Iran's gasoline imports, but it also says that ''a military strike is a feasible option and must remain a last resort.'' 
 Its authors include Dennis Ross, top Mideast adviser to Mr. Obama, and former Senator Dan Coats, a McCain adviser. 
 Ashton Carter, a senior Pentagon official in the Clinton administration, wrote a paper for the Center for a New American Security, a prestigious bipartisan think tank, that asserts military action must be seen as only one component of a comprehensive strategy, ''but it is an element of any true option.'' 
 At a conference in September in Virginia sponsored by the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, ''surrogates'' for Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama insisted America must focus on preventing Iran from developing a bomb, not on allowing Iran to produce one and then deterring its use. 
 ''John McCain won't wait until after the fact,'' declared the columnist Max Boot, from the McCain team. The Arizona senator has previously said risking military action may be better than living with an Iranian nuclear weapon (and to his regret jokingly sang a song about bomb, bomb, bombing Iran).
 Richard Danzig, Mr. Obama's surrogate, said his candidate believes a military attack on Iran is a ''terrible'' choice, but ''it may be that in some terrible world we will have to come to grips with such a terrible choice.'' Early in the primary campaign, Mr. Obama declared that as president he would sit down in his first year in office with -- among others -- Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. (He has been reparsing that commitment ever since.) 
 Given the global economic meltdown and other crises, it is not surprising if the American public is largely unaware of this discussion. What makes me nervous, is that's what happened in the run-up to the Iraq war. 
 In those days Americans were reeling from the shock of 9/11 and completely focused on hunting Al Qaeda in Afghanistan. In Washington, though, talk quickly shifted to the next target -- Iraq. 
 Bush administration officials drove the discussion, but the cognoscenti were complicit. The question was asked and answered in policy circles before most Americans knew what was happening. Would the United States take on Saddam Hussein? Absolutely. 
 As a diplomatic correspondent for Reuters in those days, I feel some responsibility for not doing more to ensure that the calamitous decision to invade Iraq was more skeptically vetted. 
 This time the debate is not so one-sided. Most experts acknowledge that military action poses big risks and offers no guarantee of destroying Iran's nuclear program. 
 Both presidential candidates have also promised new diplomatic initiatives. Mr. McCain talks of tougher sanctions and Mr. Obama proposes a comprehensive approach involving sterner penalties, more compelling incentives and direct talks with Iran. 
 Mr. Ross, who was top Mideast negotiator for the first President George Bush and for President Bill Clinton, said that in the prelude to Iraq, nearly all of the talk focused on military action. He says this time experts are taking a harder, more systematic look at all options -- including force -- because diplomatic efforts have failed to slow Iran's rush to master nuclear technology. 
 ''I want to concentrate the mind and make people understand, 'Look, this is serious and you don't want to be left with only those two choices' '' -- war or living with an Iranian bomb, he said. 
 With Iran projected to produce enough fuel for a nuclear weapon by 2010, the next president is going to have to concentrate his mind quickly. We hope he, unlike George W. Bush, will encourage a broader public debate about all of America's options, and the high cost of another war. I will certainly be a lot more skeptical. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); BOMBINGS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (72%); WRITERS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (52%); GASOLINE (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); TOM DASCHLE (58%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (58%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (57%); DAN COATS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2008



139 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: Russians With Pumpkins Protest Many U.S. Plots

BYLINE: By ELLEN BARRY

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
Thousands of Russians from the pro-Kremlin youth group Nashi gathered in front of the United States Embassy here on Sunday night carrying jack-o'-lanterns inked with the names of war victims and charging that the war in Georgia was part of an American plot to improve Senator John McCain's electoral prospects. 
 As music by Johnny Cash and the Allman Brothers played from loudspeakers, a stream of young people climbed off buses that had carried them to Moscow from far-flung provincial capitals. They held the pumpkins aloft for a moment of silence as a deep bass thumped and carnival-style lights played on the embassy's facade. 
 In a film projected on several large screens, an actor playing President Bush (though with a heavy Russian accent) delivered a speech in which he gloated over the United States' control over world affairs. The film asserted that the United States orchestrated World Wars I and II so that the American economy could overtake Europe's, carried out the Sept. 11 attacks to broaden government powers and planned to brand every person on the planet with the ''mark of the beast,'' as referred to in the Bible.
 ''When that will happen, we will totally control all humanity,'' said the actor playing Mr. Bush, swigging a beer, as a picture of the globe in chains glowed behind him.
 The opinions in the crowd were far more nuanced. Most of the demonstrators, men and women in their teens and early 20s, said they held the United States responsible for the war in Georgia, saying President Mikheil Saakashvili of Georgia would not have attacked the separatist enclave of South Ossetia without express permission from American officials. 
 Several demonstrators said they had become disillusioned with the United States during the 1990s, saying the reforms it pushed had led Russia into financial and political chaos. 
 ''We don't like to be told how to live, and we don't like it when our peacekeepers are attacked,'' said Yura Yakor, 23. ''You're not likely to find any fans of America here.'' 
 As they shivered in the wintry rain, nearly everyone had something to say about the coming United States elections. Many agreed with the theory, espoused by Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin in a televised interview this fall, that the war in Georgia was planned to increase the chances of Mr. McCain, the Republican presidential candidate. A few said they thought a victory for Senator Barack Obama would greatly improve relations between the United States and Russia. 
 ''If McCain wins, I think everything will get worse,'' said Yekaterina Anisimova, 20, who had traveled from Vladimir, about 125 miles east of Moscow, for the rally. ''He is categorically against Russia. Obama is the opposite. All this could end.''
 Her friend, Yana Vinogradova, agreed.
 ''We don't hate America,'' she said. ''We just have a bad relationship with this administration.'' 
 As the American reporter departed, Ms. Anisimova yelled after her, ''Vote for Obama!''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Police officers stood guard on Sunday in front of the United States Embassy in Moscow as thousands of demonstrators from the pro-Kremlin youth group Nashi protested against the United States and the war in Georgia. The protesters, in their teens and early 20s, carried jack-o'-lanterns with the names of war victims. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SERGEY PONOMAREV/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); TERRORISM (72%); WORLD WAR I (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (78%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); GEORGIA (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2008



140 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: 'Campaign Embeds' Hitting End Of Tours

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
For the last eight months, Adam Aigner-Treworgy's belongings have been stowed in the back seat of his silver Volvo station wagon.
 When Mr. Aigner-Treworgy, a 24-year-old reporter for NBC News and National Journal, was assigned to cover Senator John McCain's campaign in January, his sister packed up his apartment in Washington, D.C. 
 ''I sold as much furniture as I could on Craigslist,'' he said, then parked his car at the NBC bureau and flew to Florida to catch up with the McCain campaign. On a rare free day in the spring, he drove the car, then lacking air-conditioning and a working gas gauge, to his mother's garage in Boston, where it still sits. 
 This month, he will resume an ordinary life -- and that means finding a job in an economy that is gloomy across the board but especially so for journalists. 
 ''The field of journalism is changing dramatically, so there's definitely some trepidation about whether companies will be hiring,'' he said by phone on Friday.
 As politicians enter the presidential primary fray, television networks assign staff members -- variously called ''campaign embeds'' or ''off-air reporters'' -- to shadow them, video camera in hand and laptop in backpack. After each campaign event, the embeds dutifully send summaries to their news divisions, flagging any news-making nuggets. The dispatches are often posted online and used to produce newscasts; the ''From the Road'' blog on CBSNews.com counted 9 posts from campaign producers on Thursday and 10 on Friday.
 As financially struggling newspapers cut back on their coverage from the campaign trail, the TV embeds and their counterparts from national newspapers have become the primary witnesses to the campaigns of Mr. McCain and his Democratic opponent, Senator Barack Obama. 
 And while the experience is invaluable, the opportunities are few after the election.
 ''For so long, this has been in the distance. Now it's real, now it's here,'' said Alexander Marquardt, a CNN producer following Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr.
 There is a certain nobility, subtle as it may be, to chronicling the statements of the candidates as they roam the country. ''You become the central repository for information about a candidate for a big news network,'' Mr. Aigner-Treworgy said. 
 Sunlen Miller, an ABC reporter assigned to Mr. Obama's campaign, answers practical questions from the network's correspondents, like ''how many times has Obama been to Florida in the general election?''
 Mike Memoli, who shadowed Bill Clinton for NBC last winter, said he was sometimes the only TV reporter with him. ''There were no other cameras, no correspondents, so I would film him at each event,'' he said.
 For some embeds, like the CBS producer Maria Gavrilovic, the assignment has lasted much longer than anticipated. She was assigned to Mr. Obama ''by chance'' more than a year ago, she said, ''and expected the stint to be short-lived.''
 Ms. Gavrilovic worked on the foreign desk for CBS News before the campaign, and she expects to return there after the election. ABC and the Fox News Channel also lent staff members from other departments.
 But others are not as lucky. CNN and NBC relied on a mix of newly hired employees and existing political producers.
 The contracts for the NBC journalists who were hired in conjunction with National Journal to follow the candidates expire on Nov. 14. Given the economic downturn, the election is ending at a particularly inopportune time for them. But Matthew Berger, a 30-year-old NBC reporter with Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, is taking his mother's advice not to think too hard about his postelection plans. ''She told me not to ruin the last couple of weeks of a great experience by worrying too much about the future,'' he said. ''So I'll worry about afterwards, afterwards.''
 Mr. Marquardt will celebrate his first anniversary at CNN three days after the election. But as a freelancer, he does not know whether he will be able to stay with the network. ''So much money has been spent on this campaign, and the economy's in the tank, so there's not that many positions out there,'' he said, although he remains hopeful.
 Although Mr. Aigner-Treworgy does not know what he will be doing in two weeks, he has started looking for a new apartment in Washington. He is looking forward to being in the same place for more than an hour. ''We're on a bus in Iowa -- I mean Ohio,'' Mr. Aigner-Treworgy said Friday afternoon. ''I used to know where I was,'' he added sheepishly.
 Surely, some embeds will be on a beach soon. Mr. Memoli talked excitedly about airline points and hotel points. ''I'm figuring out where my vacation will be when all this ends,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Matthew Berger of NBC rode the press bus to a rally for Sarah Palin on Saturday in Florida. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); WRITERS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (76%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (71%); POLITICS (71%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (85%); CRAIGSLIST INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (76%); JOHN MCCAIN (76%); BILL CLINTON (75%); SARAH PALIN (56%); JOE BIDEN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2008



141 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 252 words

HEADLINE: Crisis Counseling in Silicon Valley

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

 BODY:
Crisis Counseling in Silicon Valley
Entrepreneurs and investors in Silicon Valley are still shell-shocked from the dot-com collapse, and the latest economic crisis is bringing back memories of the wave of failed start-ups. This time, they have vowed to act quickly to avoid making the same mistakes again. At a ''crisis roundtable'' hosted by VentureBeat on Wednesday on how to manage start-ups during a recession, venture capitalists and start-up founders discussed how start-ups can survive and what they learned the last time around. 
John Doerr, above, a partner at Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, compiled 11 tips from chief executives of his portfolio companies. The list included items like being frugal by using Google Docs instead of buying software, moving cash into Treasuries, and overcommunicating with investors, employees and customers.
Web companies cost a lot less to run than they did in the late 1990s -- $200,000 a month versus $750,000 a month on average, said Ron Conway, an angel investor -- but start-ups should make sure their money in the bank will last more than a year. Otherwise, ''you should wake up every morning and think you will go out of business.''
If you make that mistake and must lay people off, let them go all at once, so as not to create a ''culture of everyone waiting for the ball to drop,'' said Jason Calacanis, chief executive of Mahalo.com. That was a lesson he learned when he ran Silicon Alley Reporter magazine, where he did four rounds of layoffs.
CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The investor John Doerr has advice for start-up survival. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID PAUL MORRIS/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (79%); EXECUTIVES (76%); LAYOFFS (68%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%)

COMPANY: KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (71%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (71%)

PERSON: L JOHN DOERR (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



142 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: In Playing Politics to Win a Battle, Mayor Risks His Image

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
Vito J. Lopez, the Brooklyn Democratic Party chairman, and Steven Rattner, the founder of an investment firm in Manhattan, inhabit two of New York City's most distant worlds -- hard-charging borough politics and exotic international finance.
 But over the last four weeks, this improbable pair -- and many equally unlikely allies -- worked the phones for a common cause: allowing Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to seek a third term. 
 ''The cross section favoring this,'' Mr. Lopez said in an interview, ''was quite interesting.''
 Strange bedfellows does not begin to describe the eclectic coalition that helped Mr. Bloomberg pass contentious legislation in the City Council extending term limits to 12 years, rather than the current eight.
 On Monday, the mayor is expected to sign the legislation into law, toppling an election statute, endorsed twice by New York City voters, that would have forced him and dozens of elected leaders out of office by 2010. 
 As he doggedly pursued a third term, Mr. Bloomberg bridged disparate political constituencies that barely communicate, much less agree on anything -- enlisting union leaders and titans of finance, party bosses and abortion rights advocates. (Even the rabbi at Mr. Bloomberg's Manhattan synagogue called a wavering City Council member on the mayor's behalf.)
 But in creating those alliances, the mayor may have hurt his chances for re-election. A large part of Mr. Bloomberg's popularity rests on his image as a nonpartisan billionaire not beholden to special interests or fellow elected leaders.
 After the bruising term limits battle, however, many are wondering what kind of offers -- and compromises -- the Bloomberg administration may have made. Several members of the Council who opposed revising term limits have openly accused the administration of strong-arming their colleagues, without naming the lawmakers. 
 Mr. Lopez's role underscores those concerns. Mr. Bloomberg has long railed against partisan, machine politics. But his aides appear to have worked, at times, closely with Mr. Lopez, a state assemblyman, during the term limits fight, despite his ties to a Democratic Party organization long criticized for cronyism. 
 On Oct. 22, the day before the Council voted to amend the term limits law, the mayor's top political operative, Kevin Sheekey, set up a meeting at City Hall with Mr. Lopez and Vincent Gentile, a Brooklyn councilman who was leaning against extending term limits.
 During the meeting, Mr. Sheekey explained that if Mr. Gentile voted to allow Mr. Bloomberg to seek a third term, the mayor would most likely support the councilman's tough re-election race in a swing district of Brooklyn, according to two people briefed on the meeting.
 The mayor, Mr. Sheekey told both men, ''would be present with you in the district,'' according to these people. 
 When asked about the meeting, Stu Loeser, a spokesman for the mayor, said that ''we made our case on the merits.'' Mr. Sheekey, a deputy mayor, declined comment.
 Mr. Gentile ultimately voted against the term limits legislation, arguing that the law should be changed by a voter referendum, the same method by which it was created. ''The administration did not allay my concerns,'' he said in an interview.
 But the apparent offer of political support by a deputy mayor in exchange for a vote strikes many as the kind of back-room political deal-making that Mr. Bloomberg would denounce, said Douglas A. Muzzio, a professor of public affairs at Baruch College.
 It was not, however, the only one during the term limits fight. To win the support of a potential critic, the cosmetics heir Ronald S. Lauder, Mr. Bloomberg promised to appoint him to a charter revision commission in 2010. Mr. Lauder bankrolled the successful 1993 campaign to create term limits in New York City and had vowed to fight the mayor's campaign to revise the law. 
 Mr. Muzzio said the mayor ''used carrots and sticks to build a coalition,'' even though such tactics may be at odds with the mayor's reputation. ''The myth of Bloomberg as the nonpartisan philosopher king is belied by the fact that they played political hardball here,'' he said. 
 Many council members who voted with the mayor needed no incentive; the revision will also allow them to seek a third term next year.
 Aides to Mr. Bloomberg said that the mayor and his deputies always reach out to allies and foes to build support for legislation, and did so appropriately in the case of the term limits bill. 
 Many of those who rallied behind the term limits legislation, the aides said, did so without any prompting, because they want the option of re-electing a mayor with a proven track record and a sterling resume from the financial world at a time when the city faces an economic crisis. 
 Mr. Rattner, who helps manage the mayor's fortune, and the developer Jerry I. Speyer, who called council members and urged them to extend term limits, had prodded the mayor to remain in office long before Mr. Bloomberg decided to challenge the term limits law.
 ''I think it's hard to not give him credit for having run a good administration,'' said Stephen Berger, a founder of Odyssey Investment Partners, a private equity firm, who signed a public letter endorsing the term limits extension. ''He is the most sophisticated and the most skilled person available.''
 Mr. Lopez, the Brooklyn Democratic leader, said that his support stemmed from longstanding opposition to term limits and a belief that members of the Council should change the law, rather than just voters. ''I don't believe in a referendum form of government,'' he said. 
 And the Bloomberg administration says that it was not alone in blurring traditional political boundaries. A major opponent of the term limits change, the Working Families Party, reached out to unions that are closely linked to the Democratic Party, like the large health care workers union, 1199 S.E.I.U.
 The Working Families Party also contacted Democratic leaders, like Representative Anthony D. Weiner and Comptroller William C. Thompson, who both opposed the term limits legislation and plan to run against him in the 2009 mayoral race. Mr. Thompson organized members of the clergy to speak out against Mr. Bloomberg's legislation, just as the rabbi at Mr. Bloomberg's synagogue, Congregation Emanu-el, advocated for it. The rabbi, David M. Posner, did not return calls and e-mail messages during the last week.
 Mr. Lopez said he would not recognize some supporters of Mr. Bloomberg's legislation, especially those in the business world. In the past, he clashed with many of those executives on issues like congestion pricing, which he opposed. ''If I saw them, I would not know who they are,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); POLITICS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TERM LIMITS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTION LAW (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); ABORTION (51%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%); STEVEN RATTNER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2008



143 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: In States Once Reliably Red, Palin and Biden Tighten Their Stump Speeches

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER and JULIE BOSMAN; John M. Broder reported from Tallahassee, Fla., and Julie Bosman from Canton, Ohio.

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE, Fla. 

 BODY:
The vice-presidential candidates spent the final, frenetic hours of the 2008 campaign on traditionally Republican turf, with Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. urging Democrats to get to the polls and Gov. Sarah Palin warning that ''the far-left wing of the Democrat'' Party is poised to take over Washington.
 Ms. Palin addressed large crowds in Florida, North Carolina and Virginia on Saturday, and made several appearances in Ohio on Sunday. Mr. Biden spent Saturday and Sunday skittering around Ohio and Florida before heading to Missouri for an early appearance on Monday.
 It is no coincidence that the candidates are appearing only in states that President Bush won in 2004. The Republican ticket, led by Senator John McCain of Arizona, is playing defense while the Democrats, confident they have locked up the states they won in 2004, are seeking new territory. 
 Ms. Palin's message, at its heart, is a fear-based argument against electing Senator Barack Obama of Illinois. She warns voters that Mr. Obama will raise taxes, expand government, capitulate to terrorists and promote an extreme liberal agenda with the help of broader Democratic majorities in Congress.
 ''The time for choosing is near, and the choice is going to come down to what we believe in, Ohio,'' Ms. Palin, of Alaska, said at a rally Sunday in Canton, Ohio. ''We believe in the forward movement of freedom, not the constant expansion of government.''
 Mr. Biden's message has evolved in recent days, from harsh attacks on Mr. McCain and Ms. Palin to a broader appeal for an end to what he calls the ''politics of division.'' He still mocks the Republican ticket, arguing that they are not mavericks but rather mere ''sidekicks'' to Mr. Bush who would continue his foreign and economic policies. He says that in their desperation, Mr. McCain and Ms. Palin are using smears and lies to impugn Mr. Obama's character and patriotism.
 But Mr. Biden, with an unstated sense that victory is within the Democrats' grasp, has turned to a call for healing a divided nation. He urges his audiences to ''choose hope over fear.''
 ''We have to unite this country,'' Mr. Biden, of Delaware, said at a rally at Florida State University here on Sunday. ''We cannot stay blue and red, really, we cannot stay divided. We can't strengthen the economy if we are pitted one against the other.'' 
 ''We cannot move past the politics of division unless we reach out to those people in the parking lot,'' he added, referring to about a dozen noisy pro-McCain protesters near the event.
 In Florida on Saturday, Ms. Palin used the age-old tactic of warning elderly people that her opponents were not committed to Social Security. (Mr. Biden did the same thing in Florida last week.) In Virginia, she affirmed her support for gun owners' rights, drawing loud cheers. Speaking with a Southern twang, she said she would work on ''keeping Virginia red and making y'all prosperous.''
 Ms. Palin's crowds have been enormous and enthusiastic, shaking red-and-white pompoms and filling minor league baseball stadiums, airplane hangars and warehouses. The music at campaign events reinforces her image as a plainspoken, hard-working reformer (''9 to 5'' and ''Straight Talk'' by Dolly Parton), while paying tribute to her appearance (''She's Not Just a Pretty Face'' by Shania Twain and ''Isn't She Lovely'' by Stevie Wonder).
 Ms. Palin is almost always accompanied by her husband, Todd, whom she chirpily introduces as ''Alaska's first dude.'' (Sometimes she follows up by joking that he ''looks like one of those Secret Service guys.'')
 Mr. Biden has been joined for the last several days by his wife of 31 years, Jill Jacobs Biden, a community college professor. Dr. Biden tells audiences that this is the most important election of their lifetimes and adds a few biographical notes about her husband, including that he lost his first wife and a young daughter in a car accident in 1972.
 When Mr. Biden takes the stage, unfailingly to ''The Rising'' by Bruce Springsteen, he thanks Mr. Obama for choosing him as his running mate. ''The reason I'm so thankful,'' he says, ''is I've never heard my wife say such nice things about me in public.''
 Mr. Biden regularly warns against complacency and urges those in the audience who have not voted already to cast their ballots early if possible.
 Mr. Biden and Ms. Palin have accelerated their schedules, now appearing at as many as five rallies a day in as many cities. A week ago, two or three events a day was the norm for each candidate.
 They have shortened their stump speeches and are spending less time greeting supporters. Their exhaustion is beginning to show, particularly late at night. Ms. Palin's voice sometimes grows hoarse and Mr. Biden occasionally stumbles over lines he has repeated dozens of times. The other night he referred to his running mate as ''Baracko.''
 Just as Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York did in the primaries, Ms. Palin dismisses Mr. Obama's oratory as ''just words,'' even as she whips crowds into a frenzy with her own remarks. 
 ''The rousing speeches of our opponent, they can fill a stadium,'' Ms. Palin said. ''But they cannot keep our country safe. And for a season, a man can inspire with his words, but for a lifetime, John McCain has inspired us with his deeds.''
 Her speeches have relied on repetition, especially words like ''tough'' and ''guts'' when applied to Mr. McCain. Speaking in Virginia on Saturday, she repeated the phrase ''Joe the Plumber'' six times. 
 Ms. Palin singles out Mr. Biden regularly in her remarks, noting that he once said it would be patriotic for the wealthy to pay more taxes, and recalling that, in a verbal slip, Mr. Biden said that he and Mr. Obama opposed so-called clean coal technology.
 But Mr. Biden rarely singles out anything Ms. Palin has said or done. He does not question her qualifications or mention any of her verbal blunders. She appears, if at all, as ''McCain-Palin,'' merely an appendage to the Republican nominee for president.
 On Monday, Ms. Palin will begin her day in Ohio, and then head to Missouri, Iowa, Colorado and Nevada. Late that night, she will fly to Anchorage, travel to her home in Wasilla, Alaska, to cast her vote on Tuesday, and then fly to Phoenix to join Mr. McCain.
 Mr. Biden will start Monday with a speech in Lee's Summit, Mo., then appear in Zanesville and Akron, Ohio, before ending his day with a rally in Philadelphia. He will vote in his hometown, Wilmington, Del., then fly to Chicago to spend election night with Mr. Obama at a large gathering in Grant Park.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. at a rally Sunday at the University of Florida in Gainesville. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); TERRORISM (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); AGING (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (59%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (91%); JOE BIDEN (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); OHIO, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2008



144 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1726 words

HEADLINE: New Terrain For Arbiters Of a Bailout

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; Edmund L. Andrews contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- There was a rare moment of levity at the Treasury Department on Friday as the children of government workers scampered from office to office in Halloween costumes. A few minutes later, the children were gone and the hallways were retaken by grim-faced grown-ups -- handing out tricks and treats of a different sort.
The Treasury building is ground zero for the Bush administration's $700 billion rescue of the financial system -- an ambitious, increasingly embattled program that passed an early milestone last week when the government wired the first $125 billion to the nine largest banks in the United States.
Having been handed vast authority and almost no restrictions in the bailout law that Congress passed a month ago, a committee of five little-known government officials, aided by a bare-bones staff of 40, is picking winners and losers among thousands of banks, savings and loans, insurers and other institutions. 
It is new and unfamiliar terrain for the officials, who are making monumental decisions -- a form of industrial policy, some critics say -- that contradict the free market philosophy they usually espouse. Predictably, the process is stirring alarm from Capitol Hill to Wall Street.
''People are always going to second-guess what you do,'' said David G. Nason, the assistant Treasury secretary for financial institutions, who designed the program and sits on the investment committee. ''We don't have time to complain; we need to manage our time so we can make progress.''
Other officials said it was premature to condemn the program, given that the first capital injections were made only last week. The Treasury's overriding goal, they said, is to stabilize the nation's financial system after its worst crisis since the 1930s.
Among the problems, critics say, is that despite earlier promises of transparency, the process is shrouded in secrecy, its precise goals opaque. Treasury officials have refused to disclose their criteria for deciding which banks are healthy enough to get money -- and which are too sick.
And officials have yet to say they even have a broader strategy, though banking executives are convinced the government wants to encourage acquisitions of sick banks by healthy ones.
Industry sources said that banks, after filing a two-page application, are assigned a ranking from 1 to 5 -- with 1 or 2 essentially guaranteeing that they are eligible, and 5 insuring they are not -- by their regulator. The five officials then make what can be a life-or-death decision, with a thumbs-down generally interpreted to mean that a bank was not healthy enough to survive on its own.
The work is complex, far-reaching and telescoped into an impossibly tight timetable. And it is being done against the backdrop of a change of power in Washington, which will throw many of these people out of their jobs on Inauguration Day.
''There is a real urgency to deploy this money quickly and effectively,'' said James H. Lambright, who took a leave three weeks ago as the president of the Export-Import Bank of the United States to become the interim chief investment officer of the rescue effort.
A trim, self-confident former investment banker, Mr. Lambright, 38, is the chairman of a committee of relatively young officials -- all are in their 30s or 40s -- with backgrounds in law, banking or regulation. None of them could have expected this kind of responsibility; Mr. Lambright himself was a last-minute substitute after a previous appointee was kept in his old job.
On Friday evening, Mr. Lambright was lugging a six-inch-thick pile of folders -- plus a pair of BlackBerrys and a cellphone -- as he prepared for a Sunday afternoon meeting of the committee to select the next banks to receive capital infusions.
With more than $80 billion left to spend, and hundreds of banks in line for it, the days, nights and weekends of the overworked, sleep-deprived Treasury staff members are a blur of meetings and conference calls, and constant pressure.
''This is a four-ring circus,'' said Tim Ryan, a former director of the Office of Thrift Supervision, who helped run the savings and loan cleanup in the 1980s and 1990s.
Already, critics from Capitol Hill to Wall Street are lashing out at the program, saying the banks are misusing the capital infusions by hoarding the money rather than lending it, as the Treasury Secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., urged in order to unclog the credit markets.
The government, the critics say, is wrongly steering funds to banks to take over weaker rivals. The rescue program prodded one such merger last week, when Treasury agreed to inject $7.7 billion into PNC Financial Services and rejected an application for cash from the National City Corporation, an ailing bank in Cleveland. The two announced a merger the same day that PNC was approved.
''Where we are headed is credit allocation by the federal government,'' said William Poole, a former president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. ''It really reminds me of the morass we got into with wage-price controls in the 1970s.''
Critics also say that, by not barring banks from paying dividends or hefty bonuses, the Treasury is leading taxpayers to think their money is being spent frivolously.
All this comes after Mr. Paulson abruptly shifted the focus of the program to injecting capital rather than buying distressed mortgage-related assets from the banks. This meant that Congress had never debated the details of how the government ought to carry out a recapitalization.
The absence of that debate comes with a price. Treasury officials have been pressured by industry lobbyists to stretch the program to include insurance companies, transit agencies and even automakers.
Indeed, the helter-skelter nature of the program is drawing so much criticism that even some of the bailout bill's biggest proponents on Capitol Hill are complaining that its legitimacy is being thrown into question. ''What the Treasury doesn't understand is the anger in the country about this,'' said Barney Frank of Massachusetts, the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee.
Mr. Frank, who has scheduled oversight hearings later in November, warned that he might try to block the Treasury from getting the second $350 billion approved by Congress.
Inside the Treasury -- where officials shuttle between each other's offices on the building's southwest corner, facing the White House and the Washington monument -- the view, not surprisingly, is different.
They say the critics have not offered solutions about how to compel banks to lend money. The Treasury has to walk a fine line, officials add, since using brute force could lead to the banks making more bad loans, which is how they got into this mess.
Treasury officials acknowledge their actions might speed a shakeout in the industry, even if that is not the main motivation.
''The primary goal is not consolidation; the primary goal is to strengthen the system,'' said Michele A. Davis, the chief spokeswoman. ''If consolidation strengthens the system, it's a positive.''
Bank executives say that increased lending depends on attracting more capital from private investors. To do that, it may be essential for a bank to strengthen its market position by making acquisitions. Suspending dividends could send investors running for the exits.
Besides, they add, the bailout law only allows the government to stop banks from increasing dividends, not banning them outright.
The committee -- which also includes Neel Kashkari, interim head of the rescue program, and two other senior Treasury officials, Anthony Ryan and Phillip L. Swagel -- acts on a recommendation from the primary regulator of the financial institution. That could be the Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Comptroller of the Currency, or the Office of Thrift Supervision.
What happens next, when the application and recommendation go to the Treasury, is largely a mystery. The criteria by which the Treasury decides which banks get money and which do not are secret.
Mr. Nason said the process had to be confidential so that rejected banks did not suffer damage in the markets. Even to disclose the selection criteria could quickly destabilize banks perceived to have the wrong profile, he said.
The committee members study financial statements and sometimes kick back applications to the regulators for more information. They also analyze the market in which a bank operates, looking for the mix of strong and weak banks. As the number of applications increases, Mr. Lambright said he was recruiting a team of banking analysts to help with the process.
''When we move from a dozen banks to hundreds of banks, we'll need a system,'' Mr. Lambright said.
He said his work at the Export-Import Bank, where he selected American exporters to receive trade financing, was good preparation for this job, even if he will hand out more money in a few weeks at the Treasury than his bank's entire $60 billion credit portfolio.
Though Treasury officials are loath to require banks to lend, they do seem to be jawboning. ''They must meet their responsibility to lend, and support the American people and the U.S. economy,'' Mr. Ryan told a securities industry conference last week.
Mr. Frank said they should do more by requiring banks to show a dollar-for-dollar relationship between the government funds and increased lending.
''If they lend out all the money they got from the government,'' he said, ''they can do whatever they want with the rest. If they don't feel this is going to encourage lending, then don't take the money.''
It is the regulators, more than the Treasury Department, who are doing the coaxing by suggesting, for example, that a desired merger by a bank would be more likely to win approval if a bank participated in the capital injection program, industry executives said.
The Treasury's approach has its defenders, among them a former senior Treasury official, Edwin M. Truman, who said he believed the people running the bailout were technocrats trying to shore up the system, not ideologues.
Donald V. Hammond, a longtime Treasury official who is the interim chief compliance officer of the program, said that, in any event, Congress had put in place layers of oversight. Mr. Hammond began his government career working on the bailout of the Chrysler Corporation.
''This is more intense,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Neel T. Kashkari, 35
James H. Lambright, 38
David G. Nason, 38
Anthony Ryan, 45
 Phillip L. Swagel, 42 (pg. B8) CHART: The Deciders: Five government officials have been put in charge of allocating billions in dollars of capital infusions for banks. Here are their profiles. Chart details officials. (pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); HALLOWEEN (77%); INSURANCE (72%); SAVINGS & LOANS (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



145 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: Circuit City to Shut 155 Stores And Lay Off 17% of Workers

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Va. 

 BODY:
The consumer electronics retailer Circuit City said Monday that it was closing about 20 percent of its American stores in an effort to return to profitability. 
 The company, based in Richmond, Va., said that it would close 155 of its more than 700 stores in 12 markets, including Phoenix and Atlanta, by Dec. 31, laying off about 17 percent of its domestic work force. 
 Circuit City also said it would further reduce store openings and planned to work with landlords to renegotiate leases, lower rent or terminate agreements.
 The move comes as Circuit City heads into a holiday shopping season that could determine its future, amid a slowdown in consumer spending that has even strong retailers worried.
 ''The weakened environment has resulted in a slowdown of consumer spending, further impacting our business as well as the business of our vendors,'' James A. Marcum, vice chairman and acting chief executive said in a statement. ''The combination of these trends has strained severely our working capital and liquidity.''
 Mr. Marcum called the decision to close stores ''difficult, but necessary.''
 Circuit City has had only one profitable quarter in the last year, posting a wider second-quarter loss in September with a 13 percent decline in sales at stores open at least a year. Its results have weakened as the company faces significant declines in traffic, heightened competition from its rival, Best Buy, and others and a weakened brand position.
 Circuit City has been under new leadership since late September when the chief executive, Philip J. Schoonover, agreed to step down. He was succeeded by Mr. Marcum, who had been chosen to oversee Circuit City's multiyear turnaround efforts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); WORKING CAPITAL (67%)

COMPANY: CIRCUIT CITY STORES INC (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (94%); SIC5731 RADIO, TV & CONSUMER ELECTRONICS STORES (94%)

PERSON: PHILIP SCHOONOVER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (90%) VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008



146 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: Bank Survey Shows Credit Is Growing Even Tighter

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Banks tightened the spigots further on all sorts of lending, from home mortgages to credit cards and business loans, as the worst financial crisis in seven decades took a bigger toll on the economy. 
 The Federal Reserve said Monday that its latest quarterly survey of bank lending practices found high numbers of banks reporting tighter credit standards across a broad range of loan products. Nearly 60 percent of banks responding to the survey said they had tightened lending standards on credit card debt.
 The latest Fed survey was taken in the first two weeks of October, too soon to reflect possible effects of the government's program to inject about $250 billion into banks by directly buying shares in them as part of a broader financial rescue effort. 
 The government also plans to buy billions in distressed mortgage-related assets that banks hold.
 The Fed survey of 55 domestic banks and 21 United States offices of foreign banks found that sizable percentages of banks had ''continued to tighten their lending standards and terms on all major loan categories over the previous three months.''
 The Fed found 85 percent of the domestic banks responding to the survey reported that they had tightened their lending standards for a major type of business loan known as ''commercial and industrial,'' up from 60 percent in the June survey. Nearly all banks, 95 percent, reported tighter standards for the lines of credit they extend to large and medium-size businesses.
 A large number of banks also reported they were tightening standards for both credit cards and other types of consumer loans.
 Besides the nearly 60 percent of banks tightening standards on credit card debt, 65 percent said they had tightened lending standards for other types of consumer loans over the last three months.
 About 20 percent of the domestic banks reported cutting limits for existing credit card accounts held by prime, or strong credit, customers. Credit card lenders have been reducing customers' credit lines, raising interest rates or even closing accounts as they tighten the reins to reduce their risk.
 Continuing a pattern seen since the housing bubble burst, large majorities of banks reported tighter lending standards on prime mortgage loans, as well as nontraditional mortgage loans and subprime mortgages extended to borrowers with weak credit histories.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); HOUSING BUBBLE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008



147 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CONNECTIONS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: What Would George Bailey Do?

BYLINE: By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN

 BODY:
It would be nice to think that if George Bailey had been around in September, the United States government could have saved itself $700 billion, Iceland could have averted near bankruptcy, and the rest of the world could have avoided another trillion dollars in bailouts and the prospect of a deep and long recession. You recall George: in the person of James Stewart he stopped a run on the Bailey Brothers Building & Loan Association that would have destroyed it in the film ''It's a Wonderful Life.'' His predicament, with its eerie prefigurement of the present, provokes a closer look at the crossroads in which culture and finance intersect. 
 In the film the Building & Loan faces what is now called a ''liquidity crisis'' -- the association could not possibly cover its obligations with available cash, let alone guarantee any loans. The townspeople rush in demanding their life savings. ''You're thinking of this place all wrong,'' George tells the crowd. ''As if I had the money back in a safe. The money's not here.'' 
 That much was obvious. But George goes on, pointing to individuals. ''Your money's in Joe's house,'' he says to one man. ''Right next to yours,'' he says to another. ''And in the Kennedy house, and Mrs. Backlin's house, and a hundred others. Why, you're lending them the money to build, and then, they're going to pay it back to you as best they can.'' 
 You think you are just depositing your money here, he suggests, but actually we're all helping one another. And if some homeowners can't meet their payments, ''what are you going to do,'' George asks, ''foreclose on them?'' 
 ''We've got to stick together,'' George says, or the truly evil banker Henry Potter will gain control of everything. ''We've got to have faith in each other.'' 
 And, at least for a while, the pitch works. George's view of the savings and loan as a form of social welfare institution was learned at the feet of his father, who built that savings and loan, telling him, ''It's deep in the race for a man to want his own roof and walls and fireplace. And we're helping him get those things.''
 The Baileys could almost be early incarnations of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac -- government-created companies established to help make that same dream possible among American citizens. Beginning in the mid-1990s they were steadily pressured by politicians and the public to guarantee loans to ever more risky borrowers in the name of this very ideal. 
 What really helped that project along, though, was the discovery on Wall Street that such risky loans could be bundled with others like some multipack at Costco and resold as highly rated securities. It is as if George had found a way to go into business with Potter, answering his scornful challenge ''Are you running a business or a charity ward?'' with ''Both!'' 
 As it has turned out, of course, both George's charitable dream in which banks would cuddle with their communities and avoid foreclosures and Potter's dream of profit-taking maneuverings unhampered by other considerations collapsed under the unrealistic weight of their fantasies a few weeks ago. But in the midst of this crisis something else has been revealed that we ordinarily associate more with cultural life than with financial enterprise. 
 In the wake of foreclosures and bank failures, all circulation, trade, interaction -- the intercourse of economic life -- had nearly ground to a halt. Even if a bank had money, it was not about to risk lending it even for short-term use by reputable businesses. It is as if the entire standard of valuation had been shattered. What was anything really worth? What was dangerous and what was safe? Who could be relied on?
 So debased had judgment become, and so unpredictable were the consequences, that the safest thing to do was absolutely nothing. Liquidity turned solid; credit froze. And this reflected a collapse not just of business activity but also of trust, or, to use George's word, of faith. 
 It might seem strange to think of these enormous disruptions as reflections of something so elemental: trillions of dollars are now being expended to re-establish trust? But we can see how this issue came up in earlier periods of cultural transition. Consider Shakespeare's ''Merchant of Venice.'' Written at a time when Elizabethan England was being transformed by European trade and its own growing international ambitions, the play can even seem to be about how to create trust in a tumultuous marketplace.
 The play lampoons cultural differences in cosmopolitan Venice. A buffoonish Spaniard, a scimitar-wielding Moroccan, drunken Germans, a Jewish usurer -- these types are all invoked in the work. But how are such varied figures to interact in ''the trade and profit of the city''? Only through the presence of a strong central law that would guarantee trust in the midst of distrust. 
 Shakespeare, though, does not minimize the difficulties in creating consistent methods for judging, whether assessing products or the people who make them. Are the goods what they seem? Are people? Portia's suitors are forced to choose a gold, silver or lead casket -- uncertain about which will disclose the true image of their beloved. Characters confuse lies and truth, ornament and essence, mercy and ruthlessness. In the midst of all this it is amazing that any kind of social and economic interchange is possible. Shakespeare seems to be asserting it is, but with modern eyes wary of his treatment of Shylock, we wonder.
 On the brink of the modern economic world the issues become even more fraught. Anthony Trollope said that his 1875 novel, ''The Way We Live Now,'' was ''instigated by what I conceived to be the commercial profligacy of the age.'' But that profligacy was also a reflection of a social transformation: the traditional social order could no longer be counted on.
 The hierarchy of English society ceased to be a hierarchy of worth, financial or otherwise. Lords with enormous estates could be broke. I.O.U.'s could casually be exchanged, backed by nothing but the vague whiff of respectability and title. The central figure, an arriviste financier, creates a pyramid scheme in which railroads of the New World figure prominently. Trollope sees a world of social dissolution matching the financial dissolution. Appearance bears no relationship to reality. By the novel's end Trollope suggests the only hope for a restoration of trust is a retreat from the new commercial age.
 Trollope was not alone. In Harley Granville-Barker's 1905 play, ''The Voysey Inheritance,'' the main tradition in a distinguished family investment firm is the fraudulent bilking of its clients, a heritage in which trust is hypocritically cultivated. 
 And now, of course, the issue of trust is elevated to an unprecedented scale. In 2007, when the failures of this autumn were scarcely imagined, the investment analyst James Grant predicted that the habits of the preceding years would lead to an imminent collapse of credit ''over which posterity will shake its head, muttering, 'What were they thinking?' '' 
 He argued that the ornate nature of the financial ''products'' being packaged was part of the problem and in an Op-Ed article in The New York Times this past January agreed with the global bank UBS, which called the current mortgage crisis ''the biggest failure of ratings and risk management ever.'' 
 What is strange is that we now depend on the state to re-establish trust by rescuing and even nationalizing financial institutions, relying on the same authority that gives paper money its value. But after the events of the last century, can anyone fully believe that the state should be the ultimate standard for trust and fiscal faith? And would even a real-life George Bailey be able to coax us into confidence, let alone belief that good intentions have power over principles of finance? We are in for perilous times. 
 Connections is a critic's perspective on arts and ideas. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Al Pacino as Shylock in ''The Merchant of Venice.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE BRAUN/SONY PICTURES CLASSICS)
 James Stewart as George Bailey in ''It's a Wonderful Life.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY HULTON ARCHIVE/GETTY IMAGES)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (88%); BAILOUTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); FORECLOSURE (77%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ICELAND (91%)

TITLE: It's a Wonderful Life (Movie)>; Merchant of Venice (Play)>; It's a Wonderful Life (Movie)>; Merchant of Venice (Play)>

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008



148 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: Steep Decline in October Auto Sales Leaves No Seller Immune

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC and NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- Sales of new cars and trucks in the United States plummeted in October to levels not seen in the auto industry in 25 years.
The stunning fall-off affected all automakers, as shaky consumer confidence and the inability of many eager shoppers to get loans because of tight credit drove sales down 31.9 percent during the month compared with the same period last year.
The grim results -- particularly for General Motors, whose sales dropped by 45 percent during the month -- raised new concerns about the chances of survival for Detroit's troubled Big Three.
The auto figures add to the steady march of statistics that suggest the broader economy is grinding to a slower pace. A measure of overall manufacturing activity in the United States fell last month to its lowest level in 26 years, according to data released Monday. The Commerce Department also said that construction spending fell for the eighth time in 10 months in September. 
For the auto industry, analysts said the annualized sales rate for the month was the worst recorded since 1983, and few saw any hope for recovery in the industry before 2010.
The sharp decline will only further burden the Detroit companies, and may increase pressure in Washington to provide emergency financial aid to General Motors, the Ford Motor Company and Chrysler.
G.M. has been burning through an estimated $1 billion in cash each month since the middle of the year, although some analysts believe that figure has grown substantially with the drastic drop in demand for new vehicles.
''If they can't get any help, whether it's through the government guaranteeing loans or getting a total bailout, we could definitely see one of them going bankrupt,'' said Rebecca Lindland, an analyst with IHA Global Insight.
G.M., which is pursuing a merger with Chrysler, was recently turned down by the Treasury Department for $10 billion in federal assistance. All three Detroit automakers are hoping for the release of $25 billion in low-interest loans from the Energy Department for the development of more fuel-efficient vehicles.
Sales of new vehicles have been declining throughout the year because of unstable gas prices, a weak economy and a tightening of credit by banks and other lenders.
Automakers reported total sales of 838,000 vehicles during October, the lowest total since January of 1992. However, the annualized selling rate in that month -- a projection of full-year sales at the current rate -- was a miserable 10.5 million vehicles, the worst since February of 1983, according to Ward's Autodata.
Analysts said showroom traffic dried up during the month because of consumer fears about unemployment, continued declines in housing prices, and the aftershocks of the Wall Street financial crisis.
''Consumer confidence is the No. 1 reason we are where we are,'' said Jesse Toprak, chief market analyst for the auto-research Web site Edmunds.com.
No automaker was spared from what Mark LaNeve, G.M.'s head of North American sales, called the ''carnage'' in the market.
Sales at Ford fell 30.2 percent, and at Chrysler by 34.9 percent. G.M.'s 45 percent drop meant the United States market share of the largest American automaker sank to just 20.1 percent.
The Japanese rivals of Detroit's Big Three hardly fared better, despite having a greater selection of small, fuel-efficient passenger cars in their product lineups.
Toyota's sales dropped 23 percent in October, while Honda's sales plunged 25.2 percent, and Nissan's sales fell by 33 percent.
''One thing that's clear this month is that absolutely no one is immune,'' Ms. Lindland said. ''This is a situation that is really dire.''
G.M., which has already lost $18.8 billion in the first six months of this year, took the hardest hit. After pouring on sales incentives in August and September, the company pulled back its cash offers in October -- and paid the price.
G.M.'s car sales were down by 34 percent, and its truck sales by 51 percent. Its total sales were just 170,000 vehicles, the first time in recent memory that the automaker had sold less than 200,000 cars and trucks in a month, according to Mr. Toprak.
Mr. LaNeve, G.M.'s sales chief for North America, added, ''In my 27 years in the business, I have never seen a month like this.''
G.M.'s chairman, Rick Wagoner, has been leading the efforts by Detroit to get some sort of financial aid package from Washington. So far, he has been unable to persuade the Bush administration to provide direct loans to the companies or inject capital into their auto-finance arms.
There was no immediate comment Monday from Treasury Department officials on whether the dismal October sales might free up aid from the $700 billion rescue fund for financial institutions.
G.M. officials said the October sales rate was, in its estimation, the worst of the post-World War II era, given the nation's population growth since the 1940s.
The company's top market analyst, Michael DiGiovanni, said the lack of financing for automotive lenders is driving sales down to a ''severe recessionary'' level. ''At this juncture in U.S. automotive history, it's highly critical for the government and the banks to help us,'' he said.
Officials at other automakers said the downturn will probably continue into next year. ''We would not expect that we are at the bottom yet,'' said Emily Kolinski Morris, Ford's senior economist.
Mr. LaNeve and other auto executives said the companies will probably start their traditional year-end sales programs much earlier than usual.
But cash offers to customers will not make up for the lack of available credit. Mr. LaNeve said that about half of G.M.'s 45 percent sales decline in October could be attributed to people simply unable to get a car loan.
Even automakers that have been offering big discounts stumbled badly in October. Toyota, for example, has been providing zero percent financing on the bulk of its lineup for a month, yet still saw its sales tumble 23 percent.
''Buyers are in the driver's seat in a market that's awash with good deals, strong values and new products,'' said Bob Carter, general manager of the company's Toyota division.
Another Toyota executive, Irv Miller, said the industry hopes Tuesday's presidential election might remove some of the uncertainty that consumers are feeling about the economy.
''Anything right now that takes any element of uncertainty out of the marketplace, we think, will be beneficial,'' Mr. Miller said.
Besides a new round of incentives for consumers, the October results will probably prompt automakers to make more production cuts and lay off additional factory workers.
Both G.M. and Ford release their third-quarter earnings later this week, and are expected to report huge losses for the quarter. As part of the announcements, both companies will probably reveal plans to further reduce production at their North American plants.
But unlike previous cuts, the reductions might not be limited to gas-guzzling S.U.V.'s or slow-selling pickup trucks. There are no vehicles, according to one Ford executive, that have proven immune from the slumping demand.
''There are no hot segments,'' said George Pipas, Ford's market analyst. ''And there really are no hot products.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: GENERAL MOTORS*: October sales of cars and light trucks each year.(Source: Autodata) Chart details bar graph.
How the Industry Fared
How Automakers Fared
 Most Popular Cars and Trucks.(Source: Autodata) Chart details various statistics.(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); STATISTICS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); INTEREST RATES (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); HOME PRICES (60%); GASOLINE PRICES (60%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (60%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



149 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: A Writer in a Living Novel

BYLINE: By CHARLES McGRATH

DATELINE: PARSONSFIELD, Me. 

 BODY:
The novelist Carolyn Chute doesn't have a working phone, a fax or a computer. She writes on a washtub-size electric typewriter that was probably state of the art in the '70s. Ms. Chute (pronounced CHOOT) and her husband, Michael, live in a small compound at the end of an unpaved road in this rural Maine village near the New Hampshire border. There are stacks of old tires in the yard, a rusted bedstead, a pen full of Scottish terriers and an assortment of well-used vehicles. A bumper sticker on Mr. Chute's pickup reads, ''School Takes 13 Years Because That's How Long It Takes to Break a Child's Spirit.''
 Mr. Chute, who looks like a 19th-century hunting guide, spends most of his time drawing and making sculptures in an unfinished, uninsulated building he calls the security office. He has a beard of ZZ Top proportions, wears checked shirts and round felt hats, and in Down East fashion frequently uses ''wicked'' as an adverb. 
 Ms. Chute, 61, a wry, direct and earthy woman who favors bandannas, peasant skirts and stout hiking boots, works in their home, which is guarded by a sign that reads: ''Woa. Visitors Turn Back.'' Neither building is heated, except by wood stove, or has hot water. The compound's sole toilet is a tin-roofed outhouse. 
 The Chute home does have an industrial-size copying machine, however, and nearby she keeps her AK-47 rifle, which she likes because it has a gas piston that dampens recoil. ''It's very gentle, very soft,'' she said. Ms. Chute, whose fourth novel, ''The School on Heart's Content Road,'' comes out on Friday, had a surprise hit in the mid-'80s with her first book, ''The Beans of Egypt, Maine,'' about a hard-luck, occasionally incestuous clan that some critics compared to Faulkner's Snopeses.
 ''If it runs, a Bean will shoot it,'' she wrote. ''If it falls, a Bean will eat it.'' The book's empathy and precise observation derived, it turned out, from personal experience. Ms. Chute, who grew up in Cape Elizabeth, Me., dropped out of school at 16 and supported herself and a young daughter by working as a charwoman, driving a school bus and plucking chickens. 
 Mr. Chute, her second husband, is illiterate and used to work as a woodcutter and gravedigger. They married in 1978 and later lost a child at birth because, she says, they were too poor to afford adequate medical and prenatal care.
 Ms. Chute has been working on ''The School on Heart's Content Road'' since the early '90s. It's part of what she calls a ''5-o-gy,'' a projected series of five interlocked novels about a communal Maine settlement led by a polygamous visionary named Gordon St. Onge, sometimes known as the Prophet. The story is told from multiple points of view, each introduced with a little pictorial icon, that include those of God, Mammon, the C.I.A. and television, which periodically babbles advice like: ''These flavorful burgers, these potato-flavored salt strips, these fizzy syrupy brown-flavored drinks in tall cups are waiting just for YOU. Go to it! NOW!'' 
 There are so many characters that there is a little guide at the end, with biographies -- like the ones that Sinclair Lewis used to write for his characters -- so complete that they sometimes go into more detail than the book itself.
 The series comprises, in effect, an entire Down East Yoknapatawpha: hunters, snowmobilers, bikers, loggers, militia men, journalists, secret agents, wives, girlfriends and, in the case of ''The School on Heart's Content Road,'' two deserted children who find a home for themselves in St. Onge's off-the-grid settlement. There is even a thinking dog -- a Scottish terrier, naturally. Ms. Chute says she got the thinking dog idea from Tolstoy. 
 The original manuscript was some 2,600 pages long -- ''with a lot of white space,'' Ms. Chute said recently -- and so capacious was her vision for the project that she was initially resistant to condensing it. The manuscript sat for a while in a box in the office of Cork Smith, a venerable editor who had been Ms. Chute's discoverer and champion.
 ''I knew it was too long and rangy,'' Ms. Chute said. ''But Cork was right -- I had to work through it in my head.'' Mr. Smith died in 2004, and with the encouragement of her agent, Jane Gelfman, and her new editor, Elizabeth Schmitz of Grove/Atlantic, Ms. Chute began to restructure her mega-novel into self-contained, book-size chunks. 
 ''Sometimes a manuscript is like bread dough,'' she said. ''You have to abuse it.''
 For most of the time that she has been working on the book, Ms. Chute has also been greatly occupied with an organization called the 2nd Maine Militia, of which she is the founder and, as she says, ''secretary of offense, or offensiveness.''
 The copier in her living room is used to churn out tracts and fables, mostly written by Ms. Chute and illustrated by her husband, that set out the group's political philosophy, which is essentially one of cheerful, nonpartisan economic populism. 
 The 2nd Maine Militia, or Your Wicked Good Militia, as it's sometimes known, is progun, against corporate lobbying and campaign contributions, and opposed to tax subsidies for big business. The group has been known to meet in a hired hall, but more often it assembles in the woods behind the Chutes' home, where the members shoot at cans and other targets, talk about what's wrong with the world and dine on potluck. 
 In 1996, in an incident recreated in ''The School on Heart's Content Road,'' the militia invaded the State Capitol in Augusta, carrying placards that read, ''Smash Corporate Tyranny.'' Many of the militia children were in costume, and Mr. Chute wore a Revolutionary War uniform. There were some kazoo-playing and a little shouting, and someone duct-taped a piece of cardboard over a portrait of Joshua Chamberlain, the Maine governor and Civil War hero.
 The 2nd Maine Militia is a no-wing organization, Ms. Chute likes to say, with a membership that is ''very right, very left and very shy.'' At the first meeting, in the mid-'90s, she explained: ''We had libertarians, greens, guys in camo, white supremacists, hippies off the land, anarchists, people from Communist organizations. All these people were people that someone had tried to take something away from. They all knew something was wrong.'' 
 The coalition mostly got along, she said, except that for a while it became necessary to have separate meetings for the white supremacists and some of the more militant gun-toters. ''The guys with the camo, after 9/11 happened, they became great patriots,'' she said. ''They started carrying the flag and shooting at targets of bin Laden and goofball stuff like that. We kind of saw less of those guys after that.''
 ''The 2nd Maine Militia has been a real learning experience for me,'' Ms. Chute said. ''Sort of like a living novel. I do feel like I'm on Pluto sometimes, just watching how people treat each other. And when I write, I just let my characters go, the way I let life go.''
 She paused for a minute, looking out the window at the leaf-strewn woods. ''I love people,'' she went on, ''but I don't do so well in a system. We're poor, and we lead a very different kind of life. We depend on other people so much. They come and bring us vegetables or whatever, and sometimes they tell us their secrets. They love Michael because he doesn't look down his nose. If we're in town, we'll just sit in the parking lot all day, talking to people. That's the way we see life: your community is your survival. And if you live in a small community like this, even the people you hate you have as friends.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Carolyn and Michael Chute at their home in Maine. Ms. Chute's fourth book will be published on Friday.
Ms. Chute with her Scottish terriers. Her new book features a thinking dog, a Scottish terrier.
 Carolyn Chute at home with her husband, Michael. The Chutes heat their home with a wood stove and don't have hot water. A sign posted at their house reads: ''Woa. Visitors Turn Back.''(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIK JACOBS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); SCULPTURE (77%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (75%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (74%); PHOTOCOPIERS (73%); TIRES (71%); DOGS (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (69%); HIKING (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008



150 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: Dueling Brands Pick Up Where Politicians Leave Off

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
ELECTION Day will bring an end to the negative political advertising that has inundated the country. But it will not mean an end to negative advertising.
 That is because marketers of consumer products, borrowing a page from the electoral playbook, are becoming more willing to run aggressive ads in which brands attack their competitors by name. A major reason for the growing popularity of such ads is the faltering economy, on the theory that when times are hard, you should hit your opponent harder.
 ''It's very tactical, it's very short-term, but today marketers are thinking short-term,'' said David Melancon, the chief executive of the Ito Partnership, a brand identity consulting company in New York.
 The spin doctors on Madison Avenue describe the tactic as ''comparative advertising'' rather than going negative. But the intent is the same as in politics: build yourself up by tearing your rival down. 
 ''We wanted consumers to know our coffee is better-tasting than the perceived coffee leader's,'' said Frances Allen, brand marketing officer at the Dunkin' Donuts division of Dunkin' Brands in Canton, Mass. Her reference was to a campaign that began on Oct. 20, centered on a taste test in which the respondents said they preferred the coffee served at Dunkin' Donuts to the coffee sold by Starbucks.
 Even the name of the Web site created for the campaign is combative: dunkinbeatstarbucks.com. Visitors to the site can send friends e-cards bearing statements like ''Friends don't let friends drink Starbucks'' and similarly puckish greetings.
 ''All we're trying to do is a little bit of disruptive marketing,'' Ms. Allen said. The campaign promoting the taste test is created by Hill, Holliday, Connors, Cosmopulos in Boston, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
 Other examples of negative product pitches include a long-running campaign from Apple that mercilessly mocks the PC operating systems sold by Microsoft; a campaign from the Fox Business Channel cable network, which derides Jim Cramer of CNBC; ads for Burger King that take on other fast-food chains like McDonald's and Wendy's; and a campaign for a new variety of Campbell's soup, Select Harvest, that berates Progresso for selling soups with ingredients like monosodium glutamate.
 ''We're pleased with what we're seeing'' since the Select Harvest campaign began, said John Faulkner, a spokesman for the Campbell Soup Company in Camden, N.J. ''The early interest from consumers has been terrific.''
 The campaign, created by BBDO Worldwide in New York, part of the Omnicom Group, includes print ads that show a variety of Progresso chicken noodle soup under the headline ''Made with MSG'' next to a similar variety of Select Harvest under the headline ''Made with TLC.''
 Some negative ads, like the Select Harvest campaign, generate response ads from the targets in which they defend themselves or even counterattack. The point and counterpoint takes on a tit-for-tat quality reminiscent of a presidential campaign -- or a playground fight.
 ''We take our brand equity very seriously,'' said Mark Addicks, senior vice president and chief marketing officer at General Mills in Minneapolis, the parent of Progresso, which has replied to the attack ads from Campbell with two sets of ads.
 One set is focused on how Progresso plans to remove monosodium glutamate from its recipes. The other set describes a taste test between the varieties of Progresso and Select Harvest chicken noodle soups that are featured in the Select Harvest campaign. Progresso, needless to say, comes out ahead this time.
 Both sets of Progresso ads are created by Saatchi & Saatchi in New York, part of the Publicis Groupe.
 After more than two years of pounding from Apple, with a campaign that portrays the PC as geeky and the Macintosh as cool, the Microsoft Corporation responded in September with $300 million worth of ads that embrace the Apple phrase ''I'm a PC.'' The Microsoft riposte, by Crispin Porter & Bogusky in Miami and Boulder, Colo., part of MDC Partners, seeks to turn the Apple negatives into positives.
 ''They've made a caricature out of the PC,'' said David Webster, general manager for brand marketing at Microsoft in Redmond, Wash. ''If they want to have a conversation about the fake PC, we want to have a conversation about the real PC.''
 ''When they start making claims about our products, that's frustrating,'' he added. ''But you don't start advertising campaigns out of frustration.''
 Campaigns that take such a tack run the risk of being perceived as overly negative, a judgment that can hurt a brand as much as it can a political candidate.
 A report called the Consumer Pulse Check, released last month by Mullen in Wenham, Mass., another agency owned by Interpublic, found that shoppers ''are tired of feeling downbeat'' and ''want brands that make them feel good.''
 In other words, brands that attack other brands run the risk of tarnishing their images.
 ''If I define my brand by my competitor's brand, I had better get out some information about my brand at the same time,'' Mr. Melancon at Ito Partnership said, or the campaign can be deemed unfair or pejorative.
 One way to avoid that is by leavening a negative ad with humor.
 ''It was very much a question of how do you do this without turning people off,'' said Tim Cawley, a senior vice president and group creative director at Hill, Holliday who worked on the Dunkin' Donuts campaign.
 The answer, he said, was to present a scientist who improbably follows coffee drinkers to their work places to administer the taste test so they ''can cram it into their busy day.''
 Of course, to a marketer being attacked by name by a competitor, ads softened with humor are still no laughing matter.
 ''At this time, given what the country is going through, people are looking for great experiences and good value,'' said a spokesman for Starbucks in Seattle, Vivek Varma. 
 ''Lots of companies run comparative campaigns, but the effective ones need to be credible and authentic,'' he added. ''If the data is wrong or your tone is off, or if you are pitching a message out of touch with what consumers generally regard, you may be creating opportunity for your intended competitor.''
 In other words, an ad from Dunkin' Donuts that challenges Starbucks in a way consumers consider inappropriate could redound to the benefit of Starbucks.
 To followers of political advertising -- particularly presidential ads in 2008 -- that may be a suggestion to wake up and smell the coffee.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An image from a response ad by Microsoft meant to counter a campaign from Apple that characterizes PCs as geeky.
Dunkin' Brands goes after Starbucks, promoting a Web site that features the results of a taste test that favored its coffee.
 With a mode reminiscent of political ads, Campbell Soup, in a campaign for its Select Harvest line, attacks Progresso by name. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL ADVERTISING (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); BRANDING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TEST MARKETING (89%); FAST FOOD (89%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (87%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); WEB SITES (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (61%)

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (93%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); CAMPBELL SOUP CO (81%); MCDONALD'S CORP (81%); HILL HOLLIDAY (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (93%); OMC (NYSE) (84%); IPG (NYSE) (84%); CPB (NYSE) (81%); MCD (NYSE) (81%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (93%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (93%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS311422 SPECIALTY CANNING (81%); SIC2032 CANNED SPECIALTIES (81%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (81%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

PERSON: JIM CRAMER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008



151 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: Nation of Shopkeepers Is Feeling the Pinch

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
The plight of American small-business owners has become a theme in the presidential election. But if small-business owners in the United States think they have it bad, they should talk to John Banwell. 
 Mr. Banwell owns a cleaning business in Weymouth, a seaside town in southern England. He recently contacted his bank to renew his $:20,000 overdraft -- a $31,800 short-term line of credit -- only to learn the interest rate had almost doubled.
 Mr. Banwell tried to tell the manager of his HSBC Bank branch that he needed the money to pay his four employees and his bills while he waited for customers to pay him. He received a written apology, saying there was nothing the bank could do about his rate, which had risen to 7 percent above prime.
 Mr. Banwell was able to borrow the money from a friend instead, but that did not solve his long-term problem: how to keep his business alive as credit tightens in the middle of an economic downturn. ''Fuel and material costs have gone up and we'll have to increase our prices, but I'm afraid it may erode sales,'' Mr. Banwell said. ''Money definitely should be made available where needed.'' 
 The economic downturn is making life tougher for businesses of all sizes. But Britain, famously called ''a nation of shopkeepers,'' has a special place in its heart for small business. And Mr. Banwell's experience is at the heart of a battle that has erupted between representatives of small businesses and the government over how much help small firms should receive as the country enters its first recession in 17 years. 
 Backed by a strong business lobby, the opposition Conservative Party and the nation's two biggest tabloid newspapers, small businesses are demanding cheaper credit and tax breaks after a multibillion-pound government bank bailout failed to immediately free up credit. 
 Though small businesses account for more than half of Britain's gross domestic product and employ more than 13 million, their plea is controversial. They face, arguably, the same problems of higher borrowing costs and declining consumer spending that afflict larger rivals. 
 Some analysts said smaller businesses were more vulnerable to a downturn because they depended more on financing. ''A large company has more options to raise money,'' said Philip Shaw, chief economist at Investec Securities in London. But others said smaller firms were actually at an advantage because they were more flexible and could adapt better to slowing demand. 
 That may be true, but small businesses say they are feeling the pinch as banks introduce charges for processing overdraft applications, increase their fees for managing accounts or request additional collateral for loans, according to the British Chambers of Commerce. 
 The changes are a result of higher interbank lending rates, a deteriorating economic outlook and the banks' more conservative attitude toward risk. 
 The British government tried to free up credit by making its bailout of Royal Bank of Scotland, Lloyds TSB and HBOS this month dependent on the banks' returning to ''2007 levels'' of lending to small businesses. 
 The chancellor of the Exchequer, Alistair Darling, met with executives of other mayor British banks last week to persuade them to reduce borrowing costs for smaller businesses. Instead of freeing up lending, the entreaties led to criticism by some investors that the government was repeating the mistake it made during the boom: encouraging borrowing.
 ''Businesses are anticipating banks will be supportive, reflecting the support they have received themselves,'' Neill Thomas, head of debt advisory at KPMG in London, said. But ''the reality for companies is the tap remains blocked. We expect only a trickle of liquidity to return to debt markets in the period through to Christmas.''
 That would be bad news for many of Britain's 4.7 million small businesses, and it would infuriate those that helped turn small businesses from net borrowers to net depositors over the last 17 years. Smaller companies now keep $:1.48 billion with their banks, making them one of the biggest group of depositors. 
 One of them is William N. Mullings, who runs a small jewelry store in London founded by his family in 1798. He is upset that the government bailed out the banks, which are now still reluctant to lend. ''If you are running a business, any business, you should be able to do so without the help of the government,'' Mr. Mullings said. 
 Higher borrowing costs are not the only problem for smaller businesses. They also struggle as customers increasingly fall behind with payments, sometimes up to several months. Late payments can be a matter of life and death for smaller businesses.
 The issue has started to threaten the Labor Party's traditionally cozy relationship with small business and has moved small businesses into the center of a lively political debate about economic competence between Britain's two major parties. 
 The government is keen to be seen as a supporter of small businesses because they are perceived as ''struggling, small and hard-working,'' said Robert A. Blackburn, professor of small-business studies at Kingston University in London. ''There are a lot of votes in small businesses and there is a realization that this is quite a powerful group of people,'' said Mr. Blackburn.
 It is also widely believed that it will be small businesses that will lead Britain out of recession. ''People running Britain's small businesses are the lifeblood of our economy,'' the government's secretary for business, Peter Mandelson, said. 
 The popularity of Prime Minister Gordon Brown has already taken a hit because many voters blame him for creating the borrowing-and-spending boom during his time as chancellor of the Exchequer that is now pushing the economy into recession. 
 The government pledged to pay its own bills to smaller businesses in no more than 10 days but David Cameron, the leader of the opposition Conservative Party, called for more drastic steps. In a letter to The Sun newspaper, Mr. Cameron suggested that small businesses be allowed to delay their value-added tax payments to the authorities, and be given a cut in some tax rates, to help them cope with ''the economic downturn made in Britain and designed by Gordon Brown.''
 Demands by the Federation of Small Businesses went even further, including a $:1 billion rescue fund for small businesses backed by the European Investment Bank, and a policy of publicly naming customers who pay late.
 At his cleaning shop in the south of England, Mr. Banwell seemed to take a pragmatic approach: ''I have no problem with having to tighten the belt and don't think banks should be forced to lend more -- they are businesses too -- but the belt-tightening needs to be evenly spread.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: William N. Mullings in the London jewelry store founded by his family in 1798, one of Britain's 4.7 million small businesses.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE TCHALENKO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTEREST RATES (76%); BANK FAILURES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); BAILOUTS (72%); RECESSION (72%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (72%); BANK BRANCHES (71%); INTERBANK LENDING (60%)

COMPANY: INVESTEC LTD (51%)

TICKER: INL (JSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); ENGLAND (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008



152 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Awaiting Election Result, U.S. Stocks Tread Water

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM; David Jolly contributed reporting from Paris.

 BODY:
A momentous week for Washington began quietly on Wall Street, as stocks barely budged Monday amid downbeat reports on the construction, manufacturing and auto industries.
 Sales at Ford, Chrysler and General Motors fell last month to their worst levels in 25 years and business in the manufacturing sector shrank at the fastest rate in 26 years. 
 The reports underscored the slowdown of the economy but did not present a significantly different view of the business outlook for the rest of the year. 
 While stocks fluctuated in a narrow range for most of the day, they stayed mostly flat as investors appeared wary of wading into the market ahead of Tuesday's presidential election. 
 At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average was virtually unchanged. It declined 5.18 points, to 9,319.83. The fall was small, but it did break a two-day winning streak for the index. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 2.45 points, to 966.3, and the Nasdaq composite index jumped 5.38 points, to 1,726.33. 
 In a report that caught economists by surprise, the manufacturing index of the Institute for Supply Management fell to 38.9 in October, from 43.5 in September, on a scale where readings below 50 indicate contraction in the industry. It was the lowest reading since September 1982. 
 The report is a closely watched bellwether that took a steep plunge last month, prompting a sell-off in the market. Although the index dropped again on Monday, the discouraging number registered as more of the same. 
 New orders tapered off, inventories rose, and, in a worrying sign for future growth, export demand fell sharply. Manufacturers have been dependent on foreign orders for a constant stream of revenue. With the dollar strengthening against the euro, businesses are now fearful of a sharp drop in those foreign orders.
 ''In the last two months, business activity fell off a cliff,'' Daniel J. Meckstroth, the chief economist of the Manufacturers Alliance/MAPI, wrote in a note. ''Hurricane Ike and the Boeing strike contributed to the sharp downturn, but the breadth of production losses across industries shows that there is a more fundamental explanation: the U.S. economy is deleveraging.''
 A separate report from the Commerce Department showed that construction spending dipped in September by 0.3 percent, after rising the same amount in August. Commercial spending ticked up slightly, but residential construction extended its decline; residential was down 27 percent from a year ago. Private companies spent slightly more than the government.
 ''We are now deep in the belly of the recession beast,'' Bernard Baumohl, managing director of the Economic Outlook Group, wrote in a note. ''It may well be there for the next six months or so.''
 In another sign of corporate woes, Circuit City, the consumer electronics retailer, said on Monday that it would close 155 stores as it tried to return to profitability ahead of what many expect to be a brutal holiday shopping season.
 Oil prices fell $3.90, or 5.8 percent, to settle at $63.91 a barrel in New York trading. Shares of energy companies declined, with Dow component Chevron losing 1.2 percent. 
 European markets ended higher. The FTSE 100 index in London gained 1.5 percent, the CAC 40 in Paris was up 1.2 percent, and the DAX in Frankfurt climbed 0.8 percent. ''The direction is positive,'' said Nathalie Pelras, head of asset management at Richelieu Finance in Paris. ''But the market is waiting for the results of the U.S. presidential election before it makes any big moves.''
 Stocks looked fairly cheap, Ms. Pelras said, and long-term buyers might find current levels attractive. But in the short term, she said, investors should be primed for more nasty surprises.
 Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, the private equity firm, said on Monday that it would delay its plans to begin trading on the New York Stock Exchange, citing poor market conditions. The company had said in July that it would go public through a complex deal that would have valued the firm at $12 billion to $15 billion.
 Credit markets continued to improve. Borrowing rates among banks, a crucial gauge of the flow of credit, dropped again for overnight and three-month loans, as measured by a rate called Libor. The so-called Ted spread, which measures the size of the premium paid by banks for three-month loans versus the yield on safe three-month government notes, dropped as well. 
 The Treasury's benchmark 10-year bill was up 13/32, at 100 22/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was at 3.91 percent, down from 3.96 percent late Friday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Luigi Viscome, a mason, works on a Brooklyn roof. The Commerce Department said construction spending dipped in September.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: 3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction.(Source: The Bond Buyer)
The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) Chart details line graphs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INVENTORIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (78%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); RECESSION (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (76%); NEW ORDERS (76%); ELECTIONS (74%); RETAILERS (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); US DOLLAR (69%); EXPORT TRADE (63%); EURO (63%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (60%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (68%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); BOEING CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (52%); BAB (BRU) (52%); BA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008



153 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: The Fall Auction Season Opens With Little Enthusiasm

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
Amid fears of an art-market meltdown, an international crowd of dealers, collectors and onlookers packed Sotheby's on Monday night for the start of the important fall auction season. While many were expecting a funeral, the results were spotty: a relief to those who thought the appetite for art was all but dead, but hardly the success story of seasons past. 
 Millions of dollars worth of Impressionist and modern art by masters like Degas and Picasso, Matisse and Modigliani went for far less than the expectations. But Sotheby's worked hard to make sure its biggest-ticket items and biggest financial risks were covered. 
 Early in the evening, one of the few truly high prices in an otherwise tepid evening was paid for Kazimir Malevich's ''Suprematist Composition,'' a 1916 abstract canvas of bold blocks and rods of colors. It brought $60 million, a record price for the artist at auction. But the work was bound to sell no matter what. Sotheby's announced several weeks ago that it had lined up what it called an ''irrevocable bid.'' That meant a buyer had contractually agreed to purchase the painting for an undisclosed sum. On Monday there was only one bid, which was taken on the telephone by Roberta Louckx, a New York-based Sotheby's representative known to work with Russians. 
 The Malevich was one of 45 works that sold on Monday night. Twenty-five others failed to sell, mostly without a bid. The evening totaled $223.8 million, below its estimate of $337 million to $475 million. 
 (Final prices include the commission paid to Sotheby's: 25 percent of the first $20,000; 20 percent of the next $20,000 to $500,000; and 12 percent of the rest. Estimates do not reflect commissions.)
 Most of the works that did sell went for prices far below their estimates, which were set in the summer before the financial crisis. Sotheby's spent the past few weeks persuading consigners to lower their expectations. On those works that the auction house had given a guarantee -- an undisclosed sum promised to a seller regardless of a sale's outcome -- it was clear that Sotheby's was prepared to sell something and lose money rather than risk having to flog it later. 
 Market jitters have been the talk of the art world for a while now, but aside from dealers' grumbling about how bad business has become, there had been few concrete indications until last week. That's when a 1909 Picasso that was estimated at more than $30 million was abruptly withdrawn from Monday's auction. The sellers, heirs of the Surrealist painter Enrico Donati, who died in April, said they were pulling the work ''for private reasons,'' but others said it was because of fears that the painting would be seen later as secondhand goods if it failed to sell. 
 In rosier times, the painting would have been snapped up by one of the newly rich from the former Soviet Union, Asia or the Middle East who have been fueling the market in the last few years. But as the wealth of these collectors has diminished, the appetite for paying millions of dollars for art has seemed to diminish as well. Sotheby's said the buyers on Monday were predominantly Americans, although it was clear that Russians also took home several works. 
 Many in the audience were watching to see what new levels would be set. ''People were nervous,'' said Susan Seidel, a Manhattan dealer, after the sale. ''The mood seemed very tentative.'' 
 A Degas gouache, ''Dancer in Repose,'' that was being sold by the financier Henry Kravis and his wife, Marie-Josee Kravis, was sought by two telephone bidders. From around 1879, it depicts a dancer sitting on a bench massaging her foot. The Kravises bought the work at Sotheby's in London in 1999 for $27.9 million, and in the summer the auction house gave the Kravises a guarantee that experts said was more than $40 million. On Monday Yasuaki Ishizaka, head of Sotheby's Tokyo, took the winning bid by phone: $33 million, or $37 million including Sotheby's fees. 
 One of the evening's brightest moments came when ''Vampire,'' an 1894 Munch canvas of a man locked in a tortured embrace, arrived on the block. Four bidders tried for the painting, and it brought $34 million ($38.1 million with Sotheby's commission). 
 The evening did see some big casualties. ''Seated Man (Leaning on a Cane),'' a 1918 painting by Modigliani that the Nahmad family, dealers with galleries in New York and London, bought at Christie's in London in 1996 for $3.2 million, was estimated at $18 million to $25 million. There wasn't a bid in sight, and Tobias Meyer, the evening's auctioneer, gave up trying to sell the work.
 The Nahmads weren't the only disappointed dealers offering works last night. Another was William Acquavella, a Manhattan dealer who purchased Giacometti's ''Diego's Head,'' a 1958 painting, at Christie's just three years ago for $1.1 million. On Monday, it was estimated to bring $6 million to $8 million. But again, not a hand went in the air. Sotheby's had given Mr. Acquavella a guarantee that was said to be about $6 million, making it an expensive mistake for the auction house. 
 A year ago, a group of paintings by the Russian artist Boris Dmitrievich Grigoriev being sold by the Berkshire Museum in Pittsfield, Mass., would have been snapped up. But on Monday the results were mixed. Among the best was ''Pipe Players,'' a 1924 painting that depicts a pair of peasant musicians.
 One telephone bidder wanted the painting, and it sold for $2.8 million ($3.2 million including Sotheby's commission), well under its $4 million to $6 million estimate. But ''Shepherd of the Hills,'' another Grigoriev, this one from 1920, brought $3.2 million ($3.7 million with commission). It was the only work fetching more than its high estimate, in this case $3.5 million. 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 5, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article in some editions on Tuesday about an auction of Impressionist and modern art at Sotheby's in New York misstated, in some copies, the commission paid to Sotheby's. It is 25 percent of the first $50,000 of the hammer price, 20 percent of the amount from $50,000 to $1,000,000 and 12 percent of the rest. It is not 25 percent of the first $20,000, 20 percent from $20,000 to $500,000 and 12 percent of the rest.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Suprematist Composition,'' a 1916 oil on canvas by the Russian Kazimir Malevich, brought one of the night's top prices. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DIMA GAVRYSH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); PAINTING (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%)

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S (92%)

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008



154 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: In the Knicks, Brown Faces the Past

BYLINE: By HOWARD BECK

DATELINE: CHARLOTTE, N.C. 

 BODY:
The hugs came first, then the humility. Tayshaun Prince leaned down with one arm and pulled Larry Brown close. Rasheed Wallace followed, with a joyous shriek -- ''L-Beezie! What's up, man?'' -- and a full, two-arm embrace. Richard Hamilton was next. Smile, squeeze, repeat.
 Brown looked like a bride in a receiving line Monday morning when the Detroit Pistons (his former team) walked onto the basketball court, moments after the Charlotte Bobcats (his current team) had exited. Brown soaked up the affection, then added a dash of wry perspective: ''It's probably that they're happy to have me leave.''
 He was smiling, but not necessarily joking. With Brown, the feelings are always a mixed bag, sprinkled with neuroses and conflicting impulses. He is personally loyal and professionally peripatetic, a brilliant teacher who exhausts his charges, a highly respected coach who almost appeared unemployable. 
 Now Brown is back where his dizzying odyssey began, nearly four decades and 11 jobs ago. He seems content, energized and happy to, in Brown parlance, ''smell the gym'' again, after two years in the N.B.A. wilderness. But the turbulent past is never far from his gaze.
 Brown crossed paths with the Pistons on Monday, a team he split with acrimoniously in 2005, just 13 months after taking them to the championship. He returns to Madison Square Garden on Wednesday for a much more fraught reunion with the Knicks. The boos and taunts will surely outnumber the hugs.
 It has been two and a half years since Brown feuded with Stephon Marbury, lost a power struggle with Isiah Thomas and was fired, for cause, by James L. Dolan, the Garden chairman, after a 23-59 season.
 The ending was farcical and sad, with Brown attending dozens of draft workouts even after his imminent firing had been widely reported. He spent a month in awkward limbo. Prohibited from speaking to the news media at the Knicks' training center, Brown held impromptu roadside interviews with reporters and morosely declared himself a ''dead man walking.''
 The scars have not entirely healed, for Brown or the franchise. Thomas was fired as coach and president last spring. Marbury, who clashed with Brown and Thomas, has been demoted to the inactive list by the new coach, Mike D'Antoni. The optimism of a new era has been doused by reminders of the past -- by Thomas's reported overdose on sleeping pills and Marbury's exile.
 Now Brown is walking back into the breach, although with no sense of vindication.
 ''I don't get any satisfaction out of seeing anybody struggling,'' Brown said softly after the Bobcats' morning shootaround. 
 ''Look, I mean, I'm gone. And when Mr. Dolan made that decision, I'm moving on with my life. I don't blame anybody, and I hope that never came out that I blamed anybody about what happened. I was the coach. But my challenge is to do better with Charlotte.''
 The Knicks did more than fire Brown in June 2006. Dolan publicly lashed Brown for every perceived misstep and every violation of company policy. Dolan said that Brown pushed to acquire Jalen Rose and Steve Francis, then turned on them. He accused Brown of trying to orchestrate trades behind Thomas's back. The list of offenses was so long that Dolan had to read from prepared notes.
 The Knicks withheld the $41 million left on Brown's contract, but eventually paid him $18.5 million in a settlement brokered by Commissioner David Stern.
 In interviews over the last two years, Brown has repeatedly said that he ''did a bad job'' with the Knicks. But he has never answered Dolan's charges publicly, and he said he did not intend to. 
 ''It doesn't do any good,'' he said. ''Again, I was given an unbelievable opportunity; it didn't work out. I know why it didn't work out. But it's going to always be a personal thing.''
 He added, ''Any time anybody tells you you're a failure, it hurts.''
 Any animus toward the Garden is offset by Brown's deep affection for Donnie Walsh, the new Knicks president. Walsh began his N.B.A. career on Brown's coaching staff in Denver, and he later hired Brown to coach the Indiana Pacers. Oddly enough, Brown encouraged Walsh, a fellow New Yorker, to take the Knicks job.
 ''I said if you only have to answer to Mr. Dolan and you have a relationship with him, I can't think of a job better in the league,'' Brown said. ''The guy will do anything he can to give you the resources to win.''
 Brown offered his earnest hope that Walsh and D'Antoni can succeed where he failed.
 ''You remember when I said at my press conference how important it was for the league to have a good team in New York? I wanted to help that,'' Brown said. ''If you ever do a good job as a coach in New York, you help our sport.''
 Failing in New York brings its own unique consequences. Brown spent two years without a whistle, the longest such break in a 36-year Hall of Fame career. He was thrown a lifeline by his friends with the 76ers, who gave him a consulting job and time to ponder his options.
 ''I'd have gone crazy if I didn't have any involvement,'' said Brown, a notorious gym rat. 
 He spent a lot of time at Villanova games and toured the country meeting with coaches he likes and admires -- Ben Howland at U.C.L.A., Bill Self at Kansas, Roy Williams at North Carolina, his alma mater.
 ''I spent two years learning,'' Brown said. ''I never got to watch other people coach. It was wonderful.''
 Brown said he was a better man and a better coach for having survived the Knicks experience. He will have to be to have any chance of winning in Charlotte.
 The Bobcats have never won more than 33 games in their four-year existence. They are among the youngest teams in the league. Two of their most recent lottery picks, Adam Morrison and Sean May, have been derailed by injuries. Their bench is thin, but the Bobcats have high hopes for point guard D. J. Augustin, whom they drafted with the ninth pick in June.
 ''Oh, it's a huge challenge,'' Brown said. ''I don't think it will happen overnight.''
 As homecomings go, this one seems to hold more promise, or at least less drama. In New York, Brown was promoted as a franchise savior, although the odds were always against him succeeding. In Charlotte, the expectations and pressure are lower, the environment friendlier and less frantic.
 Brown's mother, who will turn 104 soon, lives nearby. So do his two daughters and five grandchildren. His brother Herb is back on his staff, along with Dave Hanners and Phil Ford, who were also on the bench in New York. He is working for a fellow Tar Heel, Michael Jordan. His mentor Dean Smith lives two hours away and attended Bobcats training camp.
 If this is the last stop on Brown's magical mystery tour, and at age 68 he insists it is, the gratification will come from simple achievements, and mostly just from being back on the bench.
 ''I've always appreciated having a job like this,'' he said, ''but you appreciate it much more when you're not actually doing it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bobcats Coach Larry Brown, right, with the assistant Phil Ford last week. The Bobcats play the Knicks on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY DEJAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); DISMISSALS (87%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: CHARLOTTE BOBCATS (91%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (84%); DETROIT PISTONS (83%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (55%)

PERSON: JAMES L DOLAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008



155 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: High Jet Fuel Prices Reduce Half-Year Profit at Ryanair

BYLINE: By CAROLINE BROTHERS

 BODY:
Ryanair, the low-cost airline, reported a sharp drop in first-half profit Monday, citing higher fuel costs and the economic slowdown.
 Higher fuel prices accounted for half of Ryanair's operating costs in the six months to Sept. 30 -- up from 36 percent a year earlier. The carrier was also stung by write-offs for a 29 percent stake in the Irish flag carrier Aer Lingus, whose value has deteriorated in the last two years, as well as depreciation in the value of aircraft Ryanair intends to sell. 
 Earnings in the six-month period fell 77 percent, to 95.3 million euros ($120.8 million) compared with 407.6 million euros in the period a year earlier.
 Revenue rose 16 percent, to 1.81 billion euros, from 1.5 billion in the year-ago period.
 Low-cost and traditional carriers struggled as fuel prices rose to record levels before receding, while at the same time a global economic slowdown has lowered demand for air travel.
 Ryanair shares climbed Monday after Michael O'Leary, the chief executive, said that profit would rebound in 2009 if oil prices remained at around $80 a barrel.
 News that the company had little oil price hedging in place also buoyed the stock, which closed Monday in Dublin at 2.83 euros, up 8 cents. Hedging protects an airline at a time of rising prices, but can be detrimental when prices decline. 
 ''We have a significant cost advantage over our competitors, many of whom have hedged fuel next year at significantly higher levels than current market prices,'' Ryanair said in a statement. ''This will force competitors to further increase airfares and widen the price gap between them and Ryanair's lowest fares.'' 
 Ryanair underlined its confidence by announcing a new price war Monday, flooding the market with a million seats at $:10 each on 250 routes.
 In response to questions, Mr. O'Leary said that establishing a discount trans-Atlantic airline would depend on the availability of a fleet of long-distance aircraft -- unlikely over the course of the next 18 months.
 Mr. O'Leary last evoked the idea of discount trans-Atlantic service in April, before oil prices rose.
 He envisaged the airline as a sister or associate company to Ryanair that would offer airfares starting at 10 euros before taxes and fees.
 Airports that could be used in Europe include Stansted outside London, as well as Dublin, Milan, Frankfurt, Rome and Barcelona, while destinations could include New York, Dallas, Denver and cities in Florida, a Ryanair spokeswoman, Pauline McAlester, said. But she stressed that the project was still at the ''what if'' stage.
 Still, industry specialists and executives at other low-cost airlines are skeptical about the applicability of the low-cost business model to long-distance routes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); AIRLINES (91%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); JET FUEL (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); AIR FARES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); EURO (74%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

COMPANY: RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (92%); AER LINGUS GROUP PLC (57%)

TICKER: RYAAY (NASDAQ) (92%); RYA (LSE) (92%); AERL (LSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (71%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); FLORIDA, USA (70%) EUROPE (79%); IRELAND (72%); UNITED STATES (71%); GERMANY (71%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008



156 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; WELL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Money Is Tight, and Junk Food Beckons

BYLINE: By TARA PARKER-POPE. 
E-mail: well@nytimes.com

 BODY:
How much does it really cost to eat a healthy diet?
 Economists, health researchers and consumers are struggling to answer that question as food prices rise and the economy slumps. The World Bank says nearly a billion people around the world live on a dollar a day, or even less; in the United States, the daily food-stamp allowance is typically just a few dollars per person, while the average American eats $7 worth of food per day.
 Even middle-class people struggle to put healthful food on the table. Studies show that junk foods tend to cost less than fruits, vegetables and other healthful foods, whose prices continue to rise. 
 This fall a couple in Encinitas, Calif., conducted their own experiment to find out what it was like to live for a month on just a dollar a day for food. Overnight, their diets changed significantly. The budget forced them to give up many store-bought foods and dinners out. Even bread and canned refried beans were too expensive.
 Instead, the couple -- Christopher Greenslate, 28, and Kerri Leonard, 29, both high school social studies teachers -- bought raw beans, rice, cornmeal and oatmeal in bulk, and made their own bread and tortillas. Fresh fruits and vegetables weren't an option. Ms. Leonard's mother was so worried about scurvy, a result of vitamin C deficiency, that they made room in their budget for Tang orange drink mix. (They don't eat meat -- not that they could have afforded it.) 
 Breakfast consisted of oatmeal; lunch was a peanut butter and jelly sandwich. Dinner often consisted of beans, rice and homemade tortillas. Homemade pancakes were affordable, but syrup was not; a local restaurant gave them a few free syrup packets.
 One of the biggest changes was the time they had to spend in meal preparation.
 ''If you're buying raw materials, you're spending more time preparing things,'' Mr. Greenslate said. ''We'd come home after working 10 to 11 hours and have to roll out tortillas. If you're already really hungry at that point, it's tough.''
 While he lost weight on the budget diet, Mr. Greenslate said, the larger issue was his lack of energy. During the experiment he was no longer able to work out at the gym.
 A few times they found a bag of carrots or lettuce that was within their budget, but produce was usually too expensive. They foraged for lemons on the trees in their neighborhood to squeeze juice into their water. 
 Ms. Leonard said that after the 30-day experiment, one of the first foods she ate was a strawberry. ''I almost cried,'' she said.
 The couple acknowledged that the experiment was something of a luxury, given that many people have no choice about how much to spend on food.
 ''People in our situation have the leisure to be concerned about issues like this,'' Ms. Leonard said. ''If we were actually living in this situation, I would not be taking the time to be concerned about what I could and could not have; I'd be worried about survival.''
 Researchers say the experiment reflects many of the challenges that poor people actually face. When food stamps and income checks run low toward the end of the month, they often do scrape by on a dollar a day or less. But many people don't know how to prepare foods from scratch, or lack the time.
 ''You have to know how to cook beans and rice, how to make tortillas, how to soak lentils,'' said Adam Drewnowski, director of the Center for Public Health Nutrition at the University of Washington. ''Many people don't have the knowledge or the time if they're working two jobs.''
 Last year, Dr. Drewnowski led a study, published in The Journal of the American Dietetic Association, comparing the prices of 370 foods sold at supermarkets in the Seattle area. The study showed that ''energy dense'' junk foods, which pack the most calories and fewest nutrients per gram, were far less expensive than nutrient-rich, lower-calorie foods like fruits and vegetables. The prices of the most healthful foods surged 19.5 percent over the two-year study period, while the junk food prices dropped 1.8 percent.
 Obesity researchers worry that these trends will push consumers toward less healthful foods. ''The message for this year and next year is going to be affordable nutrition,'' Dr. Drewnowski said. ''It's not the food pyramid, it's the budget pyramid.''
 The experiment in California was hardly the first of its kind, though the teachers' budget was tighter than most. Last month Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm of Michigan and her family took a weeklong ''food stamp challenge,'' spending only $5.87 per day per person on food -- the Michigan food stamp allotment. She told reporters that she ended up buying a lot of macaroni and cheese. Last year Gov. Theodore R. Kulongoski of Oregon lived for a week on his state's $3-a-day food stamp allocation.
 Ms. Leonard and Mr. Greenslate, who chronicled their dollar-a-day experience on their blog, onedollardietproject.wordpress.com, say they are looking at other ways to explore how difficult it is for people with limited income to eat a healthful diet.
 ''I challenge anyone to try to live on a dollar a day and eat fresh food in this country,'' Mr. Greenslate said. ''I would love to be proven wrong.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY STUART BRADFORD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUTRITION (91%); FOOD PRICES (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MALNUTRITION (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); DIETING (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (75%); RESTAURANTS (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008



157 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 227 words

HEADLINE: Belo, Owner of TV Stations, Cites Hurricanes in 20% Slide

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The television broadcaster Belo Corporation said on Monday that its quarterly profit was hurt by the economic downturn and hurricanes that struck its markets in Texas, and fell 20 percent from the year-earlier period when the company was still operating a newspaper division. 
 Belo, which is based in Dallas, said Hurricanes Gustav and Ike hurt its revenue and income as ad sales were displaced by continuous news coverage and audience levels were lower as a result of power outages.
 The company, which owns broadcasters in the South, the Southwest and the Northwest, said it reduced its debt during the period by $42 million.
 Belo said it earned $14.4 million, or 14 cents a share, in the quarter, down from $18.8 million, or 18 cents a share a year earlier. The year-earlier quarter includes income of $3.2 million from Belo's former newspaper operations, which it sold in March.
 The profit fell short of the 20 cents expected by analysts, but shares of Belo rose 4 cents, to $2.17.
 Belo expects fourth-quarter political advertising revenue to more than triple to $36 million from the previous quarter, but it expects an 8 percent decline in total revenue for the quarter.
 ''The lack of consumer confidence and continued weak economic indicators point to a prolonged soft advertising environment,'' the chief executive, Dunia A. Shive, said in a statement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); HURRICANES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (90%); WEATHER (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); POWER FAILURES (73%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (72%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (71%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: BELO CORP (94%)

TICKER: BLC (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (94%)

PERSON: DUNIA A SHIVE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (73%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008



158 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 424 words

 BODY:
AUTO SALES PLUMMETGeneral Motors reported a 45 percent decline in its sales for October. Chrysler was down 35 percent and Ford 30 percent -- results that raised new concern about the survival of Detroit's beleaguered Big Three. 
 UP TO THEM A committee of five government officials and a staff of 40 is picking winners and losers among thousands of banks, savings and loans, insurers and other institutions. [B1.] 
 DETERIORATING ECONOMIES Despite interest rate cuts and more than a trillion euros in loans and infusions of capital, the economic situation in Europe is expected to get worse. Zaragoza, Spain provides an example. [B1.] 
 Commerzbank is the first commercial lender in Germany to accept government cash. [B7.]
 Australia is expected to cut interest rates and South Korea has announced a stimulus package, the latest efforts by governments seeking to reduce the impact of the financial crisis. [B7.]
 GOOGLE VS. DOLLY Google and Dolly Parton are among the foes in a battle over coveted slices of the nation's airwaves. [B1.]
 A QUESTION OF PAY No matter the result of Tuesday's election, one issue on Wall Street isn't going away: executive pay. The question is how to fix it. DealBook: Andrew Ross Sorkin. [B1.] 
 TIGHTER CREDIT Banks tightened lending, from home mortgages to credit cards and business loans, the Federal Reserve has reported, as the worst financial crisis in seven decades took a bigger toll on the economy. [B5.]
 SHOPKEEPER'S NIGHTMARE Britain, famously called a nation of shopkeepers, is in the midst of a battle involving representatives of small businesses and the government over aid to small firms caught in the financial crisis. [B6.]
 MIXING TRAVEL AND POLITICS Business travelers of all political affiliations report an uncommon amount of political conversation in the last few months, and not everyone likes it. [B9.]
 A CUSTOMER WRONGED A lesson in what can happen when a loyal customer is mistreated by a hotel. On the Road: Joe Sharkey. [B9.]
 BIG CUTS AT CIRCUIT CITY Circuit City will close about 20 percent, or 155, of its American stores and lay off 17 percent of its work force as it tries to return to profitability. [B2.]
 LIKE POLITICAL ADS Marketers of consumer products are borrowing a page from the playbook for political advertising by becoming more willing to run aggressive ads that attack competing brands by name. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [B3.]
 KKR WILL WAIT The private equity firm KKR says it is delaying the purchase of a publicly listed affiliate until next year. [B3.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); RETAILERS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); GOVERNMENT SUPPORT OF BUSINESS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (76%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (76%); POLITICS (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (67%); BRANDING (60%)

COMPANY: COMMERZBANK AG (57%); GOOGLE INC (56%)

TICKER: CZB (LSE) (57%); CBK (FRA) (57%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARAGON, SPAIN (79%) SPAIN (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (76%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008



159 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths HAEMMERLI, ALICE BRAVERMAN

 BODY:
 HAEMMERLI--Alice Braverman who died on October 25, was a lawyer, scholar and teacher, who took great delight in both legal argument and in her writing on intellectual properties. In the job she held as Assistant Dean of International Programs and Graduate Legal Studies at the Columbia University School of Law (from which she retired in 2006), she was responsible for both the graduate and international programs. In that capacity, she guided many foreign post-graduate students through the rigors of the American system, and many of them from Jerusalem to Paris, Rome, and South Africa, will remember her with great admiration and affection. 
Her articles were published in numerous law reviews and she was cited by the Supreme Court on a variety of intellectual property issues. Before Columbia, Alice was a member of the Law Firm of Debevoise and Plimpton where she specialized in intellectual property. Prior to that she was the Director of Public Policy at Chase Manhattan Bank. Most recently, she worked in Pennsylvania for Barack Obama's election. Born in New York City, Alice attended Hunter College High School, and went on to graduate summa cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa from Vassar College. She was a brilliant student and won both a Woodrow Wilson Scholarship, and a Fulbright Fellowship which took her to the London School of Economics for her first MA. At Harvard, she earned a second MA in International Relations as well as her Ph.D. in International Law. Her Juris Doctor was granted by Columbia. It was in Cambridge that she met her late husband, Alfred Haemmerli, and they had a long and fruitful marriage until Freddy's death in 2001. Their daughter Justine, who was the most important thing in their lives, continues the family tradition as a dedicated teacher. Her work was important to Alice, but she also took huge pleasure in family, friends and her pastimes, especially riding her horse, French, as well as travel, reading, and music. She is survived by her beloved daughter, Justine, her sisters, Laura Shannon and Marta Bartolozzi, twin brother David, niece, Heather Shannon and dearest lifelong friend, Reggie Nadelson. She will be sorely missed by all those whose lives she touched. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); FAMILY (77%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LAWYERS (75%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (72%); MARRIAGE (69%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (68%)

COMPANY: DEBEVOISE & PLIMPTON LLP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); PHI BETA KAPPA (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (71%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008



160 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Squirming in Your Seat

BYLINE: By MARTHA C. WHITE

 BODY:
Business travelers of all political affiliations reported an unusual amount of political conversation in the last few months -- some of it rather pointed -- from airplane seatmates, fellow guests, diners and even associates. 
 ''It's almost like they're looking for a reaction,'' said Barry Goldberg, an executive coach who regularly flies for work. He said that he had had numerous conversations -- not always pleasant -- with fellow travelers who wanted to talk politics.
 On a flight from Atlanta to New York in mid-August, Mr. Goldberg said his seatmate addressed him as he read a copy of The Financial Times. ''The opening salvo was, 'Oh, that pink paper. What's the matter -- you can't read an American paper?' '' Mr. Goldberg recalled, the reference being to the paper's salmon-colored newsprint. 
 He said he replied that he worked frequently in Europe and tried to keep up on global economic affairs. ''After the safety announcements, he said, 'You're one of those people who's going to vote for Obama, right? You're probably one of those people who thinks we ought to talk to Iran,' '' Mr. Goldberg said, adding that he told the man he did not want to talk about politics and opened his laptop, to no avail.
 ''This guy didn't give it up,'' he said. 
 While encounters with strangers may be awkward, it is far more fraught to have such an exchange with a colleague or superior while on the road. Lindsay Griffiths, an administrative staff member for a legal association, found that out at her organization's annual meeting in June, when one lawyer took umbrage with her stance on the Iraq war as they were gathered with a group at the hotel bar. 
 ''He was pointing his finger in my face. He really thought the higher he raised his voice the more likely I was to go over to his side.'' The lawyer's wife eventually stepped in and changed the subject, and Ms. Griffiths excused herself.
 Some business travelers said they went out of their way to avoid these confrontations, going so far as to hurry through a meal in a restaurant or cut short their time at the hotel spa. 
 But then there is Laurie Riedman, owner of a marketing firm, who said she had been stopped four times over the course of a single cross-country journey in September by travelers who remarked that she looked like Sarah Palin, the Republican vice presidential nominee. 
 ''It was bizarre to me. I happen to be an Obama supporter and I think people thought they were giving me a huge compliment,'' she said. Ms. Riedman said the resemblance was superficial. She has brown hair with bangs and rectangular glasses, and on that day happened to be wearing a suit with her hair in an updo.
 For Bryce Gruber, being visibly pregnant attracted comments and admonishments from fellow travelers on both the right and the left. On a recent flight from New York to Fort Lauderdale, Fla., her seatmate, who identified herself as a doctor, told Ms. Gruber it was her responsibility to vote for Barack Obama if she cared about the health of her unborn child. ''It was an early morning flight,'' she said. ''I just wanted to get out of the conversation.'' 
 On a car trip to a meeting in Philadelphia, Ms. Gruber said she was stopped at a highway rest area by another traveler. ''The guy next to me saw I had Florida plates on my car and said, 'Oh, you must be a McCain fan,' and then he started praising me.'' 
 While few are willing to admit that they argue politics with strangers on the road, Jennifer Kushell conceded that she had started a few spirited discussions. ''I've been a lot more aggressive in my comments than I think I've ever been in the past,'' she said.
 As the president of a networking and career counseling Web site for college students, a job that involves flying about 100,000 miles a year, she teaches that politics is a topic to be avoided while in professional company. ''To admit I'm talking about this kills me because it's against my policy,'' she said. 
 Although not the brunt of hostility, Noah Cole said he had found himself in an uncomfortable situation on a flight on United in October. When the flight attendant came to take drink orders, Mr. Cole noticed that the attendant had an Obama sticker on his uniform. 
 The sticker was also noticed by his seatmate, who challenged the attendant and asked why he was supporting him. When the attendant demurred and left to get the beverages, Mr. Cole said his seatmate turned to him next. ''The guy looked at me and said, 'He must be gay and that's why he's supporting Obama.' I didn't know how to respond.'' 
 He said he had considered himself a good judge of his fellow travelers beforehand. ''But now, unless it's an outward sign like a button, I've learned not to assume anything.'' 
 Christopher Federico, director of the Center for the Study of Political Psychology at the University of Minnesota, said that the anonymity of travel might lead some to think of themselves in terms of the groups they support -- including political parties -- instead of as individuals. ''There's a lot of research to suggest that people behave in unique ways when there is anonymity,'' he said.
 When people are traveling, said Pier M. Forni, author of ''The Civility Solution: What to Do When People Are Rude'' (St. Martin's Press, 2008) and director of the Civility Initiative at Johns Hopkins University, ''We're in a sort of suspended life, and maybe that makes us feel that the rules of decent engagement are suspended as well.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Supporters of both presidential candidates, Barack Obama, the Democrat, and John McCain, the Republican, are wearing their opinions on airplane flights as well as on the streets and at campaign rallies.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES)
 Laurie Riedman was told by travelers that she looked like Sarah Palin. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (89%); RESTAURANTS (77%); NEWSPRINT (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (71%); HOTEL AMENITIES (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (63%)

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); SARAH PALIN (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (79%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008



161 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: Rein In Chief's Pay? It's Doable

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN. 
The latest news on mergers and acquisitions can be found at nytimes.com/dealbook.

 BODY:
Whoever is elected president on Tuesday, one hot-button issue from this long campaign will keep hounding Wall Street: executive pay. 
 Both Senators Barack Obama and John McCain have criticized the seven- and eight-figure paychecks that Wall Street's top brass collected in recent years while driving their companies -- and the entire financial system -- into the ground. 
 Both candidates have said the heads-we-win, tails-you-lose pay schemes that seem all too common in finance lie at the heart of the crisis that threatens the whole economy. Even some senior executives have told me that they agree. 
 Many people agree that the pay system is broken. It is clear that rewarding executives for delivering a few quarters of outsize profits or a share price that keeps rising (until it doesn't) only encourages those executives to take risks. And managing risks hasn't exactly been Wall Street's forte lately. 
 The question is, how should pay be fixed? Now that American taxpayers are shareholders in the nation's largest banks, a bevy of plans are making the rounds. 
 Some in Washington want to cap pay, period. Executives can make only so much and no more. 
 Others argue for ''claw-backs.'' That is, they want executives who got rich while their companies were reporting fat profits to be forced to give some of the money back. After all, much of the industry's profits from the boom have been vaporized in the bust.
 And still others have even come up with fancy formulas to rein in pay. 
 The issue has become such a nail-biter for big banks that some are even considering curbing pay voluntarily. Top executives hope such a move, coming in a year when pay is already plummeting, might quiet the complaints. 
 It won't.
 While various plans are being bandied about, one in particular deserves attention. It comes from Raghuram G. Rajan, a professor of finance at the Graduate School of Business at the University of Chicago and former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund.
 Mr. Rajan is a longtime critic of executive pay on Wall Street. But he's not a knee-jerk, all-big-bonuses-are-bad critic. Instead, he's a pretty thoughtful, pay-for-performance capitalist who has been studying ways to create the right incentives for the system to work.
 He has a multifaceted approach that would give banks a choice. Under the first option, the government would strictly regulate compensation formulas. Under the second, banks could pay their executives whatever they like -- provided the banks set aside more capital. In other words, banks that cling to their free-wheeling ways would have to pay some sort of price. 
 For Mr. Rajan, this is an either-or proposition. If banks pursue current compensation policies -- what might be described as the ''no-responsibility'' system, given the trouble we're in -- that's fine.
 But if that happens, ''the government should levy more capital requirements against the bank,'' he said. Requiring banks to have higher capital requirements would reduce the risk that executives will make stupid decisions that imperil the firm and, possibly, the nation's financial health.
 How much extra capital? That depends. If banks spread out executives' pay over, say, four years, giving their executives an incentive to make smart decisions for the long haul, the banks would be allowed to set aside a bit less additional capital. 
 Ditto if they included claw-back provisions and required executives to reinvest a substantial portion of their income in their companies so they had some skin in the game.
 ''We need to make people a little more worried about the future,'' Mr. Rajan said. The way things are now, executives are encouraged to take big risks because they get paid based on the immediate fees generated. They have little incentive to worry about what might happen to the balance sheet later.
 Mr. Rajan said he was unimpressed by efforts to pay executives partially in stock. Owning shares in the entire company doesn't tie bankers' compensation directly to the decisions they make within their own units. ''Stock compensation doesn't do it because it's too broad,'' he said.
 More important, Mr. Rajan wants executives to be paid over a four-year period, receiving a fourth of their bonus income every year. If they make a bad bet, they won't get paid the remaining amount.
 And Mr. Rajan thinks bonuses should be based strictly on what he calls ''accounting performance,'' rather than stock performance, which he says you can't control. He also wants chief executive pay to be benchmarked against the performance of rival firms. If a firm's earnings are worse than their rivals', ''why should they get a bonus?'' he asked.
 Despite all the criticism that hedge funds get for their compensation structures -- they charge one fee up front, and take a big cut of any profits -- Mr. Rajan likes part of the hedge-fund model: what is known as a ''high water mark.'' 
 When hedge fund managers lose their investors' money, the managers don't collect any of that fat incentive fee until they make back the loss. The same rule should be applied to bankers who destroy shareholder value. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) ILLINOIS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008



162 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM.; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 746 words

BYLINE: By ROB COX and HUGO DIXON

 BODY:
A Bright Spot 
 In Tough Times
 Whoever says the entire world needs to deleverage hasn't paid attention to what's happening in Brazil. Banco Itau's $15 billion takeover of a rival, Unibanco, should change that. The deal, announced Monday, creates Latin America's biggest financial institution, which may become one of the few bright spots in the global banking firmament. 
 While mature economies are in the process of pulling back from decades of living beyond their means, Brazil is just getting started. Debt represents only about 35 percent of Brazil's gross domestic product, according to Credit Suisse, and is growing by about a third annually. 
 In the United States, domestic nonfinancial debt outstanding at the end of the second quarter was some $32 trillion, according to the Federal Reserve, or more than 200 percent of output. And the Fed's most recent survey of loan officers suggests credit is tightening across the board. 
 That's not to say Brazil has been immune from the gyrations of the global credit crisis. A swift decline in the real leaves banks potentially facing billions of dollars in losses from foreign exchange derivatives sold to corporate clients. And the coziness of the sector may be disturbed by new competition in the form of Banco Santander, which purchased Banco Real in the breakup of Holland's ABN Amro, and whose chairman, Emilio Botin, just this week vowed to invest heavily in the country. 
 Yet all of this may play into the hands of Itau, which needs the forbearance of regulators: the combination will give the group about a fifth of Brazil's loan market. In better times, that might concern regulators. In a global slowdown, such concentration may provide some comfort.
 A dominant slice of Brazil's fast-growing market is not all that Itau's shareholders have to cheer. The companies haven't detailed cost cuts. But as a general rule the acquirer in mergers like this should be able to slice out a third of the target's operating expenses. That would amount to savings with a net present value equal to nearly two-thirds of Unibanco's market capitalization before the deal was announced.
 There are still devilish details to be worked out. The structure of the two family-controlled banks is complex, and leaves room for minority shareholders to be bruised. But investors looking for a contrarian bet on global deleveraging may find Brazilian banking to their liking.
 Handcuff Premium
 One of the advantages of hedge funds compared with other so-called alternative investments like private equity was supposed to be that you could get your money out when you needed it. But the current crisis shows that, when push comes to shove, you can't. Fearing a tide of redemptions, an increasing number of hedge funds are locking up their investors.
 Polygon and Blue Mountain just suspended redemptions in their flagship funds. Last week, Deephaven Capital Management did the same. Back in July, GLG locked up investors in the main fund run by Greg Coffey, the star manager who has just jumped ship to Moore Capital. 
 The fine print of hedge fund investment agreements allows such lock-ups. But, in the good times, investors didn't focus on them. They allowed themselves to believe their investments were nearly as liquid as putting money into the stock market. Sure, you couldn't get it out at a moment's notice, but there was normally a window every three months. 
 While the good times rolled, it was easy to get money out of funds. Indeed, the problem with some of the top performers was being allowed to put money into them. But such liquidity has been shown to be a fair weather friend. You really need it when the weather gets stormy -- and that's precisely when it has started to vanish. 
 The fear of being locked up isn't the only thing investors need to take account of in determining whether to put their money into hedge funds. Once the crisis has run its course, they will also be better able to assess whether the industry has really delivered significantly superior performance -- and whether it has been taking excessive risks to get there. 
 But even if this risk/return trade-off is acceptable, it should not be the only criterion. In the future, investors should also demand an extra return -- an ''illiquidity'' premium of sorts -- to tempt them to put their money where it may be subject to handcuffs.
 ROB COX and HUGO DIXON 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Roberto Setubal, left, president of Banco Itau, and Pedero Moreira Salles, president of Unibanco. The two Brazilian banks announced a merger on Monday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDRE PENNER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); MERGERS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); FAMILY COMPANIES (71%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (63%)

COMPANY: ITAU UNIBANCO HOLDING SA (58%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (57%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); BANCO SANTANDER SA (57%)

TICKER: ITUB3 (BOVESPA) (58%); ITUB (NYSE) (58%); ABO (ASX) (57%); CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%); SANT (LIS) (57%); SANT (BIT) (57%); SANB3 (BOVESPA) (57%); SAN (NYSE) (57%); SAN (MCE) (57%); SAN (BMV) (57%); BNC (LSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

PERSON: EMILIO BOTIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (98%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008



163 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Beyond Election Day

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
Conservative commentators had a lot of fun mocking Barack Obama's use of the phrase, ''the fierce urgency of now.''
 Noting that it had originated with the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Senator Obama made it a cornerstone of his early campaign speeches.
 Conservatives kicked the phrase around like a soccer ball. ''The fierce urgency of now,'' they would say, giggling. What does it mean? 
 Well, if your house is on fire and your family is still inside, that's an example of the fierce urgency of now. 
 Something like that is the case in the United States right now as Americans go to the polls in what is probably the most important presidential election since World War II. A mind-boggling series of crises is threatening not just the short-term future but the very viability of the nation.
 The economy is sinking into quicksand. The financial sector, guardian of the nation's wealth, is leaning on the crutch of a trillion-dollar taxpayer bailout. The giant auto companies -- for decades the high-powered, gas-guzzling, exhaust-spewing pride of American industry -- are on life support. 
 As the holiday shopping season approaches, the nation is hemorrhaging jobs, the value of the family home has plunged, retirement plans are shrinking like ice cubes on a hot stove and economists are telling us the recession has only just begun. 
 It's in that atmosphere that voters today will be choosing between the crisis-management skills of Senator Obama, who has enlisted Joe Biden as aide-de-camp, and those of Senator John McCain, who is riding to the rescue with Sarah Palin and Joe the Plumber in tow.
 As important as this choice has become, the election is just a small first step. What Americans really have to decide is what kind of country they want.
 Right now the United States is a country in which wealth is funneled, absurdly, from the bottom to the top. The richest 1 percent of Americans now holds close to 40 percent of all the wealth in the nation and maintains an iron grip on the levers of government power.
 This is not only unfair, but self-defeating. The U.S. cannot thrive with its fabulous wealth concentrated at the top and the middle class on its knees. (No one even bothers to talk about the poor anymore.) How to correct this imbalance is one of the biggest questions facing the country.
 The U.S. is also a country in which blissful ignorance is celebrated, and intellectual excellence (the key to 21st century advancement) is not just given short shrift, but is ridiculed. Paris Hilton and Britney Spears are cultural icons. The average American watches television a mind-numbing 4 1/2 hours a day. 
 At the same time, our public school system is plagued with some of the highest dropout rates in the industrialized world. Math and science? Forget about it. Too tough for these TV watchers, or too boring, or whatever.
 ''When I compare our high schools with what I see when I'm traveling abroad,'' said Bill Gates, ''I am terrified for our work force of tomorrow.''
 The point here is that as we approach the end of the first decade of the 21st century, the United States is in deep, deep trouble. Yet instead of looking for creative, 21st-century solutions to these enormous problems, too many of our so-called leaders are behaving like clowns, or worse -- spouting garbage in the pubic sphere that hearkens back to the 1940s and '50s.
 Thoughtful, well-educated men and women are denounced as elites, and thus the enemies of ordinary Americans. Attempts to restore a semblance of fiscal sanity to a government that has been looted with an efficiency that would have been envied by the mob, are derided as subversive -- the work of socialists, Marxists, Communists.
 In 2008!
 In North Carolina, Senator Elizabeth Dole, a conservative Republican, is in a tough fight for re-election against a Democratic state senator, Kay Hagan. So Ms. Dole ran a television ad that showed a close-up of Ms. Hagan's face while the voice of a different woman asserts, ''There is no God!''
 Americans have to decide if they want a country that tolerates this kind of debased, backward behavior. Or if they want a country that aspires to true greatness -- a country that stands for more than the mere rhetoric of equality, freedom, opportunity and justice.
 That decision will require more than casting a vote in one presidential election. It will require a great deal of reflective thought and hard work by a committed citizenry. The great promise of America hinges on a government that works, openly and honestly, for the broad interests of the American people, as opposed to the narrow benefit of the favored, wealthy few.
 By all means, vote today. But that is just the first step toward meaningful change. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); FAMILY (75%); BAILOUTS (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); HOME PRICES (71%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (68%); PERSONAL FINANCE (65%); WORLD WAR II (54%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); SARAH PALIN (59%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%); JOE BIDEN (58%); PARIS HILTON (50%); BRITNEY SPEARS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008



164 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Gets His Bill, and a Public Earful

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO and FERNANDA SANTOS; David W. Chen contributed reporting.

 BODY:
At times, he slouched in his chair, crossing his arms, then uncrossing them. His eyes darted around the room, sometimes settling on the clock. He fidgeted. 
 The body language was not difficult to read: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg was uncomfortable.
 ''To hell with your agenda,'' thundered David Tieu, a 21-year-old deliveryman from Brooklyn, as the mayor sat about 15 feet away, staring at him.
 Patrice Senior, a nurse from Brooklyn, accused Mr. Bloomberg of ''plantation politics.'' And Patti Hagan, a writer, assailed his ''strong-armed knuckle-busting'' tactics.
 Custom at City Hall has long allowed anyone to appear at a bill signing and offer an opinion on the legislation being enacted. Most such ceremonies are sleepy affairs that attract a handful of political gadflies. 
 But on Monday, this tidy ritual was turned on its head. For four uninterrupted hours, scores of New Yorkers walked up to a microphone, looked at Mr. Bloomberg and rendered a blunt verdict on the legislation that would allow him to seek a third term.
 It was a singular moment in the Bloomberg era of government. For much of his tenure, the mayor has been showered with accolades and surrounded by friendly crowds that have treated him like a head of state.
 But during the bill signing, a man unaccustomed to direct, public criticism endured a heavy -- and very harsh -- dose of it from those he governs.
 Dozens of speakers accused the mayor of arrogantly disregarding the will of New York voters, who overwhelmingly endorsed the current eight-year term limits in two referendums in the 1990s. 
 There were many voices of support, too -- from average New Yorkers, elected officials and union heads -- and Mr. Bloomberg appeared relieved when they spoke of his proven leadership and financial resume.
 ''You have everything well oiled, and I would like you to sign this so the people of New York City have a choice to keep you in office,'' said Jill Whitaker, a personal assistant in Manhattan. 
 Patrick J. Egan, an assistant professor of politics at New York University, called the legislation extending term limits to 12 years ''a great step for democracy in New York City.''
 In all, 137 people spoke -- 68 against the legislation and 65 for it, according to a tally by The New York Times. Four people did not make their preferences known. (One man simply brandished a copy of his resume and asked the billionaire mayor for a job ''with a six-figure salary.'') 
 But it was the opponents who brought the most passion -- and raw anger -- to the stately setting. Many put their opposition in intensely personal terms, saying that a mayor whom they admired -- and had voted for -- had let them down by seeking to circumvent voters. 
 ''You have exploited the power of your office to overturn the express will of the people,'' said Judi Polson of the Upper West Side. Despite calling herself a Bloomberg supporter, Ms. Polson, a former Wall Street executive, vowed to vote against the mayor in the next race. ''He has lost my vote,'' she told a reporter on her way out.
 Another Bloomberg admirer, Michael Rosen, who had voted for him twice, pleaded with the mayor not to sign the legislation. 
 ''Please don't make me and countless other parents explain to our children that good men craving power pushed aside the people's voice,'' he said. 
 Those seeking to derail the legislation, which the City Council approved on Oct. 23, appealed to the mayor's sense of pride, arguing that his legacy would be tarnished by a push to ease term limits without returning to the voters who created them. 
 ''Just ask yourself: How would you like to be remembered in the history books?'' said Andre Calvert, 23, from Brooklyn. ''Do you really want to be remembered as a mayor who, along with 29 City Council members, overturned the will of the people?''
 When it was their turn, however, many who favored the legislation said that voters would have a chance to speak out on term limits at the polls next year, when Mr. Bloomberg seeks re-election. Most of them cited the fragile economy as a reason for letting Mr. Bloomberg, a former Wall Street executive, remain in office.
 The crowd at the bill signing dwarfed any in modern memory, with the line of those signed up to testify zigzagging across the marble rotunda at City Hall by 9 a.m. 
 George Arzt, a veteran political consultant who has attended dozens of City Hall bill signings over the last 40 years, said that ''there have been controversial items that come up, but nothing in this realm -- not even close.'' 
 There were lighter moments, as when Jimmy McMillan, representing a political group called the Rent Is Too Damn High Party, turned his back to Mr. Bloomberg as he addressed the mayor, saying the mayor had turned his back on the people.
 ''I have no desire to look at you,'' Mr. McMillan said.
 When Mr. McMillan called Mr. Bloomberg ''a nice guy, a rich guy, a good-looking man,'' the mayor suppressed a smile.
 But mostly, as the parade of speakers stretched into its third hour, Mr. Bloomberg sat stone-faced, behind a thick wooden table. Even those who angrily opposed the legislation commended his endurance.
 ''Thanks for sitting here,'' said John Jiler, a 62-year-old writer from Lower Manhattan. ''This must not be easy to you.'' 
 But in the next breath, Mr. Jiler tore into the mayor. With the presidential election nearing, he said, his two children, ages 9 and 11, were ''so enthralled with the idea that one person can make their voice heard throughout the whole planet.''
 ''But unfortunately now,'' he said, ''I have to give them lesson No. 2, which is that every so often, a Caesar comes along and tries to muffle that voice.''
 The tradition of allowing the public to speak before a bill is signed dates back at least as far as the 19th century, and has been known to sway a mayor. Once, after hearing hours of fiery testimony in 1897, Mayor William L. Strong vetoed a bill regulating sidewalk vendors.
 About a half-dozen members of the New York City Council sat next to the mayor during the hearing. But as the testimony dragged on, several struggled to pay attention, with one tapping away on his BlackBerry and another appearing to listen to messages on his cellphone. 
 When the testimony was over, around 2 p.m., it was Mr. Bloomberg's turn to speak. Still sitting behind the table, with the room half empty, he said that ''I thought long and hard'' about the issue. After long opposing any attempt to tweak term limits -- he once called the idea ''disgraceful'' -- the mayor said he had decided to reverse himself.
 ''You know that I have, over a period of time, fundamentally changed my opinion in terms of how long somebody could be in office,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. 
 ''Nobody is irreplaceable,'' he said. ''But I do think that if you take a look at the real world, at how long it takes to do things,'' he added, and finished the thought, ''I do think that three terms makes more sense than two.''
 With that, the left-handed Mr. Bloomberg picked up a black and gold pen and, with a flick of his wrist, rewrote New York City's term limits law.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, at times fidgeting, listened as members of the public had their say on term limits extension. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
''To hell with your agenda,'' David Tieu, 21, a Brooklyn deliveryman, shouted at the mayor at a bill signing ceremony on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The bill awaiting the left-handed mayor's signature. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); TERM LIMITS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); CITIES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); NURSES & NURSING (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); REFERENDUMS (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008



165 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 2172 words

HEADLINE: Minute by Minute, a Final Hectic Day on the Campaign Trail

 BODY:
The final full day of campaigning was a blur of rallies, plane rides and meet-and-greet encounters for the candidates, and at every step of the way four New York Times reporters were there to chronicle the hectic final push. The following are dispatches from Elisabeth Bumiller on the McCain campaign, Jeff Zeleny on the Obama campaign, John M. Broder on the Biden campaign, and Julie Bosman on the Palin campaign.
8:40 a.m.
Senator Barack Obama leaves his hotel in Jacksonville, Fla., where he had arrived seven hours before on a late-night flight from Ohio. As he went to the gym for a morning workout, he did not say anything, but he had received word around 8 a.m. that his grandmother, Madelyn Dunham, had died after a battle with cancer. In talking about her later, he called Mrs. Dunham ''a quiet hero.'' 
9:30 a.m.
Well, here we are in Tampa, Fla., at Senator John McCain's first stop on a seven-state, 20-hour odyssey across America. He is already running a half hour late. Not a good sign. ''Hurry up! Hurry up!'' yell Secret Service agents at reporters scurrying from the campaign plane into the waiting motorcade.
Within minutes, Mr. McCain arrives at his rally at Raymond James Stadium, the home of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers and a Barack Obama-sized site with a 65,000-person capacity. Mr. McCain is not actually in the stadium, which sits empty on a warm Florida morning, but across the street in the parking lot. The crowd here is small, in the hundreds, but Mr. McCain is tearing into his stump speech as if he were addressing the Rose Bowl, although with a bit of sleep in his voice. He got to his hotel in Coral Gables, the Biltmore, at 1:30 a.m., after a midnight rally in Miami.
''With this kind of enthusiasm, this kind of intensity, we will win Florida!'' he shouts. He seems to be waking up. Gov. Charlie Crist of Florida is here, as is Senator Mel Martinez, also of Florida.
Mr. McCain runs through a truncated version of his stump speech. Mr. Obama cannot be trusted to run the country, he will raise your taxes, kill jobs, and so on.
Wow, now he is already winding up. ''Fight for a new direction for our country!'' And ''fight to clean up the mess of corruption!''
He is already done. His speech clocked in at a little more than 13 minutes. This might be a record.
11:03 a.m.
Senator Claire McCaskill of Missouri steps to the microphone to introduce Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. in Lees Summit, Mo., and notes that the Republican vice-presidential nominee, Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, is also in Missouri this morning, at a rally in Jefferson City.
The crowd boos. Ms. McCaskill hushes them. ''As Barack Obama says: 'Don't boo. Vote.' ''
Ms. McCaskill then adds, speaking of Mr. Biden, ''Barack Obama chose the very best person in the country who could be president of the United States, and, well, let's just say, John McCain didn't.''
11:15 a.m.
For more than three hours, supporters have been filling the seats of the hall in anticipation of Mr. Obama's visit to Veterans Memorial Auditorium in Jacksonville, not far from the banks of the St. Johns River. Then the candidate arrives.
''I have just one word for you, Florida: Tomorrow,'' Mr. Obama says, drawing huge bursts of applause. ''We are one day away from changing the United States of America.''
With Mr. McCain already well into his day, was Mr. Obama sleeping in this morning? No, his aides say.
After arriving at the Hyatt in downtown Jacksonville in the early morning hours, he emerged from the hotel at 8:40 a.m. -- yes, that was the Democratic nominee in a ball cap and black sweat pants -- and took a short ride to a Gold's Gym. For about 45 minutes, he worked out.
When he returned to the hotel at 9:28 a.m., he went into seclusion. Aides said he had breakfast, made phone calls and met with a few advisers who were briefing him on his day, which includes rallies in Jacksonville, in North Carolina and in Virginia.
Why only three states for Mr. Obama, when Mr. McCain is racing to seven over the next 20 hours? First, aides said, the Obama rallies are held in large arenas, not airport hangars, so they take more time. And second, they said, the rallies are intended to sign up supporters to help on Election Day, so it is important to have a big crowd, rather than just a quick stop for the local cameras.
11:26 a.m.
Yes, Mr. Obama is using a teleprompter for his speech in Jacksonville, but apparently he is not reading it carefully. About 10 minutes into his address, Mr. Obama is talking about the television commercials that Republicans have been showing against him.
''Here in Ohio,'' Mr. Obama begins. He pauses momentarily, as people in the crowd shout at him. Realizing his mistake, he quickly corrects himself. ''Florida!''
''I've been traveling too much,'' Mr. Obama says, before continuing with his remarks.
11:50 a.m.
Stop No. 2 for Mr. McCain, still some 20 minutes behind schedule. Tennessee's electoral votes are not up for grabs in this reliably red state, but Mr. McCain has descended into Blountsville in this far northeastern corner to reach into television markets in southwestern Virginia and a bit of North Carolina, two states he desperately needs to win.
We are in an airplane hangar and the crowd is roaring and big, in the thousands. Mr. McCain's campaign plane is parked right behind him as a backdrop for the television pictures. The day is gorgeous, sunny and crisp. The loudspeakers are terrible.
''This microphone is brought to you by the Democratic National Committee,'' Mr. McCain intones, to laughter.
And here he is, Joe the Plumber. Big boos as Mr. McCain says, yet again, that Mr. Obama wants to ''spread the wealth around.'' And ''he's in the far left lane of American politics.'' And he has never taken on the leaders of his own party. And he said he would sit down unconditionally with dictators. And so on. Mr. McCain is pumped up.
''The Mac is back!'' he shouts.
On the plane from Tampa, someone asked Mark Salter, Mr. McCain's close adviser, how he planned to get through the day. ''Crystal meth,'' he replied, not missing a beat. ''Me, personally, that's how I'm going to do it.'' He was kidding. But he did not bother to say he was speaking off the record.
12:36 p.m.
The Palin entourage just arrived in Jefferson City, right in the center of Missouri. We are at a rally staged on the steps of the State Capitol, on a dazzling, sunny 70-degree afternoon. As the reporters are ushered to their workspace, a few people in the crowd throw out a few stray heckles. ''Come on, reporters, why don't you do a good job for once!'' an elderly woman calls out. ''Booo, liberals!'' another man shouts.
There is a large crowd here, but nowhere near the estimate of 20,000 people that a campaign staff member just told reporters. There is little sign of Mr. McCain -- most of the signs say ''Country First'' or ''Reform, Prosperity, Peace.'' A group of women wearing T-shirts that say ''Sometimes it takes a woman to clean house'' are chanting ''Sarah! Sarah!'' and the song ''Everyday People,'' by Sly and the Family Stone, a Palin favorite, is playing.
Sounding hoarse, Ms. Palin introduces Hank Williams Jr., who delivers an off-key rendition of the national anthem and a song about the ''left-wing liberal media,'' which makes the crowd go wild.
Ms. Palin delivers a 25-minute speech, attacking Mr. Obama for his tax proposals, and making a passing reference to the weather. ''The sun is shining on his plans for where he wants to take America,'' she says of Mr. Obama. ''His whole tax plan is so phony that it's already starting to unravel.''
She points out a sign in the crowd: ''Like that sign -- not just drill, baby, drill and mine, baby, mine, but vote, baby, vote!''
1:50 p.m.
Stop No. 3 Mr. McCain, in Moon Township, Pa. This is one of the great datelines. In fact it is very much of this world -- the site of the Pittsburgh airport and conveniently located in Western Pennsylvania, home to all those pro-gun, working-class voters that Mr. McCain is trying to call his own. Representative John P. Murtha, a Democrat who represents the region, went so far last month as to call it a ''racist area,'' a remark the McCain campaign rejected.
We are in another airplane hangar, the crowd not so big as before. Mr. McCain has just started speaking and he is already shouting that it is time ''to fight to get out economy out of the ditch.'' That's our cue, time to go. He has got this aerobic speechifying down pat.
Forgot to mention that at the last stop he brought up Tina Fey's impersonation of his running mate, Ms. Palin, on ''Saturday Night Live.'' Mr. McCain was on the show himself on Saturday and met Ms. Fey.
''I really believe that Sarah Palin and Tina Fey were separated at birth, I really do,'' Mr. McCain told the last crowd. ''I really do.''
2:30 p.m.
Mr. Obama hustles up the stairs to his campaign plane, boarding a 53-minute flight for Charlotte, N.C. Since his rally ended more than two hours ago, Mr. Obama has conducted a series of radio interviews, including one with Ann Compton of ABC News.
Here are highlights:
Ms. Compton: Best moment of campaign?
Mr. Obama: The Iowa caucus night was wonderful.
Ms. Compton: Was there a worst moment? Or what keeps you up at night?
Mr. Obama: The night we lost New Hampshire was tough. We had been 10 points up according to the polls going into Election Day and lost by two, and that's one of the reasons why we take nothing for granted in this race and we don't believe those polls.
3:01 p.m.
Mr. Biden, ordinarily the most superstitious of politicians, can smell victory.
''There's something in the air, guys,'' he tells a gaggle of reporters on his plane shortly before landing in Columbus, Ohio, for the first of two appearances in the state this afternoon.
You can see the confidence in Mr. Biden's smile and his new accessibility to the reporters who have accompanied him for two months. He spoke to them for 20 minutes on his plane, the first time he has done so since early September. He said he had been avoiding his press pack since one news organization reported some comments he had thought were off the record.
3:55 p.m.
Stop No. 4 for Mr. McCain, the Indianapolis airport. The tarmac is sunny and pleasant; beautiful golden late-afternoon light. But Mr. McCain's presence here on the eve of Election Day means he is still battling Mr. Obama's incursions into this longtime red state. Not great news for him, but polls show him tied.
Adding to the troubles, there is something wrong with the speaker system. Again? He repeats his dig about the microphone being ''brought to you courtesy of the Democratic National Committee.''
He is hard to hear, and on top of that, he is beginning to sound like he has a large frog in his throat. Many of those traveling on Mr. McCain's campaign plane have a spectacular cold, and it sounds like the candidate has caught it himself.
''He's getting a little scratchy,'' Mr. Salter says. ''Only has to do it three more times today.''
4:15 p.m.
Mr. Obama steps off his plane in Charlotte without talking to reporters.
4:30 p.m.
Mr. Obama announces in a statement that his grandmother died about 12 hours earlier. He waited to make the public announcement, his aides said, to get through part of his campaign day.
5 p.m.
Mr. Obama tosses a tiny red and blue football into the air as he makes calls to North Carolina voters. On the fifth call, he turns his back to cameras as he talks about home health care, saying, ''My grandmother was able to stay in a home all the way until recently.''
5:48 p.m.
Stop No. 5 for the McCain campaign, Roswell, N.M. We are here in the supposed land of space aliens on a warm desert evening. Another airport rally, another rendition of the speech.
''We need to win New Mexico tomorrow!'' Mr. McCain hollers. ''Get your neighbors to the polls. I need your vote!''
Now here is something really different: Out of the blue, he shouts out, ''I am pleased to announce that I have received the alien endorsement!''
This gets a huge laugh. Two more stops to go.
8:21 p.m.
Stop No. 6. We're at Henderson Pavilion, an outdoor amphitheater in Las Vegas, in a state leaning in Mr. Obama's direction. Mr. McCain is shouting again. ''What happens in Las Vegas stays in Las Vegas!'' he says. And then, ''What starts here is going to end with us winning this election tomorrow!''
The crowd roar is huge. Mr. McCain doesn't look too worse for the wear, considering that he left his hotel nearly 17 hours ago. Can't say the same for the press corps.
He mentions out of blue that his running mate, Ms. Palin, has ''never been to a Georgetown cocktail party, but she knows how to lead this nation!''
Hard to believe this is still not over.
10:25 p.m.
As Mr. Obama pulls up to his final rally of the campaign at the Prince William County Fairgrounds near Manassas, Va., a bus driver in the motorcade says, ''Oh, Lord, look at all those people.''
A sea of people stretches on to hillsides in the distance, beyond where the eye can see.
As he walks onstage to Bruce Springsteen's ''The Rising,'' Mr. Obama sums up his surroundings: ''What a scene. What a crowd. Wow.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Barack Obama on Monday evening told an audience in Charlotte, N.C., about the death of his grandmother. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Senator John McCain, on the third stop of the day on Monday, spoke in Moon Township, Pa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., on Monday on a flight to Columbus, Ohio. At right, Hank Williams Jr. sang at a rally for Gov. Sarah Palin in Jefferson City, Mo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (74%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (70%); SPORTS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (67%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS (54%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); SARAH PALIN (78%); JOE BIDEN (78%); MEL MARTINEZ (56%); CLAIRE MCCASKILL (56%); CHARLIE CRIST (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (90%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); JEFFERSON CITY, MO, USA (76%); MIAMI, FL, USA (72%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (72%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (70%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



166 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; FINDINGS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: BASICS Obama and McCain Walk Into a Bar ...

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:
While Americans choose their next president, let us consider a question more amenable to science: Which candidate's supporters have a better sense of humor? In strict accordance with experimental protocol, we begin by asking you to rate, on a scale of 1 (not funny at all) to 9 (hilarious) the following three attempts at humor: 
 A) Jake is about to chip onto the green at his local golf course when a long funeral procession passes by. He stops in midswing, doffs his cap, closes his eyes and bows in prayer. His playing companion is deeply impressed. ''That's the most thoughtful and touching thing I've ever seen,'' he says. Jake replies, ''Yeah, well, we were married 35 years.'' 
 B) I think there should be something in science called the ''reindeer effect.'' I don't know what it would be, but I think it'd be good to hear someone say, ''Gentlemen, what we have here is a terrifying example of the reindeer effect.'' 
 C) If you saw two guys named Hambone and Flippy, which one would you think liked dolphins the most? I'd say Flippy, wouldn't you? You'd be wrong, though. It's Hambone.
 Those were some of the jokes rated by nearly 300 people in Boston in a recent study. (You can rate some of the others at TierneyLab, nytimes.com/tierneylab.) The researchers picked out a variety of jokes -- good, bad, conventional, absurdist -- to look for differences in reactions between self-described liberals and conservatives. 
 They expected conservatives to like traditional jokes, like the one about the golfing widower, that reinforce racial and gender stereotypes. And because liberals had previously been reported to be more flexible and open to new ideas, the researchers expected them to get a bigger laugh out of unconventional humor, like Jack Handey's ''Deep Thoughts'' about the reindeer effect and Hambone. 
 Indeed, the conservatives did rate the traditional golf and marriage jokes as significantly funnier than the liberals did. But they also gave higher ratings to the absurdist ''Deep Thoughts.'' In fact, they enjoyed all kinds of humor more. 
 ''I was surprised,'' said Dan Ariely, a psychologist at Duke University, who collaborated on the study with Elisabeth Malin, a student at Mount Holyoke College. ''Conservatives are supposed to be more rigid and less sophisticated, but they liked even the more complex humor.'' 
 Do conservatives have more fun? Should liberals start describing themselves as humor-challenged? To investigate these questions, we need to delve into the science of humor (not a funny enterprise), starting with two basic kinds of humor identified in the 1980s by Willibald Ruch, a psychologist who now teaches at the University of Zurich. 
 The first category is incongruity-resolution humor, or INC-RES in humor jargon. It covers traditional jokes and cartoons in which the incongruity of the punch line (the husband who misses his wife's funeral) can be resolved by other information (he's playing golf). You can clearly get the joke, and it often reinforces stereotypes (the golf-obsessed husband).
 Dr. Ruch and other researchers reported that this humor, with its orderly structure and reinforcement of stereotypes, appealed most to conservatives who shunned ambiguity and complicated new ideas, and who were more repressed and conformist than liberals.
 The second category, nonsense humor, covers many ''Far Side'' cartoons, Monty Python sketches and ''Deep Thoughts.'' The punch line's incongruity isn't neatly resolved -- you're left to enjoy the ambiguity and absurdity of the reindeer effect or Hambone's affection for dolphins. This humor was reported to appeal to liberals because of their ''openness to ideas'' and their tendency to ''seek new experiences.'' 
 But then why didn't the liberals in the Boston experiment like the nonsense humor of ''Deep Thoughts'' as much as the conservatives did? One possible explanation is that conservatives' rigidity mattered less than another aspect of their personality. Rod Martin, the author of ''The Psychology of Humor,'' said the results of the Boston study might reflect another trait that has been shown to correlate with a taste for jokes: cheerfulness. 
 ''Conservatives tend to be happier than liberals in general,'' said Dr. Martin, a psychologist at the University of Western Ontario. ''A conservative outlook rationalizes social inequality, accepting the world as it is, and making it less of a threat to one's well-being, whereas a liberal outlook leads to dissatisfaction with the world as it is, and a sense that things need to change before one can be really happy.'' 
 Another possible explanation is that conservatives, or at least the ones in Boston, really aren't the stiffs they're made out to be by social scientists. When these scientists analyze conservatives, they can sound like Victorians describing headhunters in Borneo. They try to be objective, but it's an alien culture.
 The studies hailing liberals' nonconformity and ''openness to ideas'' have been done by social scientists working in a culture that's remarkably homogenous politically. Democrats outnumber Republicans by at least seven to one on social science and humanities faculties, according to studies by Daniel Klein, an economist at George Mason University. If you're a professor who truly ''seeks new experiences,'' try going into a faculty club today and passing out McCain-Palin buttons.
 Could it be that the image of conservatives as humorless, dogmatic neurotics is based more on political bias than sound social science? Philip Tetlock, a psychologist at the University of California, Berkeley, who reviews the evidence of cognitive differences in his 2005 book, ''Expert Political Judgment,'' said that while there were valid differences, ''liberals and conservatives are roughly equally closed-minded in dealing with dissonant real-world evidence.'' 
 So perhaps conservatives don't have a monopoly on humorless dogmatism. Maybe the stereotype of the dour, rigid conservative has more to do with social scientists' groupthink and wariness of outsiders -- which, come to think of it, resembles the herding behavior of certain hoofed animals. Ladies and gentlemen, what we have here is a terrifying example of the reindeer effect. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY NATIONAL LIBRARY OF MEDICINE)
 DRAWING (DRAWING BY VIKTOR KOEN) (pg. D3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (89%); LIBERALISM (86%); CONSERVATISM (86%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (76%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (74%); PSYCHOLOGY (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LIBRARY OF MEDICINE (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (69%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008



167 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: A Date With Scarcity

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Nov. 4, 2008, is a historic day because it marks the end of an economic era, a political era and a generational era all at once.
 Economically, it marks the end of the Long Boom, which began in 1983. Politically, it probably marks the end of conservative dominance, which began in 1980. Generationally, it marks the end of baby boomer supremacy, which began in 1968. For the past 16 years, baby boomers, who were formed by the tumult of the 1960s, occupied the White House. By Tuesday night, if the polls are to be believed, a member of a new generation will become president-elect.
 So today is not only a pivot, but a confluence of pivots. 
 When historians look back at the era that is now closing, they will see a time of private achievement and public disappointment. In the past two decades, the United States has become a much more interesting place. Companies like Starbucks, Apple, Crate & Barrel, Microsoft and many others enlivened daily life. Private citizens, especially young people, repaired the social fabric, dedicated themselves to community service and lowered drug addiction and teenage pregnancy.
 Yet, at the same time, the public sphere has not flourished. Despite decades of affluence, longstanding issues like health care, education, energy and entitlement debt have not been adequately addressed. The baby boomers, who entered adulthood promising a lifetime of activism, have been a politically undistinguished generation. They produced two presidents, neither of whom lived up to his potential. They remained consumed by the culture war that divided their generation. They pass their political supremacy today having squandered the fat years and the golden opportunities. 
 Month by month, frustration has mounted. Americans are anxious about their private lives but absolutely disgusted by public leaders. So change is demanded. 
 Republicans nominated an old warrior with a record of making hard decisions and absorbing the blows that ensue. Many of us regard him -- and always will -- as one of the heroes of our time. But the public demand for change was total, and if the polls are right, voters will elect the man who breaks from the recent past in almost every way.
 Barack Obama is a child of the 1960s. His mother was born only five years earlier than Hillary Clinton. For people in Obama's generation, the great disruption had already occurred by the time they hit adulthood. Theirs is a generation of consolidation and neo-traditionalism -- a generation of sunscreen and bicycle helmets, more anxious about parenthood than anything else. 
 Obama is not only a member of this temperate generation, but of its most educated segment. He has lived nearly his entire adult life within a few miles of one or another of the country's top 10 universities. 
 His upscale, post-boomer cohort has rallied behind him with unalloyed fervor. Major college newspapers have endorsed him at a rate of 63 to 1. The upscale educated class -- from the universities, the media, the law and the financial centers -- has financed his $600 million campaign (which relied on big-dollar donations even more heavily than George W. Bush's 2004 effort). This cohort will soon become the ruling class. 
 And the irony is that they will be confronted by the problem for which they have the least experience and for which they are the least prepared: the problem of scarcity.
 Raised in prosperity, favored by genetics, these young meritocrats will have to govern in a period when the demands on the nation's wealth outstrip the supply. They will grapple with the growing burdens of an aging society, rising health care costs and high energy prices. They will have to make up for the trillion-plus dollars the government will spend to avoid a deep recession. They will have to struggle to keep their promises to cut taxes, create an energy revolution, pass an expensive health care plan and all the rest. 
 As Robert J. Samuelson writes in his forthcoming book, ''The Great Inflation and Its Aftermath,'' ''Already, Americans face far more claims on their incomes than can be easily met.'' 
 In the next few years, the nation's wealth will either stagnate or shrink. The fiscal squeeze will grow severe. There will be fiercer struggles over scarce resources, starker divisions along factional lines. The challenge for the next president will be to cushion the pain of the current recession while at the same time trying to build a solid fiscal foundation so the country can thrive at some point in the future.
 We're probably entering a period, in other words, in which smart young liberals meet a stone-cold scarcity that they do not seem to recognize or have a plan for.
 In an age of transition, the children are left to grapple with the burdens of their elders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BABY BOOMERS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); HISTORY (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (52%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (56%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008



168 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: European Union to Be Led By Former Soviet Satellite

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY

DATELINE: PRAGUE 

 BODY:
It ought to be a seminal moment: As a new president takes office in Washington, the Czech Republic assumes the rotating presidency of the European Union, the first former Soviet bloc country to lead the group of 470 million Europeans, and during one of the worst economic conflagrations in a century. 
 But instead of welcoming the opportunity for this country of 10 million to shepherd the world's biggest trading bloc, the fiery Czech president, Vaclav Klaus, has invoked the Munich agreement of 1938, when the European powers helped to carve up Czechoslovakia. 
 He said in late October that the Czech presidency would be ''insignificant'' since Europe, now as then, was controlled by France, Germany, Italy and Britain. Czech politicians, he warned, should not think they could change anything.
 Like their Central European neighbors, Czechs have spent centuries straddling the continent's East-West divide, pushed and pulled between Russia and Germany or Austria. The prospect, come Jan. 1, of six months at the helm of the European Union at a sensitive point in history seems to have brought out national neuroses from the past. 
 The center-right government of Prime Minister Mirek Topolanek is teetering badly after huge losses in recent regional elections, prompting alarm that the European Union could be led by a rudderless nation. 
 Meanwhile, with Russia having flexed a new set of muscles over Georgia, some European diplomats question whether this nation is up to taming its former master.
 Some in France, current holder of the presidency, are so alarmed that officials there have suggested bypassing the Czech Republic and extending the French presidency into next year.
 Clearly piqued, the Czech foreign minister, Karel Schwarzenberg, a pipe-smoking prince, joked that if France did not step aside, then he would have to challenge Nicolas Sarkozy, its president, to a duel. ''The French and Mr. Sarkozy do not want to part with being the president of Europe,'' Mr. Schwarzenberg said during an interview. 
 On Friday, Mr. Sarkozy offered a belated pledge of support.
 The diplomatic wrangling has echoes of 2003, when former Communist countries, including the Czech Republic, supported the United States-led war in Iraq, prompting Jacques Chirac, then president of France, to remark thatthey needed to learn to ''shut up.'' Europe is more united now, but a new divide nevertheless threatens to emerge, predicated in part on divergent approaches to steering economic policy during perilous financial times. 
 Under the Czechs, some fear a renewed battle over which economic model should dominate the European Union: the social market economy favored by its newest members, or the state-controlled economy increasingly championed by France.
 While Mr. Sarkozy has earned praise for helping to engineer a speedy bailout of European banks, Prague remains deeply wary of state intervention. 
 Mr. Klaus, an economist by training, recently equated Mr. Sarkozy's methods to ''old Socialism,'' while Mr. Topolanek, the prime minister, has argued that state support for collapsing banks runs counter to the European Union's free market principles. 
 The Czech Republic's refusal to embrace the euro, even as its poorer cousin Slovakia moves to adopt it in January, has prompted some observers to argue that a country outside the euro zone is not well-suited to guide the bloc during a global recession. 
 Tomas Sedlacek, chief economist at CSOB, the largest Czech bank, contended that the Czech Republic would not be the most empathetic leader since the government had pumped cash into faltering Czech banks in the late 1990s, which was now shielding them from the liquidity crisis. 
 ''In a group where everyone has a headache, you don't want to follow the one guy who says his head feels fine,'' he said. 
 But Mr. Schwarzenberg, the foreign minister, argued that the Czech Republic was not immune to the financial crisis, because of deep integration with the euro zone. More than three-quarters of Czech exports go to the European Union, while the manufacturing sector in the country is suffering. 
 As for the contention that the Czechs might be ill equipped to guide policy toward the Kremlin, Mr. Schwarzenberg argued that 40 years under Soviet domination had not gone unnoticed. 
 ''We have some experience with the Russians,'' he said wryly. 
 Czech ambivalence toward the European Union stems in part from instinctive distrust for Europe and loyalty to the United States, conditioned during decades of invasion and occupation. 
 Jan Hamacek, a Social Democrat who heads the foreign affairs committee in Parliament, said Czechs remembered that Americans had rescued them, and the rest of Europe, three times in the 20th century -- in World Wars I and II and during the cold war. 
 Many younger Czechs say they are drawn to American values and culture. 
 Tomas Jirsa, 25, chief of staff for the mayor of Prague and an avowed conservative, said that while he worshiped Ronald Reagan, flexible labor markets, maximum personal freedom and the United States, his French counterparts were in thrall of protectionism, higher taxes, jobs for life and irrational anti-Americanism. 
 ''Because of what we experienced with Communism, we like the Anglo-Saxon model of libertarianism and freedom,'' he said. ''History shows that America deals with problems, while Europeans are passive.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 1, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about Vaclav Klaus, the president of the Czech Republic, and his possible impact on the European Union's attempts to address the world's economic crisis when his country assumes the rotating presidency of the union, misstated the number of people who live in member nations. It is 495 million, not 470 million. The same error appeared in an article on Nov. 4 about reactions in the Czech Republic and elsewhere in Europe to the country's coming presidency of the trading bloc.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); IRAQ WAR (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); SMOKING (50%); BANK FAILURES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (79%); VACLAV KLAUS (78%); JACQUES CHIRAC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (90%) CZECH REPUBLIC (98%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); IRAQ (79%); GEORGIA (78%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); AUSTRIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008



169 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: With a Pen Stroke, Bloomberg Signs a Term Limits Bill and Gains a Moniker

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
People are understandably worried about the possibility that many votes will effectively be nullified on Tuesday. The ballot process is so dysfunctional in so many places that they are unworthy of some third-world countries whose elections I've covered.
 New York has little to brag about. No less than Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has hopped up and down about the state of preparedness at the city's Board of Elections. The other day, he called it ''an outrage'' and ''a joke,'' though some accuse the mayor of not having done nearly enough to jawbone (and finance) the board toward a higher road. 
 But even if things go horribly wrong on Tuesday, it is worth bearing in mind that no one in New York has done more to nullify votes than Mr. Bloomberg himself. He may reasonably be called the Great Nullifier.
 He solidified his hold on that title on Monday. With a few pen strokes, he obviated the results of two referendums in which New York voters said in no uncertain terms that they wanted key city officials -- the mayor, the public advocate, the comptroller, the 51 City Council members and the 5 borough presidents -- to be limited to a maximum of two consecutive four-year terms.
 Once upon a time -- that would be until a few months ago -- Mr. Bloomberg thought that these limitations were practically freedom's greatest blessing since the Magna Carta. The people have spoken, he used to say, and ''we cannot ignore their will.''
 On Monday, however, he did precisely that. As expected, he signed legislation that he had birthed and hustled through the City Council to give him and other officials a shot at a third term next November. Thus was the expressed will of the people declared null and void.
 Before he reached for his pen, the Great Nullifier listened to scores of New Yorkers who went to City Hall to bear witness. Most times, few people show up for bill-signing ceremonies. But emotions over term limits and the subversion of the two referendums have run high. The City Hall rotunda was filled with New Yorkers who waited hours in some cases to give the mayor a piece of their mind.
 Some praised him. Some denounced him. Some did both, applauding his performance as mayor but condemning this attempt at what they called ''a power grab.'' All arguments had pretty much been heard many times before.
 Certainly, the Great Nullifier advanced no new ideas. As in the past, he said that his grasp at a third term had nothing to do with the clock that is running out on his second term, but had everything to do with the financial crisis that, to his mind, requires continuity in leadership.
 ''Crisis has a way of forcing us to put pragmatism first,'' he said. He applauded the Council's 29-to-22 vote extending term limits as ''choosing substance over process and pragmatism over ideology.''
 Ignored was the fact that the process he referred to dismissively is known to most people as the democratic process. As for ideology, a Quinnipiac University poll shows that 9 out of 10 New Yorkers want any change in the term limits law to come through a new referendum, not legislation. That's not ideology. That's the people speaking with crystal clarity.
 If you want self-interest, consider that 29-to-22 Council vote. Of the 51 lawmakers, 35 would have been forced out of office at the end of next year. Nearly two-thirds of them, 23 of 35, voted to reward themselves with a possible extra term. Of those who do not have a 2009 expiration date, 63 percent -- 10 of 16 members -- voted against the change. Funny how that worked.
 Of course, to hear lawmakers talk on Monday, self-interest had nothing to do with it. It was all about government continuity during a crisis. Times are so hard, you see, that New York cannot survive without the foresight, the high-mindedness and the command of municipal finances that this batch of council members provides. Besides, if New Yorkers feel differently, they can always vote them all out of office next November.
 ''This is democracy at its best,'' said Councilman Kendall Stewart of Brooklyn.
 That's how the borough presidents saw it as well -- four of the five who showed up, anyway. ''We need all the experience we can count on to get us through this crisis,'' said Helen M. Marshall, who represents Queens.
 Got it. Without these borough presidents hanging on beyond next year, New York might not make it.
 Hardly everyone accepted that premise. Many speakers cautioned Mr. Bloomberg that nothing less than the public's faith in government and his own legacy were on the line. Among them was Councilwoman Letitia James of Brooklyn, a leading opponent of extending term limits.
 ''With a stroke of the pen, Mr. Mayor, you will pre-empt democracy,'' she said in a voice tinged with sadness.
 Soon enough, the Great Nullifier picked up his pen and used it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); TERM LIMITS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REFERENDUMS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008



170 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: So Little Time, So Much Damage

 BODY:
While Americans eagerly vote for the next president, here's a sobering reminder: As of Tuesday, George W. Bush still has 77 days left in the White House -- and he's not wasting a minute. 
 President Bush's aides have been scrambling to change rules and regulations on the environment, civil liberties and abortion rights, among others -- few for the good. Most presidents put on a last-minute policy stamp, but in Mr. Bush's case it is more like a wrecking ball. We fear it could take months, or years, for the next president to identify and then undo all of the damage. 
 Here is a look -- by no means comprehensive -- at some of Mr. Bush's recent parting gifts and those we fear are yet to come.
 CIVIL LIBERTIES We don't know all of the ways that the administration has violated Americans' rights in the name of fighting terrorism. Last month,Attorney General Michael Mukasey rushed out new guidelines for the F.B.I. that permit agents to use chillingly intrusive techniques to collect information on Americans even where there is no evidence of wrongdoing.
 Agents will be allowed to use informants to infiltrate lawful groups, engage in prolonged physical surveillance and lie about their identity while questioning a subject's neighbors, relatives, co-workers and friends. The changes also give the F.B.I. -- which has a long history of spying on civil rights groups and others -- expanded latitude to use these techniques on people identified by racial, ethnic and religious background. 
 The administration showed further disdain for Americans' privacy rights and for Congress's power by making clear that it will ignore a provision in the legislation that established the Department of Homeland Security. The law requires the department's privacy officer to account annually for any activity that could affect Americans' privacy -- and clearly stipulates that the report cannot be edited by any other officials at the department or the White House. 
 The Justice Department's Office of Legal Counsel has now released a memo asserting that the law ''does not prohibit'' officials from homeland security or the White House from reviewing the report. The memo then argues that since the law allows the officials to review the report, it would be unconstitutional to stop them from changing it. George Orwell couldn't have done better. 
 THE ENVIRONMENT The administration has been especially busy weakening regulations that promote clean air and clean water and protect endangered species. 
 Mr. Bush, or more to the point, Vice President Dick Cheney, came to office determined to dismantle Bill Clinton's environmental legacy, undo decades of environmental law and keep their friends in industry happy. They have had less success than we feared, but only because of the determined opposition of environmental groups, courageous members of Congress and protests from citizens. But the White House keeps trying. 
 Mr. Bush's secretary of the interior, Dirk Kempthorne, has recently carved out significant exceptions to regulations requiring expert scientific review of any federal project that might harm endangered or threatened species (one consequence will be to relieve the agency of the need to assess the impact of global warming on at-risk species). The department also is rushing to remove the gray wolf from the endangered species list -- again. The wolves were re-listed after a federal judge ruled the government had not lived up to its own recovery plan. 
 In coming weeks, we expect the Environmental Protection Agency to issue a final rule that would weaken a program created by the Clean Air Act, which requires utilities to install modern pollution controls when they upgrade their plants to produce more power. The agency is also expected to issue a final rule that would make it easier for coal-fired power plants to locate near national parks in defiance of longstanding Congressional mandates to protect air quality in areas of special natural or recreational value. 
 Interior also is awaiting E.P.A.'s concurrence on a proposal that would make it easier for mining companies to dump toxic mine wastes in valleys and streams. 
 And while no rules changes are at issue, the interior department also has been rushing to open up millions of acres of pristine federal land to oil and gas exploration. We fear that, in coming weeks, Mr. Kempthorne will open up even more acreage to the commercial development of oil shale, a hugely expensive and environmentally risky process that even the oil companies seem in no hurry to begin. He should not. 
 ABORTION RIGHTS Soon after the election, Michael Leavitt, the secretary of health and human services, is expected to issue new regulations aimed at further limiting women's access to abortion, contraceptives and information about their reproductive health care options. 
 Existing law allows doctors and nurses to refuse to participate in an abortion. These changes would extend the so-called right to refuse to a wide range of health care workers and activities including abortion referrals, unbiased counseling and provision of birth control pills or emergency contraception, even for rape victims. 
 The administration has taken other disturbing steps in recent weeks. In late September, the I.R.S. restored tax breaks for banks that take big losses on bad loans inherited through acquisitions. Now we learn that JPMorgan Chase and others are planning to use their bailout funds for mergers and acquisitions, transactions that will be greatly enhanced by the new tax subsidy. 
 One last-minute change Mr. Bush won't be making: He apparently has decided not to shut down the prison in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba -- the most shameful symbol of his administration's disdain for the rule of law. 
 Mr. Bush has said it should be closed, and his secretary of state, Condoleezza Rice, and his secretary of defense, Robert Gates, pushed for it. Proposals were prepared, including a plan for sending the real bad guys to other countries for trial. But Mr. Cheney objected, and the president has refused even to review the memos. He will hand this mess off to his successor. 
 We suppose there is some good news in all of this. While Mr. Bush leaves office on Jan. 20, 2009, he has only until Nov. 20 to issue ''economically significant'' rule changes and until Dec. 20 to issue other changes. Anything after that is merely a draft and can be easily withdrawn by the next president. 
 Unfortunately, the White House is well aware of those deadlines. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LAWYERS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); TERRORISM (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (72%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (71%); INTERNET PRIVACY (70%); ABORTION (56%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (50%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (82%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BILL CLINTON (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%); MICHAEL MUKASEY (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008



171 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2222 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: November 4, 2008

 BODY:
International
ATTACKS IN IRAQ LEAVE 10 DEAD
And Oil Official Wounded
A wave of violence swept through Baghdad and neighboring Diyala Province, leaving seven people dead from three roadside bombs and at least three dead from a car bomb. In another attack, a deputy oil minister was injured. The attacks came as Parliament passed a bill that would grant the country's embattled minorities fewer guaranteed seats in coming elections than the United Nations had recommended. PAGE A10
AID WORKER ABDUCTED IN KABUL
Gunmen dressed as security guards kidnapped a French aid worker in central Kabul and fatally shot an Afghan who tried to thwart the abduction. Although there was no claim of responsibility for the kidnapping, it was the latest in a series of attacks on foreigners in the capital. PAGE A8 
PAKISTANIS COMPLAIN TO PETRAEUS
In his new position as head of the United States Central Command, Gen. David H. Petraeus met top Pakistani officials for the first time and heard the message that American airstrikes against militants in the tribal areas were unhelpful. There was no comment or any public appearance by General Petraeus, and it was not clear how he had responded to the complaints. PAGE A8
SCANDAL MOUNTS FOR IRAN OFFICIAL
The Iranian interior minister who admitted faking his university degree will face a motion of no confidence on charges that he tried to bribe members of Parliament not to impeach him. The official, Ali Kordan, claimed to have been awarded an honorary doctorate from Oxford University, but an investigation found that to be false and that he didn't have the degrees he had claimed from an Iranian university. PAGE A8
NEGOTIATIONS BEGIN IN TAIWAN
China's top negotiator on Taiwan matters began talks in Taipei with his Taiwanese counterpart over transportation and economic issues, signaling a warming of relations between the governments. The Chinese official, Chen Yunlin, is the highest ranking mainland official to visit the island since the end of the civil war in 1949. His delegation and Taiwanese officials are engaging in five days of discussions on flights, shipping and other matters. PAGE A12
CZECH LEADER CRITICAL OF TASK
As a new president takes office in Washington, the Czech Republic assumes the rotating presidency of the European Union. The country is the first former Soviet bloc country to lead the group of 470 million people, and will take over during one of the worst economic conflagrations in a century. It ought to be a seminal moment, but instead of welcoming the opportunity for the country to shepherd the world's biggest trading bloc, the fiery Czech president, Vaclav Klaus, has his doubts. PAGE A13
National
COURT BLOCKS WHITE HOUSE PLAN
For Medicare Expenses
A federal judge blocked the Bush administration's effort to save money on Medicare by paying for only the least expensive treatments for particular conditions, saying the policy was not permitted under the Medicare law. The case, just now being scrutinized by Medicare officials and consumer advocates, involved drugs used to treat chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. PAGE A14
CHICAGO POLITICIAN PLEADS GUILTY
Edward R. Vrdolyak, a former Chicago alderman who led an insurrection in the 1980s against the city's first black mayor, pleaded guilty in federal court to conspiracy in a real estate kickback scheme. Mr. Vrdolyak said he was guilty of agreeing to share a $1.5 million kickback from a real estate deal with Stuart Levine, a businessman who was on the board of a medical school selling property and used his influence to favor Mr. Vrdolyak's buyer. PAGE A18
CHEYENNE WARILY EYES ITS FUTURE
As Denver's population has grown -- and shifted from dependably Republican to the Democratic column -- Cheyenne, Wyo., which lies 95 miles to the north, could be swept up by the same forces. Some residents talk about it as a high-tech town like Boulder, a Denver satellite known for its fancy restaurants and liberals. It could be an uneasy transition for Cheyenne, which prides itself on its frontier town bona fides. PAGE A14
DNA IN BONES MATCHED TO FOSSETT
Officials confirmed that bone fragments found near the wreckage of the plane flown by the adventurer Steve Fossett in the Sierra Nevada were his. Mr. Fossett, 63, took off from a northern Nevada ranch in a two-seat light plane on Sept. 3, 2007, and never returned. That set off the most extensive search for a missing aircraft in American history, and last month, a hiker in a remote area of the Inyo National Forest came across some of Mr. Fossett's belongings, leading searchers to the crashed plane. PAGE A19
JUSTICES WEIGH IN ON DRUG LABELS
The Supreme Court heard arguments in a case that many thought might put an end to thousands of state-court injury suits. Instead, what it heard in the case, about a Vermont musician who lost her arm after receiving an injection of an anti-nausea drug, was a search for limiting principles. At issue was whether federal approval of drug labels should knock out state lawsuits that contend that the labels did not contain adequate warnings. PAGE A20
New York
PROMOTING CHARTER SCHOOLS
With a Politician's Zeal
Eva Moskowitz is constantly plugged in, juggling her latte, her BlackBerry and her cellphone as she frets over the tiniest details of the schools in the Success Charter Network, which are publicly financed but independently operated, and which she runs. She hopes her job will change city and state policy. But critics say Ms. Moskowitz, who openly discusses the possibility of running for mayor someday, is more politician than educator. PAGE A27
THE GREAT NULLIFIER
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has publicly worried that the disorganization in the city's ballot processes may effectively leave many votes nullified. But in NYC, Clyde Haberman writes that by signing legislation that would allow him and other city officials a shot at a third term, the mayor is effectively doing the same by ignoring the will of the people. ''Even if things go horribly wrong on Tuesday, it is worth bearing in mind that no one in New York has done more to nullify votes than Mr. Bloomberg himself,'' he writes. PAGE A29
Business
AN EITHER/OR PROPOSITION
On Executive Pay
No matter who the next president is, he will have to wrestle with executive compensation on Wall Street. But how? There are lots of plans making the rounds, but a plan conceived by Raghuram Rajan, a University of Chicago professor, deserves a long look: banker compensation should be strictly regulated or the amount of capital that banks must have at any one given time should be even higher. Andrew Ross Sorkin, DealBook. PAGE B1
WRESTLING WITH THE DOWNTURN
Different nations are trying different approaches to kick-start their economies -- or at least stop the bleeding. Spain allowed out-of-work homeowners to put off mortgage payments, South Korea announced a $10.9 billion stimulus package, and Australia was expected to announce that it was cutting interest rates. PAGE B7
WINDBAGS IN THE WINDOW SEAT
A heated political campaign means there are precious few places to find a respite from pointed conversations about politics. Take a business flight, for example. While some may think it should be as tranquil and uneventful as possible, there are others who use the hours in enclosed space to vociferously state their opinions on the election. ''I've been a lot more aggressive in my comments than I think I've ever been in the past,'' said one frequent flier. PAGE B1
Science Times
TWO CANDIDATES WALK INTO A BAR. WHOSE SUPPORTERS LAUGH HARDER?
McCain or Obama? Tax cuts or tax increases? Here's a good one: Which candidate's supporters have a better sense of humor? To find the answer, researchers in Boston used a variety of jokes -- good, bad, conventional, absurdist -- to look for differences in reactions between self-described liberals and conservatives. The results: Conservatives enjoyed more types of jokes, and enjoyed them more, than liberals. PAGE D1
NEW VIRUS FOUND AND CONTAINED
A new virus that causes fatal hemorrhagic fevers has been discovered in southern Africa. It killed four people in South Africa and sickened a fifth, but health authorities say they believe the outbreak has been contained. While new viruses are often found in animals, it is relatively rare to discover one fatal to humans. How the first victim was infected is unknown. PAGE D6
MINERALS ON MARS
Still puzzling over how warm and wet Mars may have once been, scientists are now seeing global mineralogical signs that the planet was at least occasionally wet for the first two billion years of its existence. In an article in the November issue of the journal Geology, scientists working with data from NASA's Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter report that they have spotted widespread deposits of opals and related minerals that contain water molecules on the surface of Mars. PAGE D3
WARNINGS OF DISEASE, WITH FLAIR
''She may look clean,'' the poster warns. But ''pick-ups, 'good-time girls,' prostitutes spread syphilis and gonorrhea.'' The poster, one of many created by the Public Health Service during World War II to warn the troops about the dangers of casual sex, is on display as part of a retrospective of health posters from the permanent collection of the National Library of Medicine. Titled ''An Iconography of Contagion,'' the exhibition features work from numerous countries on an array of diseases. PAGE D5
Obituaries
JOHN W. RIPLEY, 69
He entered Marine Corps lore when he single-handedly blunted a North Vietnamese offensive by blowing up part of the Dong Ha Bridge on Easter Sunday 1972. He swung hand over hand along the steel I-beams beneath the bridge, placing explosives in a diagonal line from one side of the structure to the other. About 20,000 North Vietnamese troops and 200 tanks were poised to cross the bridge to sweep into Quang Tri Province. PAGE A33
Sports
IN TRADE FOR AN AGING STAR,
Pistons Take a Big Gamble
The core of the Detroit Pistons roster has remained nearly the same since its championship run in 2004, but in an unexpected trade, the team sent Chauncey Billups and Antonio McDyess to the Denver Nuggets for Allen Iverson, a former N.B.A. Most Valuable Player. It is a move that could change the complexion of the Eastern Conference title race. PAGE B14
STAYING THE COURSE?
To a nonrunner, the New York City Marathon has changed little since it began in 1970. But as many more people apply to run next year, the marathon continues to test just how far it can grow, even as the current size of the race is already putting stress on the city's crowded streets. Could a course change be in the works? George Vecsey, Sports of the Times. PAGE B14
SERENA WILLIAMS SOUNDS OFF
As a Jehovah's Witness, Serena Williams must abstain from voting, but that does not mean she does not have a preference in the presidential election: she wants Barack Obama to win. But her opinions don't end there. Just ask her about her No. 3 ranking. ''Well, obviously I do want to be the best, and I do want to be No. 1.'' Williams said. ''And quite frankly, everyone thinks I am anyway. So you know I never correct them. I just let them believe what really should be.'' PAGE B18
Culture
DUELING MAESTROS,
One Wielding a Wii Remote
In this corner, you have the Fauxharmonic Orchestra, a computer program developed by Paul Henry Smith, and operated with a Wii-more wireless controller. In the other, there is the Baltimore Chamber Orchestra. Who would emerge victorious when the two played successive versions of the same song? ''The confrontation was less Muhammad Ali versus George Foreman than Bobby Flay pitted against a George Foreman grill,'' Steve Smith writes. PAGE C7
A KALEIDOSCOPIC BIENNIAL
Art biennials are popping up in cities across the globe, embraced for their ability to draw tourists. But the problem, Roberta Smith writes, is that they are all more or less the same, with a few minor tweaks at each stop. This is not so, however, for Prospect.1 New Orleans's eclectic foray into the biennial world. ''It proves that biennials can be just as effective when pulled off without bells, whistles, big bucks and the usual suspects.'' PAGE C1
Editorial
SO LITTLE TIME, SO MUCH DAMAGE
Most presidents put on a last-minute policy stamp, but in George W. Bush's case, it is more like a wrecking ball. We fear it could take months or years for the next president to identify and then undo all of the damage. A look at some of Mr. Bush's recent parting gifts and those we fear are yet to come. PAGE A34
THE COURT AND 'FLEETING EXPLETIVES'
The Federal Communications Commission has turned itself into a censorship board that imposes fines based on its own highly subjective standards. The Supreme Court must stop the commission from trampling on free speech rights. PAGE A34
Op-Ed
DAVID BROOKS
It will be interesting to see how this generation and this new leadership class navigate the tough choices ahead. PAGE A35
BOB HERBERT
For a country in deep trouble, economically and otherwise, the selection of a new president is just the first step toward meaningful change. PAGE A35
TURNING POINTS, 2008 EDITION
Barring something really, really unforeseen, the presidential campaign ends today. Really. On the Op-Ed page, Ana Marie Cox, Bob Kerrey, Michael Kinsley, Kevin Madden, Paul Maslin, Joe Trippi and Howard Wolfson write about some of the undernoticed moments from the last 18 months. PAGE A35

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (A2
 A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); MEDICARE (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); JUDGES (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); IMPEACHMENT (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (60%); HEALTH CARE LAW (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (88%); VACLAV KLAUS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%) TAIWAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%); CHINA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



172 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1615 words

HEADLINE: As Stadiums' Costs Swell, Benefits in Question

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Days after taking office in 2002, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg killed Rudolph W. Giuliani's plan to spend $800 million in city funds to build baseball stadiums for the Yankees and the Mets, saying they were too expensive during a recession. 
 Three years later, Mr. Bloomberg unveiled his own plan calling for the two teams to pay the construction costs of their new stadiums, while the city would build public parks, parking garages and transit stations nearby. The cost to taxpayers, the mayor suggested, would be relatively small and the benefits to the city would be great.
 ''We don't do subsidies,'' Mr. Bloomberg said at the time. ''The city is getting paid back at a profit.''
 But as the two stadiums near completion, the cost to taxpayers is anything but small, a review of the projects shows. Though the teams are indeed paying approximately $2 billion to erect the two stadiums, the cost to the city for infrastructure -- parks, garages and transportation improvements -- have jumped to about $458 million, from $281 million in 2005. The state is contributing an additional $201 million. 
 Those totals do not include an estimated $480 million in city, state and federal tax breaks granted to both teams. In addition, neither team has to pay rent or property taxes, though they are playing on city-owned land.
 The expanding public cost of the stadiums, coming in another downturn, has fueled debate about their economic benefits, and has become an issue in Congressional hearings in Washington into the use of tax-exempt bonds for stadium construction.
 The Bloomberg administration says that keeping the Yankees in the Bronx and the Mets in Queens not only creates temporary construction and permanent stadium jobs, but also is crucial to the city's image. 
 Seth Pinsky, the president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, said the city estimates that its investment in Yankee Stadium alone will earn a net positive return of more than $40 million over 40 years. ''Even without that, a billion dollar investment in the poorest Congressional district in the city is never a bad thing,'' Mr. Pinsky said. 
 Critics of public investments in stadiums and arenas for professional teams say that the Bloomberg administration may have struck a better deal for taxpayers than those done in many other cities. But they say that the stadiums still carry an immense public cost and that 81 home games are not enough to create many permanent jobs. 
 ''In general, stadiums are not engines for economic development,'' said Ronnie Lowenstein, the director of the New York City Independent Budget Office. ''Inflating the economic benefits associated with stadiums that typically have only part-time or seasonal employment is missing the point. A lot of New Yorkers wanted a new Yankee or Mets stadium. At the end of the day, that was what was driving the city's decision to do this.''
 Stadium building has been a long-running drama in New York. From 1986 to 1996, George Steinbrenner, the principal owner of the Yankees, kept politicians jumping on both sides of the Hudson River with threats to move to New Jersey. Mr. Giuliani spent years on an unsuccessful effort to move the Yankees to the West Side of Manhattan.
 Shortly before he stepped down, Mr. Giuliani signed a nonbinding agreement with the Yankees and the Mets to pay half of he $1.6 billion cost of building two baseball stadiums. Mr. Bloomberg rejected that plan in 2002, but his own push to build a heavily subsidized football stadium for the Jets on the West Side also ended in failure.
 Finally, in 2005 and 2006, the city and the state reached deals with the Yankees and Mets in which the teams agreed to pay the cost of constructing the stadiums on city-owned land, while Mr. Bloomberg insisted that the government would build only infrastructure around them.
 In those early stages, city, state and team officials estimated that the Yankees project would cost about $1 billion, with the team paying 80 percent, or $800 million, for the stadium, while the city and state would contribute $208.6 million for parks and garages.
 The total cost of the Mets' project was put at almost $645 million, with the team paying about 65 percent, or $423 million, for the stadium and the public putting up $221.8 million in site preparation, pilings and mass transit improvements. The deal also allowed the Mets to keep revenue generated by the garages, money that in the past went into the city's coffers.
 In the world of stadium building, these were considered relatively good deals even by critics of public financing of private stadiums. By comparison, San Diego paid 67 percent, or $303 million, of the $449 million cost of a new stadium for the Padres that opened in 2004.
 But in the past two years, the costs of the New York projects -- the stadiums and the related infrastructure -- have swelled substantially, with the current cost of the Mets' project put at about $900 million and the Yankees project expected to be more than $1.7 billion, making it the most expensive ballpark in the country. The rising price tags mean public costs have grown as well. 
 Yankee Stadium is being built atop what were once two popular public parks; the city has agreed to replace them, as well as a soccer field, baseball diamonds, basketball courts and a track. The estimated cost of replacing those parks and fields has climbed to $177 million from $129.2 million in 2005. Officials expect the number to rise by an additional 10 percent when the city issues an updated capital budget in the coming weeks.
 The city is also spending about $35 million for roadwork and sewer connections for the stadium and $30 million more on design and planning, items that were not mentioned when the project was announced in 2005. 
 City and state officials also did not discuss building a commuter rail station near the stadium at news conferences in 2005, although the Yankees had lobbied for it. The Metro-North Railroad is now building a $91 million station there, with $39 million coming from the city budget.
 The Bloomberg administration has also extended for three years a $5 million-a-year rent rebate that was first granted by Mr. Giuliani to cover the team's planning costs. The rebate has also been extended to the Mets.
 The city is also responsible for the tens of millions of dollars it will cost to demolish both Shea and Yankee stadiums.
 The state contributed $70 million toward the $240 million cost of building three garages with 3,610 spaces at the new Yankee Stadium. And the city issued $170 million in tax-exempt bonds on behalf of the private garage operator. 
 In addition, the city provided both teams with a variety of tax breaks, which the Independent Budget Office estimates amount to a public-sector loss of $313.4 million in revenues from the Yankees project and $166.4 million from the Mets project. Those benefits include tax-exempt bonds for stadium construction, which allows the teams to save tens of millions of dollars in financing costs. 
 City officials, however, dismiss the notion that they have lost revenues by extending those tax breaks, saying that the parks and parking lots where the new stadiums are being built do not currently generate taxes. They also say it is unlikely that the stadiums would have been built without the tax breaks.
 Still, Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Democrat from Westchester, and Good Jobs New York, a private advocacy group, have been critical of the Yankees project for what Mr. Brodsky says are ''massive subsidies'' resulting in too few jobs. He has also said that the city may have manipulated the value of the stadium land in order to comply with federal regulations regarding tax-exempt financing for stadiums, an assertion that a Congressional subcommittee under Representative Dennis J. Kucinich, a Democrat from Cleveland, is investigating.
 The Bloomberg administration and the Yankees have vigorously disputed those criticisms.
 Mr. Pinsky of the Economic Development Corporation insists that the city's investments in Yankee Stadium will be used by fans, neighborhood residents and commuters. He says that the projects have pumped hundreds of millions of dollars into the city's economy, employed thousands of union construction workers and will eventually relieve the city of having to maintain the aging stadiums. 
 Randy Levine, the president of the Yankees and a former deputy mayor under Mr. Giuliani, testified at a Congressional hearing on Oct. 24 that the project will generate about ''1,000 additional jobs,'' mostly union, in restaurants, security, ticketing, marketing and maintenance. Two new restaurants -- Hard Rock Cafe and N.Y.Y. Steak -- and a Yankees museum would operate year-round, he said.
 But the Yankees' own 2006 application for tax-exempt bond financing indicated that the number of full-time and part-time jobs at the stadium would rise only modestly, to 140 from 120 for full-time positions, and to 950 from 879 for part-time ones. 
 ''The notion that these restaurants will do much business during the off-season is hard to imagine,'' said Andrew Zimbalist, an economist at Smith College. ''That would require a tremendous renaissance in that part of the Bronx.'' 
 Robert A. Baade, an economist at Lake Forest College in Illinois who specializes in sports, was more critical of the New York projects, saying that the public benefits are fairly meager in light of the large public investment.
 ''We know these claims are hyperbole,'' Mr. Baade said. ''Why would you expect that this would result in an increase in economic activity in New York when you've simply changed the locus of play, moving it across the street?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TAX LAW (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); BASEBALL (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); RECESSION (77%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (76%); PROPERTY TAX (75%); TAX INCENTIVES (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (71%); SEASONAL WORKERS (63%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008



173 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: Nov. 4: The Day of Decision Is Here

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In ''Guess Who's Coming to Dinner'' (column, Nov. 2), Frank Rich writes that if Barack Obama wins the White House on Tuesday, ''many will cheer and more than a few will cry as history moves inexorably forward.''
 I will be one of those crying. I have not cried during the last eight years, even when I saw the picture of Iraqi prisoners being tortured and humiliated at Abu Ghraib prison, because I don't cry when I'm horrified. I cry when I'm joyous. 
 I will cry when I vote for Barack Obama. I will be crying because I love my country so much and I treasure my right to vote. I will be crying with relief because the last eight years have been torture for me. Celia Ballew Jones 
 Richmond, Va., Nov. 2, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Frank Rich is right when he describes Senator Barack Obama as an individual who the political world discovered was far from being an exotic household flower, but instead a pol from Chicago. 
 Perhaps Mr. Rich considered this to be a compliment, but instead it brings to memory a political machine in Chicago under the original Mayor Daley that brooked no opposition and systematically had voters still on the list who had died long ago, making a farce not only of the Chicago mayoralty election but also the statewide choices.
 I agree that Mr. Obama has shown the political acumen of a Chicago politician, but does this qualify him for the highest office in the land? Nelson Marans
 Silver Spring, Md., Nov. 2, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Hey Liberals, Don't Worry'' (column, Nov. 3): William Kristol seems forever frozen in ideology. The candidates in Tuesday's election are running as Democrat and Republican, not liberal and conservative, those free-floating designations that may serve as honorific or epithet, depending on the spin. 
 Voters should be -- with luck, will be -- choosing the wiser candidate, the one we think better equipped by judgment, intellect and temperament to grow the economy, dislodge us prudently from Iraq, restore our reputation in the world, uphold our Constitution and strengthen the social safety net the Bush administration has been trying for eight years to shred. 
 We'll do well on Tuesday to put liberal and conservative aside until the next round of electioneering and stay focused on who we think is best able to do the job. 
 David Kernis
 Trumbull, Conn., Nov. 3, 2008
 To the Editor:
 William Kristol did not mention the real terror that lives in the hearts of those of us, not necessarily specifically liberal, who are voting for Senator Barack Obama. It may not be simply about the next four years; it is likely that our next president will replace justices on the Supreme Court.
 One more Antonin Scalia, one more Clarence Thomas? Our secular tradition put in jeopardy, social progress stifled, the 50s reinstated? Perhaps for our lifetime? No wonder we're not sleeping nights. Marlene Shyer
 New York, Nov. 3, 2008
 To the Editor: 
 Maureen Dowd asks exactly the right questions concerning perhaps the most erratic, poorly run presidential campaign in history (''Who's the Question Mark?,'' column, Nov. 2). 
 The answer, I believe, is both simple and obvious: McCain the Authentic became McCain the Cynical. In his quixotic and desperate attempt to win the presidency, John McCain has been callously calculating and insincere, veering from one ill-conceived marketing plan to another. 
 We need only to remind ourselves of the failure of the ''new'' Coke several years ago to understand that people like the real thing. Robert Ouriel
 Los Angeles, Nov. 2, 2008
 To the Editor: 
 Re ''The Known Unknowns,'' by Bob Herbert (column, Nov. 1):
 The ''twin towers'' in this election are not the economy and race. The key determinant is whether you would risk major surgery with a surgeon performing his first surgery. Howard Schwartz
 Englewood, N.J., Nov. 1, 2008
 To the Editor: 
 Re ''Rejoin the World'' (column, Nov. 2):
 I would like to add a qualifying expectation to Nicholas D. Kristof's call for the United States to rejoin the international community.
 With humility, we must accept a role as other than leader. We should look up to nations that have led the diplomatic efforts with Iran, have been part of the International Criminal Court, and those that ratified the Kyoto Protocol years ago. 
 Like all runaways, we won't be welcomed back if we knock on the door toting the same hubris that directed our departure. Rich Moniak
 Juneau, Alaska, Nov. 2, 2008
 To the Editor:
 In ''Obama-Inspired Black Voters Find Politics Is for Them, Too'' (front page, Nov. 2), a historical phenomenon is catalogued: the dawning of a new era in the psyche and spirit of the African-American voter.
 One of the people interviewed is quoted as saying of Barack Obama: ''I think it's a testament to his campaign that he can inspire. At the end of the day, no matter what party you vote for, I think every once in a while there are inspirational moments that call for people to wake up from their deep sleep and become alive and get involved. And I think Barack at the very least is an inspirational figure.'' 
 Until the current presidential campaign, a very significant number of blacks in this country didn't bother to vote. Because of their deep cynicism about a system that they have viewed as corrupt and uninterested in the concerns of their communities, they concluded that voting was a useless act rather than an obligation. 
 The Obama campaign has ushered in a new day for these voters, one of hope, possibility and connection with a candidate they view as having their issues and their lives in mind and at heart. 
 Whether this is a new important trend in the American political system or a one-time occurrence will be answered in the coming years. Alan Safron
 Woodcliff Lake, N.J., Nov. 2, 2008
 To the Editor:
 For months now, each day we see two confident candidates. Too confident, maybe? 
 With the continuing financial crisis, with unsolved issues like Iraq, detainees, Social Security, with a negative international perception of a too arrogant America, what a superpower needs is for the new president to bring back the stability, prosperity and good image that the United States once had.
 Perhaps it is just wrong to put all our hopes on one person. Electing a figure from one party or the other might show a path, but over all it is an entire system that needs changes to make things work again.
 And this will be the most difficult task this new president will have: to find the right internal and international tools to reshape the country. Because, Republicans or Democrats, we all want back our America! Mihaela Costin
 Larchmont, N.Y., Nov. 3, 2008
 To the Editor:
 The day after the election: no robocalls, no new signs on the lawns or roads; fewer cable TV ranters; no e-mail or text messages from Barack Obama, no more chain letters asking for support of God's candidate, no more rallies, no more debates, no more TV ads approved by ..., no more no more.
 I give up. I voted.
 Francis W. Rodgers
 Rensselaer, N.Y., Nov. 3, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KEETRA DEAN DIXON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); CONSERVATISM (87%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POLITICS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: FRANK RICH (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008



174 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Nominees Pack In Visits to G.O.P.-Leaning States as Campaign Closes

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: JACKSONVILLE, Fla. 

 BODY:
A campaign waged under the specter of war and financial crisis drew to an anxious finish on Monday as Senators Barack Obama and John McCain raced across nine states and asked voters on both sides to discount polls and predictions on the closing day of a two-year pursuit of the presidency.
 Mr. Obama surrendered the race to the judgment of the American people as he told a booming crowd here, ''Now, it's all about who wants it more, who believes in it more.'' Mr. McCain sought to motivate Republicans who worried aloud that it could be a bleak election, declaring, ''The Mac is back!''
 In the final hours of his second bid for the presidency, Mr. McCain dashed through Republican-leaning states from Florida to Indiana and New Mexico to Nevada. He stopped in Tennessee, hoping to reach voters in adjacent North Carolina and Virginia, and he swung by only one normally Democratic state, Pennsylvania. He planned to return home for a rally in Arizona in the small hours of the night. 
 Mr. Obama, confident in his standing on Democratic terrain, devoted his final day of campaigning by trying to push Florida, North Carolina and Virginia into his column. He pressed ahead after he awoke to news that his grandmother, the woman chiefly responsible for his upbringing, had died in Hawaii. 
 The election eve travels of both men, as well as their running mates, offered a viewer's guide of the states whose outcomes will play a large role in settling who will become the nation's 44th president.
 Their last-minute efforts were amplified by their muscular ground organizations and unprecedented advertising barrages in all forms. The Obama campaign tested its text-messaging program to remind voters, particularly young ones, to go to the polls. The McCain campaign activated its automated phone system to check with any voter who had shown an interest in the Republican ticket. 
 In their pitches to voters, each candidate struck an optimistic chord, delivering a few gracious words about his opponent and offering a vow to change Washington. Yet neither refrained from reprising the piercing criticisms that have become the soundtrack for the five-month general election fight. 
 ''At the end of this long race, I want to congratulate him on the tough race that he has fought,'' Mr. Obama said of Mr. McCain in a morning speech here at Veterans Memorial Auditorium. ''He can point to a few items where he has broken with President Bush, but when it comes from the central issue of this election, the plain truth is John McCain has stood with George Bush.''
 Mr. McCain delivered a truncated version of his stump speech at each stop but grew hoarser as the day progressed. His aides said he appeared to be catching the bad cold that had waylaid many others in the petri dish of his campaign plane. By late afternoon in Indiana, he was sucking on throat lozenges to try to finish the marathon.
 ''My friends, you know that I've been fighting for this country since I was 17 years old, and I have the scars to prove it,'' he said at a rally in Indianapolis as he battled to prevent Mr. Obama from taking a state that has not backed a Democratic presidential candidate since 1964. 
 Four hours later, Mr. McCain dropped out of the sky into the supposed home of space aliens, Roswell, N.M. ''I am pleased to announce that I have received the alien endorsement,'' he told the crowd, to a roar of laughter.
 As the contest headed to its finish, an air of normalcy surrounded Mr. Obama. There was no rush of friends or advisers on the plane for the final flights. His demeanor, at least from his public appearances, seemed the same as it has for months. His schedule of rallies was no different than at any point in the general election.
 Only a few close advisers knew that at 8 a.m. he had received word from his sister that his 86-year-old grandmother, Madelyn Dunham, had died. When he arrived at a rally, he spoke briefly about his grandmother, whom he visited last month in Honolulu.
 ''She has gone home,'' Mr. Obama said, his voice tinged with emotion. ''She died peacefully in her sleep with my sister at her side, so there's great joy instead of tears.''
 Mr. McCain, as he sprinted through seven states, warned voters at every stop of the differences between the outlooks and policies of the two tickets. He did not dally, spending 30 minutes at each stop, with his argument boiled down to fit the frenzied moment. 
 ''Senator Obama's running to punish the successful,'' Mr. McCain said at his opening stop in Tampa, Fla. ''I'm running to make everyone successful.''
 The mood on the McCain campaign plane was upbeat and punchy throughout the day as Mr. McCain's advisers continued to hammer their belief that the polls were tightening and that Mr. McCain's chances of winning the presidency were difficult but not impossible. 
 ''Winning 270 is right in the cards,'' Rick Davis, the campaign manager, insisted around midnight Sunday, as Mr. McCain's plane headed from New Hampshire to Florida.
 Mr. McCain drew stirring applause from his crowds -- as well as jeers directed at the Democratic rival -- when he said Mr. Obama wanted to ''spread the wealth around,'' Adding, 
 ''He's in the far left lane of American politics.'' 
 The barnstorming rallies, the dawn-to-dusk television commercials and the armies of volunteers flooding neighborhoods disguised how the United States now elects its president: with millions of ballots already having been cast in early voting.
 In Ohio, voting lines looped in and out of doors, upstairs and around corners at the registrar's office in Columbus, with a record number of voters adding their ballots to those that have been collected for nearly a month. Democrats outnumbered Republicans by more than two to one.
 In Florida, about 37 percent of registered voters have already cast ballots, state officials said, setting the stage for potentially record-breaking turnout.
 In Virginia, where more restrictions are placed on early voting, the state has processed 465,962 absentee ballots. And more than 300,000 Virginians voted in person by an absentee ballot. In 2004, a total of 222,059 absentee ballots were cast.
 Worried about the outlook in Virginia, where a Democrat has not won the presidential race in more than four decades, Mr. McCain's campaign sued the state's election board on Monday. The campaign asserted that the absentee ballots had not been mailed on time to members of the military serving overseas.
 Mr. Obama held his final rally in Virginia, a sign Democrats were waging an all-out push for the state, which is seen as a barometer for the fight with Mr. McCain. In Virginia and around the country, both sides are keeping a close eye on the weather .
 ''I think if it rained mud, it won't make a difference,'' said L. Douglas Wilder, the former governor of Virginia, who was the state's first black chief executive. ''They're coming out. Trust me, they're coming out.''
 The First Results Are In
 DIXVILLE NOTCH, N.H. (AP) -- Mr. Obama easily won early Tuesday in Dixville Notch, N.H., where tradition of having the first Election Day ballots tallied lives on. Mr. Obama defeated Mr. McCain 15 to 6. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Residents lined up to cast early ballots at the city courthouse in Lafayette, Ind., on Monday, the last full day of campaigning in a long presidential race.(PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Left, a woman handed out Obama campaign material Monday in Midland, Pa., while her baby slept . Right, Carole Holland, 72, a part-time special-needs teacher, made her views clear in Sarasota, Fla. Both candidates struck an optimistic chord on election eve.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BEATRICE DE GEA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP LITHERLAND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); TEXT MESSAGING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (79%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (76%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008



175 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CHEYENNE JOURNAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: Cheyenne, Growing, Warily Eyes Its Future

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: CHEYENNE, Wyo. 

 BODY:
This city once dreamed in lofty superlatives -- that it could become a major metropolis, axis of the Intermountain West and heavyweight hub of the High Plains. 
 But by the late 1800s, Denver, 95 miles south in Colorado, had won the contest. Gold strikes and good water supplies made the difference. Cheyenne gradually retreated to its roots as a wind-blown provincial town, dependent on a cold war-era missile base and on Wyoming's tiny state government for jobs.
 Now the Denver area's relentless growth, with its satellite cities and suburbs that march north toward Wyoming, is grabbing Cheyenne by the lapels. 
 But maps are political documents, too, and the poll numbers suggest that the same newcomers who have reshaped the Denver metropolitan economy may now be leading Colorado, once-dependably Republican, into the Democratic column by supporting Senator Barack Obama for president. Mr. Obama is ahead in most polls in Colorado going into Tuesday's election. Wyoming, by contrast, with just over 500,000 people, less than one-tenth of Colorado's population, is among the most stalwart of Republican states and shows little sign of budging. 
 The result is not exactly a collision, but rather a kind of accordion affect, like the two-headed Pushmi-Pullyu from the Dr. Dolittle stories. One force is pulling the two states closer as the juggernaut of urbanization shifts the economic and demographic landscape; the other is carving out a deeper separation as most of Wyoming holds firm to its cowboy, go-it-alone ethos.
 Change for old Cheyenne, population 55,000, is the one certainty. 
 Wyoming's low-rise capital city has long been isolated by virtue of its founding as a railroad town; it was plunked in the state's southeast corner not for loveliness or riches but because it was midway between the Union Pacific's other major depots of the 1860s, in Omaha and Ogden, Utah. Now, it is braced for impact. 
 About 16,000 passenger vehicles cross the border every day, at least 2,200 of them commuters to jobs on one side of the border or the other, according to Wyoming state figures. The Wyoming Legislature, where ''mass transit'' is seldom heard, took testimony in October from a state consultant who recommended that the state start conferring with planners in Denver who are hoping to build a commuter rail line of 300 miles or more from Wyoming to New Mexico.
 ''Economics is what we are really after,'' said State Senator Michael Von Flatern, a Republican and co-chairman of the Transportation, Highways and Military Affairs Committee. ''Denver will be a big megalopolis, and if things move forward on the rail line, and Colorado does their part, I would want Wyoming to tie in.''
 People like John Brazzale, a 47-year-old electrician from Cheyenne who has worked here and in Denver, say that they think the knot has already been tied. Now it is time for the honeymoon.
 ''Something's coming,'' Mr. Brazzale said as he rewired lampposts outside the Union Pacific Depot on a recent morning -- old-fashioned bulbs out, energy-efficient fluorescent lights in.
 ''Just look at the hotels that are going up around here,'' he said. ''They're not building them for fun.''
 Mr. Brazzale, who described himself as a union man and a Democrat, said that he welcomed the change, and that, who knows, in 20 years, Cheyenne could even become a kind of high-tech wunderkind like Boulder, a Denver satellite known for its fancy restaurants, liberals and geeks. 
 In a hint of that possible future, the National Center for Atmospheric Research in Boulder, a climate research institute financed by the National Science Foundation, announced last year that its next-generation supercomputer center would be built in Cheyenne. Scheduled to open in 2011, the center will foster interaction between researchers from Colorado and Wyoming who will now have reason to meet in Cheyenne. 
 Still, Ron Willis is among those who think the old political boundaries will hold, even as things change.
 ''Colorado is becoming a more Democratic state, but Wyoming will remain Republican,'' said Mr. Willis, 32, who runs a state-federal program to help residents weatherize their homes to conserve energy. ''I think the two states will remain separated.'' 
 Politics aside, Mr. Willis said that Wyoming still held a monopoly on real Western culture and would not surrender the claim to Denver, regardless of dollar signs.
 ''Denver has never really been the West,'' he said, repeating a commonly heard insult around here that, in rowdier days, might have sparked a fistfight.
 At the Cheyenne Area Convention and Visitors Bureau, the group's president and chief executive, Darren Rudloff, said he thought a greater linkage with Denver was inevitable and mostly positive. 
 The three conjoined metropolitan areas of northeastern Colorado -- Denver-Aurora, Boulder and Fort Collins-Loveland -- now press right up to the Wyoming border. Taken together, they are among the fastest-growing areas in the nation over the last two decades, with a population increase of about 44 percent, to just under three million people, according to the most recent Census Bureau estimates.
 ''I don't think there's any business resistance,'' Mr. Rudloff said. ''But there would be, I think, in some quarters, resistance to losing too much of the Cheyenneness -- there would be some push back.''
 On the other hand, Mr. Rudloff added, many Wyoming residents have already written off Cheyenne, believing that the city has fallen off the map already and into Colorado. ''We're not Colorado and we're not totally Wyoming, according to some people,'' he said. ''So we're kind of stuck in the middle.''
 But if geography is destiny, there is perhaps a historical twist as well. Political and business leaders here say the growth of metropolitan Denver's population north toward Wyoming, which has no income tax, sharpens the business allure of Cheyenne as a commuting destination for more and more Coloradans, making the city a legitimate contender with Denver for the first time in generations and stirring those old dreams of greatness.
 Laura Adams, an accountant with the state government, said she welcomed the new economic connections. ''It can only help Cheyenne,'' she said. ''A lot of people still don't even know where it is.''
 But do not get her started on politics. 
 Ms. Adams, 51, who described herself as a strong supporter of Senator John McCain, the Republican presidential nominee, is unhappy with Colorado's political direction and with the Denver news media, which often serves Cheyenne as an afterthought. After the Democrats held their national convention in Denver in August, Ms. Adams said, too many locals fell in love with the party.
 ''I listen to a radio station that comes from Denver,'' she said. ''I had to turn it off. I couldn't stand it any more.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John Brazzale, 47, of Cheyenne rewired lampposts at the Union Pacific Depot to be more efficient. He welcomed signs of progress in town.
 Darren Rudloff, president of Cheyenne's tourist bureau, said closer links to Denver were inevitable. Denver has shadowed Cheyenne since the 1860s, as a map on the floor of the Union Pacific Depot shows.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (86%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); URBANIZATION (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); COLD WAR (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (68%); MASS TRANSIT CONSTRUCTION (63%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (63%)

COMPANY: UNION PACIFIC CORP (53%)

TICKER: UNP (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (53%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHEYENNE, WY, USA (95%); DENVER, CO, USA (94%); OGDEN, UT, USA (79%); OMAHA, NE, USA (79%) WYOMING, USA (97%); COLORADO, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008



176 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Overseas, More Nations Assemble Stimulus Plans

BYLINE: By VICTORIA BURNETT and BETTINA WASSENER

 BODY:
Australia was widely expected to cut interest rates on Tuesday and South Korea announced a $10.9 billion stimulus package on Monday, the latest in a string of steps by governments seeking to prop up growth and cushion the impact of the financial crisis. 
 The Spanish government, meanwhile, unveiled on Monday a program to allow out-of-work homeowners to defer mortgage payments. 
 Other countries with a troubled housing market, including the United States, are debating steps to help people stave off foreclosure, but have yet to enact any direct measures.
 Spain is grappling with an economy that is slipping into recession and has the highest unemployment rate in the European Union.
 Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero told a news conference in Madrid that the package would also include incentives for employers to hire the jobless.
 Under the mortgage relief program, unemployed homeowners and some retirees could postpone payment of half their monthly bill for two years starting in January -- as long as the amount deferred each month was no more than 500 euros, or about $635. The offer would apply to mortgages of up to 170,000 euros and could affect about half a million people, Mr. Zapatero said. 
 The Spanish government will underwrite the deferred payments, which may be spread over 10 years, Mr. Zapatero said. 
 Spain had been a European leader in terms of job creation in the last decade, as well as in home building. But the economy has ground to a halt as the property bubble deflated and the global credit crisis hit home. 
 In an effort to persuade businesses to hire those now receiving benefits, Mr. Zapatero said the government would pay companies 1,500 euros a year for each job given to an unemployed worker supporting a family. He also said bonuses would be introduced for companies hiring people working in research and development and renewable energy. 
 South Korea, which has been hit hard by reduced demand from the United States and Europe, and where the financial crisis has left banks struggling to pay billions of dollars in short-term loans, has announced a series of emergency measures in recent weeks. 
 The latest, announced Monday by President Lee Myung-bak, included an additional 11 trillion won ($8.7 billion) in government spending and 3 trillion won in tax cuts. These are aimed mainly at the real estate and construction industries.
 The package is intended to bolster growth next year by an additional percentage point to around 4 percent, and was announced as fresh data showed export growth in October had slowed to its lowest pace in 13 months. 
 Weak economic data in Australia were also expected to prompt that country's central bank to reduce its key rate by another half a percentage point to 5.5 percent on Tuesday. The cut would be the third since Sept. 3, and bring the total in rate cuts to 1.75 percentage points. 
 The moves have been intended to prop up the Australian economy, which is highly dependent on raw materials production and has suffered from falling prices for iron ore and copper in recent months. Data released Monday showed retail sales fell 1.1 percent in September, much more than had been expected, while house prices fell 1.8 percent during the third quarter. 
 China, which last week joined a flurry of interest rate cuts in the United States and elsewhere, over the weekend announced it was loosening limits on bank lending. Signs in China also indicate that growth is slowing. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In Seoul, shoppers rummaging for bargains. The government announced an increase in public spending and new tax cuts.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LEE JIN-MAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); EURO (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); RECESSION (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); FORECLOSURE (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (63%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (59%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

PERSON: JOSE LUIS RODRIGUEZ ZAPATERO (79%); LEE MYUNG-BAK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%) SPAIN (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); AUSTRALIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008



177 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1511 words

HEADLINE: As Schools Grapple With Crowding, Prospect of Rezoning Angers Manhattan Parents

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

 BODY:
At Public School 199 in the heart of the Upper West Side, a music teacher who once had her own classroom now keeps her instruments in a small closet, stacking cymbals and drums onto a cart as she visits more than two dozen classes each week. Students who need tutoring in reading or math sit behind a makeshift wall of metal cabinets in the hallway. There are seven kindergarten classes this year, up from three in 2000. 
 And on a recent Friday afternoon, it took six staff members 15 minutes to find a room for a training workshop. P.S. 199 has 663 students in kindergarten through fifth grade this year, nearly 200 above its capacity in the West 70th Street building it has long shared with the Center School, a middle school that draws students from the Lincoln Center area north to Harlem. Public School 191, just nine blocks south, draws largely from the nearby housing projects and has more than 107 empty seats available. 
 It might seem that there are easy solutions to the overcrowding in District 3, which encompasses the Upper West Side and parts of Harlem. The district has neighborhoods facing a burgeoning school-age population, in part because of a high-rise building boom, with pockets where the number of children are in decline. Why not send some of P.S. 199's overflow to fill the seats at P.S. 191, or move the Center School and let the popular P.S. 199 expand to take up the whole three-story building? 
 But in New York City, where real estate and access to good schools often lead to Olympics-level competition, even the specter of changing school boundaries can raise the hackles of parents who chose their high-priced homes precisely because of those boundaries. The topic of rezoning is so sensitive that education officials have referred to it as the ''third rail'' -- and no one seems to remember the last time a significant boundary change was enacted. 
 For months now, officials and members of District 3's Community Education Council, the elected board that must approve any rezoning plans, have gone back and forth on painstaking negotiations and proposals. At a meeting on Wednesday night, the council is expected to introduce its resolution, which members would vote on later this month. 
 The heated debate dividing neighbors is likely to repeat itself across town later this month, when city education officials begin discussing the rezoning of parts of District 2, which encompasses the Upper East Side and much of Lower Manhattan. District 2 is plagued by some of the city's worst overcrowding, particularly in TriBeCa and on the Upper East Side. 
 In the debate over the fate of P.S. 199 and the Center School, there have been accusations of racism, and a flier calling one school administrator who opposed a move a dictator. Parents -- and prospective parents -- of P.S. 199 have set up an elaborate campaign against changing the school boundaries, using the Internet and old-fashioned petitions on clipboards to protest.
 ''You move to a neighborhood in no small part because you are attracted to the school -- it's a core decision you are making,'' said Eric Shuffler, who is among the parents of 4-year-olds fighting for kindergarten spots in 2009 at P.S. 199. ''Something that you had planned on is now being taken and it's compounded by the fact that you don't know what happens to your children once the decision is made.'' 
 As Education Department officials and local community boards grapple with pockets of overcrowding in parts of Manhattan where real estate has boomed, they are trying to balance competing ideals. 
 Do young children who live within blocks of a school have inherent rights to enroll there? What about the middle school that has been housed in the building for more than two decades? Should school choice trump geography? Or should schools reflect precisely the neighborhoods that surround them, even if that means aligning with segregated housing patterns? 
 ''What they need to do is look at how schools actually function,'' said Jennifer Freeman, a member of the Community Education Council in District 3. ''We're trying to make as big of an improvement as possible with the least amount of disruption as possible.''
 For many parents and their advocates, the only acceptable answer to the overcrowding is to build more schools. But the city's capital plan, expected to be released on Wednesday, is unlikely to appease them. Facing a bleak economic picture and austere budget, the Education Department is scaling back its ambitions for new buildings or even modest additions. And city officials have been loath to devote scant capital resources to neighborhoods that it believes can and should address overcrowding within existing buildings. 
 ''These are constant, ongoing reassessments: where the population is dynamic, where the population growth has been rapid, and where that is not the case,'' said John White, the Education Department official with the task of addressing enrollment issues. ''In some cases, by changing the specific manner that students choose a school we can address the issue.''
 In District 3, education officials initially proposed changing zones to reassign residents of West 67th, 68th, 69th, 70th and 71st Streets, between Central Park West and Broadway, to Public School 87, a few blocks north, rather than P.S. 199. Mr. White said the city also suggested changing a districtwide policy that sets aside some seats at each school for people who live outside its boundaries. Many parents in the district bristled at both ideas, saying that they prized the diversity that the current policies create. 
 Several of the neighborhood's schools attract students from surrounding areas because of gifted and talented, special education or dual-language classrooms. 
 The department also floated a plan to move schools that shared buildings, placing the Center School at Public School 9, and moving the Anderson School, a citywide gifted program, from its current location at P.S. 9 to Middle School 44 on 77th Street.
 But the principal, teachers and parents of the Center School have protested, saying that it is unfair and damaging to move them from the building they have occupied since the school opened in 1983. 
 ''We have no interest in changing, because the kids who have gone here come back here all the time,'' said Elaine Schwartz, who has been the principal since the school opened. ''For them it was a community that they recognize.'' The school capped its enrollment at just under 300 years ago, Ms. Schwartz added, and the slightly crowded space is what they now ''thrive'' in. 
 ''Moving would be very destructive,'' she said with frustration. ''Can I worry about the real estate situation in New York?'' Of the P.S. 199 parents wary of P.S. 191, Ms. Schwartz said: ''There's a school right nearby -- if they were being offered some trashy place, or no place at all, maybe I would understand better.''
 At its core, the battle over rezoning is also about where parents are eager -- or even willing -- to send their children. Schools, for better or worse, have built up reputations over a number of years. At times, such reputations can change significantly with a new principal or new program. This year, for example, Public School 84, on 92nd Street, experienced a surge in popularity after a French dual-language program was introduced. 
 Parents who are delighted to send their children to Public School 75 -- a school on West End Avenue and 95th Street whose dual-language Spanish program helped it reach capacity several years ago -- are often wary of Public School 145 on 105th Street, which has less than half the students it can take. Similarly, parents of future students at P.S. 199 are skeptical that they would be as happy at P.S. 191 on 61st Street, where 64 percent of the students are in poverty, according to the Education Department, and 8 percent of the students are white (compared with 10 percent in poverty and 66 percent white at P.S. 199). 
 Privately, the parents confide in one another about their fears: They do not know anyone who goes to P.S. 191. They worry their children will feel out of place, or not be challenged academically (last year, 52 percent of P.S. 191 students met state standards in reading, and 70 percent did so in math, compared with more than 90 percent in both subjects at P.S. 199). Some see these fears as a kind of quiet racism, but the parents argue that they simply do not want to send their children to a low-performing school. 
 ''Part of the reason you pay a premium is to be able to go to a local school,'' said Nicole Auerbach, who chose to renovate her apartment and stay within P.S. 199's zone, rather than follow many of her friends to the suburbs as the children reached school age. ''Maybe if all of the folks I know who are upset about 199 were also going to go to 191, I might feel better. 
 ''The problem is that they've caused sufficient panic that everyone is scrambling,'' Ms. Auerbach added. ''Some people might move, and some people might try to put their kids in private schools.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rebecca Varadan's computer class in a hallway at Public School 199. Parents have protested changing the school's boundaries.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT CAPLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); ZONING (89%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); MUSIC (78%); CHILDREN (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); HOME PRICES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008



178 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: Alabama School Districts Feel the Economic Pinch as Tax Revenues Decline

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER

 BODY:
Schools in Alabama are getting hit hard by falling tax receipts, an early warning of the vulnerability of poor states during the economic downturn. 
 Alabama school districts are borrowing heavily or using savings to meet payrolls, state officials said, and future cuts are likely. District superintendents are being warned not to fix leaky roofs or make other repairs, and last week the top state education official told the districts that they would receive only 75 percent of their October allotment of state money until more comes in. The districts depend on the state for about 70 percent of their financing.
 The money crisis in Alabama schools is a small but acute part of the dismal national picture for school financing, with districts across the country hurt by a drop in local sales and property tax receipts, the drying up of credit and the decline in state revenues. 
 ''Many public school districts, particularly in the cities, are getting hammered,'' said Michael Casserly, executive director of the Council of the Great City Schools, an organization that represents 66 urban school districts across the country.
 ''It's hard to look at a school district and not see the effects,'' Mr. Casserly said. ''Cuts are in the multiple hundreds of millions of dollars. We're having programs cut, purchases of textbooks deferred, class sizes increased, programs like art, music and physical education cut, even more than in the last few years.'' 
 Alabama, with its heavy reliance on sales and income tax revenues to finance schools, may be even more vulnerable than most states. Revenues in the main state school fund in October were down more than 13 percent from the previous year, though some money had not been deposited by the end of the month. Still, the state finance director, Jim Main, acknowledged that sales taxes were down 5 to 6 percent in October.
 Pink slips may be coming, as payrolls are threatened. The 63,000-student Mobile County school district had to draw $18 million from its line of credit to make a recent payroll, said Lori Zirlott, the district comptroller. 
 The state superintendent of education, Joe Morton, said late last week, referring to school payrolls, ''I think everybody met it today.'' 
 ''Some had to move things around and make arrangements,'' Dr. Morton said. ''I think it's the beginning of a trend.'' 
 Mr. Main called the temporary 25 percent cut to local school districts a ''cash flow issue'' caused by the lack of leftover money from the previous fiscal year, and pointed out that the state schools budget had grown by about $2 billion over four years, to $6.4 billion. 
 Officials are having to dip into November revenues to make the October state payment of about $339 million to the districts. ''The trend is not looking good,'' Mr. Morton said. Spending cuts are possible, officials said -- a prospect that the struggling small school districts in a rural state dread. 
 ''We have some real successful programs that are in the initial stages, that if we have to do cuts it will be devastating,'' said Ginger East, superintendent of the 3,200-student Tallapoosa County school system, mentioning a handful of special reading and math courses. ''All of those will take large cuts if the state can't provide us with funding.'' Ms. East said the district had met its payroll thanks to a carefully tended surplus of $2.5 million built up over four years. 
 But these surpluses will not last long, officials warn. ''Fortunately some of the local districts have saved up reserve funds that they can now use in times like these,'' said Paul Hubbert, executive secretary of the Alabama Education Association, the state's influential teacher lobby. But ''it's a very short time that they can go to their own reserves,'' said Dr. Hubbert -- a matter of a few months, in some cases. 
 In the poorest sections of a poor state, the so-called Black Belt or old plantation-country counties across its midsection, margins are even tighter. ''We were able to make payroll because we've done drastic cutbacks in staffing and supplies over the last few years,'' said Rosie Shamburger, superintendent of the Wilcox County schools, pointing out that over half of her 2,100-student district's support personnel had been cut. Those cuts went to help build ''a little reserve,'' about $1.5 million, ''to meet the payroll, but I don't know how long we'll be able to do so,'' she said. 
 ''We're holding back funding in a lot of areas,'' Dr. Shamburger said. ''We're going to have to put off buying computers,'' and an automobile-service training course planned for next year would probably be cut as well. 
 Meanwhile, Dr. Morton, the state superintendent, was hoping that Alabama voters would pass a special measure on Tuesday's ballot that would allow the state to borrow nearly $200 million more -- up to $435 million -- for schools, against the state's multibillion-dollar natural gas trust fund. Some traditional conservative forces in the state, the Alabama Farmers Federation, for instance, have lined up against the measure. But the governor, education leaders and major newspapers are for it. 
 The declining tax revenues and possible spending cuts, Dr. Morton said, ''just points to the need to pass this.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL DISTRICTS (95%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (91%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (79%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (79%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); SALES TAX (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (74%); CASH FLOW (74%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (74%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (74%); TEXTBOOKS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INCOME TAX (73%); EXECUTIVES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008



179 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: Detroit Revives a Hotel and Some Hope

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
Late last month, when 700 people gathered to celebrate a $200 million restoration that transformed the long-shuttered Book Cadillac hotel into a showcase of luxury lodging, housing, dining and entertainment, the event seemed like a civic catharsis.
 Detroit, the nation's 11th-largest city, with about 910,000 residents, has been buffeted this year by the grim circumstances of the housing and auto industries; an unemployment rate that is about 9 percent, one of the worst of any major metropolitan area; and the extramarital missteps of its former mayor, Kwame M. Kilpatrick, who last week began a four-month jail sentence for perjury. The front pages of the two major newspapers sometimes read like cultural obituaries.
 The glittering opening, though, of the 84-year-old Westin Book Cadillac Detroit, once a stone gray shell stripped bare by hoarders and vandals, was seen by business leaders and residents as representing another side of the city -- its grit and determination. ''This is a testament to a partnership and a community that will not stay down,'' said Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm, who attended the gala and helped cut a gold ribbon reading ''We Love Detroit.'' 
 The difficult two-year project was a result of a partnership between the city, which was intent on saving a signature historic building at one of its most prominent downtown intersections, Washington Boulevard and Michigan Avenue, and John J. Ferchill, 66, chairman of the Ferchill Group, a Cleveland developer who earned a fortune undertaking historic restorations in other Midwestern cities. 
 Though reconstructing the old hotel's rooms and grand public spaces tested architects and contractors, the deciding factor was a financial scavenger hunt to find the money. Mr. Ferchill put $8 million of his own capital into the restored hotel, and cobbled together financing from 22 other sources. 
 Various city and state loan funds provide $46 million. State and federal tax credits account for $33 million. Brownfield tax credits account for $8.5 million. Roughly $103 million is privately financed, including a $44 million mortgage held by iStar Financial, and $28 million from a conservation easement purchased by the National City Community Development Corporation. ''That's just what you have to do to get something like this done,'' Mr. Ferchill said. ''You have to think of everything.''
 The result is a 33-story building with a restored Italian Renaissance-style exterior and a modern, well-lighted interior that makes ample use of dark wood and marble. The Book Cadillac has 453 hotel rooms, 64 condominiums that occupy the top eight floors, three ballrooms, three restaurants, an elegant bar, a health spa and a pool. The city built a $20 million 500-space parking structure. 
 ''There wasn't one part of this project that was easy,'' Mr. Ferchill said in an interview in the chic, elegantly appointed Motor Bar. ''Now that it's done, it feels good to return a piece of history to this city.''
 In fact, the Book Cadillac's opening reflects much of Detroit's story in the last nine decades. It was the world's tallest hotel at its opening in 1924, serving as a host for auto industry executives made wealthy by the city's surging manufacturing sector.
 The hotel survived the Depression and thrived during the city's boom years after World War II, when Detroit reached its peak population of nearly two million in the mid-1950s. But as jobs and residents moved from Detroit starting late in that decade, the hotel faltered under various owners. In 1984, it was closed and then ransacked. 
 When Mr. Ferchill took his first tour of the hotel, he said, much of the interior was so damaged it ''looked like the wreck of the Titanic -- only this building was not underwater.''
 The new Westin Book Cadillac Detroit, though, is seen as representing another Detroit story -- the relatively unheralded revival of the city's downtown as a place to live, do business and be entertained. 
 In September, for instance, the MotorCity Casino, one of three casinos here, completed a $300 million expansion and renovation. Last year, the Detroit Institute of Arts finished a $158.2 million restoration and expansion. In this decade alone, new baseball and football stadiums were completed for the Detroit Tigers ($300 million) and the Detroit Lions ($430 million).
 The city also constructed the $122.5 million Detroit School of the Arts. Some $220 million was spent to restore Orchestra Hall and build the Max M. Fisher Music Center, places where the Detroit Symphony performs. 
 Compuware, a software company, opened a $400 million headquarters in 2002. A year later, General Motors completed a $500 million remodeling of the Renaissance Center along the Detroit River for its headquarters. And dozens of smaller projects have transformed old warehouses into lofts, old buildings into offices, and surface parking lots into homes and offices. 
 Detroit's redevelopment also prompted the Ferchill Group to believe there would be a market for a high-end noncasino hotel and to take on the Book Cadillac project. ''People want to be in downtown Detroit,'' Mr. Ferchill said. ''There are amenities close to this hotel that a lot of Midwest cities don't have.''
 He acknowledges that the hotel's opening coincides with a deep downturn in the nation's economy. He said, though, that business has been strong. More than 15,000 hotel bookings have already been made, at prices of $200 to $300 a night. Two-thirds of the condominiums, which range in size from 1,400 to 2,100 square feet, have sold. Prices for the two- and three-bedroom units run from $300,000 to $1.4 million. The ballrooms and meeting spaces are mostly filled through mid-January, when the Detroit auto show is held, and 25 couples have booked weddings. 
 But the financial crisis is taking a toll in Detroit. Permit applications for other downtown construction have slowed, according to the Detroit Planning Department. A $150 million downtown mixed-use development known as Cadillac Centre has lost momentum.
 Even before the crisis, Mr. Ferchill said, he knew that taking on such a large project in Detroit was a risk. On a chilly evening in October, after the gala's ribbon-cutting ceremony, Mr. Ferchill expressed some of that stubbornness and gambler's instinct. ''When you spend $200 million,'' he said, ''you can do what you want to do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The reopened Westin Book Cadillac Detroit features the Motor Bar, above, three ballrooms, a pool and a spa.
 The renovation project was financed with public and private investments.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (85%); RESTAURANTS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); CITIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); SENTENCING (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (63%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (56%); JAIL SENTENCING (55%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (50%)

COMPANY: PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (63%)

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%)

PERSON: JENNIFER GRANHOLM (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008



180 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: Broadway's Rough Road Ahead

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
The second-act rendition of ''Let's Hang On,'' in ''Jersey Boys,'' might be Broadway's anthem at the moment. Nearly every show had its audience shrink last week, with 14 productions experiencing more than a 10 percent drop in ticket sales. So musicals and plays are trying to hang on until the holidays bring an influx of cheer-seeking visitors to New York, looking to be entertained. After the new year they will try to hang on again, through January and February, traditionally two of the industry's slowest months.
 ''Jersey Boys'' itself, the winner of the 2006 Tony Award for best musical, has so far proved hardy, along with a handful of other musicals, which include ''Wicked,'' ''Mamma Mia!'' and ''South Pacific.'' The long-running granddads on Broadway -- ''Chicago,'' ''Phantom of the Opera'' and ''The Lion King'' -- are also managing to keep at least three-quarters of their seats full (sometimes with the help of discounted tickets). 
 But that is not the case for other award-winning hits. Three musicals, ''Hairspray,'' ''Monty Python's Spamalot,'' and ''Spring Awakening,'' have already announced that they are closing in January. 
 A handful of others have been struggling to fill seats. This past week -- with Halloween falling on a Friday night and the New York City marathon on Sunday -- had an unusually large dip in attendance. Jason Robert Brown's musical about adolescent angst, ''13,'' and ''A Tale of Two Cities,'' which was ravaged by critics, filled fewer than half of their seats for the week that ended on Sunday. On Tuesday night, citing the economy, the producers of ''A Tale of Two Cities'' announced that the musical would close on Nov. 16.
 ''August: Osage County,'' this year's Tony winner for best play; the musical spoof ''Alfred Hitchcock's The 39 Steps''; the British farce ''Boeing-Boeing''; and the long-running musical ''Avenue Q'' did not rise much above the 50 percent mark, with the last two shows losing more than 17 percent of their audiences from the previous week. 
 Disney's ''Mary Poppins'' and ''The Little Mermaid,'' meanwhile, hovered around 60 percent of their capacity, although such family musicals are expected to pick up during the holiday season, and Disney's deep pockets mean that it has more of a cushion to keep shows afloat. (Mel Brooks' ''Young Frankenstein'' has declined to make its numbers available for more than a year now.)
 Straight plays traditionally tend to have a tougher time than musicals. A couple of limited engagements, like the Royal Court Theater's production of ''The Seagull'' with Kristin Scott Thomas (finishing on Dec. 21), and ''All My Sons,'' with Katie Holmes, John Lithgow, Patrick Wilson and Dianne Wiest (closing on Jan. 11), are still doing brisk business. But while ''Sons,'' a star-laden Arthur Miller production, is playing to nearly sold-out crowds, ''Equus,'' with Daniel Radcliffe and Richard Griffiths (which closes in early February), barely made it past the 60 percent mark last week. 
 The distressing figures bolstered the Broadway Cassandras who have been predicting that there will be dark theaters come spring. A couple of new musicals, including ''9 to 5: The Musical'' and ''Blithe Spirit,'' have already booked theaters. And Jane Fonda is returning to Broadway in the winter of 2009 to appear in Moises Kaufman's ''33 Variations,'' a drama about Beethoven's obsessive reworking of a rather pedestrian waltz that came to be known as the Diabelli Variations. Ms. Fonda will play a contemporary musicologist who is suffering from a terminal illness and trying to unlock the mystery behind Beethoven's obsession. 
 Other theaters designed for straight plays may have more trouble getting bookings. ''It's reasonable to assume there'll be a few empty theaters in the spring,'' said Emanuel Azenberg, a veteran Broadway producer who is planning to revive Neil Simon's ''Brighton Beach Memoirs'' and ''Broadway Bound'' next fall.
 Sometimes producers and theater owners turn to short-run shows when there's no long-term prospect in sight. Like holiday guests, limited engagements often make themselves at home on and around Broadway in November and December. Two nonholiday solo shows that have been in the works for a while include ''Liza's at the Palace,'' with Liza Minnelli, set for a run in December, before ''West Side Story'' moves into the Palace Theater in February. Then Will Ferrell's ''You're Welcome America: A Final Night with George W. Bush'' begins previews at the Cort Theater in January.
 Mr. Ferrell's show is a perfect fit for the season. It runs during Broadway's deadest period (January through mid-March), it has a built-in audience fan base, and it's cheap to stage. 
 ''One-person shows are a producer's dream if they work,'' said Rocco Landesman, president of Jujamcyn Theaters, which owns five Broadway theaters. ''They're very seductive. It's cheaper, and if you can fill the house, you can make a lot of money.'' 
 But he warned that limited engagements are not a viable long-term business model. ''A short run is preferable to no run,'' he explained, ''but you have to be concerned about the landscape when you have to keep filling in gaps because you have dark time.'' Jujamcyn has no short runs or solo shows planned at the moment, Mr. Landesman said. The company's St. James Theater is currently home to ''Gypsy,'' starring Patti LuPone. Last week the theater was about 60 percent full, but Mr. Landesman said he expected the show to stay put at least through the end of Ms. LuPone's contract in March. 
 Gerald Schoenfeld, chairman of the Shubert Organization, the largest landlord on Broadway, agreed that short runs were an uncertain stop-gap measure between the opening of one show and another's closing.
 ''They're good if they fit, they're good if they have a sure-fire star,'' like Billy Crystal, who won a Tony in 2005 in the newly minted special theatrical event category, Mr. Schoenfeld said, but otherwise, ''it's an uncertain proposition.''
 ''39 Steps'' is scheduled to move out of the Cort to make room for Mr. Ferrell and into the Helen Hayes on Jan. 20, where the holiday run of ''Slava's Snowshow'' is soon to take up residence. 
 At the Nederlander-owned Marquis Theater, ''The Soul of Shaolin,'' a martial arts extravaganza from China, will move in on Jan. 13 for a brief run, after ''Irving Berlin's White Christmas,'' based on the 1954 classic film, moves out. ''Shaolin'' was performed at the 2008 Beijing Olympics. It will stay at the Marquis until Jan. 31. ''Shaolin'' is part of a new partnership between the Nederlanders and the Eastern Shanghai Cultural Film and Television Group that is called China on Broadway. The idea is to produce theatrical projects that can play on Broadway and travel around the world. 
 At the moment Mr. Landesman and Mr. Schoenfeld, at least publicly, are striking an optimistic tone. ''Right now it's clogged,'' Mr. Schoenfeld said of Broadway. ''There's no shortage of shows.'' Indeed, there are more shows than there are available theaters.
 ''I feel pretty good,'' Mr. Landesman said. ''We're always worried that could change and possibly change quickly. But right now, I'm cautiously optimistic, and I'm hopeful we'll ride this out.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 6, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about concerns on Broadway over slumping ticket sales referred incorrectly to two productions. ''Alfred Hitchcock's The 39 Steps,'' at the Cort Theater, and a revival of ''Blithe Spirit'' that is to start previews in late February at the Shubert Theater, are not musicals.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Some theaters in the Times Square neighborhood. Nearly every theater on Broadway experienced a dip in ticket sales last week.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
EQUUS: The show, which stars Daniel Radcliffe, left, and Lorenzo Pisoni, barely made it past the 60 percent mark last week.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES): 13: This musical, advertised on a billboard above, filled fewer than half its seats for the week ending on Sunday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 A TALE OF TWO CITIES: This musical, which opened last month to poor reviews, also showed a dip in attendance this past week.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (88%); TICKET SALES (77%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (76%); HALLOWEEN (71%); MARATHONS (68%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (51%); WALT DISNEY CO (51%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (51%); BAB (BRU) (51%); BA (NYSE) (51%); DIS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (51%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (51%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (51%)

PERSON: DANIEL RADCLIFFE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008



181 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Economy Shifts, and the Ethanol Industry Reels

BYLINE: By KATE GALBRAITH

 BODY:
As producers of ethanol navigate a triple whammy of falling prices for their product, credit woes and volatile costs for the corn from which ethanol is made, an economic version of ''Survivor'' is playing out in the industry.
 Last week, VeraSun, one of the nation's largest ethanol producers, announced that it had filed for bankruptcy protection after its bets on the price of corn turned out to be wrong -- and costly. 
 Several other small producers have filed for bankruptcy this year, and construction plans for several Midwestern ethanol plants have been postponed or shelved. Shares in the handful of publicly owned ethanol companies have mostly been slumping all year. Aventine Renewable Energy and Pacific Ethanol, for instance, have both lost more than 80 percent of their value since the beginning of the year.
 While producers pin their hopes on rising government mandates for the use of ethanol, analysts who follow the industry voice concerns that more companies could go under. They expect a wave of consolidation to sweep the ethanol business once the credit crisis eases.
 Ian Horowitz, an analyst with Soleil Securities, said that he was particularly worried about BioFuel Energy, an ethanol maker. The company, based in Denver, is low on cash and has had problems similar to VeraSun's, losing $46 million when commodity-price hedges turned out badly.
 ''Like the airlines, sometimes one goes in, the others run to go in, too,'' said Mr. Horowitz, speaking of bankruptcy protection.
 BioFuel Energy's shares have fallen to 57 cents, from a high of $7.75 in January. The company did not respond to requests for comment.
 Archer Daniels Midland, the agribusiness giant that is one of the largest ethanol producers, reported higher overall profits on Tuesday -- but recorded a sharp drop in operating profit for its corn processing unit, which includes ethanol production. The company, which also announced a new $370 million investment in Brazilian ethanol made from sugar cane, is far more diversified than its smaller competitors who are focused on ethanol.
 Nowadays, gasoline sold at many stations nationwide includes about 10 percent ethanol, with a few stations in the Midwest selling an 85 percent ethanol blend. Many politicians have embraced ethanol as a way to court farmers and because it is produced domestically. Most research suggests that corn ethanol offers modest benefits in lowering emissions of climate-altering greenhouse gases, though production of ethanol has contributed to rising food prices.
 The federal government began mandating the use of ethanol in a 2005 energy bill, setting off a building boom in ethanol plants. A 2007 energy bill substantially raised the quotas, which will require 10.5 billion gallons of ethanol next year and 12 billion gallons in 2010. 
 Energized by strong government support and a profitable year in 2006, the industry redoubled its building spree. High gasoline prices also encouraged refiners to use more of the cheaper ethanol over the past year. In August, nearly 50 percent more ethanol was produced than a year earlier, and many more plants were on the drawing boards.
 But then ethanol companies got a rude shock: corn prices hit record highs this summer after the Midwestern floods. That made ethanol more expensive to produce. Fearing that prices would go even higher, some producers -- including VeraSun, BioFuel Energy and Glacial Lakes Energy, a South Dakota farmers cooperative -- entered into contracts intended to protect them if corn prices rose.
 ''We were hearing $8, $9, $10'' a bushel, said Jim Seurer, the interim chief executive of Glacial Lakes. ''We sought protection from that.''
 But after the fields dried and it became clear the nation would have a good corn harvest, the market turned again. Companies that had locked in around $7 and above were stuck watching corn fall to $4 a bushel.
 In a statement last month, Mr. Seurer's company reported ''significant margin and hedging losses due to the sharp downturn in the price of corn.''
 Fewer than 10 of the country's ethanol plants have stopped operating, according to Matt Hartwig, a spokesman for the Renewable Fuels Association, an industry group. But construction times have slowed and some plants in the planning stage have been halted.
 Falling ethanol prices have compounded the squeeze on producers. These roughly track gasoline prices, and are down by nearly 40 percent since June, despite a recent uptick.
 On top of all that came the credit freeze, which hurt companies that needed operating loans. With companies' share prices falling, it became difficult to raise investment capital, too. VeraSun, for example, sought to issue 20 million shares to raise money, but that failed and it was forced to file for bankruptcy protection.
 A few months ago Glacial Lakes, the South Dakota cooperative, failed in its efforts to obtain financing from a group of banks, including some Wall Street lenders, Mr. Seurer said. It is asking its members -- many of them farmers -- for $11.3 million more to cover operational costs.
 Ethanol ''has been hit much harder than most other industries,'' said Kevin Calabrese, an analyst at Argus Research, citing the volatility in corn and natural gas prices, the two main inputs for making ethanol.
 The credit crisis will also prevent consolidation that otherwise would be expected in a hobbled industry, experts say. 
 ''The industry should be consolidated -- I think everybody believes that,'' said Mr. Horowitz of Soleil. ''But who is going to finance anything right now, let alone a very low-margin business that doesn't look like it's going to get better in the near term?''
 Some are more optimistic, in part because of lower corn prices.
 ''The future of the industry looks very bright,'' said Ronald H. Miller, president and chief executive of Aventine, citing the rising federal quotas for producing ethanol.
 But he characterized the current environment as ''choppy.'' Aventine lost about $30 million earlier this year on certain securities, and recently delayed construction on a Nebraska plant to stretch its cash.
 VeraSun, whose 14 operational plants account for 13 percent of the nation's ethanol production capacity, announced on Tuesday that it was indefinitely delaying construction of a new plant in Minnesota, its second plant in that state to be delayed. VeraSun hopes to emerge from bankruptcy as an intact company, but it is possible the company will be sold off in pieces.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: VeraSun, a large ethanol producer, filed for bankruptcy protection last week.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK STEIL/MINNESOTA PUBLIC RADIO, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 An Aventine Renewable Energy plant in Pekin, Ill. The company has delayed construction of a plant in Nebraska.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ADAM GERIK/PEORIA JOURNAL STAR, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. B7) CHART: Price Reversal: Ethanol, now blended with much gasoline sold nationally, has had wide price swings this year. Producers have struggled to navigate volatile prices for corn, which it is made from, and the credit crisis.(Source: Bloomberg) Chart details line graph. (pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHANOL (95%); ALCOHOLS (94%); BIOFUELS (92%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); BIOMASS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (87%); AGRICULTURE (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); GASOLINE (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); EMISSIONS (74%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (74%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (72%); AGRICULTURE CONSOLIDATION (72%); GREENHOUSE GASES (71%); GASOLINE MARKETS (70%)

COMPANY: ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (91%); PACIFIC ETHANOL INC (56%)

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (91%); PEIX (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (91%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (91%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (91%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (91%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (91%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (91%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (91%); NAICS325193 ETHYL ALCOHOL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PEORIA, IL, USA (59%) MIDWEST USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008



182 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: Surprises in a Closer Look at Credit-Default Swaps

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
A window into the vast, murky world of credit-default swaps opened on Tuesday -- and the view was a bit surprising.
 The market for the instruments, which have played a significant role in the financial crisis, seems to be smaller than many analysts believed. And countries, not just companies, are often the subject of contracts that are used to protect investors against losses from defaults or simply to make bearish bets. 
 That, anyway, is the impression given by a report released by the Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation that ostensibly provides the most data yet on this market. But the report does not shed any new light on which entities have sold protection through swaps and whether they have enough capital to meet their obligations, a crucial concern for policy makers.
 The depository corporation, which clears swaps and other financial transactions, said that it had cleared swaps providing coverage on $33.6 trillion in debt. In other words, investors have bought (or sold) protection on bonds and other debt totaling that much, an amount that is slightly greater than the $30.8 trillion of American bonds outstanding. 
 Last month, the International Swaps and Derivatives Association estimated that nearly $47 trillion in swaps were outstanding as of June. That number might include transactions not cleared by the depository corporation.
 The most default swaps have been written on the countries of Turkey, Italy, Brazil and Russia, according to the new data. They were followed by GMAC, the auto finance company that is partly owned by General Motors. Others in the top 10 include Merrill Lynch, Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, General Electric Capital and Countrywide Home Loans. But that ranking does not account for contracts written on multiple units of the same companies. 
 In a credit-default swap, a buyer of protection pays an insurance premium to a seller who agrees to cover any lost interest or principal on bonds or loans issued by companies, countries or other organizations. The buyers and sellers are typically securities firms, hedge funds, banks and insurance companies.
 Policy makers have been unnerved by the rise of the market because they are worried that sellers of protection may not have enough reserves to pay future claims and that default by one party could lead to a cascade of failures throughout the financial system. That fear led the Federal Reserve to extend an $85 billion bridge loan to the American International Group and prompted the Fed to arrange a sale of Bear Stearns to JPMorgan Chase. Both A.I.G. and Bear Stearns had bought and sold billions in swaps.
 Industry officials, however, have argued that while the total amount of credit-default swaps appears large, many of the contracts offset one another. Many players in the market hedged their positions so if they had bought protection in one transaction they would sell it in another. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SWAP TRANSACTIONS (92%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INSURANCE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CLEARING OPERATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (68%); RANKINGS (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); DEPOSITORY TRUST & CLEARING CORP (71%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (62%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (51%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); AIG (NYSE) (62%); 8685 (TSE) (62%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008



183 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 436 words

 BODY:
WARNING SIGNS Some respected finance experts pointed to the dangers of mortgage-backed securities years ago, but the mood on Wall Street was to keep chasing profits. 
 ELECTION DAY RALLY Wall Street investors brushed off more weak economic data, buying stocks and propelling the Dow Jones industrials up 300 points to its highest close in four weeks. [B1.] 
 AN INDUSTRY REELS Several ethanol producers have filed for bankruptcy this year, and analysts who follow the industry are concerned that more companies could go under. [B1.]
 CONTROLLING THE MESSAGE Blogging about staff cuts is prevalent in Silicon Valley, and some experts say it is only a matter of time before other companies will blog about painful news. [B1.]
 POCKET PROJECTOR The Optoma Pico Projector is about the size of a cellphone and can produce an astonishingly bright, clear, vivid video or still image. State of the Art: David Pogue. [B1.]
 OPEN AIRWAVES Federal regulators set aside a disputed slice of the radio spectrum for public use, hoping it would lead to low-cost, high-speed Internet access. [B1.]
 DREAMLINER DELAYED Boeing said the first flight of its long-delayed 787 jetliner had been postponed because of an eight-week strike by union workers. [B3.]
 PUBLICATION SHIFT U.S. News & World Report, the magazine that planned to cut back to biweekly from weekly publication, now plans to become a monthly. [B3.]
 BILLBOARD MAKEOVER CBS Outdoor has installed more than 100 digital advertising screens for the chic stores like Louis Vuitton and Tiffany at a shopping center in London. Advertising. [B3.]
 SHINING A NEW LIGHT A report from the company that clears credit default swaps and other financial transactions provided a look into the murky market for the instruments. [B5.]
 GLOBAL FINANCE The French finance minister, Christine Lagarde, below, said a proposal on how to address the global crisis would be altered after European Union governments objected to the deal, suggesting a slower, more coordinated process was needed. [B6.]
 GLOOMY OUTLOOK Two struggling banks in Europe, UBS and the Royal Bank of Scotland, warned of financial deterioration for the rest of the year. [B6.]
 The Swiss Reinsurance Company swung to a third-quarter loss on steep asset charges and high catastrophe claims. [B6.]
 ANTITRUST CONCERNS European Union regulators objected to a hostile takeover bid from BHP Billiton for a rival, Rio Tinto, that would create the world's largest iron ore miner. [B9.]
 COST SAVINGS After years of paying rising rents in Manhattan, some companies have decided to search for cheaper office space in Brooklyn. [B9.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONFERROUS METAL PRODUCTION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (85%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); BANK FAILURES (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (75%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (73%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (73%); STRIKES (72%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (71%); ALCOHOLS (71%); INTERNET & WWW (67%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); RETAILERS (64%); MINES & MINING (64%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (62%); REINSURANCE (60%); ETHANOL (56%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%); IRON MINING (50%)

COMPANY: BHP BILLITON PLC (82%); U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (67%); LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (66%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (63%); CORETRONIC CORP (56%); BOEING CO (55%); CBS OUTDOOR INC (54%); SCHWEIZERISCHEN RUECKVERSICHERUNGS-GESELLSCHAFT AG (SWISS RE) (52%); RIO TINTO GROUP (51%)

TICKER: BLT (LSE) (82%); BIBLT (JSE) (82%); BBL (NYSE) (82%); MC (PAR) (66%); LVMH (BIT) (66%); RBS (NYSE) (63%); RBS (LSE) (63%); RBS (AMS) (63%); BOE (LSE) (55%); BAB (BRU) (55%); BA (NYSE) (55%); SREN (SWX) (52%); RIOS (BRU) (51%); RIO (NYSE) (51%); RIO (LSE) (51%); RIO (ASX) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (82%); NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (82%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (82%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (82%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (82%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (67%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (66%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (66%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3575 COMPUTER TERMINALS (56%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (55%); NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (54%); SIC7312 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SERVICES (54%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (52%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (51%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (51%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (51%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE LAGARDE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008



184 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM.; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 780 words

BYLINE: By MARTIN HUTCHINSON

 BODY:
To Treat the Fed As Volcker Did
 The Federal Reserve's track record over its 95 years is not particularly distinguished. Indeed, one of its few moments of glory came during the 1979-87 chairmanship of Paul Volcker. During his tenure, the Fed succeeded in bringing inflation under control, providing a sound store of value for the United States economy. The president-elect should change the Fed's structure and mandate it to take aim only at inflation, so as to force its future chiefs to act more like Mr. Volcker. 
 Other than the Volcker years, the central bank has largely lurched from one mistake to another. After a loose-money decade in the 1920s, it let the nation's money supply collapse in 1930-32, a proximate cause of the Depression. Later, it overexpanded the money supply in 1965-79, leading to soaring inflation. 
 After 1995, the chairmen, Alan Greenspan and now Ben Bernanke, made the same mistake, expanding the money supply far faster than the rate of United States economic growth. This caused bubbles in stocks, real estate and commodities for which the world is now paying the price. The fear of recession may outweigh the fear of inflation right now. But the specter of deflation has arisen because of the collapse of bubbles originally inflated by overly loose monetary policy.
 The Fed's poor performance is no accident. Its founders' fear of an over-mighty central bank caused them to create an excessively decentralized structure that hampered decision-making. Worse, since the Employment Act of 1946, as revised by the Humphrey-Hawkins Act of 1978, the Fed has had a dual -- and structurally contradictory -- mandate: fight inflation and preserve full employment.
 Mr. Volcker succeeded in reining in monetary policy only because he was given a free hand after his predecessor, G. William Miller, let inflation run wild. It rose to double digits. The nation was wise to give that power to a man of sound views and steely determination. Mr. Volcker raised interest rates sharply in his ''October massacre'' of 1979. Inflation fell to 3.2 percent by 1983, from 13.3 percent in 1979 -- at the cost of a deep recession and considerable political unpopularity.
 The president-elect should change the Fed's legal structure and mandate so that it will maintain monetary stability, even if a person of Mr. Volcker's stature is not running it. The objective should be to force even the feeblest political appointee to keep broad monetary growth in line with the growth of the economy. That means raising interest rates as high as necessary to keep consumer and asset price inflation low. 
 How can the new occupant of the White House insert new backbone into central bankers? Start with the way the Fed works. The 1913 Federal Reserve Act gave the central bank a decision-making group in Washington but also saddled it with 12 regional banks, all of which at various points have their say. That makes it hard for the decentralized institution to make decisions -- but easy for politicians to influence monetary policy by leaning on the chairman.
 The West German Bundesbank Act of 1958 -- pushed through by Konrad Adenauer, the disciplinarian chancellor, in a country with vivid memories of the Weimar Republic's hyperinflation in 1923 -- provides a better model. The Bundesbank -- Germany's former central bank -- was controlled collectively by the German lander (the equivalent of states in America), a dispersion of power that made political meddling by any one entity almost impossible. But it was also a single entity, allowing it to be managed efficiently. 
 A new Fed statute might give collective control to the states, making the Fed more independent. Also, personal testimony to Congress by the Fed chairman should be the exception, not the rule. Federal politicians should normally rely on the written Fed reports used by the financial system.
 The Bundesbank had a single overriding objective: to achieve and maintain stability in the general price level. A similar goal would help the Fed succeed in its second job as the country's principal bank regulator, since monetary stability -- and the minimization of bubbles in asset prices -- would lead to more stability in the financial system. 
 With protection from political meddling, the Fed would find it easier to fulfill the new mandate, however unpopular the necessary steps might be. Since its anti-inflation goal would take away its ability to create money arbitrarily, the Fed could not blow financial bubbles. Even the most inflationist chairman would find his institution Volckerized.
 MARTIN HUTCHINSON
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: While chairman of the Federal Reserve, Paul Volcker helped curb inflation.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARKO GEORGIEV/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MONEY SUPPLY (90%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); DEFLATION (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HOME PRICES (76%); GREAT DEPRESSION (74%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008



185 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: UBS and Royal Bank of Scotland Issue Gloomy Outlooks for Balance of Year

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER and DAVID JOLLY; Julia Werdigier reported from London and David Jolly from Paris.

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
UBS and Royal Bank of Scotland, two European banks that tapped government bailout funds, warned Tuesday of further deterioration in market conditions in the fourth quarter. 
 UBS, the Swiss bank that suffered one of the biggest losses from the credit turmoil, reported a profit in the third quarter compared with a loss a year earlier but warned that the outlook for the rest of the year was gloomy as customers continued to withdraw funds from its wealth management unit.
 ''Since the beginning of the fourth quarter, we have seen many difficult conditions across equity, credit and money markets worldwide,'' UBS said in a statement. ''We expect that such conditions will continue to affect our clients' assets and therefore our fee-earning business.'' 
 UBS is trying to halt redemptions at its wealth management unit, one of its most crucial businesses, but clients remained concerned about the stability of the bank and poor returns on their investments, while some withdrew money to pay debt. 
 The bank, based in Zurich, had a profit of 296 million Swiss francs, or $252 million, compared with a year-earlier loss of 858 million francs. Operating income fell 38 percent, to 5.6 billion francs. Profit at the wealth management and business banking unit fell 21 percent, to 1.86 billion francs. The results were in line with expectations, as the bank had given investors an update on Oct. 16. The shares rose 3.8 percent in Zurich on Tuesday but were still down 58 percent for the year.
 John Cryan, who took over as chief financial officer earlier this year, said that UBS would continue to reduce costs, especially in personnel expenses, and that he did not yet ''feel comfortable'' with the investment banking business. It is not yet ''at the right scale to operate most effectively given the current economic climate,'' Mr. Cryan said on a conference call. ''You should expect that we will continue to shrink its balance sheet somewhat further.'' 
 UBS's reputation as one of the world's most conservative banks was left in tatters after its bets on the mortgage securities market in the United States went spectacularly wrong and left it with more than $48 billion of write-downs and losses. The bank said Tuesday that there had been some ''encouraging signs'' that clients were moving investments back to UBS. 
 The Swiss government agreed last month to help UBS split off as much as $60 billion of risky assets related to the subprime mortgage market into a separate government-backed fund. It will buy 6 billion francs of bonds that will be converted into UBS shares, giving the government a minority stake in the bank.
 The other bank, Royal Bank of Scotland, received funds from the British government in exchange for preference shares, which the government hopes will bring high returns for taxpayers once the markets turn around. 
 But on Tuesday, Royal Bank of Scotland said loan defaults increased as the downturn gathered steam and assets linked to the collapse of Lehman Brothers and Iceland's major banks resulted in $:1 billion ($1.6 billion) in write-downs in October.
 ''The current trading is as gloomy as expected and the fourth quarter isn't getting any better,'' said Mike Trippet, an analyst at Oriel Securities in London. ''They really have to clear the decks because the investment story for these shares just isn't there this year.''
 Stephen Hester, who will take over as chief executive later this month, is under pressure to restore dividend payments at the bank, whose buying spree included the purchase of parts of ABN Amro at the height of the market.
 Royal Bank of Scotland abandoned dividend payments as part of the government bailout package, but Mr. Hester said he planned to resume them in 2010. Britain's government underwrote about $:20 billion of Royal Bank of Scotland stock, which the bank is trying to raise from shareholders later this year, and could end up owning as much as 60 percent of the bank. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (77%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (76%); PREFERRED STOCK (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (60%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (93%); UBS AG (92%)

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (93%); RBS (LSE) (93%); RBS (AMS) (93%); UBSN (SWX) (92%); UBS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ZURICH (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) SWITZERLAND (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008



186 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: The Election: An American Tableau

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 The 2008 campaign has been an unprecedented campaign in one of the most unprecedented economic and political times our country has been through. 
 The changed paradigm of this election could largely be seen on the faces of voters as I stood to exercise my right to vote.
 Even when I rode on the crowded subway on Tuesday, a part of my daily commute to Manhattan for work, I could sense that many fellow passengers were kind of reveling, having fulfilled their fundamental right of voting, and like me seemed to be pretty much optimistic about the profound change most of us anticipate to happen within the next 24 hours or so. 
 I hope that Wednesday will be an extraordinary day when America wakes up to embrace history in the making and a new beginning of real change for good that will not only uplift the lives of average Americans but will also transcend our borders and oceans to make a lasting and positive impact on the growth and the development of the global community with America in the forefront.
 Atul M. Karnik Woodside, Queens, Nov. 4, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I just returned from my local polling place in Manhattan, where my neighbors and I spent 80 minutes waiting to vote. At the head of the line was a surly employee of the Board of Elections, still working on her mastery of the alphabet.
 Whatever happened to the election reforms and supposed investments in modern technology that followed the Florida debacle of 2000? Making voters wait on long lines amounts to a disenfranchising poll tax, paid in time instead of money, and unconstitutional for the last 40 years.
 Edward Koral New York, Nov. 4, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Once again, many people working the polling places have disappointed and infuriated those voters patiently standing in line. 
 Year after year, problems with the personnel and the machines increase. Incompetence is the order of the day. Not knowing what to do, much less knowing the alphabet to find a name in the voting register has led to long lines. 
 A literacy test should be given to all prospective workers who staff these bastions of democracy. Are these people sufficiently and thoroughly trained beforehand? If not, why not? How do these people get into a position that can affect the future of the country? 
 ''Country first, patronage last'' should and must be the order of the day. 
 Frank DiStefano Long Island City, Queens, Nov. 4, 2008
 To the Editor:
 In ''A Date With Scarcity'' (column, Nov. 4), David Brooks poses the question of how a generation will pivot in a time of change.
 Barack Obama's generation has understood the significance of riches in different ways. It is materialist, yet aware of the importance of quality of life; it is activist, yet moralist. 
 As a member of this younger generation, I suggest a spiritual turn. True to type, it is squarely neo-traditional. Material wealth is not a bad metaphor for spiritual wealth: the concrete abundance of the Long Boom has attuned us to the cosmic abundance of the echoing Big Bang.
 Without clarity forged in loss, wealth alone, for all its magnificence, wears out of value. 
 Maybe our ''date with scarcity'' is an opportunity better to see the most valuable possessions we have and want to keep, and the things of lesser value we have and don't need, in this universe of riches.
 John Valliere Madison, Wis., Nov. 4, 2008
 To the Editor: 
 David Brooks worries for the class of ''smart young liberals'' who were ''raised in prosperity, favored in genetics'' because we are unprepared for the challenge of scarcity. 
 Maybe, for some of the luckier ones among us, the financial kind is unfamiliar. But scarcity of hope, of civic inspiration, of faith in an American ideal that transcends financial self-interest? In these we are all too well schooled.
 Rather than Barack Obama and his upscale, educated-class post-boomer cohort, it is the Republicans led by John McCain and Sarah Palin who have failed to recognize or make a plan for the real scarcity that has threatened to undermine America and its dream: the invisible kind, in the soul.
 Jennifer D. Marshall Windermere, Fla., Nov. 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008



187 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: Strongest Election Day Stock Rally In 24 Years

BYLINE: By SHARON OTTERMAN; David Jolly, Bettina Wassener and Vikas Bajaj contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Wall Street built on recent gains Tuesday as reduced volatility and easing in the credit markets helped give stocks their strongest Election Day rally in 24 years.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed above 1,000 for the first time since Oct. 13, gaining 4.08 percent, and the Nasdaq composite index had its sixth consecutive daily rise.
At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average was up 3.28 percent, or 305.45 points, to 9,625.28. The broader S. & P. index gained 39.45 points, to 1,005.75, and the Nasdaq rose 3.12 percent, or 53.79 points, to 1,780.12. 
Crude oil settled at $70.53 a barrel, up $6.62 in New York trading on speculation that the world's largest oil exporter, Saudi Arabia, had cut supplies to some buyers.
Historically, Wall Street has enjoyed a bounce in the fourth quarter after a presidential election as investors breathe a sigh of relief that the long election cycle, with its accompanying uncertainty, has ended. Some analysts said investors seemed to be trying to get a jump on the expected rally by buying on Election Day.
''We don't know if it's the end of the bear market yet, but it looks as though the bear has taken a nap,'' said Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at Standard & Poor's equity research. ''So investors are thinking, let's enjoy a bit of a relief, both from the market's lows and from the endless pre-election rhetoric.''
Other analysts said they believed the election had only a peripheral effect on the market, as there had been no major surprises. More important to the rally, they said, was a continuing round of coordinated interest rate cuts worldwide, a further thaw in the credit markets and the increasing resiliency of the markets to the daily drumbeat of bad economic news. The extreme volatility of recent weeks has calmed, though trading volume remained light.
The Chicago Board Options Exchange's volatility index dipped below 50 for the first time since Oct. 14. The Dow Jones industrial average has rallied 18 percent since the close on Oct. 27, including the 10.9 percent gain on Oct. 28.
''Investors are starting to look ahead of some of these numbers to 2009, and they are starting to see a bit of recovery,'' said Ryan Larson, head equity trader at Voyageur Asset Management. ''Some of the volatility is coming out of the marketplace.''
The markets showed little reaction as the government reported that new orders for manufactured goods in September dropped $11.2 billion, or 2.5 percent, to $432 billion, a larger-than-expected decline. That came after a 4.3 percent decrease in August.
It was the second negative manufacturing report in two days. On Monday, the Institute for Supply Management's index of manufacturing activity in the United States fell to 38.9 in October, from 43.5 in September, the worst reading since September 1982. The markets also seemed to take that news in stride, spending the day trading in a narrow range before eventually ending the day flat.
The rally that unfolded on Wall Street was broad-based. All industry sectors in the S.& P. index rose, led by energy stocks. Among the 30 blue-chip stocks that make up the Dow, General Electric, Verizon Communications and Caterpillar were among the strongest performers.
The stock exchange first opened for trading on Election Day in 1984. That year, the Dow rose 1.2 percent, a gain not topped since, as Ronald Reagan was re-elected.
Shares of MasterCard, the world's second-biggest credit card company after Visa, jumped 18 percent, to $170.24, after the company said that higher overseas revenue had helped bolster profit.
Still, the company warned that the economic slowdown would affect profit in the near term.
Building on a trend from the last several days, the credit markets eased further on Tuesday, with interbank and corporate borrowing rates declining significantly. The London interbank offered rate, or Libor, a benchmark that banks charge one another, fell to 0.375 percent.
The Treasury's 10-year bill rose 1 17/32, to 102 7/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was 3.72 percent, down from 3.91 percent late Monday.
Stock markets were also higher in Europe and Asia. The Dow Jones Euro Stoxx 50 index, a barometer of euro zone blue chips, rose 5.56 percent, while the FTSE 100 index in London jumped 4.42 percent. The CAC 40 in Paris gained 4.62 percent, and the DAX in Frankfurt was up 5 percent.
In Tokyo, the Nikkei 225 stock index rose 2.8 percent on Wednesday morning, buoyed by a softer yen and the rally in the American markets.
In Sydney, the S.& P./ASX 200 index was 1.9 percent higher on Wednesday morning. The Australian central bank surprised the markets on Tuesday with a larger-than-expected interest rate cut. The bank cut its main interest rate target by three-quarters of a percentage point, to 5.25 percent, rather than by the half-point that had been widely expected.
Following are the results of Tuesday's Treasury auction of 238-day cash management bills and four-week bills:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Trading was brisk Tuesday on the New York Stock Exchange. The Standard & Poor's index closed above 1,000 for the first time since Oct. 13, and the Dow industrials jumped 305 points.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEREMY BALES/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(pg. B6) CHARTS: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
 THE FAVORITES (pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); ELECTIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); EQUITY RESEARCH (72%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: CBOE HOLDINGS INC (63%); VOYAGEUR ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (51%)

TICKER: CBOE (NASDAQ) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (63%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (63%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (51%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011



188 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1542 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street's Extreme Sport

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
Today's economic turmoil, it seems, is an implicit indictment of the arcane field of financial engineering -- a blend of mathematics, statistics and computing. Its practitioners devised not only the exotic, mortgage-backed securities that proved so troublesome, but also the mathematical models of risk that suggested these securities were safe.
 What happened? 
 The models, according to finance experts and economists, did fail to keep pace with the explosive growth in complex securities, the resulting intricate web of risk and the dimensions of the danger. 
 But the larger failure, they say, was human -- in how the risk models were applied, understood and managed. Some respected quantitative finance analysts, or quants, as financial engineers are known, had begun pointing to warning signs years ago. But while markets were booming, the incentives on Wall Street were to keep chasing profits by trading more and more sophisticated securities, piling on more debt and making larger and larger bets.
 ''Innovation can be a dangerous game,'' said Andrew W. Lo, an economist and professor of finance at the Sloan School of Management of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ''The technology got ahead of our ability to use it in responsible ways.''
 That out-of-control innovation is reflected in the growth of securities intended to spread risk widely through the use of financial instruments called derivatives. Credit-default swaps, for example, were originally created to insure blue-chip bond investors against the risk of default. In recent years, these swap contracts have been used to insure all manner of instruments, including pools of subprime mortgage securities.
 These swaps are contracts between two investors -- typically banks, hedge funds and other institutions -- and they are not traded on exchanges. The face value of the credit-default market has soared to an estimated $55 trillion. 
 Credit-default swaps, though intended to spread risk, have magnified the financial crisis because the market is unregulated, obscure and brimming with counterparty risk (that is, the risk that one embattled bank or firm will not be able to meet its payment obligations, and that trading with it will seize up).
 The market for credit-default swaps has been at the center of the recent Wall Street banking failures and rescues, and these instruments embody the kinds of risks not easily captured in math formulas.
 ''Complexity, transparency, liquidity and leverage have all played a huge role in this crisis,'' said Leslie Rahl, president of Capital Market Risk Advisors, a risk-management consulting firm. ''And these are things that are not generally modeled as a quantifiable risk.''
 Math, statistics and computer modeling, it seems, also fell short in calibrating the lending risk on individual mortgage loans. In recent years, the securitization of the mortgage market, with loans sold off and mixed into large pools of mortgage securities, has prompted lenders to move increasingly to automated underwriting systems, relying mainly on computerized credit-scoring models instead of human judgment. 
 So lenders had scant incentive to spend much time scrutinizing the creditworthiness of individual borrowers. ''If the incentives and the systems change, the hard data can mean less than it did or something else than it did,'' said Raghuram G. Rajan, a professor at the University of Chicago. ''The danger is that the modeling becomes too mechanical.''
 Mr. Rajan, a former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, points to a new paper co-authored by a University of Chicago colleague, Amit Seru, ''The Failure of Models That Predict Failure,'' which looked at securitized subprime loans issued from 1997-2006. Their research concluded that the quantitative methods underestimated defaults for subprime borrowers in what the paper called ''a systematic failure of default models.''
 A recent paper by four Federal Reserve economists, ''Making Sense of the Subprime Crisis,'' found another cause. They surveyed the published research reports by Wall Street analysts and economists, and asked why the Wall Street experts failed to foresee the surge in subprime foreclosures in 2007 and 2008. The Fed economists concluded that the risk models used by Wall Street analysts correctly predicted that a drop in real estate prices of 10 or 20 percent would imperil the market for subprime mortgage-backed securities. But the analysts themselves assigned a very low probability to that happening.
 The miss by Wall Street analysts shows how models can be precise out to several decimal places, and yet be totally off base. The analysts, according to the Fed paper, doggedly clung to the optimists' mantra that nominal housing prices in the United States had not declined in decades -- even though house prices did fall nationally, adjusted for inflation, in the 1970s, and there are many sizable regional declines over the years. 
 Besides, the formation of a housing bubble was well under way. Until 2003, prices moved in line with employment, incomes and migration patterns, but then they departed from the economic fundamentals.
 The Wall Street models, said Paul S. Willen, an economist at the Federal Reserve in Boston, included a lot of wishful thinking about house prices. But, he added, it is also true that asset price trends are difficult to predict. ''The price of an asset, like a house or a stock, reflects not only your beliefs about the future, but you're also betting on other people's beliefs,'' he observed. ''It's these hierarchies of beliefs -- these behavioral factors -- that are so hard to model.''
 Indeed, the behavioral uncertainty added to the escalating complexity of financial markets help explain the failure in risk management. The quantitative models typically have their origins in academia and often the physical sciences. In academia, the focus is on problems that can be solved, proved and published -- not messy, intractable challenges. In science, the models derive from particle flows in a liquid or a gas, which conform to the neat, crisp laws of physics.
 Not so in financial modeling. Emanuel Derman is a physicist who became a managing director at Goldman Sachs, a quant whose name is on a few financial models and author of ''My Life as a Quant -- Reflections on Physics and Finance'' (Wiley, 2004). In a paper that will be published next year in a professional journal, Mr. Derman writes, ''To confuse the model with the world is to embrace a future disaster driven by the belief that humans obey mathematical rules.''
 Yet blaming the models for their shortcomings, he said in an interview, seems misguided. ''The models were more a tool of enthusiasm than a cause of the crisis,'' said Mr. Derman, who is a professor at Columbia University.
 In boom times, new markets tend to outpace the human and technical systems to support them, said Richard R. Lindsey, president of the Callcott Group, a quantitative consulting group. Those support systems, he said, include pricing and risk models, back-office clearing and management's understanding of the financial instruments. That is what happened in the mortgage-backed securities and credit derivatives markets.
 Better modeling, more wisely applied, would have helped, Mr. Lindsey said, but so would have common sense in senior management. The mortgage securities markets, he noted, grew rapidly and generated high profits for a decade. ''If you are making a high return, I guarantee you there is a high risk there, even if you can't see it,'' said Mr. Lindsey, a former chief economist of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 Among quants, some recognized the gathering storm. Mr. Lo, the director of M.I.T. Laboratory for Financial Engineering, co-wrote a paper that he presented in October 2004 at a National Bureau of Economic Research conference. The research paper warned of the rising systemic risk to financial markets and particularly focused on the potential liquidity, leverage and counterparty risk from hedge funds.
 Over the next two years, Mr. Lo also made presentations to Federal Reserve officials in New York and Washington, and before the European Central Bank in Brussels. Among economists and academics, he said, the research was well received. ''On the industry side, it was dismissed,'' he recalled.
 The dismissive response, Mr. Lo said, was not really surprising because Wall Street was going to chase profits in the good times. The path to sensible restraint, he said, will include not only better risk models, but also more regulation. Like others, Mr. Lo recommends higher capital requirements for banks and the use of exchanges or clearinghouses for the trade of exotic securities, so that prices and risks are more visible. Any hedge fund with more than $1 billion in assets, he added, should be compelled to report its holdings to regulators.
 Financial regulation, Mr. Lo said, should be seen as similar to fire safety rules in building codes. The chances of any building burning down are slight, but ceiling sprinklers, fire extinguishers and fire escapes are mandated by law.
 ''We've learned the hard way that the consequences can be catastrophic, even if statistically improbable,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prof. Andrew M. Lo of M.I.T. in 2005. A paper he helped write that was presented in 2004 warned of risk in financial markets.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK FRIEDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B5) DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENGINEERING (90%); MATHEMATICS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); MODELING & SIMULATION (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (89%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (89%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (89%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (78%); SECURITIZATION (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (76%); BANK FAILURES (76%); BONDS (73%); SPORTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: CAPITAL MARKET RISK ADVISORS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008



189 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1603 words

HEADLINE: As Stadiums Rise, So Do Costs to Taxpayers

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Days after taking office in 2002, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg killed Rudolph W. Giuliani's plan to spend $800 million in city funds to build baseball stadiums for the Yankees and the Mets, saying they were too expensive during a recession. 
 Three years later, Mr. Bloomberg unveiled his own plan calling for the two teams to pay the construction costs of their new stadiums, while the city would build public parks, parking garages and transit stations nearby. The cost to taxpayers, the mayor suggested, would be relatively small and the benefits to the city would be great.
 ''We don't do subsidies,'' Mr. Bloomberg said at the time. ''The city is getting paid back at a profit.''
 But as the two stadiums near completion, the cost to taxpayers is anything but small, a review of the projects shows. Though the teams are indeed paying about $2 billion to erect the two stadiums, the cost to the city for infrastructure -- parks, garages and transportation improvements -- has jumped to about $458 million, from $281 million in 2005. The state is contributing an additional $201 million. 
 Those totals do not include an estimated $480 million in city, state and federal tax breaks granted to both teams. In addition, neither team has to pay rent or property taxes, though both are playing on city-owned land.
 The expanding public cost of the stadiums, coming in another downturn, has fueled debate about their economic benefits, and has become an issue in Congressional hearings in Washington into the use of tax-exempt bonds for stadium construction.
 The Bloomberg administration says that keeping the Yankees in the Bronx and the Mets in Queens not only creates temporary construction and permanent stadium jobs, but also is crucial to the city's image. 
 Seth Pinsky, the president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, said the city estimates that its investment in Yankee Stadium alone would earn a net positive return of more than $40 million over 40 years. ''Even without that, a billion-dollar investment in the poorest Congressional district in the city is never a bad thing,'' Mr. Pinsky said. 
 Critics of public investments in stadiums and arenas for professional teams say that the Bloomberg administration may have struck a better deal for taxpayers than those done in many other cities. But they say that the stadiums still carry an immense public cost and that 81 home games in each park will not create many permanent jobs. 
 ''In general, stadiums are not engines for economic development,'' said Ronnie Lowenstein, the director of the New York City Independent Budget Office. ''Inflating the economic benefits associated with stadiums that typically have only part-time or seasonal employment is missing the point. A lot of New Yorkers wanted a new Yankee or Mets stadium. At the end of the day, that was what was driving the city's decision to do this.''
 Stadium building has been a long-running drama in New York. From 1986 to 1996, George Steinbrenner, the principal owner of the Yankees, kept politicians jumping on both sides of the Hudson River with threats to move to New Jersey. Mr. Giuliani spent years on an unsuccessful effort to move the Yankees to the West Side of Manhattan.
 Shortly before he stepped down, Mr. Giuliani signed a nonbinding agreement with the Yankees and the Mets to pay half the $1.6 billion cost of building two baseball stadiums. Mr. Bloomberg rejected that plan in 2002, but his own push to build a heavily subsidized football stadium for the Jets on the West Side also ended in failure.
 Finally, in 2005 and 2006, the city and the state reached deals with the Yankees and Mets in which the teams agreed to pay the cost of constructing the stadiums on city-owned land, while Mr. Bloomberg insisted that the government would build only infrastructure around them.
 In those early stages, city, state and team officials estimated that the Yankees project would cost about $1 billion, with the team paying 80 percent, or $800 million, for the stadium, while the city and state would contribute $208.6 million for parks and garages.
 The total cost of the Mets' project was put at almost $645 million, with the team paying about 65 percent, or $423 million, for the stadium and the public putting up $221.8 million in site preparation, pilings and mass transit improvements. The deal also allowed the Mets to keep revenue generated by the garages, money that in the past went to the city. 
 In the world of stadium building, these were considered relatively good deals even by critics of public financing of private stadiums. By comparison, San Diego paid 67 percent, or $303 million, of the $449 million cost of a new stadium for the Padres that opened in 2004.
 But in the past two years, the costs of the New York projects -- the stadiums and the related infrastructure -- have swelled substantially, with the current cost of the Mets' project put at about $900 million and the Yankees project expected to be more than $1.7 billion, making it the most expensive ballpark in the country.
 The rising price tags mean public costs have grown as well. 
 Yankee Stadium is being built atop what were once two popular public parks; the city has agreed to replace them, as well as a soccer field, baseball diamonds, basketball courts and a track. The estimated cost of replacing those parks and fields has climbed to $177 million from $129.2 million in 2005. Officials expect the number to rise by an additional 10 percent when the city issues an updated capital budget in the coming weeks.
 The city is also spending about $35 million for roadwork and sewer connections for the stadium and $30 million more on design and planning, items that were not mentioned when the project was announced in 2005. 
 City and state officials also did not discuss building a commuter rail station near the stadium at news conferences in 2005, although the Yankees had lobbied for it. The Metro-North Railroad is now building a $91 million station there, with $39 million coming from the city budget.
 The Bloomberg administration has also extended for three years a $5 million-a-year rent rebate that was first granted by Mr. Giuliani to cover the team's planning costs. The rebate has also been extended to the Mets.
 The city is also responsible for the tens of millions of dollars it will cost to demolish the old Yankee Stadium and Shea Stadium.
 The state contributed $70 million toward the $240 million cost of building three garages with 3,610 spaces at the new Yankee Stadium. And the city issued $170 million in tax-exempt bonds on behalf of the private garage operator. 
 In addition, the city provided both teams with a variety of tax breaks, which the Independent Budget Office estimates amount to a public-sector loss of $313.4 million in revenues from the Yankees project and $166.4 million from the Mets project. Those benefits include tax-exempt bonds for stadium construction, which allows the teams to save tens of millions of dollars in financing costs. 
 City officials, however, dismiss the notion that they have lost revenues by extending those tax breaks, saying that the parks and parking lots where the new stadiums are being built do not currently generate taxes. They also say it is unlikely that the stadiums would have been built without the tax breaks.
 Still, Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Democrat from Westchester, and Good Jobs New York, a private advocacy group, have been critical of the Yankees project for what Mr. Brodsky says are ''massive subsidies'' resulting in too few jobs. He has also said that the city may have manipulated the value of the stadium land in order to comply with federal regulations regarding tax-exempt financing for stadiums, an assertion that a Congressional subcommittee under Representative Dennis J. Kucinich, a Democrat from Cleveland, is investigating.
 The Bloomberg administration and the Yankees have vigorously disputed those criticisms.
 Mr. Pinsky of the Economic Development Corporation insists that the city's investments in Yankee Stadium will be used by fans, neighborhood residents and commuters. He says that the projects have pumped hundreds of millions of dollars into the city's economy, employed thousands of union construction workers and will eventually relieve the city of having to maintain the aging stadiums. 
 Randy Levine, the president of the Yankees and a former deputy mayor under Mr. Giuliani, testified at a Congressional hearing on Oct. 24 that the project would generate about ''1,000 additional jobs,'' mostly union, in restaurants, security, ticketing, marketing and maintenance. Two new restaurants -- Hard Rock Cafe and N.Y.Y. Steak -- and a Yankees museum would operate year-round, he said.
 The Yankees' own 2006 application for tax-exempt bond financing indicated that the number of full-time and part-time jobs at the stadium would rise only modestly, to 140 from 120 for full-time positions, and to 950 from 879 for part-time ones. 
 ''The notion that these restaurants will do much business during the off-season is hard to imagine,'' said Andrew Zimbalist, an economist at Smith College. ''That would require a tremendous renaissance in that part of the Bronx.'' 
 Robert A. Baade, an economist at Lake Forest College in Illinois who specializes in sports, was more critical, saying that the public benefits are being overstated.
 ''We know these claims are hyperbole,'' Mr. Baade said. ''Why would you expect that this would result in an increase in economic activity in New York when you've simply changed the locus of play, moving it across the street?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Yankee Stadium project, where construction was well under way in October, is now expected to cost more than $1.7 billion, up 70% from original estimates.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE EHRMANN/GETTY IMAGES)
 The Mets' new ballpark, Citi Field, in foreground, looms over the club's former park, Shea Stadium, in size and cost. The current price tag for the Mets' project is about $900 million, up from an initial $645 million. Citi Field, like the new Yankee Stadium, is to open next year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (93%); BASEBALL (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TAX LAW (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); RECESSION (77%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (76%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (76%); PROPERTY TAX (75%); TAX INCENTIVES (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); SEASONAL WORKERS (63%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008



190 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: Now, Promises to Keep, and Divides to Be Bridged

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY; Marjorie Connelly contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Even as the Democrats won control of Congress in 2006, Karl Rove kept faith with his cause, insisting that a permanent Republican governing majority was still viable. If President-elect Barack Obama has shredded that idea, he also must grapple with whether his ambition to redraw the political map leads to a fleeting or fundamental realignment.
 The last two Democratic presidents, Bill Clinton and Jimmy Carter, claimed that they had reshaped electoral politics by recapturing battlegrounds like Georgia, Missouri and Ohio with promises of governing from the center. Both came up short rather quickly: Mr. Carter's declaration of a post-Watergate realignment ended with one term and the loss of the Senate in 1980, while Mr. Clinton's party lost Congress after two years and watched Republicans reclaim the White House in 2000.
 Mr. Obama will soon face an American people seeking to have hopes met and change confirmed as he addresses an array of problems no incoming president has faced since Franklin D. Roosevelt. And Democrats will expect, in short order, a plan for withdrawing one to two brigades a month from Iraq, a major economic stimulus package, and a repeal of President Bush's tax cuts. 
 If Mr. Clinton failed to swiftly shift the Mondale-Dukakis tilt in his party, and President Bush rarely delivered on his early pledge to be a ''uniter,'' Mr. Obama must prove that his charismatic and historic candidacy is not his high point. He must show he can deliver on promises of bipartisan reform in spite of his inexperience with coalition-building.
 ''If Obama governs to the center, it will be the dawn of a Democrat majority,'' said Kieran Mahoney, a Republican consultant whose firm includes Steve Schmidt, John McCain's senior adviser. ''If he follows the Bush 'base' strategy, it will be a similarly short-lived ascendancy.''
 Advisers to Mr. Obama cautioned that, in spite of the Democratic successes from Ohio to New Mexico to Virginia and Florida, they were not consumed with notions of permanent majorities, per se.
 ''I think it's too soon to talk about realignment, though what this election definitely says is that Democrats set out to compete in places where Republicans said it was impossible, and we won and redrew the map,'' said Joel Benenson, Senator Obama's pollster.
 If that sounds an awful lot like political realignment, Mr. Benenson suggested why the Obama camp might not be aspiring to Olympian heights of Rovian rhetoric.
 ''First, Barack Obama has been talking about getting past the old divides like 'permanent majorities,' and it's a message that resonated,'' he said. ''Also, we face big challenges. On Wednesday, I think you'll see Republicans and Democrats talking about bringing the country together, working together, and that our politics needs to be bigger, not smaller, to solve these problems.''
 Indeed, the surveys of voters leaving polling sites in the 2006 midterm elections foretold this election to some degree: Control of both the House and Senate flipped to Democrats because of widespread voter anger at President Bush -- anger that only intensified over the last two years, and from which Mr. McCain was never able to distance himself.
 While 8 in 10 voters who backed President Bush in 2004 voted for Mr. McCain in this election, Mr. Obama drew 90 percent of voters who supported Senator John Kerry in 2004 -- as well as three-quarters of those who did not vote in 2004 and 70 percent of those who backed another candidate.
 Mr. Obama's debts to voters of all stripes were reflected in his crucial victory in Ohio. According to exit polls, Mr. Obama won white voters who earn less than $50,000 a year by 52 percent to 46 percent, and female voters by a margin of about 10 percentage points. Six in 10 voters in Ohio called the economy the most important issue, and a majority of them supported Mr. Obama. 
 ''He won the poor as Democrats have, but more of the wealthy than in past years, and he won the young, but more active seniors than in the past,'' said Mark Penn, who served as pollster and chief strategist for much of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's campaign for president. ''Obama will have put together the moderates and liberals in a renewed governing coalition for dynamic change.''
 Mr. Obama's capacity to keep his edge through 2012 could have historic implications: The last time that voters re-elected three consecutive presidents was when Thomas Jefferson, James Madison and James Monroe each served two terms between 1801 and 1825. Given that Mr. Clinton and George W. Bush were both re-elected, Mr. Obama will have to prove himself as a party builder over the next four years while also delivering on his promises to govern with a unifying agenda.
 ''Obama won mainly because he convinced voters he was a centrist, schooled and accomplished in the politics of moderation,'' said Kevin Madden, who was Mitt Romney's spokesman during the Republican presidential primaries. ''That's quite an accomplishment when you take into consideration the facts about his record, which is archetypical of a liberal politician and product of the Chicago political machine.''
 As a senator, Mr. Obama indeed compiled the voting record of a liberal; as a presidential candidate, he has taken stands across the political spectrum -- supporting abortion rights, Second Amendment gun rights, unlimited campaign fund-raising, a health insurance plan that lacks an individual mandate, and tough words for Pakistan and staunch support for Israel.
 On Tuesday night, at least, Democratic leaders in Congress seemed to try to keep pressure off Mr. Obama and help him stay closer to the political center than pull him to the left. The election of several new moderate Democrats to the House and Senate, from battlegrounds like Florida and New Hampshire, could re-enforce centrist tendencies.
 ''I can't wait to work with President-elect Obama, alongside Democrats and Republicans in Congress, to deliver the change our country needs,'' Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader, said through a spokesman. ''With the many challenges we face, that work must begin immediately.''
 John Weaver, a Republican consultant who advised Senator McCain's campaign until last year, said that the first signs of Mr. Obama's ability to cement this political alignment would become clear in the transition period over the next two months.
 ''Will he quickly reach out to Republicans? Will he consolidate his strength among Democrats and resist the demands of liberals to overreach in the early days of his administration?'' Mr. Weaver said. ''But make no mistake, the political winds are clearly at his back and thus Republicans also need to reach out to him.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); TAX LAW (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); JIMMY CARTER (73%); KARL ROVE (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008



191 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: Finishing Our Work

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN. 
Maureen Dowd will appear on Thursday.

 BODY:
And so it came to pass that on Nov. 4, 2008, shortly after 11 p.m. Eastern time, the American Civil War ended, as a black man -- Barack Hussein Obama -- won enough electoral votes to become president of the United States.
 A civil war that, in many ways, began at Bull Run, Virginia, on July 21, 1861, ended 147 years later via a ballot box in the very same state. For nothing more symbolically illustrated the final chapter of America's Civil War than the fact that the Commonwealth of Virginia -- the state that once exalted slavery and whose secession from the Union in 1861 gave the Confederacy both strategic weight and its commanding general -- voted Democratic, thus assuring that Barack Obama would become the 44th president of the United States.
 This moment was necessary, for despite a century of civil rights legislation, judicial interventions and social activism -- despite Brown v. Board of Education, Martin Luther King's I-have-a-dream crusade and the 1964 Civil Rights Act -- the Civil War could never truly be said to have ended until America's white majority actually elected an African-American as president. 
 That is what happened Tuesday night and that is why we awake this morning to a different country. The struggle for equal rights is far from over, but we start afresh now from a whole new baseline. Let every child and every citizen and every new immigrant know that from this day forward everything really is possible in America.
 How did Obama pull it off? To be sure, it probably took a once-in-a-century economic crisis to get enough white people to vote for a black man. And to be sure, Obama's better organization, calm manner, mellifluous speaking style and unthreatening message of ''change'' all served him well.
 But there also may have been something of a ''Buffett effect'' that countered the supposed ''Bradley effect'' -- white voters telling pollsters they'd vote for Obama but then voting for the white guy. The Buffett effect was just the opposite. It was white conservatives telling the guys in the men's grill at the country club that they were voting for John McCain, but then quietly going into the booth and voting for Obama, even though they knew it would mean higher taxes.
 Why? Some did it because they sensed how inspired and hopeful their kids were about an Obama presidency, and they not only didn't want to dash those hopes, they secretly wanted to share them. Others intuitively embraced Warren Buffett's view that if you are rich and successful today, it is first and foremost because you were lucky enough to be born in America at this time -- and never forget that. So, we need to get back to fixing our country -- we need a president who can unify us for nation-building at home. 
 And somewhere they also knew that after the abysmal performance of the Bush team, there had to be consequences for the Republican Party. Electing McCain now would have, in some way, meant rewarding incompetence. It would have made a mockery of accountability in government and unleashed a wave of cynicism in America that would have been deeply corrosive. 
 Obama will always be our first black president. But can he be one of our few great presidents? He is going to have his chance because our greatest presidents are those who assumed the office at some of our darkest hours and at the bottom of some of our deepest holes.
 ''Taking office at a time of crisis doesn't guarantee greatness, but it can be an occasion for it,'' argued the Harvard University political philosopher Michael Sandel. ''That was certainly the case with Lincoln, F.D.R. and Truman.'' Part of F.D.R.'s greatness, though, ''was that he gradually wove a new governing political philosophy -- the New Deal -- out of the rubble and political disarray of the economic depression he inherited.'' Obama will need to do the same, but these things take time.
 ''F.D.R. did not run on the New Deal in 1932,'' said Sandel. ''He ran on balancing the budget. Like Obama, he did not take office with a clearly articulated governing philosophy. He arrived with a confident, activist spirit and experimented. Not until 1936 did we have a presidential campaign about the New Deal. What Obama's equivalent will be, even he doesn't know. It will emerge as he grapples with the economy, energy and America's role in the world. These challenges are so great that he will only succeed if he is able to articulate a new politics of the common good.''
 Bush & Co. did not believe that government could be an instrument of the common good. They neutered their cabinet secretaries and appointed hacks to big jobs. For them, pursuit of the common good was all about pursuit of individual self-interest. Voters rebelled against that. But there was also a rebellion against a traditional Democratic version of the common good -- that it is simply the sum of all interest groups clamoring for their share.
 ''In this election, the American public rejected these narrow notions of the common good,'' argued Sandel. ''Most people now accept that unfettered markets don't serve the public good. Markets generate abundance, but they can also breed excessive insecurity and risk. Even before the financial meltdown, we've seen a massive shift of risk from corporations to the individual. Obama will have to reinvent government as an instrument of the common good -- to regulate markets, to protect citizens against the risks of unemployment and ill health, to invest in energy independence.'' 
 But a new politics of the common good can't be only about government and markets. ''It must also be about a new patriotism -- about what it means to be a citizen,'' said Sandel. ''This is the deepest chord Obama's campaign evoked. The biggest applause line in his stump speech was the one that said every American will have a chance to go to college provided he or she performs a period of national service -- in the military, in the Peace Corps or in the community. Obama's campaign tapped a dormant civic idealism, a hunger among Americans to serve a cause greater than themselves, a yearning to be citizens again.''
 None of this will be easy. But my gut tells me that of all the changes that will be ushered in by an Obama presidency, breaking with our racial past may turn out to be the least of them. There is just so much work to be done. The Civil War is over. Let reconstruction begin. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CONSERVATISM (68%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); WARREN BUFFETT (64%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008



192 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Democrat Wins Missouri Governor's Race, but G.O.P. Keeps Indiana

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
Democrats won the governor's office in Missouri, where Attorney General Jay Nixon rode to victory on Tuesday with a scathing critique of Republican control under Gov. Matt Blunt, who chose not to run for a second term. Mr. Nixon defeated Kenny Hulshof, a Republican congressman.
 The race, which flipped a seat from Republican to Democratic control, was one of the most closely watched governor's contests in a year when the 11 state races drew little attention. 
 Democrats held 28 governor's chairs going into Tuesday, to 22 for the Republicans.
 But in a shot of good news for Republicans, Gov. Mitch Daniels of Indiana, who had been challenged by the resurgent Democrats and tough economic times in his state, held on to win election over Jill Long Thompson, a Democrat and former United States representative. 
 Many of the early victories in the night went to Democrats.
 One of them, Lt. Gov. Beverly Eaves Perdue of North Carolina, won election to the top job over Mayor Pat McCrory of Charlotte, a Republican who argued that 15 years of Democratic control of the governor's office was enough. The incumbent, Michael F. Easley, is leaving because of term-limit rules, and the race was a toss-up for most of the campaign.
 In New Hampshire, Gov. John Lynch easily won a third two-year term over a state senator, Joseph D. Kenney, who tried and failed to convince voters that New Hampshire under Mr. Lynch was losing its flinty New England character. Mr. Kenney, a military veteran who served in Iraq, pledged to cut the number of cellphones issued to state employees as part of his get-tough-on-spending plans.
 In West Virginia, Gov. Joe Manchin III, a Democrat, won re-election to a second term, easily defeating a former state senator, Russ Weeks.
 In Delaware, the Democratic state treasurer, Jack Markell, also was elected. He had upended his own party's plans for the race by challenging and beating the lieutenant governor, John Carney, who had been groomed for office by the incumbent, Ruth Ann Minner. Governor Minner was prevented by a term limits law from running again. 
 Mr. Markell, who defeated Bill Lee, a Republican and former judge, will become the first Jewish governor in Delaware history.
 Two Republican incumbents, Gov. Jon M. Huntsman Jr. of Utah and Gov. John Hoeven of North Dakota, also won re-election, as did Gov. Brian Schweitzer, a Democrat, in Montana. All three are popular, and they highlighted their state's economic performances, which compared favorably with their neighbors.
 Mr. Hoeven, in winning a third four-year term, became the first governor in North Dakota history to push past eight years in office. He defeated Tim Mathern, a Democrat and 22-year veteran of the State Senate, who has a classic North Dakota pedigree as the great-grandson of homesteaders and who grew up on a dairy farm with 12 brothers and sisters.
 Mr. Schweitzer, who narrowly won his first term in 2004, has become a spokesman for the Western Democrats who have made inroads from Wyoming to Colorado. He defeated Roy Brown, a Republican state senator from Billings. Mr. Brown, a petroleum engineer, campaigned on a pledge to reduce the role of government in people's lives.
 Mr. Huntsman, a former United States trade representative who is fluent in Mandarin Chinese -- partly from his experience as a missionary for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints -- coasted to re-election in Utah over Bob Springmeyer, a Democrat and management consultant. 
 All the incoming governors will have to deal with tough economic challenges. New Hampshire, for example, faces a budget deficit of $160 million, almost 10 percent of the general revenue budget.
 In Indiana, the economy was a major issue. Mr. Daniels argued that the state was suffering less than its neighbors, and that he deserved credit. Ms. Thompson pointed to the state's housing foreclosures, which were higher than the national average.
 In Missouri, Mr. Nixon benefited from having a much longer lead time in his campaign. He was the favorite to win his party's nomination even before Governor Blunt's surprise announcement earlier this year that he would not seek re-election, which left the Republicans scrambling to find a candidate.
 Mr. Nixon, who was the longest-serving attorney general in state history, cast Mr. Hulshof as a Washington insider who had been tainted by his time in Congress.
 ''Jay was well known and thought of; he jumped out early, and worked hard over last year, year and a half,'' said Mr. Manchin, who is the chairman of the Democratic Governors Association. 
 In his own race, Mr. Manchin portrayed himself as a local boy -- an avid outdoorsman and motorcyclist, and a native of a coal mining town whose grandparents had immigrated from Italy -- who knew his state, but who also had a vision beyond it, in energy and education policy. 
 In Delaware, Mr. Markell campaigned heavily on health care. He highlighted his work as state treasurer in reducing health insurance costs by encouraging healthier behavior and lifestyles for state employees. He also portrayed himself as something of an efficiency expert, touting his success in saving money for the state through bulk purchases.

GRAPHIC: CHART: THE RACES FOR GOVERNOR 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); GOVERNORS (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TERM LIMITS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

PERSON: JAY NIXON (89%); JOHN CARNEY (79%); PAT MCCRORY (79%); MATT BLUNT (73%); RUTH ANN MINNER (59%); JOE MANCHIN (59%); BRIAN SCHWEITZER (59%); JOHN LYNCH (59%); KENNY C HULSHOF (59%); MIKE EASLEY (59%); JON HUNTSMAN (58%); JOHN HOEVEN (58%); MITCH DANIELS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (94%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008



193 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: President-Elect Barack Obama

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 The election of Barack Obama as president marks the end of a long nightmare -- eight years of an administration that waged wars in Muslim countries, shredded environmental regulations, defied Congress and the courts, and challenged the Constitution. 
 But Mr. Obama is inheriting the additional nightmare of a recession that is heading rapidly toward a depression. 
 President Franklin D. Roosevelt took office during an even graver emergency but was able to establish programs like Social Security, the National Labor Relations Act and the Farm Security Administration that stemmed the economic meltdown and provided help to millions of Americans. 
 Roosevelt was able to do all this because a large Congressional majority stood behind him. 
 Mr. Obama has the judgment and intelligence to rescue our country again, but only if the Republican minority in Congress refrains from its past practice of obstructing the programs of Democratic presidents. 
 If ever there was a time for them to take seriously Senator John McCain's campaign slogan of ''country first,'' it is now. Rachelle Marshall
 Stanford, Calif., Nov. 4, 2008
 To the Editor:
 That day has dawned, the day dreamed of by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., when a man is judged by the content of his character rather than by the color of his skin.
 And America stands tall before all the world. (Rev.) Connell J. Maguire
 Riviera Beach, Fla., Nov. 4, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Today is Election Day in America, and I am extremely excited.
 Barack Obama has been declared the victor, and for me, an American and African-American, this is phenomenal. 
 It means that America has finally legitimized its African-American citizens -- perhaps now we will no longer be perceived as ''second class'' citizens and can, at last, work to heal our nation after the travesty of slavery, discrimination and prejudice. 
 It also demonstrates that Americans are hopeful activists, as our forebears were, and that control of the country has finally returned to its citizens.
 I am overcome with pride, inspiration and a profound love for all of those who fought throughout the civil rights era. Their struggle has not been in vain. A shining, radiant new day beckons.
 Alan Champion 
 New York, Nov. 4, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I voted for John McCain and am disappointed that he did not prevail.
 But Barack Obama is to be our new president. While I disagree with several of his campaign positions, it is appropriate to wipe the slate and judge the man by his words and deeds as president. 
 Four years ago, the losing party engaged in a downward spiral of anger and recrimination.
 Similar counterproductive behavior, this time from Republicans like me, will inhibit our ability to deal with the significant and complex challenges that our country faces today. 
 We must allow Mr. Obama the opportunity he has rightfully earned to lead us -- to lead all of us. Michael B. Row 
 Sparta N.J., Nov. 4, 2008
 To the Editor:
 During the campaign, Gov. Sarah Palin pooh-poohed Barack Obama's community organizing efforts, saying, ''I guess a small-town mayor is sort of like a 'community organizer,' except that you have actual responsibilities.'' Little did she know.
 Now, with Mr. Obama's success, the whole world knows the power of a skilled community organizer, and how community organizing can be used to bring together people of all classes, races and creeds.
 Given the deep hole that the Bush administration's ideology has put the United States in, having a skilled community organizer as president gives me great hope that we can all pull together to rebuild the country -- the infrastructure, health care and education in particular -- and begin a robust, open and honest debate. Let's begin with energy independence. Garth Bishop 
 Los Angeles, Nov. 4, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Along with the announcement that Barack Obama will be our next president will come the inevitable post-mortems about why John McCain lost. 
 In my humble opinion, Mr. McCain blew it because he did not heed the words of his patron Ronald Reagan: ''Whatever else history may say about me when I'm gone, I hope it will record that I appealed to your best hopes, not your worst fears.'' Dorian de Wind 
 Austin, Tex., Nov. 4, 2008
 To the Editor:
 We as Americans have suffered much during this decade. Now is the time for us to turn this around. Not as Republicans or Democrats or independents. Not as Barack Obama's army or John McCain's army. It is time for all of us to raise our voices and become America's army -- a corps created by every one of us, regardless of class or income, race or gender. 
 Regardless of which party wins the White House or Congress, now is our time to take responsibility for every one of the serious concerns we as Americans have expressed over the past years.
 Each one of us has a choice. Now is the time for hope and action. As America teeters, it is up to us, its people, to use our united weight to pull it back from the edge. 
 Elizabeth Fitch Weiss
 Sterling, Mass., Nov. 4, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I was second in line at 5 a.m. to wait for the 6 a.m. poll opening at the school in my northern Virginia neighborhood.
 There was an electricity, an excitement, in the line that I don't recall from my 35 years of voting.
 I was proud to step up to the machine and cast my vote for the man who might lead our nation for the next four years.
 This is what it means to be an American. Tracy Leverton
 Vienna, Va., Nov. 4, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Thirty-nine years ago, I was a captain in the United States infantry sitting in the Mekong Delta. I served my country in a war that I thought was wrong. I was basically a kid who saw some of his beliefs and ideals compromised. 
 I voted today.
 For the first time in many years, I felt that my one vote was for someone and for some beliefs and ideals that were apparently never extinguished by the Vietnam experience and the years that followed.
 As I now watch millions of other voters endure huge lines also to cast their treasured right to select a candidate of choice, I recognized that my country served me and us.
 It emphasized that no matter how different our opinions, we care about doing what we believe to be the right thing in a place where we have that inalienable right. We all vote as Americans.
 Whoever gains this privilege to become the next president of our country, I truly hope that he allows our diversity to be a strength and not a tool to gain his agenda. Rich Plaza
 Gillette, N.J., Nov. 4, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Beyond Election Day'' (column, Nov. 4):
 Bob Herbert talks about how Americans have a choice today, a choice that represents not just change but also the opportunity to let this country aspire to ''true greatness.'' 
 I turned 30 just a few days ago, so when I voted for Barack Obama on Election Day, I could no longer consider myself a young voter. But on this historic day, I was not a voter defined by my age, gender or race. Rather, I was an inspired voter. 
 I was a voter who felt the urgency to elect a leader who could restore hope and the promise that the future will be better than the past, a leader who not only believes in the American Dream but who also has a personal story that reflects his own American Dream. 
 It's that same sense of hope and promise that brought my parents to the United States years ago. And so they vote and I vote -- for change and for better tomorrows for all of those who are lucky enough to call this country home. Yes, we can! Anita Sharma
 Washington, Nov. 4, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''A Date With Scarcity,'' by David Brooks (column, Nov. 4):
 Young liberals meet ''stone-cold scarcity'' for the first time. If only they didn't have to learn at our expense. 
 Perhaps we'd all be better off if Barack Obama had faced some of these challenges in minor roles with less at stake. He could then have grown into the role with some understanding of what it takes to manage scarce resources. Andrea Economos
 Scarsdale, N.Y., Nov. 4, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY EDEL RODRIGUEZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); RACE & RACISM (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (69%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008



194 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg's Budget to Propose More Taxes and Fewer Jobs

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN; Jason Grant contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg will recommend eliminating the popular $400 property tax rebate and sketch out a range of other possible tax increases, as part of a budget plan he will unveil on Wednesday, according to people who have been briefed on the plans.
 The mayor will also reduce the city's work force by 3,000 employees and cancel the next training class for more than 1,100 police cadets as he seeks to help plug an anticipated $4 billion budget shortfall over the next two years. 
 The plan illustrates the extent to which the global economic crisis is forcing local governments -- even those that have been in good economic health, like New York City's -- to downgrade their budget projections. It also suggests that Mr. Bloomberg -- who just signed a controversial bill extending term limits on Monday -- is anticipating intense and difficult negotiations with the City Council, and therefore trying to make his arguments as early as possible.
 ''It will require sacrifice from every city agency and in some senses, every New Yorker,'' said Edward Skyler, the city's deputy mayor for operations. ''But we need to take these painful but necessary steps now; delaying the inevitable will only make it worse.''
 In terms of staffing, Mr. Bloomberg is proposing to lay off 500 city workers and shed another 2,500 through attrition.
 Among the hardest hit would be the Department of Education, with Mr. Bloomberg proposing to eliminate 475 positions -- mostly in administration -- of which 219 would be layoffs. But Bloomberg officials say that such cuts, while difficult, would not affect classrooms.
 ''We worked extremely hard to try to shield schools from as much of the impact of these cuts as we could,'' said David Cantor, a spokesman for the Department of Education.
 Ron Davis, a spokesman for the United Federation of Teachers, declined to comment, saying that he wanted to see the details of the mayor's proposals first.
 About 200 layoffs are expected to come out of the troubled New York City Housing Authority under the mayor's plan. And 600 would come from city agencies in charge of parks, street cleaning and children's services.
 At the same time, the city plans to shorten the time firefighter trainees spend at the academy and reduce nighttime operations at several firehouses.
 ''I don't know whether it will be enough,'' Mr. Bloomberg said, after voting Tuesday morning near his Upper East Side town house. ''It certainly is not going to be the last step; we have to find alternative revenue sources, as well. And then if tax revenues fall greater than what we have projected, and there's some evidence that they might, we're going to have to come back and keep working on finding ways to do more with less.''
 Mr. Bloomberg's push comes just two days after he announced a two-year contract with District Council 37, the city's largest municipal union, calling for raises of 4 percent for this year and next. The pay raises are similar to those accepted by other city unions in recent months.
 But tellingly, perhaps, Mr. Bloomberg also warned that he had ordered city agencies to brace for ''the worst-case scenario'' of layoffs should the economy continue to nose-dive.
 ''At the level that I think the economy is slowing down, I suspect that we will not have very many, if any,'' Mr. Bloomberg said on Tuesday. ''And my intent would be, if we have any, I try to find jobs elsewhere in the city for those people.'' He added, ''But if the economy were to slow down even more, you can't take anything off the table.'' 
 In terms of taxes, Mr. Bloomberg plans to ask -- as has been widely expected -- the City Council to raise property taxes by 7 percent. Although the increase had been expected to take effect in July, Mr. Bloomberg will recommend imposing it in January, which would generate another $600 million for the city in 2009.
 What is new, though, is his recommending that a $400 property tax rebate be eliminated in July, when the new fiscal year begins. 
 Another new idea is Mr. Bloomberg's plan to lay out a menu of potential taxes that could be raised in the next fiscal year. Out of a potential pot of $800 million in possible taxes -- one of which is an increase in the personal income tax -- Mr. Bloomberg is prepared to argue that some action is needed, especially if the economy does not improve, according to a city official who has been briefed on the plans.
 When asked about the package, David I. Weprin, chairman of the City Council's Finance Committee, praised Mr. Bloomberg for tackling the budget so quickly. But he vowed not to accept the administration's numbers at face value, and to hold rigorous hearings.
 ''There's no question we're going to have a terrible time next year, but the actual revenue numbers are not there yet to justify tax increases being essential,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); TAX INCREASES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); TERM LIMITS (79%); CITIES (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET FORECASTS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); TEACHER UNIONS (68%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (64%); CHILD WELFARE (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008



195 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Northeast Republicans Lose Precious Ground in Washington

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ; Karen Zraick contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Democrats captured five Republican Congressional seats in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut on Tuesday, including that of Representative Christopher Shays, the last Republican member of the House from New England and a standard-bearer for political centrism. 
 With Democrats turning out in large numbers to register their disapproval of President Bush and anxieties about the economy, Mr. Shays, 63, of Connecticut, a political Houdini who had narrowly escaped previous attempts to topple him, fell to a political novice, Jim Himes. 
 Mr. Himes, 42, a former Goldman Sachs executive, portrayed the 10-term congressman as out of touch with his district and insensitive to the economic plight of its residents. 
 ''No one likes to be told that someone else is taking your place,'' Mr. Shays said to supporters in Norwalk shortly after conceding to Mr. Himes, who had 54 percent of the vote in incomplete returns early Wednesday. His campaign, he added, was unable to overcome ''the tsunami that we all knew was there.''
 In a closely watched race in New York, City Councilman Michael E. McMahon became the first Democrat in 28 years to win the 13th Congressional District on Staten Island, defeating Robert A. Straniere, a former member of the State Assembly. With nearly all the votes counted, Mr. McMahon was leading with 60.8 percent of the vote in unofficial returns. 
 The seat is currently held by Vito J. Fossella, a Republican first elected in 1998 who was found guilty in a Virginia court last month of driving under the influence of alcohol and is stepping down at the end of the year. 
 The parties split races for two seats in upstate New York that are being vacated by retiring Republicans. Chris Lee, a Republican, won in the 26th District in the Buffalo area and will replace Thomas M. Reynolds. In the 25th District in the Syracuse area, Dan Maffei, a Democrat, defeated Dale Sweetland, a former county executive, to replace Representative James T. Walsh.
 In New York's 29th District, in the Southern Tier, Representative John R. Kuhl Jr., a two-term Republican, was toppled by Eric Massa, a former Navy officer who was defeated by Mr. Kuhl two years ago.
 And in New Jersey's Third Congressional District, outside Philadelphia, the Democratic candidate, State Senator John H. Adler, defeated Chris Myers, the mayor of Medford, and will replace Representative Jim Saxton, a Republican who is retiring. 
 With the five victories, Democrats held 65 of the Northeast region's 81 House seats, with several other Republican seats still in play early Wednesday.
 Almost from the start, the political climate for Northeastern Republicans was brutal. In the 11 most competitive races in the Northeast, Democrats had to defend only two; the nine others involved either Republican incumbents or Republican-held seats that were being vacated. 
 Beyond that, the political challenges Republicans faced nationally, from the war in Iraq to the faltering economy, were particularly acute in the Northeast, where polls showed the president to be the most unpopular. Indeed, interviews with voters leaving polling places showed a sharp decline in President Bush's popularity from 2004, as well as a significant increase in the number of voters who identified themselves as Democrats.
 Democrats have predicted Mr. Shays's political demise for years, as his district has leaned increasingly Democratic. But the congressman managed to survive, largely by embracing positions that put him at odds with the conservative leadership of his party in Washington, including by supporting campaign finance reform, abortion rights, gun control and stem-cell research. 
 But Mr. Shays began running into trouble in 2006, when he faced a well-funded Democratic challenger who nearly captured his seat by hammering him for his support for President Bush's policies in Iraq.
 This year, Democrats mounted another fierce challenge against Mr. Shays, starting with their recruitment of Mr. Himes to run against him. Rather than focusing on Mr. Shays's position on Iraq, Mr. Himes and his Democratic allies sought to link the congressman to President Bush's handling of the economy, an issue that polls indicated was of top concern to voters across the district, a bedroom community for Wall Street which has been hit hard by layoffs.
 In an especially telling television advertisement, the image of Mr. Bush appeared alongside an image of Mr. Shays, with both men quoted as saying that the economy was fundamentally ''strong.''
 Beyond that, Mr. Himes proved to be a formidable fund-raiser, taking in about $3 million, nearly matching the $3.3 million Mr. Shays raised. Moreover, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee poured about $1.3 million into the race, whereas the National Republican Congressional Committee spent no money on the race, largely because it was strapped for cash.
 Mr. Shays was not the only Republican in the region who was outspent by the Democrats. 
 In the days leading up to Tuesday's election, for example, Republican leaders in Washington withdrew financial support from several closely contested races in New York, opting instead to pump money into other contests where party officials felt they had stronger chances of success.
 Two of the races that the national party effectively wrote off were the 25th District in the Syracuse region and the 13th on Staten Island, which also includes a portion of Brooklyn. 
 A third New York race abandoned by the party was in the 20th District, a heavily Republican area that runs from the mid-Hudson Valley to Lake Placid that is represented by a Democrat, Kirsten Gillibrand. Republican leaders once had high hopes of defeating Ms. Gillibrand, who is completing her first term. But she won re-election on Tuesday, handily defeating Alexander Treadwell, a former state Republican Party chairman.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jim Himes, a former executive for Goldman Sachs, celebrated his victory last night in Norwalk, Conn. A Democrat, he defeated Representative Christopher Shays, a 10-term Republican. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (79%); COUNTIES (69%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (64%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (91%); JIM HIMES (90%); JIM SAXTON (79%); JOHN R KUHL JR (79%); JAMES T WALSH (79%); DAN MAFFEI (79%); VITO FOSSELLA (59%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (59%); ERIC MASSA (59%); THOMAS M REYNOLDS (59%); JOHN ADLER (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008



196 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4443 words

HEADLINE: Near-Flawless Run From Start to Finish Is Credited in Victory

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY, JIM RUTENBERG and JEFF ZELENY; Patrick Healy contributed reporting.

 BODY:
It was the third week of September, and Senator John McCain was speaking to a nearly empty convention center in Jacksonville, Fla. Lehman Brothers had collapsed that day, a harrowing indicator of the coming financial crisis and a reminder that the presidential campaign was turning into a referendum on which candidate could best address the nation's economic challenges.
 On stage, Mr. McCain, of Arizona, was trying to show concern for the prospect of hardship but also optimism about the country's resilience.
 ''The fundamentals of the economy are strong,'' he said. 
 A thousand miles away, at Senator Barack Obama's campaign headquarters in Chicago, the aides who monitored Mr. McCain's every utterance knew immediately that they had just heard a potential turning point in a race that seemed to be tightening. They rushed out to tell Dan Pfeiffer, Mr. Obama's communications director, what Mr. McCain, the Republican candidate, had just said, knowing that his words could be used to portray him as out of touch.
 ''Shut up!'' Mr. Pfeiffer said incredulously. ''He said what?'' Mr. Obama, who had just arrived at a rally in Colorado, hastily inserted the comments into his speech. And by nightfall, the Obama campaign had produced an advertisement that included video of Mr. McCain making the statement that would shadow him for the rest of the campaign.
 At the McCain campaign headquarters in Arlington, Va., at almost the same moment that morning, Mr. McCain's chief strategist, Steve Schmidt, looked stricken when his war room alerted him to the comment. Within 30 minutes, he was headed for a flight to Florida to join Mr. McCain as they began a frantic and ultimately unsuccessful effort to recover.
 Mr. McCain's inartful phrase about the economy that day, and the responses of the two campaigns, fundamentally altered the dynamic of the race. But the episode also highlighted a deeper difference: the McCain campaign team often seemed to make missteps and lurch from moment to moment in search of a consistent strategy and message, while the disciplined and nimble Obama team marched through a presidential contest of historic intensity learning to exploit opponents' weaknesses and making remarkably few stumbles.
 The story of Mr. Obama's journey to the pinnacle of American politics is the story of a campaign that was, even in the view of many rivals, almost flawless. But Mr. Obama and his aides believed from the outset that it would have to be nothing less than that if he was to overcome obstacles that sometimes in the drama of the year became easy to forget: that this was a black man with an unusual name and exotic past, someone dogged by a stubborn (and inaccurate) belief among some voters that he is a Muslim, who began plotting his presidential run less than two years after moving from the Illinois Legislature to the United States Senate.
 As Mr.Obama reminded Americans on Tuesday night in his victory speech, ''I was never the likeliest candidate for the office.''
 The two captains of his effort, the disheveled David Axelrod, his close friend and political strategist, and the meticulous David Plouffe, the campaign manager, had never been on a team that had won a presidential nomination, much less a general election.
 While two of the Democratic primary rivals -- Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York and John Edwards of North Carolina -- as well as his eventual Republican opponent, Mr. McCain, had spent years planning for this race, Mr. Obama had no organization and no clear idea of what he was getting into.
 He was so unfamiliar with the requirements of a national campaign that his aides drafted a set of mock schedules to show him the states where he would have to invest a lot of time. When Mr. Obama, the father of two young girls, asked if he could go home on weekends, his aides replied: Not if you want to win. 
 Yet after a somewhat lackluster start -- it is hard now to appreciate how formidable a front-runner Mrs. Clinton appeared to be just a year ago -- Mr. Obama and his team delivered. They developed a strategy to secure the nomination, and stuck with it even after setbacks. 
 They used the newest technology and old-fashioned organizing skills to harness the grass-roots enthusiasm his candidacy generated to help raise record sums of money and build a volunteer army to turn out the vote. They carefully researched how to handle the issue of race, and worked at making voters comfortable with the idea of putting a black family in the White House.
 They rolled the dice at times, like when Mr. Obama confronted his association with his fiery former pastor by delivering a major speech on race. And they played it safe when they could, as in the selection of Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware as his running mate.
 Taking the tightly run Bush 2004 campaign as a model, Mr. Obama's campaign did not waver from its core theme of change. It tolerated no drama and did not endure a single staff shakeup, in contrast to the turmoil that marked the Clinton and McCain campaigns. Mr. Obama kept himself, and his team, on an even keel -- a character trait that paid immense dividends in the closing stages, when his understated approach to the economic crisis came off to many voters as steady leadership.
 ''It was perfectly run; it made few mistakes,'' Mr. Schmidt, Mr. McCain's strategist, said of the Obama campaign. ''And it took full advantage of an environment where the American people had turned on the incumbent president of the Republican Party and badly wanted change.''
 Mr. Obama, Mr. Schmidt continued, ''was a once-in-a-generation orator. A good debater. And an eloquent message. He was the beneficiary of favorable media coverage. Ice-cold disciplined about the execution of his campaign message. He was an extremely formidable candidate.''
 But the Obama campaign did have its troubles. The original plan sketched out by Mr. Plouffe and Mr. Axelrod assumed winning Iowa would be a devastating blow to Mrs. Clinton that would lead to victory in New Hampshire. Instead, she won in that state, and the race dragged on for months. 
 What proved critical to Mr. Obama's campaign was the ''Feb. 5 and Beyond Room'' that Mr. Plouffe set up, an operation staffed by aides who focused only on the later primaries and caucuses. Mr. Obama built a small but insurmountable delegates lead over Mrs. Clinton, whose campaign was exhausted and flat-footed after failing to wrap up the nomination as she had expected on Super Tuesday.
 At times, the campaign had to recalibrate -- adjusting the tone in taking on Mrs. Clinton, reconsidering its pledge about accepting public financing, figuring out how to deal with the surprise choice of Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska as the Republican vice-presidential nominee. 
 And the issue of race proved vexing. The campaign was blindsided when DVDs of the incendiary sermons of the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr., Mr. Obama's former pastor, emerged and threatened Mr. Obama's candidacy.
 ''That was one place where we dropped the ball,'' said Mr. Axelrod, his voice growing angry. The campaign's research operation had not known of the DVDs and was sent scrambling after they were broadcast. ''The work just wasn't done.''
 The slip-up violated a key tenet of the campaign: to avoid discussions focused on race. From polling and interviews, the campaign concluded from the outset that it was imperative to define Mr. Obama's candidacy in terms that would transcend skin color. 
 ''It would be difficult for an African-American to be elected president in this country,'' said Cornell Belcher, a pollster who worked for Mr. Obama's campaign and studies racial voting patterns. ''However, it is not difficult for an extraordinary individual who happens to be African-American to be elected president.''
 Dispatching Clinton
 It was early October 2007, and Mr. Obama had assembled a dozen staff members at a hideaway office near his Chicago headquarters. Things were not going well. Polls showed him trailing Mrs. Clinton by a significant margin, the candidate and his campaign seemed listless and Mrs. Clinton's campaign was being praised even by her rivals.
 ''Right now we are losing,'' he said. ''And we have 90 days to turn it around.''
 Those next 90 days and beyond would play a vital part in the education of the man who would be president. At that meeting, Mr. Obama and his aides mapped out a day-by-day plan to reframe the race, to attack Mrs. Clinton as a politically disingenuous and divisive product of Washington, and himself as the ''agent of change.''
 ''If the election was about change, we needed to say why we more readily represented that than she did,'' Mr. Axelrod said. ''They made our job easier by improbably positioning her as the consummate Washington insider.''
 Over the next month, Mr. Obama would appear on ''Saturday Night Live'' to address voter concerns that he was aloof and elite. He rolled out a middle-class tax cut to appeal to the voters Mrs. Clinton was courting. And he spoke at a Jefferson-Jackson dinner, which drew every prominent Democrat in Iowa. His address brought Iowa activists to their feet and would fill his field offices with volunteers.
 Behind the intense focus on Iowa was Mr. Plouffe, known for his mathematic invocation of data in making decisions. When Mr. Obama decided to run for the presidency in November 2006, Mr. Plouffe and a half-dozen staff members began plotting out a strategy that centered on Iowa as crucial to defeating Mrs. Clinton in New Hampshire. 
 ''We had to disrupt her early,'' Mr. Plouffe said. ''If she had been able to prevent us from winning Iowa, she would have been the nominee.''
 There was a less obvious calculation behind the focus on Iowa: race. A victory in an overwhelmingly white state like Iowa would remove the fears of black voters that Mr. Obama could never get elected president because whites would not vote for him. 
 ''The biggest race problem we had to start was not with the white voters,'' Mr. Axelrod said, ''but with African-American voters, a deep sense of skepticism that this might happen.''
 Mr. Obama got his victory in Iowa, but things did not go as planned in New Hampshire. Mr. Axelrod remembered the moment he realized Mrs. Clinton was back on the march: when she teared up in response to a supporter's warm words at a coffee shop. As Mr. Axelrod and Mr. Obama viewed the video of the episode as their campaign bus rumbled through New Hampshire, Mr. Axelrod realized that she had accomplished something Mr. Obama had not: presenting herself as a real person with real concerns to voters in a state that even then was anxious about the economy.
 When aides delivered the disappointing New Hampshire results to Mr. Obama, he smiled. ''Well,'' he said, ''I guess this is going to go on for a while.'' Later, he conceded that he had been too confident after Iowa but said that the defeat would allow him to remake himself.
 Unlike the Clinton campaign, the Obama team at least had a well-thought-out plan for how to proceed deeper into the primary season, mostly by concentrating on picking up delegates in red states and in states with caucuses where the Obama campaign's organizational strengths and financial advantage could be put to use.
 Going head to head with Mrs. Clinton over such a long period of time would test Mr. Obama, and demonstrate that he had the fortitude to endure a hard fight. Mrs. Clinton opened up lines of critique that were later picked up by Mr. McCain: that Mr. Obama's stated openness to meeting with the leaders of rogue countries ''without preconditions'' was naive; that for all of his great oratory, he was not offering substance; and that he lacked the mettle and experience to lead a nation through crisis.
 And as Mrs. Clinton found her voice as a heroine of the struggling working class, she tried to cast Mr. Obama as elite. At a fund-raiser in San Francisco, Mr. Obama had described some white working-class voters as ''bitter,'' a characterization she used to suggest that her rival was out of touch with the values of ordinary Americans.
 As a controversy grew about the incendiary remarks from Mr. Wright, Mr. Obama told his advisers that he wanted to deliver a major speech on race, something that they had talked him out of in the fall of 2007 for fear it would take away from his efforts to win over Iowa voters. His race speech in Philadelphia was viewed as a success, but weeks later the episode was revisited when the pastor spoke out again, forcing Mr. Obama to disavow him.
 By spring, there was little doubt that Mr. Obama would win the nomination. Still, it was proving harder than he thought. His campaign made what his aides came to see as a tactical mistake: trying to win Ohio and Texas on March 4. He lost the popular votes in both, dispiriting defeats that Mrs. Clinton's advisers used to raise questions about his electability. Mr. Axelrod later said he wished they had focused only on Texas.
 And seven weeks later, Mr. Obama lost again, in Pennsylvania, feeding low-level anxiety among some of his advisers that Mrs. Clinton could snatch the nomination away from him. Mr. Obama regretted allowing himself to get drawn into sharp combat with her, which polls showed was hurting his image. Mr. Obama did not think he was going to lose. But he assembled a meeting with aides to say he was afraid he was heading to a messy victory that would not help him going into a general election.
 ''I'll be the first to admit that I made my own mistakes in Pennsylvania,'' Mr. Obama said, according to a participant at the meeting at his Hyde Park house. ''But I don't feel like we're finishing this thing out the way I want to finish it out.''
 He began taking a firmer hand in the running of the campaign, holding nightly calls with his staff. He resisted attacks on Mrs. Clinton when possible. His campaign instituted the 6 p.m. rule: no big rallies, which aides worried contributed to the criticism that he was distant, until after the early evening news. 
 Finally, days after the last states voted on June 3, Mrs. Clinton withdrew.
 Defending Himself
 Heading into the general election campaign, Mr. Axelrod and an expanded team of advisers reviewed an inside poll identifying Mr. Obama's strengths and vulnerabilities.
 Enthusiasm among black voters was so high, aides knewd, there was a chance that the campaign could help put into play states that no Democrat had won in decades: Indiana, North Carolina and Virginia.
 But the advisers also saw some alarming findings. Doubts persisted among the unionized white workers in states like Pennsylvania and Ohio, which Mr. Obama had lost during the primaries. He was underperforming among ''up for grabs'' working class voters. 
 The association with Mr. Wright, and a consistent stream of anonymous e-mail messages questioning his patriotism and background, had taken their toll. So had his comments in San Francisco. 
 ''There were a lot of question marks about whether he had a genuine American outlook,'' said Steve Murphy, a late-joining member of the advertising unit who attended the meeting. ''They just didn't know him: He came out of nowhere, his name is Barack Hussein Obama, his mom was an anthropologist, his father's a Kenyan; he spent time growing up in Indonesia. And remember, he was coming off of a couple of serious controversies from the primaries -- Rev. Wright, guns and religion, 'bitter.' ''
 Perceptions that Mr. Obama was Muslim were persistent. Internal polling found that 12 percent to 15 percent of voters believed it, a finding reinforced by public surveys.
 ''I spoke up and joked, 'Well, yeah, he's a Sunni,' '' Mr. Murphy said. ''Nobody laughed; I mean, nobody. It was incredibly instructive to me, 'Hey, they're really worried.' '' 
 Black advisers and white advisers were to some extent split over how much race was at play in the finding. Mr. Murphy, for instance, said he did not believe the Muslim label was a stand-in for racial bias; Mr. Belcher suspected it might be, he said, but it was hard to determine through polling.
 No matter the cause, Mr. Obama and his aides believed, they would need to toughen up their defenses and address the misconceptions about his background.
 ''On some level, we were like a balloon with a big idea and it was like a lot of pinpricks, and we were starting to sag,'' said Daniel Carol, who was brought in around that time who had worked in the famous 1992 Democratic war room. ''We had lost ground for where a Democrat needed to be with working-class people, thanks to Hillary's effectiveness and the bitter thing.''
 And they knew the Republicans were going to play that much harder. 
 Mr. Obama dispatched a team of aides to Illinois to review his votes in the state Legislature, this time looking for cases where he had cast a vote that Mr. McCain could use to attack him.
 Mr. Obama's aides described several categories of potential attack: Obama as ''dashiki-wearing black nationalist''; ''secret Muslim''; ''anti-Israel''; and ''a black man from crime-ridden Chicago who was too lenient on crime with dark associations.'' 
 ''The theory was that they were going to try to make Barack Obama the other, and they had a bunch of different ways to do it,'' Mr. Carol said. 
 The Obama research team began digging into his Hyde Park associations, including William Ayers, the founder of the Weather Underground who had become a preoccupation on conservative blogs, and Mr. Wright. They also worked up potential advertisements against Mr. Obama that in some cases were tougher than anything Mr. McCain came up with.
 In focus group testing with voters, aides found that the associations to people like Mr. Ayers, whose domestic terrorism group's targets included the Capitol and the Pentagon, were troublesome. But they also found that voters were so hungry for a candidate who promised something new that they would quickly accept the explanations Mr. Obama offered in his advertising. 
 One advertisement began with a shot of Mr. McCain saying Mr. Obama should not be held responsible for his longtime pastor's remarks, Mr. Axelrod said. 
 And his advertising team produced spots that directly addressed doubts about Mr. Obama's background and experience. 
 Through weeks of focus group testing and polling, Mr. Obama's advisers came to believe that the single best way to allay those concerns was to produce commercials in which he spoke directly into the camera. 
 ''We found those concerns were less and less as he told his story and talked about what he wanted to do for the nation,'' said Jim Margolis, Mr. Obama's senior advertising strategist. ''We saw that repeatedly.''
 As a black candidate with a background that voters would have found unusual no matter his race, Mr. Obama's aides wanted to keep those advertisements running almost constantly. 
 ''He had to be an incredibly individuated figure,'' said Mr. Belcher, meaning, he said, that Mr. Obama -- whose white grandparents appeared in many of his advertisements -- should be seen as someone gifted enough to be president and who happened to be black.
 But, to avoid making the election a referendum on him, rather than a choice between him and a challenger who is tied to the unpopular incumbent party, the campaign had to also run a constant stream of advertisements attacking Mr. McCain.
 To do it all, and reach new supporters in traditionally Republican states, was going to take money, far more than the $84 million provided by the publicly supported campaign finance system.
 A Difficult Call
 Mr. Obama embarked on a politically risky move that his aides saw as worth the likely criticism: he would opt out of the system and raise money on his own.
 Aides had been considering the move for about a year, even after Mr. Obama wrote ''yes'' on a questionnaire asking whether he would pledge to accept public financing if his opponent did, a commitment intended to underscore his promise to rid Washington of the influence of powerful interest groups.
 Mr. Obama's strategists consider it one of their most important decisions. They had online fund-raising down to a science, and as tens of millions of dollars flowed in to the campaign, they were sent out to support field operations in 50 states and to pay for record amounts of advertising.
 To Mr. McCain's frustration, Mr. Obama's decision to break his pledge did draw complaints, but it was also celebrated for underscoring how a new politician once tagged as naive had shown real savvy. 
 And he was showing it in other ways that went largely undetected: As his campaign ran glossy, positive advertisements against Mr. McCain on national television, it showed bruising, sometimes misleading ones on the radio and in local markets. While some spots highlighted Mr. Obama's teenage years with his white grandparents, another one running on black-oriented programs was using some of the most evocative images of the civil rights era to urge African-Americans to vote: those of marchers being power-hosed by the authorities, who were white.
 But there were moments when the Obama campaign was outmaneuvered by its rival's on issues driving the election. Seizing on the pain of high gas prices, Mr. McCain found a welcome audience for his new support for offshore drilling. Mr. Obama refused for weeks to make a similar shift before reversing himself, virtually ceding the issue to the Republicans.
 And his team was not expecting Ms. Palin's appearance on the stage altogether.
 Aides to Mr. Obama had done cursory research on the Alaska governor as her name bounced around as a possible McCain running mate in some conservative circles. But she dropped to the Obama campaign's list of third-tier possibilities after the indictment of Senator Ted Stevens of Alaska, who had endorsed her run for governor.
 That unpreparedness led to a rare, halting moment for Mr. Obama's campaign. Bill Burton, an Obama spokesman, released a statement the day of her announcement that read, ''Today, John McCain put the former mayor of a town of 9,000 with zero foreign policy experience a heartbeat away from the presidency.'' The statement opened the door to an examination of whether Mr. Obama, with less than three years in the Senate, had any more experience.
 Mr. Obama's communications director, Robert Gibbs, said hours later that Mr. Obama had called her and told her ''she would be a terrific candidate.'' But aides were distraught days later when Mr. Obama told the CNN anchor Anderson Cooper that his experience outstripped hers, lowering him to a back-and-forth over experience with the No. 2 candidate on the Republican ticket. Mr. Obama would not go there again.
 For more than a week, Ms. Palin's star rose, along with Mr. McCain's poll numbers, as Mr. Obama's campaign seemed uncertain how to respond. Seeking to avoid the appearance of coming on too strong, the campaign stood by as she accused Mr. Obama of ''palling around with terrorists.'' Democrats on Capitol Hill were as nervous as they had been all year.
 Mr. Margolis, the advertising strategist, got an earful when he was dispatched to give a briefing at the weekly caucus of Senate Democratic leaders.
 ''I said, 'I'm just asking everybody to be patient for a couple of weeks,' and there was a groan that went through part of the room, and it was, 'Don't sit back and allow this race to get away from you guys,' '' Mr. Margolis said.
 As had been their way so often, Mr. Obama's aides did not change course because of the second-guessing. They were confident that with the selection of Ms. Palin, who had little national or international experience, Mr. McCain would ultimately confuse voters who for months had heard his argument that experience mattered most.
 ''I was trying to communicate pretty clearly that nobody was sitting back, but we believed that we had a strategy that was sound, that there was now real dissonance between the McCain message of August and the McCain message of September,'' Mr. Margolis said.
 Indeed, as Ms. Palin began to suffer a variety of wounds -- poor interview performances with Charlie Gibson of ABC and Katie Couric of CBS, a brutal impersonation by Tina Fey on ''Saturday Night Live'' -- they kept their distance and let it play out.
 But they let no charge go unanswered in Mr. McCain's television commercials, quickly producing responses to a barrage of attacks on a range of issues, including Mr. Obama's ties to Mr. Ayers. 
 But by then, Mr. Obama's financial advantage was drowning out most of what Mr. McCain was trying to say. Mr. Obama's campaign ran four advertisements to every one from Mr. McCain.
 But Mr. McCain's spots were beginning to seem increasingly out of sync with the heightened public anxiety surrounding the financial crisis. The meltdown of the financial markets ultimately ended any hope of a comeback for Mr. McCain.
 As Americans were increasingly worried about their futures, Mr. Obama's message of help for the middle class and promise of steady leadership was resonating with the white, working-class voters he had been seeking to win over for nearly two years. He managed to cast his rival as out of touch and erratic, and repeatedly linked him with what he portrayed as the devastating policies of the Bush administration.
 In the end, it appeared to work, helping him cross the racial divide and build support in swing states and some of those Democrats had long surrendered to the Republicans. 
 Aides were seeing gains in previously red states like Virginia, and comfortable leads in swing states like Pennsylvania. But they were mindful of the complacency they had shown in New Hampshire. In the pouring rain that had delayed the World Series, Mr. Obama decided against canceling a rally in the last days of his campaign, to show that he was still working for the win.
 In Mississippi, Stuart Stevens, a longtime political strategist who had worked for both Mr. McCain and Mitt Romney in the primaries, was surveying polling data for a Republican client. He was picking up on an unexpected shift for Mr. Obama, even among white voters. As he put it in an interview: If a house is on fire, the owner does not care what color the fireman is. 
 ''He transcended race,'' Mr. Stevens said. ''At the time of crisis, it became particularly irrelevant.'' 
 Back in Washington, Mr. Belcher, the pollster, was finding something similar. Mr. Obama was showing strength even among white voters Mr. Belcher had identified as having racial biases. It was a phenomenon captured in a photograph he shared last week of a homemade sign with the Confederate flag. It read: ''Rednecks for Obama. Even we've had enough.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE TEAM: Senator Barack Obama in Rochester, N.H., in January with senior aides Robert Gibbs, center, and David Axelrod. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
A rally on Thursday in Virginia Beach. Thanks to black voter turnout, the state was in play for the first time in decades. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.P1)
EARLY CONFIDENCE: Volunteers working the phones at Obama headquarters in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. Aides had thought winning Iowa would pave the way to the nomination. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
PLAYING OUT: Laura Page, Teen Miss North Carolina, top, at a Clinton rally in Gastonia, N.C., in May. Senator Barack Obama and his daughter Sasha at a fair in Iowa in August, left, and David Plouffe, the campaign manager, in a plane en route to the vice-presidential debate in October. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.P10)
 PIT BULL WITH LIPSTICK: Giv. Sarah Palin's becoming the Republican running mate surprised the Obama campaing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.P11) CHART: IT'S THE ECONOMY: Exit polls indicate that voters' views of the economy have become far more negative since 2004. (Exit polls conducted with 17,244 voters by Edison/Mitofsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); REFERENDUMS (72%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); SARAH PALIN (58%); DAVID AXELROD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (59%); VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (54%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); IOWA, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008



197 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: The Next President

 BODY:
This is one of those moments in history when it is worth pausing to reflect on the basic facts: 
 An American with the name Barack Hussein Obama, the son of a white woman and a black man he barely knew, raised by his grandparents far outside the stream of American power and wealth, has been elected the 44th president of the United States.
 Showing extraordinary focus and quiet certainty, Mr. Obama swept away one political presumption after another to defeat first Hillary Clinton, who wanted to be president so badly that she lost her bearings, and then John McCain, who forsook his principles for a campaign built on anger and fear. 
 His triumph was decisive and sweeping, because he saw what is wrong with this country: the utter failure of government to protect its citizens. He offered a government that does not try to solve every problem but will do those things beyond the power of individual citizens: to regulate the economy fairly, keep the air clean and the food safe, ensure that the sick have access to health care, and educate children to compete in a globalized world. 
 Mr. Obama spoke candidly of the failure of Republican economic policies that promised to lift all Americans but left so many millions far behind. He committed himself to ending a bloody and pointless war. He promised to restore Americans' civil liberties and their tattered reputation around the world. 
 With a message of hope and competence, he drew in legions of voters who had been disengaged and voiceless. The scenes Tuesday night of young men and women, black and white, weeping and cheering in Chicago and New York and in Atlanta's storied Ebenezer Baptist Church were powerful and deeply moving.
 Mr. Obama inherits a terrible legacy. The nation is embroiled in two wars -- one of necessity in Afghanistan and one of folly in Iraq. Mr. Obama's challenge will be to manage an orderly withdrawal from Iraq without igniting new conflicts so the Pentagon can focus its resources on the real front in the war on terror, Afghanistan.
 The campaign began with the war as its central focus. By Election Day, Americans were deeply anguished about their futures and the government's failure to prevent an economic collapse fed by greed and an orgy of deregulation. Mr. Obama will have to move quickly to impose control, coherence, transparency and fairness on the Bush administration's jumbled bailout plan. 
 His administration will also have to identify all of the ways that Americans' basic rights and fundamental values have been violated and rein that dark work back in. Climate change is a global threat, and after years of denial and inaction, this country must take the lead on addressing it. The nation must develop new, cleaner energy technologies, to reduce greenhouse gases and its dependence on foreign oil. 
 Mr. Obama also will have to rally sensible people to come up with immigration reform consistent with the values of a nation built by immigrants and refugees. 
 There are many other urgent problems that must be addressed. Tens of millions of Americans lack health insurance, including some of the country's most vulnerable citizens -- children of the working poor. Other Americans can barely pay for their insurance or are in danger of losing it along with their jobs. They must be protected.
 Mr. Obama will now need the support of all Americans. Mr. McCain made an elegant concession speech Tuesday night in which he called on his followers not just to honor the vote, but to stand behind Mr. Obama. After a nasty, dispiriting campaign, he seemed on that stage to be the senator we long respected for his service to this country and his willingness to compromise.
 That is a start. The nation's many challenges are beyond the reach of any one man, or any one political party.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); BAILOUTS (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (72%); DEREGULATION (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); WAR & CONFLICT (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); GREENHOUSE GASES (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008



198 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CHALLENGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1506 words

HEADLINE: No Time for Laurels; Now the Hard Part

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- No president since before Barack Obama was born has ascended to the Oval Office confronted by the accumulation of seismic challenges awaiting him. Historians grasping for parallels point to Abraham Lincoln taking office as the nation was collapsing into Civil War, or Franklin D. Roosevelt arriving in Washington in the throes of the Great Depression.
The task facing Mr. Obama does not rise to those levels, but that these are the comparisons most often cited sobers even Democrats rejoicing at their return to power. On the shoulders of a 47-year-old first-term senator, with the power of inspiration yet no real executive experience, now falls the responsibility of prosecuting two wars, protecting the nation from terrorist threat and stitching back together a shredded economy.
Given the depth of these issues, Mr. Obama has little choice but to ''put your arm around chaos,'' in the words of Leon E. Panetta, the former White House chief of staff who has been advising his transition team. 
''You better damn well do the tough stuff up front, because if you think you can delay the tough decisions and tiptoe past the graveyard, you're in for a lot of trouble,'' Mr. Panetta said. ''Make the decisions that involve pain and sacrifice up front.''
What kind of decision maker and leader Mr. Obama will be remains unclear even to many of his supporters. Will he be willing to use his political capital and act boldly, or will he move cautiously and risk being paralyzed by competing demands from within his own party? His performance under the harsh lights of the campaign trail suggests a figure with remarkable coolness and confidence under enormous pressure, yet also one who rarely veers off the methodical path he lays out.
''It leads you to wonder whether passivity is the way he approaches most things,'' said John R. Bolton, President Bush's former ambassador to the United Nations. ''It does indicate a style of governance that is extremely laid back. For all the talk about Bush and cowboy diplomacy, a passive America is not really what they want either.''
Mr. Obama's advisers said he would not be passive and would move quickly to demonstrate leadership without waiting for the transfer of authority on Jan. 20. He intends to start by naming three co-leaders of his transition team on Wednesday, including John D. Podesta, the former Clinton chief of staff; Valerie Jarrett, a longtime Obama adviser; and Pete Rouse, Mr. Obama's Senate chief of staff.
Mr. Obama may also have a news conference and announce top White House appointees by the end of the week, advisers said. Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, a former Clinton aide and close friend of Mr. Obama, may become White House chief of staff, well-connected Democrats said. Mr. Obama's advisers say they anticipate the nomination of secretaries of state and treasury by Thanksgiving.
While Roosevelt refused to get involved in prescribing economic medicine between his election in 1932 and his inauguration, advisers said Mr. Obama had concluded that he could not follow that example and remain silent until he was sworn in. At the same time, they said, Mr. Obama understands he should not overstep his bounds and wants his inauguration to mark a clean break from the past.
''Those who say wait and let the process unfold for two months before the inauguration are sorely mistaken,'' said Jack Quinn, a former top official in the Clinton administration. ''We are in such turmoil that his clearly and firmly putting his hand on the tiller is absolutely critical. He needs to do this. He needs to be in the middle of this.''
Mr. Obama has been conferring with Congressional leaders about a possible package of $100 billion for public works, unemployment benefits, winter heating assistance, food stamps and aid to cities and states that could be passed during a lame-duck session the week of Nov. 17. He has also been talking regularly with Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. about the economic environment and hopes to work closely with him during this interim period as Mr. Paulson makes decisions about how to invest the $700 billion given him by Congress to shore up the financial system.
But there are limits to Mr. Obama's capacity to act in the short term. The politics of assembling a stimulus package in this netherworld between administrations could be difficult to overcome as he tries to balance pent-up demand from now-victorious Democrats eager to use their power of the purse with the reality that Mr. Bush still holds the veto pen for 77 more days. In the end, Democrats said, Mr. Obama and Congressional leaders would pare their spending plans if they could not get Mr. Bush and Senate Republicans to agree, then come back in January when they have unfettered control.
''If he gets out there too much and gets too enmeshed in policy disputes before he's inaugurated, when he doesn't have control of the federal bureaucracy, that could really backfire on him,'' said Elaine C. Kamarck, who was Vice President Al Gore's domestic policy adviser in the 1990s. ''It's a really delicate balance he has to strike.''
Whatever collaboration there may be in the short term, Mr. Obama represents the end of the Bush era in the long term. Yet he will find himself dealing with the Bush legacy for years to come. He promised on the campaign trail to close the detention facility at the United States naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, but analysts in both parties expect that to be more difficult than he imagines. He will inherit a deficit that could approach $1 trillion next year, which could curtail his ambitions, like expanding health care coverage.
As a result, the shift from campaign trail rhetoric to halls-of-governance reality could prove turbulent. And Mr. Obama's soaring speeches have created such a well of anticipation that there is a deep danger of letdown. He talked during the campaign of a ''new politics'' bringing Republicans and Democrats together. But if he really works with Republicans to find common ground on issues like Iraq, terrorism and climate change, he risks alienating his liberal base.
''You tend to campaign in black and white. You tend to govern in gray,'' said Richard N. Haass, the president of the Council on Foreign Relations, who has worked for four presidents, most recently Mr. Bush.
Even as Mr. Obama focuses initially on the economy, he faces a perilous moment abroad. Terrorists have exploited transitional moments in the West to launch attacks in Britain, Spain and even the United States, where Al Qaeda first tried to blow up the World Trade Center just weeks after Bill Clinton took office in 1993. ''The range of problems and intensity of the risks has grown enormously in recent years,'' said James B. Steinberg, who was Mr. Clinton's deputy national security adviser.
And the beginning, as a new administration takes shape, is when the ranks of government are at their thinnest
The concern over potential vulnerability has grown all the more acute for this first handover of power since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and the Obama transition team has made more extensive pre-election preparations than any other previous president-elect. Thanks to a new law signed by Mr. Bush, some of Mr. Obama's transition advisers should have interim security clearances starting on Wednesday.
All the preparation in the world, however, can fall apart in an unexpected crisis.
''There's always some surprise that you can't plan for,'' said Nancy E. Soderberg, a top national security aide under Mr. Clinton. She recalled the first President George Bush's decision to send troops into Somalia just before handing over the Oval Office to Mr. Clinton. This time, Ms. Soderberg said, ''my guess is it will be something in Pakistan.''
Mr. Obama starts with powerful advantages at home and abroad. His election will be welcomed by many around the world disaffected with the Bush administration. And Mr. Obama will have a Congress even more decisively controlled by Democrats after the sweep on Tuesday night. ''He's not going to be held up by difficult confirmation fights,'' said Craig Fuller, who was a top aide to President Ronald Reagan and President George Bush.
But the task awaiting Mr. Obama arguably transcends this economic program or that foreign crisis. He takes over a nation weary of the past and wary of the future, gloomy about its place in the world, cynical about its government and desperate for some sense of deliverance. Nearly nine of every 10 Americans think the country is on the wrong track, the deepest expression of national pessimism in the polling history.
''Obama this year recognizes the country needs to be healed,'' said the presidential historian Michael Beschloss. ''It's been a very rough 10 years, beginning with a very controversial impeachment, the recount, 9/11, the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, Katrina and now the financial crisis.
''If you think of the shock to the system these things have had over a 10-year period, I think Obama recognizes he needs to really settle our nerves.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (pg. A1)
 If a President-elect Obama works with Republicans on issues like the war in Iraq, he risks alienating his party's liberal base. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOAO SILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.P4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); HISTORY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); IRAQ WAR (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); TERRORISM (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); PETE ROUSE (58%); LEON E PANETTA (58%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN PODESTA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011



199 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE PROMISE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1442 words

HEADLINE: For Many Abroad, An Ideal Renewed

BYLINE: By ETHAN BRONNER; Reporting was contributed by Rachel Donadio from Rome; Steven Erlanger from Paris; Nazila Fathi from Tehran; Isabel Kershner from Jerusalem; Nicholas Kulish from Berlin; Clifford J. Levy from Moscow; Sarah Lyall from Reykjavik, Iceland; Lydia Polgreen from Dakar, Senegal; Simon Romero from Caracas, Venezuela; Somini Sengupta from New Delhi; Michael Slackman from Cairo; Sabrina Tavernise from Istanbul and Kiev, Ukraine; Edward Wong from Beijing; and Robert F. Worth from Sana, Yemen.

 BODY:
GAZA -- From far away, this is how it looks: There is a country out there where tens of millions of white Christians, voting freely, select as their leader a black man of modest origin, the son of a Muslim. There is a place on Earth -- call it America -- where such a thing happens.
Even where the United States is held in special contempt, like here in this benighted Palestinian coastal strip, the ''glorious epic of Barack Obama,'' as the leftist French editor Jean Daniel calls it, makes America -- the idea as much as the actual place -- stand again, perhaps only fleetingly, for limitless possibility.
''It allows us all to dream a little,'' said Oswaldo Calvo, 58, a Venezuelan political activist in Caracas, in a comment echoed to correspondents of The New York Times on four continents in the days leading up to the election. 
Tristram Hunt, a British historian, put it this way: Mr. Obama ''brings the narrative that everyone wants to return to -- that America is the land of extraordinary opportunity and possibility, where miracles happen.''
But wonder is almost overwhelmed by relief. Mr. Obama's election offers most non-Americans a sense that the imperial power capable of doing such good and such harm -- a country that, they complain, preached justice but tortured its captives, launched a disastrous war in Iraq, turned its back on the environment and greedily dragged the world into economic chaos -- saw the errors of its ways over the past eight years and shifted course.
They say the country that weakened democratic forces abroad through a tireless but often ineffective campaign for democracy -- dismissing results it found unsavory, cutting deals with dictators it needed as allies in its other battles -- was now shining a transformative beacon with its own democratic exercise.
It would be hard to overstate how fervently vast stretches of the globe wanted the election to turn out as it did to repudiate the Bush administration and its policies. Poll after poll in country after country showed only a few -- Israel, Georgia, the Philippines -- favoring a victory for Senator John McCain.
''Since Bush came to power it's all bam, bam, bam on the Arabs,'' asserted Fathi Abdel Hamid, 40, as he sat in a Cairo coffee house.
The world's view of an Obama presidency presents a paradox. His election embodies what many consider unique about the United States -- yet America's sense of its own specialness, of its destiny and mission, has driven it astray, they say. They want Mr. Obama, the beneficiary and exemplar of American exceptionalism, to act like everyone else, only better, to shift American policy and somehow to project both humility and leadership.
And there are others who fear that Mr. Obama will be soft in a hard-edged world where what is required is a clear line in the sand to fanatics, aggressors and bullies. Israelis worry that he will talk to Iran rather than stop it from developing nuclear weapons; Georgians worry that he will not grasp how to handle Russia.
An Obama presidency, they say, risks appeasement. It will ''reassure Europeans of their defects,'' lamented Giuliano Ferrara, editor of the Italian right-wing daily Il Foglio.
Such contradictory demands and expectations may reflect, in part, the unusual makeup of a man of mixed race and origin whose life and upbringing have touched several continents.
''People feel he is a part of them because he has this multiracial, multiethnic and multinational dimension,'' said Philippe Sands, a British international lawyer and author who travels frequently, adding that people find some thread of their own hopes and ideals in Mr. Obama. ''He represents, for people in so many different communities and cultures, a personal connection. There is an immigrant component and a minority component.''
Francis Nyamnjoh, a Cameroonian novelist and social scientist, said he saw Mr. Obama less as a black man than ''as a successful negotiator of identity margins.''
His ability to inhabit so many categories mirrors the African experience. Mr. Nyamnjoh said that for America to choose as its citizen in chief such a skillful straddler of global identities could not help but transform the nation's image, making it once again the screen upon which the hopes and ambitions of the world are projected.
Shi Yinhong, a professor of international relations at the People's University of China, said Mr. Obama's background, particularly his upbringing in Indonesia, made him suited to understanding the problems facing the world's poorer nations.
He and others say they hope the next American president will see their place more firmly within the community of nations, engaging in what Jairam Ramesh, junior commerce minister in the Indian government, called ''genuine multilateralism and not in muscular unilateralism.''
Assuming Mr. Obama does play by international rules more fully, as he has promised, can his government live up to all the expectations?
''We have so many hopes and wishes that he will never be able to fulfill them,'' said Susanne Grieshaber, 40, an art adviser in Berlin who was one of 200,000 Germans to attend a speech by Mr. Obama there in July. She cited action to protect the environment, reducing the use of force and helping the less fortunate. In essence, she wants Mr. Obama to make his country more like hers. But she is sober. ''I'm preparing myself for the fact that peace and happiness are not going to suddenly break out,'' she said.
Many in less developed countries -- especially in the Arab world -- agree that Mr. Obama will not carry out their wishes regarding American policy toward Israel and much else, and so they shrug off the results as ultimately making little difference.
''We will be optimistic for two months but that's it,'' predicted Huda Naim, 38, a member of the Hamas parliament here who said her 15-year-old son had watched Mr. Obama's rise with rapt attention.
But some remain darkly suspicious of the election itself. They doubted that Mr. Obama could be nominated or elected. Now they doubt that he will govern. The skeptics say they believe that American policy is deeply institutionalized and that if Mr. Obama tries to shift it, ''they'' -- the media, the corporate robber barons, the hidden powers -- will box him in or even kill him.
''I am afraid for him,'' said Alberto Muller Rojas, a retired Venezuelan Army general and the vice president of President Hugo Chavez's Unified Socialist Party. ''The pressures he will face from certain sectors of society, especially from white Anglo-Saxon Protestants, will be enormous.''
Part of that fear stems from genuine if distant affection.
''He has charisma, he's good-looking, he's very smart, he's young and he knows how to make people like him, to the point that when he went to bow down to the Israelis, people here still made excuses for him,'' said Nawara Negm, an Egyptian writer and blogger.
There is another paradox about the world's view of the election of Mr. Obama: many who are quick to condemn the United States for its racist past and now congratulate it for a milestone fail to acknowledge the same problem in their own societies, and so do not see how this election could offer them any lessons about themselves.
In Russia, for example, where Soviet leaders used to respond to any American criticism of human rights violation with ''But you hang Negroes,'' analysts note that the election of Mr. Obama removes a stain. But they speak of it without reference to their own treatment of ethnic minorities.
''Definitely, this will improve America's image in Russia,'' said Sergey M. Rogov, director of the Institute for U.S.A. and Canada Studies in Moscow. ''There was this perception before of widespread racism in America, deeply rooted racism.''
In Nigeria, a vast, populous and diverse collection of states, Reuben Abati, an influential columnist, has written, ''Nigerians love good things in other lands, even if they are not making any effort to reproduce the same at home,'' adding, ''If Obama had been a Nigerian, his race, color and age would have been an intractable problem.''
So foreigners are watching closely, hoping that despite what they consider the hypocrisies and inconsistencies, the nation they once imagined would stand as a model for the future will, with greater sensitivity and less force, help solve the world's problems.
There is a risk, however, to all the extraordinary international attention paid to this most international of American politicians: Mr. Obama's focus will almost certainly be on the reeling domestic economy, housing and health care. Will he be able even to lift his head and gaze abroad to all those with such high expectations?

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (pg. A1)
A sketch of Senator Barack Obama, above, on a wall in the West Bank city of Ramallah. Though many Palestinians remain distrustful of the United States, some reveal a hint of optimism about an Obama administration. In July, Germans in Berlin enthusiastically welcomed Mr. Obama. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAE C. HONG/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 FADI AROURI/REUTERS) (pg.P4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); RELIGION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); HISTORY (72%); IRAQ WAR (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (59%) EARTH (88%) UNITED STATES (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); GERMANY (79%); IRAQ (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); EGYPT (59%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011



200 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Widen Their Senate Edge to a Solid Majority

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Bernie Becker contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
Democrats expanded their slim control of the Senate to a solid majority on Tuesday when they picked up at least five seats, ousting Republican incumbents in New Hampshire and North Carolina and capturing seats in Virginia, Colorado and New Mexico left vacant by Republican retirements.
 The Democrats appeared to fall short of the 60-vote majority that would enable them to push bills to a vote by overcoming filibusters.
 But even without the 60-vote threshold, they were within reach of a working coalition on major policy issues, given the defeat of the Republican incumbents John E. Sununu of New Hampshire and Elizabeth Dole of North Carolina, and the election of former Gov. Mark Warner in Virginia and of the congressmen-cousins Mark Udall in Colorado and Tom Udall in New Mexico.
 With races still undecided in Minnesota, Oregon and Alaska, the Democrats were holding out hope of winning as many as 59 seats, and relishing the prospect of getting at least 57, the number they held in 1993-94 under President Bill Clinton. 
 Even as the Democrats' celebration began early, one of their most highly prized targets proved out of reach: the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, beat back a serious challenge by Bruce Lunsford, a wealthy businessman. 
 ''Winston Churchill once said that the most exhilarating feeling in life is to be shot at -- and missed,'' Mr. McConnell said in a victory speech in Louisville. ''After the last few months, I think what he really meant to say is that there's nothing more exhausting.'' 
 At the headquarters of the National Republican Senatorial Committee in Washington, however, the mood was less exhausted than glum. A handful of young aides milled around watching election returns on Fox News until Senator John Ensign of Nevada, the committee's chairman, emerged to make a brief statement. 
 ''Obviously we expected this sort of night,'' Mr. Ensign said. ''The political winds, I've said for some time, were blowing in our face.''
 ''We caught a very, very tough cycle,'' he added, ''tougher than even Watergate was.''
 Democrats, by contrast, were jubilant.
 ''The days of obstruction are over,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. ''And in a bipartisan way, we in the Senate and our colleagues in the House will work together to turn America in the right direction after eight long years.'' 
 Since winning control of the Senate in 2006, the Democrats have had little breathing room, holding a majority of just 51 to 49, thanks only to two independents, Senators Bernard Sanders of Vermont and Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, who have caucused with them. And Mr. Lieberman has consistently voted against the Democrats on bills related to the Iraq war and national security, giving Republicans and President Bush an edge on those issues. 
 Mr. Lieberman, a close ally of Senator John McCain, now faces uncertain standing within the Democratic Party; some colleagues have talked about stripping him of his post as chairman of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. Even so, it is clear that the party will have more muscle to pursue its agenda in the coming Congress. 
 From the White Mountains of New Hampshire to the Rocky Mountains in the West to the glaciers of Alaska, Democratic candidates rode a wave of dissatisfaction with Republicans and the Bush administration. It began with frustration over the war in Iraq and broadened into fury and dismay over economic turmoil at home, with home prices falling, unemployment on the rise and consumer confidence shattered. 
 In New Hampshire, the Democrat, former Gov. Jeanne Shaheen, defeated Mr. Sununu in a bitter rematch of their 2002 contest by repeatedly tying him to President Bush, on the war, national security, economic policies and energy. She becomes the first female senator in the state's history and the first Democrat elected to the Senate from New Hampshire in more than 28 years. 
 Mrs. Shaheen, 61, capitalized on a huge transformation of the electorate in recent years that has shifted the state solidly into the Democratic column. Mr. Sununu, who at 44 is the youngest senator, had hoped to ride Mr. McCain's coattails but found himself battling alone as support for Mr. McCain dissipated and Senator Barack Obama opened up a wide lead in most voter polls. 
 In North Carolina, Kay Hagan, a little known state senator, dealt a stunning defeat to Mrs. Dole, a former cabinet secretary and Republican candidate for president who has one of the most famous names in modern Republican politics. 
 Ms. Hagan portrayed Mrs. Dole as a Washington insider and suggested that she had fallen out of step with the people of her state. Mrs. Dole, in turn, was unable to counter the rising enthusiasm for Mr. Obama among the state's Democrats. 
 In Virginia, Mr. Warner, a popular former governor, had been heavily favored all year. He easily defeated another former governor, James S. Gilmore III, to succeed Senator John W. Warner (no relation), who is retiring after five terms as one of the Republican Party's most respected voices on military affairs. 
 The Democrats came into the 2008 contests benefiting from a clear numerical advantage, with just 12 seats to defend, compared with 23 for the Republicans. And while five of those Republican seats were left vacant by retirees, every one of the dozen Democratic incumbents up for re-election opted to run for another term. 
 In many states defended by Republicans, the Democrats sought to seize on that advantage by putting forward high-profile candidates with substantial name recognition and formidable fund-raising capabilities. 
 In Minnesota, for instance, the comedian and former talk-radio host Al Franken was in a close race Tuesday night against the Republican incumbent, Norm Coleman. 
 And in Alaska, Mayor Mark Begich of Anchorage was favored in recent polls to unseat Senator Ted Stevens, who was convicted in federal court on felony charges of failing to disclose gifts from political supporters. 
 In one bright spot for Republicans, Senator Susan Collins of Maine easily beat back a challenge by Representative Tom Allen, a Democrat whose campaign fizzled even as Mr. Obama won the state by a sizable margin. 
 In another, Senator Saxby Chambliss of Georgia appeared to be pulling ahead in his race against Jim Martin, a former state legislator, though it was unclear if Mr. Chambliss would have more than 50 percent of the vote, which he needed to avoid a runoff.
 In South Dakota, Senator Tim Johnson, a Democratic incumbent who nearly died of a brain hemorrhage two years ago, easily won re-election. 
 While Democrats had hoped for an extensive sweep that would leave them with a 60-vote majority in the Senate, giving them the power to cut off filibusters, Congressional leaders and other experts had cautioned that even if they reached that threshold, there was no guarantee they would be able to hold their caucus together on every issue. Liberal Democrats like Senator Russ Feingold of Wisconsin often disagree sharply with more conservative Democrats like Ben Nelson of Nebraska.
 On the other hand, falling two or three votes short of 60 votes would not prevent the majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, from reaching out to moderate Republicans like Senator Olympia J. Snowe of Maine in an effort to bridge the gap. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kay Hagan, who unseated Senator Elizabeth Dole in North Carolina, addressed supporters in her hometown, Greensboro. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEREMY M. LANGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Jeanne Shaheen, leaving the voting booth in Madbury, N.H., defeated Senator John E. Sununu, a first-term Republican. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DARREN MCCOLLESTER/GETTY IMAGES)
 Representative Mark Udall of Colorado is going to the Senate, as is his cousin Representative Tom Udall of New Mexico. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: THE RACES FOR THE U.S. SENATE 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FILIBUSTER (79%); CAUCUSES (79%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (65%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (65%)

PERSON: MARK UDALL (89%); JOHN SUNUNU (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JOHN ENSIGN (79%); MARK WARNER (79%); ELIZABETH DOLE (74%); TOM UDALL (74%); JEANNE SHAHEEN (59%); KAY HAGAN (59%); BERNIE SANDERS (59%); MITCH MCCONNELL (59%); JOE LIEBERMAN (59%); CHARLES SCHUMER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (70%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (58%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (93%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008

 
