

801 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: Terror's Money Trail 

BYLINE:  By William F. Wechsler; William F. Wechsler was director for transnational threats at the National Security Council from 1996 to 1999.

DATELINE: WESTPORT, Conn. 

 BODY:
President Bush has just stepped up efforts against the international financial network that provides the lifeblood for Osama bin Laden and his Al Qaeda terrorist organization. He is setting up an interagency Foreign Terrorist Asset Tracking Center and has signed an executive order to cut off terrorists and their supporters from the United States economy. These are good first steps, but much more will have to be done.
 We should begin by recognizing what we're dealing with. It is wrong to think of Al Qaeda as being financed primarily by Mr. bin Laden. If there were a single source of financing, the problem would be much easier to solve. More important is Al Qaeda's global network of financial donors, Muslim charities, legal and illegal businesses, and underground money transfer businesses. 
 We should also recognize what can't be accomplished by targeting the financial network alone. Such actions will not, by themselves, strike a death blow to Al Qaeda. Here in the United States, we have been going after organized crime's financial network ever since we convicted Al Capone for tax evasion. But organized crime still exists. Nonetheless, by disrupting the criminal financial network, we will force Al Qaeda to take time and money to rebuild it -- and in the process help obstruct terrorist operations.
In the United States, we have strong anti-money-laundering laws and bank regulations. But virtually none of this exists where Al Qaeda raises and moves most of its money -- namely in predominantly Muslim countries where banking systems are underregulated and in the informal hawala banking system that is almost completely unregulated around the globe, including in this country. 
The administration should now make broader use of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, the law cited by President Bush in his executive order. That law allows the federal government to threaten to cut off foreign governments and institutions from the American economy if they do not take action against the Al Qaeda financial network or cooperate in giving the United States information on terrorist financing. 
This strategy was adopted by the Clinton administration after the terrorist attacks on the American embassies in East Africa in 1998, when President Clinton signed similar executive orders against Al Qaeda and the Taliban government in Afghanistan. In some instances, it worked. The efforts helped ground the Afghan national airline, making it harder for Al Qaeda to move resources back and forth from Afghanistan. But over all, we had only limited success. In some cases, foreign governments lacked political will. In other cases, the governments had little ability to help because they had no system to combat money laundering or to audit fund-raising organizations. In the wake of the recent attacks and greater attention to charities that provide direct fund-raising links between Al Qaeda and societies in the Middle East, the Bush administration may be more effective in pressuring other governments. 
Clamping down on terrorists' finances will also require Congress to act. In addition to its powers under existing law, the federal government needs the ability to cut off rogue banks without having to prove publicly a direct connection to terrorists. Unfortunately, a bipartisan bill that would have allowed sanctions against countries and banks that operate as money-laundering havens was stopped last year by Senator Phil Gramm. That bill has been reintroduced this year and new hearings are scheduled for today. The legislation is more necessary now than ever. 
Congress also needs to make sure that we are fighting all forms of terrorist fund-raising at home by expanding anti-money-laundering regulations to cover securities brokers, casinos and the underground hawala system here at home.
Efforts to take down terrorist groups through military actions will probably take longer than we appreciate. Dismantling terrorism's financial network could take even more time -- which is good reason to start now.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (97%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (95%); AL-QAEDA (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MONEY LAUNDERING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATION (86%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); TALIBAN (78%); CHARITIES (78%); HIJACKING (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); MISSING PERSONS (72%); BANKING LAW (70%); WIRE TRANSFERS (69%); TAX FRAUD (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); TAX LAW (66%); AIRLINES (60%) TERRORISM; LAW AND LEGISLATION; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PENTAGON BUILDING; HIJACKING; MONEY LAUNDERING; BANKS AND BANKING; MISSING PERSONS; ASSETS, FROZEN; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (94%); FOREIGN TERRORIST ASSET TRACKING CENTER (84%) ;AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BILL CLINTON (74%) ;BIN LADEN, OSAMA; WECHSLER, WILLIAM F; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AFRICA (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%) UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001 



802 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE WHITE HOUSE; 
Bush Steps Up Appeal to Afghans To Rid Their Country of Taliban

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER and THOM SHANKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 25 

 BODY:
President Bush came close to telling the Afghan people today to overthrow the Taliban government, encouraging them to rid Afghanistan of what he called "an incredibly repressive" administration. 
 Mr. Bush, answering questions at the White House, said the best way to bring those responsible for the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks to justice was "to ask for the cooperation of citizens within Afghanistan who may be tired of having the Taliban in place." 
 But an hour after Mr. Bush spoke, the White House press secretary, Ari Fleischer, interpreted the president's remarks as stopping short of a call for toppling a sovereign state. The planned military action in the region, Mr. Fleischer said, "is not designed to replace one regime with another regime." 
The administration, which has been critical of "nation building" missions for the United States military, appeared to be trying to walk a fine line between increasing pressure on the Taliban, who have given refuge to Osama bin Laden, the accused terrorist, and finding itself enmeshed in an eventual attempt to rebuild the ruined state of Afghanistan under a new government.
Washington has accused Mr. bin Laden and his Al Qaeda network of terrorists of being responsible for the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. Last week, the president said the Taliban had to "hand over the terrorists or they will share their fate."
Since the attacks, the administration has stepped up contacts with the Northern Alliance, a loose anti-Taliban coalition that controls 10 percent of Afghanistan. But any attempt to install the alliance in Kabul would be fiercely opposed by Pakistan, whose support is essential for United States military plans. Page B5. 
The president seemed mindful of that. While calling on Afghans to cooperate against the Taliban, he said he was not interested in creating a government to replace the Taliban should it fall as a result of American military strikes or internal unrest.
"We're not into nation building," he said. "We're focused on justice."
How it would be possible in practice for the United States to engage in military action that might lead to the downfall of a government without taking any interest in its successor was not immediately clear.
In his presidential campaign, Mr. Bush and his advisers dismissed the military and foreign policy goals of the Clinton administration as "nation building," which they characterized as a doomed effort to impose American values on countries unequipped to handle them.
Nevertheless, the question of what happens in Afghanistan if the Taliban falls or if military action drives millions of refugees toward the borders is urgent. But Mr. Bush made it clear today that he was not yet prepared to address that in detail.
His remarks echoed those of his national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, who said on Sunday that the Afghans would be "better off" without the Taliban government.
American military and intelligence officers in the region are working with opposition groups to prepare military action, gather intelligence and pressure the Taliban.
Pentagon planners said today that one concern was that a huge refugee flow out of Afghanistan could undermine the shaky government of neighboring Pakistan, which Washington expects will play a crucial role in any direct action against the Taliban.
Pakistan's situation was among the themes of closed briefings for House and Senate members by Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld this afternoon. Some members who attended said the administration was clearly grappling with the unintended consequences of the military options under consideration.
In a public briefing at the Pentagon, Mr. Rumsfeld picked up those themes and described an impoverished Afghanistan riven by political, military and ethnic rivalries that could undermine the Taliban from within. But he also noted America's responsibility to help ease the suffering of its civilians.
"There are many Afghan people who are being starved, who are fleeing for their lives," Mr. Rumsfeld said, "and it's just a terrible shame, and we have to do everything possible we can from a humanitarian standpoint to see that their lives are made better than they currently are by the Taliban government and by the circumstance they're living in." 
Not all Taliban members agree with its senior leadership's actions for "creating a hospitable environment for Al Qaeda," he said. Among the opposition, the Northern Alliance is engaged in an armed struggle to unseat the Taliban, the secretary said, and tribes in the south might be coaxed into cooperation.
Much of Mr. Rumsfeld's briefing was devoted to describing the complicated campaign against terrorism, a war without a formal opening or ending, and one that will not be without American casualties. The campaign against terrorists who threaten America "will not be an antiseptic war," Mr. Rumsfeld said.
The Pentagon has increased the number of warships and planes in easy striking distance of Afghanistan. But Mr. Rumsfeld's comments and those of other senior officials made it clear that the opening stage of the campaign was highly unlikely to be a decisive bombing or missile attack on Afghan targets or a major ground operation. The emphasis is coordinating strikes with other efforts to squeeze operations, especially with law enforcement to crack terrorist cells and with the drive on Mr. bin Laden's financial network.
The Pentagon also announced today the call-up of additional Reserve and National Guard troops, bringing to 14,000 the number mobilized since the attacks. Mr. Rumsfeld has been authorized to activate up to 50,000 guard and reserve troops.
Also today, Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan pledged his country's support in the fight against terrorism, in contrast to Japan's neutrality in the Persian Gulf war. The Japanese offered intelligence and logistical assistance to the United States, a step that lets Japan stay within the bounds of its postwar constitutional ban on collective self-defense. They also pledged $40 million in aid to Pakistan.
The White House announced that although Mr. Bush will attend the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation Leaders Meeting in Shanghai from Oct. 20 to Oct. 21, as planned, he will not visit Tokyo, Seoul and Beijing.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan, with President Bush in the Rose Garden, pledged his country's support in the fight on terrorism. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (94%); TERRORISM (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COUPS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); REFUGEES (84%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); TRENDS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); IMMIGRATION (64%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (60%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PENTAGON BUILDING; HIJACKING; RESERVES (MILITARY); ASIA PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION LEADERS MEETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; FOREIGN AID; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (59%) ;TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP); NATIONAL GUARD (US) 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BUMILLER, ELISABETH; SHANKER, THOM; BIN LADEN, OSAMA; RUMSFELD, DONALD H (SEC); FLEISCHER, ARI; KOIZUMI, JUNICHIRO (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); JAPAN; AFGHANISTAN; PAKISTAN; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; SOUTH KOREA; CHINA; TOYKO (JAPAN); BEIJING (CHINA); SEOUL (SOUTH KOREA)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001 



803 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: A Nation Challenged 

 BODY:

On the Diplomatic Front

BUSH APPEALS TO AFGHANS
President Bush came close to telling the Afghan people to overthrow the Taliban government, encouraging them to rid Afghanistan of what he called "an incredibly repressive" regime. But an hour after Mr. Bush spoke, the White House press secretary interpreted the president's remarks as stopping short of a call for toppling a sovereign state. A1

RIPPLES IN THE U.S. COALITION
Pakistan made clear it would oppose any plan to couple an American-led military thrust into Afghanistan with moves for a new government to replace the Taliban. B5

A VIEW FROM THE REBEL CAMP
The foreign minister of Afghanistan's rebel coalition says the United States should coordinate attacks with the rebel alliance. B4

SAUDI TIES WITH TALIBAN CUT
Saudi Arabia announced that it was severing diplomatic ties with the Taliban government of Afghanistan. B5

A PRICE FOR RUSSIAN SUPPORT
In an indication of the price Western nations may be ready to pay for Russian support against terrorism, Gerhard Schroder, the German chancellor, said the world should moderate its view of Moscow's actions in Chechnya. B6

A MISSION TO IRAN
Britain's foreign secretary, Jack Straw, met senior Iranian leaders as part of a flurry of diplomacy aimed at gaining cooperation and perhaps intelligence from Iran. B5

Fallout From the Attacks

A BAN ON ONE-PASSENGER CARS
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said that because of traffic jams that have spread for miles as a result of security checks, police would begin barring cars with only one occupant from entering Midtown and Lower Manhattan on weekday mornings. A1

NEW YORK JOB LOSS WILL BE STEEP
More than 100,000 people who have worked in New York City probably will find themselves unemployed, at least temporarily, as a result of the World Trade Center disaster, according to federal and state government estimates. B8

CHECKING WATER SUPPLIES
Cities and states are reassessing the safety of their drinking water, probing for weaknesses and shoring up defenses in what experts consider the unlikely event of a terrorist attack on water supplies. Yet experts say any threat to public water supplies remains largely remote. B7

The Investigation

WERE DIFFERENT ATTACKS PLANNED?
About 20 of the people arrested after the Sept. 11 attacks had obtained or tried to obtain special driver's licenses allowing them to transport explosives, poisons or other types of hazardous materials, federal officials said. The authorities are investigating whether these men may have been part of a terrorist plot. A1

SOME PEOPLE ARE RELEASED
Two weeks into the biggest manhunt in history, federal authorities have released several people. B3

A THREAT TO WORLD LEADERS
The president of Egypt and the deputy prime minister of Italy have both said that they were aware of a threat from Osama bin Laden's network of Islamic terrorists to kill President Bush and other leaders of the industrialized world when they met at a summit meeting in Genoa in July. B1

POSSIBLE LINK TO AL QAEDA
German investigators said that they believe there are links between two of the terrorists who carried out this month's attack on the United States and the Osama bin Laden organization, Al Qaeda. B2

TALIBAN SAID TO USE DRUG MONEY
The Taliban government in Afghanistan has earned tens of millions of dollars from the export of heroin and other narcotics since it proclaimed last year that it was putting an end to opium poppy cultivation, American officials say. B4

A CHARITY TAKES UMBRAGE
In ever needy Afghanistan, Al Rashid Trust is one of the biggest doers of good deeds. Among the destitute, this Islamic charity is considered a blessing, and so it was hardly surprising that the organization took umbrage at being included on President Bush's list of suspected Islamic terrorist groups and individuals whose assets should be frozen. B2

The Nation's Response

SKEPTICISM TOWARD ARMING PILOTS
The president of a pilots' union testified that his members should be allowed to take an FBI training course and be deputized as federal law enforcement officers, which would let them carry guns in the cockpit. But the idea drew skepticism from some other aviation experts and members of Congress. B7

PILOTS ON THE OFFENSIVE
After decades of training to respond passively to hijackers' demands, pilots and their employers are now adopting a more aggressive stance as potential soldiers in America's new war. B1

A MYSTERIOUS, ELITE UNIT
Unexplained disappearances of young men in communites near Fort Bragg leads to speculation that special forces units are being deployed. B1

A NEW NAME FOR MISSION
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld renamed the war against terrorism "Operation Enduring Freedom." The original title, "Operation Infinite Justice," was scratched for upsetting Islamic sensibilities. B3

The Nation's Mood

SKITTISH SKIES
For air travelers and flight crews, there seems to be no such thing as an overreaction in the days since Sept. 11. B7

VISIONS FOR REBUILDING
Even as the grief continues over the destruction of the World Trade Center, proposals are coming in on what the site and the city around it should become. B1

EAGER ASSISTANCE FOR VICTIMS
Inside the Family Assistance Center at Pier 94, where bereaved relatives and surviving workers of the World Trade Center attacks are being urged to seek help, it is as though the welfare state had stumbled into paradise. B9

REPRIEVE FOR A SQUAD
The New York Fire Department decides against disbanding Squad 1 in Brooklyn, which lost 12 of its 27 firefighters in the Sept. 11 attack. B10

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); AL-QAEDA (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (69%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (69%); WATER QUALITY (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); ARRESTS (64%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORT (60%); RELIGION (50%); DRIVERS LICENSES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); JACK STRAW (56%); GERHARD SCHRODER (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); EGYPT (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001 



804 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: THE NEW YORK PRIMARY: VOICES; 
A Shift in the Ritual, and Meaning, of Voting

BYLINE:  By MIRTA OJITO

 BODY:
Marjorie Severence, from Queens, voted in a primary election yesterday for the first time in her life. She is 67, and said it just felt urgent and relevant to vote now.
 But Monica Watson, 29, from Brooklyn, did not go to the polls, because to spend time electing a leader no longer seemed important to her. 
 David Stypmann, at 63, a lifelong Democrat from Manhattan, was surprised to find himself writing Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's name on the ballot. 
All over the city yesterday, from Forest Hills to Flatbush to SoHo, the decisions New Yorkers made to go to the polls, or not to go, and even whom to vote for, seemed to be fueled by perceptions, attitudes and opinions forged in the last 14 days, since the attack on the World Trade Center.
Voting became an act of defiance, a way of saying "this is still who we are," said Margaret Manos, a freelance editor in Battery Park City. Or it became a painful rite, a way to carry on while everything else, from personal security to economic stability, seemed so uncertain and remote.
"I still have a lot of questions about this election," said Robin Bergstrom, a lawyer who voted in Park Slope, Brooklyn, shortly before 8 a.m. "But it's important to me to look back at this moment and have the history books report that, despite what happened, New York had one of the biggest turnouts ever. If we've learned nothing else from the attacks, it's that we've taken our freedoms and our right to vote for granted for too long. They really matter."
John Camacho, a consultant on international joint ventures, said he had voted on Sept. 11, but that doing so again yesterday felt more meaningful.
"I have always voted," said Mr. Camacho, 36, "but it has a little bit more meaning now. It's more of a calling now, to continue on, to not let things change, to not panic or heed to the terror."
Even those who voted for the candidate they had chosen before Sept. 11 said that, in sticking to plans they had made before the attack, they were making a political choice not to allow outside events change their cherished views.
"I don't buy into nationalism or patriotism," said Nina Lavin, a jewelry designer who lives seven blocks north of the World Trade Center and saw the towers collapse from her windows. "But I do respect our Constitution and I'm not going to allow anyone to push the panic buttons for me and tell me the only man for the job is Rudy Giuliani."
Decisions did not come easy yesterday. Some people were anxious, confused and even angry that they were being asked to choose a new leader so soon after the destruction of the twin towers. 
"I came out early this morning, hoping that showing up would help me make up my mind about who to vote for," said Bonnie Boyle, a 42-year-old caterer, who intended to vote before going to work yesterday. "But I still can't decide. I'm just not ready."
Ms. Boyle, a Democrat who lives in the Kensington section of Brooklyn, said she planned to return to the polling place after work, once she has had time to scan news articles about each of the candidates.
"I have a lot of reading to do," she said. "I don't want to just vote for anyone. I want my vote to count." 
Still others found themselves making choices that they would never have thought possible two weeks ago. 
For almost 30 years, David Stypmann, who owns an antiques shop in SoHo, has voted for Democrats in New York City elections. He says he has little patience for Republican candidates and no tolerance for politically conservative people.
But on Monday, on the eve of the primary election, Mr. Stypmann happened to watch the "Late Show With David Letterman," which he says he never does.
The first guest that night was Mr. Giuliani, who talked about rebuilding and carrying on. It made Mr. Stypmann cry.
"He was so humble, so human," he said. "I've never been a fan of the man, but I was overwhelmed by his words."
Yesterday, Mr. Stypmann wrote Mr. Giuliani's name on his election ballot.
Anthony Rainey, 39, a graduate student of anthropology who lives in the West Village, was astonished that, for the first time ever, he voted for two people in the same election in the span of two weeks.
On Sept. 11, the day the primary election was supposed to take place, Mr. Rainey voted for Mark Green, a Democrat. When terrorists crashed two passenger planes into the trade center, Mr. Rainey's wife, a bond trader, lost scores of colleagues. Nothing has been the same since, he said.
So yesterday, wearing a red, white and blue ribbon on the lapel of his jacket, Mr. Rainey went to the polls to write in Mr. Giuliani's name.
"I've been struggling with this decision a lot today," Mr. Rainey said. "It's not something I take lightly and it is not a symbolic gesture. In times of war and crisis, laws ought to be changed for the benefit of the citizens."
Angry about all the talk of a third Giuliani term, Sandra Cergeant woke up early and cast her vote for Mr. Green. 
"It's not fair that he would even consider using this tragedy to seek another term," said Ms. Cergeant, 41, a paralegal from Canarsie. "I don't think he's done anything exceptional, besides what is already his job as mayor. He rose to the occasion. That's what leaders are supposed to do. Why should we be asked to change the law to suit one person? That's not democracy. He had his turn. Now it's time for someone new to rise."
For Liz Savage, 40, a waitress, the election has become an incomprehensible puzzle.
She is a New York native who has lived in Greenwich Village for 10 years, but she decided not to vote yesterday because she could not make up her mind. All of a sudden, the job of mayor became so crucial for the city that, she said, none of the candidates were qualified to take it on.
"Rather than make an uneducated guess, I decided not to vote," she said. "Guessing doesn't seem very fair in this particular election."
Jo Ann Morris, a 52-year-old retired manager who lives in the Bronx, said she could not understand people who did not vote in this election, which she considered pivotal for the city. She voted for Fernando Ferrer, the Bronx Borough president.
"We have to keep going," she said. "And I have to have my say."
But in a stark illustration of how torn voters were yesterday, Mrs. Morris said that her husband, a retired correction officer, chose not to vote. He had grown disenchanted with the candidates, she said, even though he had planned on casting his vote before the attack on the World Trade Center.
"He stayed home," she said. "No one on the list stood out."

CORRECTION-DATE: September 27, 2001

 CORRECTION:
Because of a production error, the opening page of The Metro Section yesterday, with an article about the mood of voters, omitted a full name in some copies for a 42-year-old Brooklyn caterer who was still researching her decision on Primary Day. She is Bonnie Boyle. 
The opening section of an article about the results of the Nassau County primary election was also omitted from some copies. It is available on the Web at www.nytimes.com/pages/nyregion /metrocampaigns.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At polling places all over the city, including Public School 84 in Queens, the decisions New Yorkers made were affected by perceptions forged since the attack on the World Trade Center. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (73%); JEWELRY (50%); JOINT VENTURES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001 



805 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: HUMAN NATURE; 
Fertile Soil For New Crop Of Farmers

BYLINE:  By ANNE RAVER

DATELINE: BURLINGTON, Vt. 

 BODY:
WHEN Will Raap came here 20 years ago, he was an urban planner looking for a city that hadn't forgotten its farms. Growing up in Fremont, Calif., he lived near fruit farms. "Now, it's all malled," he said. "There are no farms left."
 The first time Mr. Raap, 52, saw the Intervale, a fertile 700-acre flood plain here, it had become a dumping ground for junked cars and old washing machines. One lone farmer, Rena Calkins, then in her 80's, herded cows up the lane in her old pickup. 
 All that has changed. Leading the way through a patchwork of lush gardens early this month, Mr. Raap described how the Intervale got back in the business of producing food for this city of 40,000 -- living proof that crops can be raised without chemicals while reviving a way of life so rare it draws tourists.
Burlington is home to an economically and socially diverse community, which includes the University of Vermont and high-tech companies, as well as immigrants from Asia, Bosnia and Sudan, who arrived in the last decade. A third of the city's households have incomes of less than $25,000.
"For us, the Intervale is about food, energy and enterprise," Mr. Raap said. He noted that the United States is "consuming five or ten times our share of the world's resources," and said that sustainable agriculture -- community-based farming, which emphasizes recycling and de-emphasizes petrochemicals -- could go a long way toward teaching Americans to save resources.
At a harvest fair on Sept. 8, Mr. Raap savored fish and chips made with fresh-dug organic potatoes and fish raised in a greenhouse environment designed by John Todd, a biologist at the university. Mr. Todd has devised ways to use plants and biological organisms to clean waste and raise produce. His greenhouse at the Intervale raises warm-water fish and hydroponic tomatoes. With projects like this, "no one is going to become a millionaire," Mr. Raap said, "but it might all be sustainable." Along with City Hall, which provides land and other help, the Intervale runs an incubator farmers' program to train farmers, some of them raising Asian vegetables, and some distributing free food to the needy.
In the mid-1970's Mr. Raap spent time with E. F. Schumacher, the small-is-beautiful economist, and also lived at Findhorn, the alternative community in northern Scotland -- "a crazy quilt of musicians, artists and planners trying to build an ecological community with their own food and their own energy," Mr. Raap said. Findhorn, he noted, was "a response to the energy crisis and an early reaction to globalization." He met his wife, Lynette Navez, there. 
When the couple got to Burlington, they saw opportunity where others saw sludge being dumped on abandoned fields, a wood-burning power plant belching steam into the air and a deserted slaughterhouse. Bernie Sanders, a Brooklyn-born socialist, had just been elected mayor. Ben Cohen and Jerry Greenfield had set up their first ice cream shop across from City Hall. 
In 1983, Mr. Raap founded the Gardener's Supply mail-order company. Two years later, when the Burlington Electric Company put out a call for proposals for uses of its waste steam heat, he unsuccessfully proposed piping it into new greenhouses. He did succeed, however, in getting a community development grant for another idea: a compost operation on city-owned land, to turn yard and food waste, spent grain from breweries in the area and milk curds from Ben & Jerry's factories into black gold. 
The compost project took off, and so did Gardener's Supply, with sales last year of $45 million. In 1988, Mr. Raap began the Intervale Foundation, which is supported with about 10 percent of Gardener's Supply's profits. The foundation provides technical assistance and below-market rents on land and equipment and has helped about 20 farmers strike out on their own.
Ann-Elise Johnson, 24, a first-year farmer in the program, has 100 hens in a big pen she moves every week to a fresh section of her rented pasture. Last week, they were greedily pecking at a pile of over-ripe red and yellow tomatoes from Maggie's Tomato Patch, another farm in the Intervale. "If everyone starts to buy locally, we could start conserving energy and improve the local economy," she said.
The foundation also recycles profits from the compost operation, which yields 9,000 tons of compost a year and $60,000 for training new farmers. In a collaboration with Mr. Todd, farmers are also experimenting with things like growing mushrooms on spent grain and raising perch and bait fish on red worms raised on food waste. The foundation supplies about $700,000 worth of food, distributing 20,000 pounds a year to low-income families, said David Lane, the executive director.
And now it has plans for Eco-park, a $3 million complex resembling a crystal palace, to harness at last the power plant's waste steam, heating greenhouselike buildings on 300 acres of city-owned land. The city helped arrange a $1 million Economic Development Administration federal grant for construction, scheduled to begin in the spring. Eco-park will provide low-cost space to food-related businesses. In a closed loop, Vermont Soy could make tofu from organic soybeans grown at the Intervale, Mr. Lane said. The waste from the tofu production could be fed to red worms, which in turn could feed the fish.
Resource conservation is already a driving principle. Erik Wells, another beginning farmer, showed off lightweight portable hoop houses, which are used to raise chickens at the Intervale. "We get them to fresh pasture, where they can eat grubs and get fresh air and sunlight," he said. Before slaughter, the chickens also fertilize the fields.
On a gorgeous day in nearby Starksboro, Julie Rubaud and Eric Rozendaal, graduates of the incubator program, were talking about their new 108-acre farm. Mr. Rozendaal tossed a rutabaga from hand to hand as he recalled the drought that frizzled his carrot seedlings and the worries of getting his crew to pick fast enough. "When I'm out in this field in the summer, I wonder, Why do I want to do this?" he said. "But on a day like this, I start thinking about next year."

GRAPHIC: Photos: PAY DIRT -- Erik Wells, above, studied farming at the Intervale Foundation; right, visitors learn organic methods at the demonstration gardens there.; THE PRODUCERS -- Eric Rozendaal and Julie Rubaud on their Starksboro, Vt., farm; left, Will Raap, father of the Intervale Foundation. (Photographs by Paul O. Boisvert for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); AGRICULTURE (78%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (78%); FRUIT & NUT FARMING (78%); ORGANIC FOODS (77%); FOOD CHARITIES (74%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (70%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (69%); QUILTS & QUILTING (69%); PETROCHEMICALS (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); GLOBALIZATION (64%); FISHES (63%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); SCOTLAND (70%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



806 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: STATE OF THE ART; 
Cellphones For a Song, Just in Case

BYLINE:  By David Pogue 

 BODY:
THE malls of America are a lot less crowded these days. But there's one fascinating exception: phone centers, which are doing a thriving business. 
 Many of the new customers are what cellphone companies call glovebox users -- people who have no intention of walking around downtown with a handset grafted to their temples but who simply want to keep a phone in the glove compartment for emergency use. In the new national mood of vulnerability, a lot of people are grasping for whatever straws of security they can find. 
 Not all of them are phone shopping in anticipation of another skyline-changing cataclysm, of course. But "just in case" and "be prepared" have more urgent meanings these days, even if the emergencies are the same ones that have always made cellphones attractive: car breakdowns, power failures in cordless-phone-only homes, orchestrating pickups of children. Nor is the cellphone useful only when it's your own emergency. When you're a witness to an accident or crime, the cellphone lets you fulfill your civic duty by calling for help. (On any cellphone, 911 calls are free and never use up monthly minutes.) 
For many cell-less Americans, the greatest impediment to signing up for a phone is the cost. Monthly cellphone fees average $45 and can run as high as $200. With a little digging, however, it's possible to uncover much more economical deals for the infrequent user.
Here, for example, is a pleasant loophole that may surprise you: Any cellphone that ever had service in the past, even a dusty, deactivated one, can still call 911. In other words, you can equip yourself with a genuine-emergency lifeline for next to nothing. All you have to do is get your hands on one of the 25 million retired cellphones rattling around in this country's junk drawers. (If you don't have access to such a drawer, at a friend's house or even your own, used cellphones are going for about $20 on eBay.)
But not every kind of emergency requires the attention of the fire, police and rescue squads. When you're lost on the way to a wedding, or you're running late, or Blockbuster doesn't have the movie your spouse sent you to pick up, the number you ache to dial may not be 911.
In these cases, you need a less limited emergency phone. The key to spending very little in this category is the prepaid cellphone. Under this arrangement, you pay for service by the minute, not by the month. You buy minutes in advance, usually in $25 to $100 chunks, either by calling a toll-free number with a credit card or by buying a refill card at a phone center or convenience store and plugging its code into your phone. Only in America do people ask, "Honey, can you run to the 7-Eleven and pick up a Slushee and some minutes?"
Once you own those minutes, you have 60 or 90 days to use them. At that point, any unused minutes expire, and your phone lies dormant until you buy another refill. There's one exception: if you buy a refill before your minutes die, they are reborn, joining the newly purchased minutes for another 60 or 90 days. (Apparently a cellphone just isn't a cellphone unless it's accompanied by rules so complicated you have to read them one syllable at a time.) 
Prepaid calling plans have a tarnished reputation, partly because you wind up paying much more per minute than you would on a monthly plan -- usually 15 to 35 cents, depending on how much you spend on each refill. Because no credit check or even ID check is involved, prepaid phones are also favorites of drug dealers and other seamy types. Nonetheless, they can be a terrific value for the glovebox user.
You can buy TracFone's phone-in-a-box, for example, for as little as $20 (after rebate) at almost any electronics or computer store, online or off. Then the fun begins.
If you care about keeping a single phone number for incoming calls, you must feed your TracFone a steady diet of refill cards, which you can buy every month or two ($8 to $100 per card, good for 10 to 300 minutes) or one $100 card per year (good for 100 minutes). A moment alone with a calculator will show those minutes to be staggeringly expensive -- up to 80 cents each. Note, too, that TracFone relies on the older analog cell network, meaning that you don't get caller ID, three-way calling or the other digital extras. (Digital TracFones are coming soon.) On the other hand, you have a working cellphone for as little as $96 a year -- putting you well ahead of the $240 annual bill, plus steep taxes, you'd pay for the least expensive traditional plan. (AT&T's prepaid phone service costs about the same -- four $25 refill cards can keep your phone in service for the whole year, which works out to a more reasonable 35 cents a minute.)
But you can save even more money. Both AT&T and TracFone give you a grace period (6 weeks and 16 weeks, respectively) after you've let your minutes expire without buying new ones, during which you still maintain your phone number. Only after that does AT&T or TracFone close your account. 
With a little effort, then, the emergency-use-only customer can play a very economical game. Buy a $20 TracFone, for example, and an $8 refill card. Wait out the four-month grace period before buying another $8 refill, which keeps you in the game for another four months. This routine involves monitoring the phone's display, which shows you how many minutes you have left and when you must buy another card to avoid having your account closed. But three cards can last the entire year. After buying the phone, you'll pay only $25 per year for a bona fide cellphone that's there when you need it. 
But the least expensive cellphone plan of all awaits those who don't care about maintaining the same phone number. Buy a TracFone or one of AT&T's Free2Go prepaid phones ($100, including a digital Nokia phone and $50 of minutes -- about two hours' worth). Don't buy any minutes, ever. Eventually, AT&T or TracFone will close your account and give away your old phone number, but that's no big deal. When an emergency arises, you can pull the phone out of the glove compartment, call AT&T or TracFone toll-free and buy some minutes on the spot, thus reactivating your account (albeit with a new phone number). Presto: you have the freedom to call anywhere in a pinch. And if that day never arrives, you haven't paid a nickel for cellphone service.
All that may sound like a lot of effort to save a few bucks, and the phone companies are understandably unenthusiastic about this scheme (while admitting that it's perfectly legal). But hey, time is money.
The final alternative is signing up for a traditional pay-by-the-month contract. Every carrier offers one rock-bottom, brutally restrictive $20-per-month program. For New Yorkers, the best $20 deal is VoiceStream's Northeast Neighborhood plan, which offers 60 weekday minutes and 500 weekend minutes for calls to 10 states, northern Virginia and Washington. 
Caveat caller: Before you sign up for any cellphone plan, confirm that the carrier serves your area. If you travel, ask how much you'll pay for roaming (using the phone outside your home region or outside the carrier's own network). Ask about long-distance calls, which, in the bottom-tier price plans, sometimes carry a steep surcharge. Also ask what happens if you ditch your carrier before a year is up (you usually get socked with a $150 to $200 fee).
Finally, note that many glovebox users find that having a cellphone for emergency use is like keeping a bowl of chocolates on the kitchen table "for guests." Sooner or later, you won't be able to resist dipping in. 
Fortunately, you're free to upgrade or downgrade your cellphone plan at any time, without charge. You can even convert a prepaid phone into one with a monthly contract, if it comes to that. So if you buy a phone for emergency use but wind up becoming addicted to its convenience, you wouldn't be the first. You're safe either way.

GRAPHIC: Photo: FILL 'ER UP -- TracFone offers refill cards, much like conventional calling cards, that allow cellphone users to buy service by the minute or the year, for as little as $8 a card. (pg. G7) Drawing (Stuart Goldenberg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (94%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (92%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (66%); PREPAID WIRELESS (60%); POWER FAILURES (53%); CONVENIENCE STORES (50%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; CELLULAR TELEPHONES 

PERSON: POGUE, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



807 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: Designers Look Beyond Debris 

BYLINE:  By JULIE V. IOVINE

 BODY:
ON Tuesday night, an impressive sampling of New York architectural talent streamed into the Great Hall at the Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art to share grief, locate friends and discuss how not to be left out of the rebuilding process in downtown Manhattan. For these architects, engineers and design professors, Sept. 11 was both a tragedy and a call to take a creative stand. 
 Some recounted fleeing office buildings near the World Trade Center that had caught fire or standing in the center's eerily quiet plaza watching falling debris. Others leaped ahead to new visions for the 16-acre plot now known as ground zero. 
 The gathering, co-sponsored by the Architectural League and the Cooper Union, attracted a near-capacity crowd of about 700 designers. While the World Trade Center was the main theme, the 21 official speakers did not limit themselves to a discussion of whether to focus on building a memorial or new skyscrapers. The entire process of building in New York must be challenged, they said. 
With politicians, developers and business leaders already considering ways to fill the void, most speakers made passionate bids to slow down and rethink all assumptions about reshaping the site.
"We do not dignify the dead nor fight the enemies of peace by denying that something has shifted, by rushing out to spend again, by fantasizing about 150-story towers that will take an additional hour to evacuate when the next disaster strikes," said Michael Sorkin, an architect and urban planner. There were some concrete suggestions. Diane Lewis, an architect and professor at the Cooper Union, proposed that the blasted site house an international institute against terrorism, possibly built with the rubble from the ruined towers. 
Another architect, Susana Torre, dismissed the idea of holding a design competition, as many expect, in favor of giving a commission outright to Frank Gehry to design a new "world arts center."
Several architects voiced concern that in the rush to rebuild, due process -- especially community reviews and zoning -- would be swept away. On the other hand, Ms. Lewis said, the rebuilding process could promote "a new sobriety" that would lead to a more egalitarian urbanism and an architectural sensibility devoid of brash image-making.
For now, any discussion about rebuilding is strictly speculative. And construction will have to wait for the removal of tons of debris from the site and surrounding blocks, a process that most estimates suggest will take about a year. In the meantime, New York's design institutions are developing their own ways to respond, interpret and offer salve in the aftermath of the attack.
The Municipal Art Society, in conjunction with City Lore, has commissioned Martha Cooper, a photographer, to capture images of the memorials and tributes that have flowered across the city, from the American flags sprouting on the statue of George Washington in Union Square to the candlelit testaments to the missing along the Promenade in Brooklyn Heights. The show of photographs will open at the society on Oct. 19.
A period of mourning should precede any consideration of new plans for the site, said officials of several design institutions. "The first order of the day is to memorialize and to do things that recognize the loss," said Frank Sanchis, executive director of the Municipal Art Society. "We feel things are moving too fast. We're put off and frightened by all the announcements of commissions and building the towers back up. It just hasn't sunk in."
The society does plan to support several memorial projects, including the so-called Towers of Light project by the architects Gustavo Bonevardi and John Bennett collaborating with the artists Paul Myoda and Julian LaVerdiere and the Creative Time arts organization, which will use light projections to recreate the twin towers as ghostly apparitions.
The Skyscraper Museum, whose gallery space at 110 Maiden Lane has been taken over by the emergency headquarters of the Small Businesses Administration, is assembling two exhibitions on the history of the construction of the World Trade Center. The first will open in the next few weeks in a vacant ground floor space at 1 Battery Park Plaza. Designed to be viewed primarily from the street, the exhibition features an 18-minute film of the towers being built. 
In February, the museum will open a second show, at the New- York Historical Society. A lecture series on the World Trade Center that the Skyscraper Museum was developing to celebrate its acquisition of the center's archives will not take place: the archives were destroyed.
Other design institutions are not altering their lineup of events but are considering subtle alterations and shifts of emphasis to shows already in the works. Some have taken on a grim relevance. At the Museum of Modern Art, Paola Antonelli, a design curator, was already at work for eight months on "Emergency," an exhibition of products, Ms. Antonelli said, designed to deal with crisis situations, from emergency room surgical instruments to firetrucks to safety instructions. "These are objects and graphic designs where there is absolutely no room for anything superfluous," Ms. Antonelli said, noting that there was as yet no date scheduled for the exhibition. "I want to show the public in some visceral way the importance of design in the real world," she said.
The Van Alen Institute, a nonprofit organization that promotes public architecture, plans to stage a show in December on how cities like Sarajevo, Oklahoma City, Berlin and Kobe, Japan, have rebuilt in the wake of both human-induced and natural disasters.
Recent events have rendered parts of some exhibitions obsolete. At the Cooper Hewitt National Design Museum, Donald Albrecht, a curator, is reconsidering some of the installations for a show on hotels that is scheduled to open in October 2002. A commission for Hani Rashid and Lise Anne Couture of Asymptote to design their vision of a hotel airbus will go ahead, but an artist's conceptual vision of a Japanese-style capsule hotel inserted into a scale model of an atomic bomb will not. "Some projects that seemed clever a few weeks ago now seem utterly inappropriate," Mr. Albrecht said. "People are going to become more sensitive to things that they perceive are irreverent or irrelevant."
Architects and designers interviewed over the last few days anticipate a new mood of seriousness and a fuller social consciousness in their work and others. The new sobriety had begun to surface even before Sept. 11 as a deteriorating economy caused projects to shrink and become more tightly focused. "There's an intensity to a 3,000-square-foot job where you have to clarify and hone your skills," said Alan Wanzenberg, an architect. "It's kind of great." Mr. Wanzenberg, whose partner Jed Johnson died in TWA Flight 800 off Long Island in 1996, said that he believed that in times of stress people looked for comfort in more formal, less abstract design solutions. "We may well start seeing people wanting more explicit, softer and more traditional images in design and art," Mr. Wanzenberg said.
Karim Rashid, an industrial designer in New York, was not so much changing his tack in response to recent events as finding new applications. David Shearer, owner of the design store Totem, noted that a coming line of Mr. Rashid's disposable cardboard furniture would be easy to transport in case of emergency. And a new line of clothes designed with Pia Myrvold of Cybercouture, a fashion designer, will be made with an electroluminescent material that will make it easy to locate people in the dark. "Design should take the new world into consideration," Mr. Shearer said. "It needs to be stronger, more straightforward and utilitarian, not just decorative." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: A TIME TO CREATE -- A rendering of "Towers of Light" by John Bennett, Gustavo Bonevardi, Julian LaVerdiere and Paul Myoda. (pg. F8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); ZONING (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); TERRORISM (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



808 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1571 words

HEADLINE: Art for Sale, but Will Anyone Be Buying?; 
In Attack Aftermath, Traditionally Lucrative Fall Season Faces Uncertainty

BYLINE:  By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
In the months leading up to the $500 million fall art season there's always uncertainty, but not since the Persian Gulf war has there been anything like this. In the wake of the terrorist attacks, collectors, dealers and auction house officials are coping with personal and financial losses. There have also been last-minute postponements of major shows and disruptions of shipping and travel plans.
 Every corner of the art world is in turmoil because of its close links to the economy and consumer confidence. But no one knows whether the market will freeze or investors with cash will see art and antiques as safe places to put their money. 
 Those who have been around the art world recall other difficult times: the recession of the early 1970's, when prices for every kind of collectible plummeted; the period after Black Monday in 1987, when, buoyed by the Japanese economy, prices of everything from diamonds to Impressionist paintings leaped to unimaginable heights; the gulf war, when distress sales dominated the market but nobody had an appetite for buying art. 
"This is a particularly tricky time -- we've never seen anything quite like it," said Christopher Burge, Christie's honorary chairman in America, a 31-year veteran of auction houses and the company's principal auctioneer. "This is a shock. We've seen hard times when tangibles like art became a safe haven because people were frightened of other markets, but we've also seen times when art buying froze. It's really too early to tell." 
Ordinarily, this is the season when the art world revs up again after the summer doldrums: galleries and museums buzz with people flocking to see new shows; auction house experts make their last pushes to get property to sell in their fall auctions. They also romance collectors with lunches and dinners that are private previews of the best of the coming sales.
But this year the fate of those November sales -- the multimillion-dollar Impressionist, modern and contemporary art auctions that attract dealers and collectors from all over the world -- is the subject of much speculation. Dealers are secretly betting there will be bargains. Sellers are hoping that the world will be a happier place by then and that people will feel like buying art.
The three major auction houses are fretting about the financial investments they made in artworks months ago. If the art market nosedives, Sotheby's and Christie's could be severely tested, but it is third-place Phillips, which has invested millions in guarantees to sellers, that has the most to lose.
Show organizers are also very vulnerable. With the Seventh Regiment Armory, at Park Avenue and 66th Street, restricted to military use, the organizers of the International Fine Art and Antique Dealers Show, Anna and Brian Haughton, went to Sotheby's and arranged to use the auction house's 10th floor next month. Most of the 72 dealers from here and abroad were so outraged that they pulled out of the show, saying that doing a fair at the York Avenue auction house would be "sleeping with the enemy." They also feared that the move from Park Avenue to York, from a ground floor space to the 10th floor, would significantly reduce traffic at the show. 
Last weekend in Chelsea, that densely packed swath of Lower Manhattan where contemporary art galleries are clustered cheek to jowl, the streets seemed as crowded as usual for a Saturday in September. But the atmosphere was different. Many people said that they were tired of watching the news, that they wanted to get out of the house. "There may be a lot of people about, but are they buying?" asked Henry Allsopp, a dealer at Dickinson Roundell, whose galleries are in New York and London. "I don't think so."
Michael and Susan Hort, TriBeca collectors, were methodically perusing all the new shows. "You're looking at all this beautiful art, but in the back of your mind you're thinking: 'What's the latest news? What's next?' " Mr. Hort said. "I don't think people feel like buying; there's just too much uncertainty. I don't know anybody who hasn't been financially affected by this. We were, big time."
Matthew Marks, a Chelsea dealer, said he decided to go ahead with his opening of shows by two young artists, Darren Almond and Hellen van Meene, last Friday. Although he admitted he was nervous, his two galleries were packed. "I had one client call me last week and say he wanted to buy something to cheer him up. But I also had one big sale canceled." 
Dealers for the most part say they are wary of approaching clients who don't come to them first. "I wouldn't dream of offering anything to my American clients because I think it would be crass," said Lowell Libson, a London dealer.
David Nash, a Madison Avenue dealer who ran Sotheby's Impressionist and modern art department for 20 years, remembers that during the gulf war some of his clients said they just didn't think it was right to be seen spending money in public. "But that changed," he said.
Donald Rubell, a Miami collector, says life has to go on. "I'm like one of those overeaters who can't stop," he said. "There's not a time when I don't feel like buying art."
Robert Mnuchin, who founded C&M Arts, a gallery on the Upper East Side, eight years ago after retiring as a partner of Goldman, Sachs, said he hadn't seen much traffic in his gallery since Sept. 11, and he wonders if this is a market correction or a slowdown. "You can't make predictions," he said. "Everything is on hold right now."
Sotheby's and Christie's moved their September sales of Asian art by a month, to Oct. 15. "People just couldn't get here," said William Ruprecht, chief executive of Sotheby's. Mr. Ruprecht also had to cancel several traveling exhibitions scheduled for last week because of cutbacks in airline schedules and security concerns.
"We physically couldn't get things there," he said. "We have a responsibility to protect the art we sell and to protect our people."
But officials at both Sotheby's and Christie's said they were planning to go ahead with future traveling exhibitions. As for October's schedule, which normally includes jewelry and furniture sales, Phillips is the only house that has postponed its jewelry sale until December.
Individual sellers are being cautious, too. The seasoned Los Angeles collector and dealer Irving Blum has postponed selling a 1960's sculpture by Donald Judd that was to have been included in Christie's November sale; it will now be sold in May. 
On the other hand, the television and theater producer Douglas S. Cramer intends to go ahead with a sale of 31 works of contemporary art by modern masters like Jasper Johns, Roy Lichtenstein and Ellsworth Kelly, worth between $15 million and $22 million, which Sotheby's plans to sell on Nov. 14.
"I would really be worried if this was art from the last five years," Mr. Cramer said. "But these are works from the 1950's, 60's, 70's and 80's. People have to do something with their money. In times of revolution and unrest, they tend to buy gold and collectibles." 
Mr. Cramer himself doesn't have much to be worried about. Sotheby's has given him a guarantee -- an undisclosed sum promised to the seller regardless of a sale's outcome.
Of the three auction houses, Phillips, which reinvented itself to compete with Sotheby's and Christie's, occupies the most precarious position. Its sale of more than $100 million worth of early 20th-century French and German paintings and sculptures from the estate of the Los Angeles collectors Nathan and Marion Smooke is a gamble, since Phillips has given the Smooke heirs a guarantee, believed by art experts to be around $180 million. If the market freezes and nobody buys art, it could mean more financial losses for the struggling auction house.
Phillips's parent company, LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, has already posted losses in recent months. There are also reports from people close to Phillips that $8 million worth of contemporary art has been withdrawn from its contemporary art sale by sellers in recent days. But Simon de Pury, the company's chairman, said he had had some consignments since Sept. 11.
"I even had one seller who called to say he wanted some of the proceeds of his sale to go to a relief fund," Mr. de Pury said.
Christie's is trumpeting a sale whose entire proceeds will to charity. The Gaffe Collection, a sale of $40 million worth of modern masters on Nov. 6, may skyrocket in a way it might not have before Sept. 11. Not only is it first-rate material, but all the proceeds go to Unicef, the United Nations Children's Fund.
Sanford Smith, the Manhattan show organizer, is planning to donate one day's admission fees for each of his three shows in November to funds for the survivors of firefighters and police officers.
Mr. Smith's fairs are scheduled to take place at the Seventh Regiment Armory. Until he hears to the contrary, he said, he is going ahead as planned, his first show, the Print Fair, opening on Nov. 1.
"The income from the Park Avenue armory supports approximately 60 percent of the total state budget for all the armories," Mr. Smith said. "I can't see how they can afford to keep it shut. The city and state will lose more than $100 million a year in revenue spent by exhibitors and visitors who come to New York, as well as all the carpenters and teamsters who help make these fairs possible."
"And," he added, "that's not including another $10 million they will lose in sales tax."

GRAPHIC: Photo: With the big fall auction season coming up, the art world is wondering how the terrorist attacks and the resulting economic uncertainty will affect buyers. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (89%); ART DEALERS (89%); PAINTING (78%); ART COLLECTING (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (77%); TERRORISM (77%); ANTIQUE COLLECTING (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GULF STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



809 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE JOB MARKET; 
For Students, Unexpected Doubts

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN D. GLATER 

 BODY:
When J. C. Gaither started business school last year, he knew that the job market might soften while he was working toward an M.B.A. But, he says, he had no idea just how much.
 "The severity is a shock to us all," said Mr. Gaither, 26, who will graduate in the spring from the Fox School of Business and Management at Temple University. 
 He is luckier than most; he was able to parlay his internship last summer into a job offer. Still, he worries that the offer could be rescinded. 
"There's no guarantee that it won't be taken off the table," Mr. Gaither said. "It's definitely not the same as it was maybe a year or two ago."
The economy was already turning against students who will enter the job market in the spring, but the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon -- let alone the prospect of a protracted war of uncertain dimensions -- has greatly increased the level of uncertainty on campuses. 
Many employers canceled interviews and information sessions at colleges in the weeks after the attacks, and not all have called to reschedule.
So students are having to face the fact that their postgraduation options are probably more limited than they have been for years. For most of them, it is the first time they have experienced a market that is not desperate to hire.
The principal problem confronting the consulting firms, the investment banks and the high-technology companies that until last year scooped up M.B.A. graduates is the high cost of carrying current employees as revenues fall because of cutbacks by clients. 
Many firms have already pushed back the start dates for last year's graduates and are not sure enough about business prospects to risk committing themselves to hire still more M.B.A.'s.
"We are seeing a lot of changes both in the overall employment market as well as some short-term changes" prompted by the attacks on Sept. 11, said Sheryle Dirks, director of the career management center at Fuqua School of Business at Duke University. In the short term, companies are waiting to see what happens to the economy, and in the long term, she said, "the market is softening."
In the last few weeks, Ms. Dirks said, several businesses canceled information sessions on campus and others rescheduled interviews to later in the year. Some businesses in industries, like airlines, that have been hit the hardest by recent events have canceled interviews outright, she said.
So far, business schools seem to have been affected a good deal more than law schools. 
For the most part, law firms -- with the possible exception of those in the San Francisco area that were already hard hit by the slowdown in the technology sector -- have been quick to emphasize that hiring will continue, although at a slower pace. Partners at several firms say that they are hiring fewer summer interns, for example.
Susan M. Guindi, assistant dean for career services at the University of Michigan Law School, said, "We have not had a single cancellation." Even Thacher Proffitt & Wood and Sidley Austin Brown & Wood, whose law offices were in the World Trade Center, "are still planning on coming, bless their hearts," she said.
For business students, who are finding less or none of the expected wining and dining, the uncertainty is unsettling.
"It's a shock to the system," said Betsy Leichtfuss, a second-year student at the Cox School of Business at Southern Methodist University in Dallas. Ms. Leichtfuss says as a result, she is taking a more organized and hands-on approach to her job search. She has prepared a binder with copies of the cover letters she has written, for example, to keep track of the jobs she is pursuing, and she is putting a lot of effort into networking.
"That's what's really going to help a lot of people this year, rather than what people are used to," Ms. Leichtfuss said. In years past, employers, desperate to hire business graduates, came to campuses to woo them; now, she said, she knows she has to "find out whom I know that knows someone that knows someone" in order to find the right job.
Ms. Dirks, the career adviser at Fuqua, is encouraging students to contact alumni to gain an advantage in their job searches. She is also actively marketing the college's graduates, something that was not necessary in recent years. "We're more externally focused," she said.
For first-year students looking for summer internships, the canceled information sessions are a serious problem since they are an important way for employers to provide information about themselves. 
At the Olin School of Business at Washington University in St. Louis, a career fair scheduled for late November has been moved to early March, said Gregory J. Hutchings, associate dean for career services. Many big companies have prohibited nonessential travel by employees, he said, and attending career fairs does not usually qualify.
As a result, students must do more research on their own, Mr. Hutchings said. "The students, like everyone else, are trying to figure out how to deal with this."
One way some students are dealing is by considering jobs in places they had not thought about seriously. For example, Mr. Gaither, the Fox student, said that many classmates were looking beyond management consulting and investment banking to established companies, like the auto companies, or are looking in parts of the country other than San Francisco, New York or other hitherto highly desirable cities.
"A lot of us are calling companies that maybe have not historically recruited here," said Thomas M. Day, 29, a second-year student at Fuqua. Students at his college and elsewhere are also trying to interview with more companies, he said, to ensure that they get at least one offer.
By this time last year, Mr. Day said, students were weighing multiple offers. This year, he said, "there's a good chance that at the end of the recruiting season, you could end up with nothing."
Among the difficulties is the uncertainty over how to approach companies with offices in or near the terrorist attacks, Mr. Day added. "It will be harder to call firms in New York and network" with them, he said. Career planning advisers on campuses have told students to hold off on calling prospective employers while everyone copes with the aftereffects of disaster.
That advice sits well with many students, however anxious they may be about their future. The attacks have reduced the importance of the job search in everyone's mind, Mr. Day said. "It puts the whole job thing into perspective."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas Day at Duke University said many students were hoping to get at least one offer for a summer job. (M.J. Sharp for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (95%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (88%); INTERVIEWS (87%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); HIJACKING (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); LEGAL SERVICES (69%); LAWYERS (69%); TERRORISM (68%) LABOR; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; HIRING AND PROMOTION 

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (59%); TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: ;GLATER, JONATHAN D 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



810 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: Essay; 
All Is Not Changed

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Legend has it that when Lord Cornwallis formally surrendered to General Washington at Yorktown, ending the Revolutionary War, the redcoated band played "The World Turned Upside Down."
 The same song is being played today in the aftermath of the September massacre. Life will never be the same, we are told with dreary unanimity. From now on, everything will be different. We have to learn to live with dread. 
 No more sense of security in skyscrapers or airplanes; no more carefree days cheering at the Super Bowl; no more driving on a bridge or through a tunnel without a frisson of fear that the truck ahead may be driven by a suicidal maniac. Confidence in our personal safety is supposedly a thing of the past. 
The notion that "everything has changed" ripples outward: this loss of our sense of security about our very lives spreads to worry about our livelihoods. As the fallout from fear curtails travel, will I lose my job near the airport or making beds at the resort? Will the ebb of consumer confidence depress the stock market and plunge us into deep recession and snatch away the security of my retirement funds? Do I dare start a new enterprise in this climate, or even bring a new baby into this vale of fears?
Now for a message from the poet Milton: "Hence, loathed Melancholy!" True, we have a right to be outraged at the death of our 7,000, murdered only for the sin of being free and happily productive Americans. And we have an obligation to support their families in their bereavement and to wipe out the state sponsors of their killers. 
We have no cause, however, to wallow in what is becoming a fashionable dread, and no reason to assume the doom of our personal security and national prosperity.
This debilitating dread is abetted by the belated warnings from agencies that failed to protect us. A chagrined Justice Department and C.I.A. -- which neglected to use present authority to work closely with immigration and customs officials -- now cover up past misfeasance with demands for more intrusive police powers to eavesdrop on and detain suspects. 
On top of a panicky rush to eliminate rights, too many of us are afflicted with a "nameless, unreasoning and unjustified terror," in F.D.R.'s words, of seeming to be complacent about the terrorist threat. This catch-up alarmism contributes to the "terrorist mastermind" theory that focuses on Osama bin Laden as the central villain. It is simpler and less controversial than exposing the far greater nuclear and bio-war threat based in states using terrorists as their launch pads. 
Suicide hijackers and bombers do not pose what is coolly called an existential threat to -- that is, a danger to the very existence of -- the United States. We lose 7,000 lives on our highways every two months. Terror-sponsoring states use these human missiles to implant that debilitating dread in individual American minds, thereby causing us to curtail our freedoms and to implore our leaders to appease the terrorists. 
That is not going to happen. The blow to our body politic of Sept. 11 is not a knockout blow. We will brace ourselves for other murders already probably set in train, until we force the nations supporting terrorists to turn their agents over. Every new offense creates its fierce counteroffensive, and we are not going to let their new weapon change our lives permanently. 
Airliners will be hijacker-proofed and private pilots deeply vetted. New York's ground zero will be rebuilt and Washington's Pentagon repaired. Our coming deficit will stimulate the economy, and the smart money on Wall Street will gobble up shares months before the upturn. The Redskins will not make it to the Super Bowl but two other teams will. 
And we'll shake off that dread. Americans will return to our future's normalcy (no, President Warren G. Harding didn't coin the word), which will be no more or less safe than the present. Our children's world will be rightside up.
I believe that especially on this somber Day of Atonement, as Jews ask God to seal their names in a symbolic book. It is not a book of fear or lamentation. In an ageless affirmation of hope, we call it the Book of Life. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); HIJACKING (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); AIRPORTS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RECESSION (72%); SUICIDE (69%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (69%); AIRLINES (67%); MISCONDUCT (64%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (62%); IMMIGRATION (61%); MURDER (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%) SAFIRE, WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



811 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE ECONOMY; 
I.M.F. Sees World Growth At Its Weakest In a Decade

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 26 

 BODY:
The global economy is likely to grow at its weakest rate since the early 1990's, though it may narrowly avert a recession this year, the International Monetary Fund said today.
 The I.M.F.'s latest World Economic Outlook, which measures the cumulative growth rate of the world's economies, forecast 2001 growth of 2.6 percent, just above the level of 2.5 percent that the fund classifies as a technical recession for the global economy. 
 The forecast was adjusted to reflect growth in Europe that was weaker than expected, a worsening recession in Japan and a recovery slower than anticipated in the United States. But it did not factor in the effect of the Sept. 11 attacks on the United States. Fund officials acknowledged that the attacks would have at least some effect on growth this year. 
Kenneth Rogoff, the organization's chief economist, told reporters that he could not predict how the incidents would affect growth. But he said that the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon were having "a negative effect on activity now in many regions of the globe" through weakened consumer confidence.
Mr. Rogoff said he still expected a relatively strong recovery in the United States and abroad next year, with the fund projecting 3.5 percent global growth. But he warned that the attacks might well cause that figure to be lowered in coming weeks.
The lending agency has struggled to put a positive face on economic prospects even though most private economists argue that both the United States and the world economy will have recessions this year and have significantly weaker growth in 2002 than most once foresaw.
Some say the world this year will post its most anemic growth since the early 1980's. In addition, the unusually robust global growth last year may make the deceleration feel like the most wrenching since the oil shocks of the mid-1970's.
World output has not actually shrunk in any given year since the 1930's. But many developing economies are considered to be in recession when their growth rate falls into the low single digits because they need relatively rapid expansion to relieve poverty and accommodate bigger work forces.
Mr. Rogoff said he remained relatively optimistic because central banks had taken aggressive steps to stimulate growth. He said that productivity gains from spreading technology could also help economies recover quickly from the downturn.
But the world's leading economy, the United States, almost certainly faces a full recession this year, Mr. Rogoff said.
"I think it's a done deal," said Mr. Rogoff, a Harvard professor who became the fund's chief economist this year. Many private economists agree that United States output will probably shrink in the third and fourth quarters before recovering next year.
Later in a news conference, Mr. Rogoff said he wanted to withdraw his remark about United States growth, which sounded gloomier than the White House has in recent days.
"I have to withdraw my remark 'done deal' simply because we know that growth is going to be lower for the United States, but we simply have no idea of exactly how much lower," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); TERRORISM (74%); HIJACKING (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); PRODUCTIVITY (61%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND 

PERSON: ;KAHN, JOSEPH; ROGOFF, KENNETH S 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (87%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



812 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: THE NEW YORK PRIMARY: NEWS ANALYSIS; 
Ferrer's Choice: Appeal to Pride, Or Embrace All

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
Fernando Ferrer won a spot in a Democratic runoff in large part, Democrats said yesterday, because he rallied black and Latino voters with his promise to represent the "other New York," and by embodying the hope of electing the city's first Puerto Rican mayor.
 But as Mr. Ferrer prepares for an Oct. 11 runoff with Mark Green -- in a city whose political demographics are shifting quickly, as evidenced by the fact that nearly half of the Democratic voters on Tuesday were Hispanic or black -- he faces two choices about how to proceed. His task is already being complicated by Mr. Green, who pointedly called for unity yesterday and declared that mayoral candidates should run "an interracial and interborough and interethnic campaign." 
 The more conventional approach would be for Mr. Ferrer to find a way to broaden his appeal, so that he can move beyond the coalition of black and Latino voters that catapulted him to first place in Tuesday's primary. He received 35 percent of the total vote, compared with 31 percent for Mr. Green, according to unofficial and incomplete returns compiled by The Associated Press. 
By any measure, it was a racially lopsided outcome. Mr. Ferrer won 52 percent of the black vote and 72 percent of the Hispanic vote, but only 7 percent of the white vote, according to a survey of voters leaving the polls. In a sign of the challenge facing Mr. Ferrer, white Democrats in the survey who voted for one of the two losing Democrats, Alan G. Hevesi and Peter F. Vallone, overwhelmingly named Mr. Green as their choice in a Ferrer-Green race. 
The second approach is to do what Mr. Ferrer -- in contrast to some of the elected officials supporting him -- has seemed uncomfortable trying to do: make a direct appeal to ethnic pride, and explicitly trying to build an electoral foundation of black and Latino voters.
Roberto Ramirez, the Bronx Democratic leader, has long argued that as soon as Mr. Ferrer established himself as a viable candidate for mayor -- and he surely passed that threshold on Tuesday night -- the city's rapidly expanding Hispanic vote would turn out behind him.
That would be combined with black voters, brought to Mr. Ferrer by the support of figures like the Rev. Al Sharpton, who are pushing for a coalition of black and Latino voters, as well as white liberals drawn by Mr. Ferrer's views. 
In this kind of charged atmosphere, those voters might be more likely to go to the trouble of voting in a runoff, some of Mr. Ferrer's advisers argued yesterday, than Democrats backing the more conventional candidacy of Mr. Green. The risk, though, is that such an appeal, fairly or not, can be portrayed as excluding whites.
Mr. Ferrer's first steps yesterday were in the direction of trying to appeal to white Democrats. He headed out to Queens to collect the endorsement of Mr. Vallone, the moderate Democrat. He prepared to put on the air an advertisement featuring his endorsement by Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the retired senator, also a moderate Democrat.
He moved away from talking about "the other New York," though he made a point of emphasizing that while rebuilding New York after the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center was his first priority, he had not abandoned the argument he made from the start of the campaign, that the city had neglected too many New Yorkers during the years of prosperity. 
Still, as Mr. Ferrer's advisers considered his situation yesterday, they said he was inclined, if possible, to try to blend aspects of the two approaches as he faces his contest with Mr. Green.
"He needs to do both," Mr. Sharpton said. "He needs to get more turnout in the progressive white and African-American and Latino community. And he needs to get more white votes."
David Axelrod, his chief campaign consultant, disputed the suggestion that Mr. Ferrer's appeal to white voters could not expand, noting the endorsement he won yesterday from Mr. Vallone.
"I don't think you can assume that we don't have the ability to grow among white voters, exponentially," he said, adding, "I don't think people see him as a divisive figure. I don't think people see him as a threatening figure."
That Mr. Ferrer is in this position -- Mr. Green's advisers described it as a predicament, while Mr. Ferrer's supporters argued that he was now primed to sweep Mr. Green out of public life -- is a reflection of how strikingly the political dynamics of New York have changed. 
As Primary Day approached, aides to Mr. Ferrer's opponents predicted that the Hispanic vote would make up 15 to 18 percent of the turn-out. It was actually 23 percent of the total, according to surveys of voters leaving the polls. By contrast, in 1989, the last time such a survey for a Democratic mayoral primary in New York was conducted, Hispanics made up 8 percent of the electorate.
This year, white voters made up about 50 percent of the electorate. In that 1989 election, it was about 61 percent. Black voters that year made up 29 percent of the electorate, but that number was undoubtedly increased by the fact that David N. Dinkins was running to become New York's first black mayor. This time, it was 24 percent.
Interestingly, given the mostly fitful attempts by New York politicians to create a black-Latino coalition, Mr. Ferrer drew almost the same percentage of black votes in this race, or 52 percent, as Mr. Dinkins drew from Hispanic voters in 1989, when he drew 54 percent of what was then a much smaller segment.
But Mr. Ferrer has seemed to struggle trying to rally Latino and black voters to his candidacy without opening himself up to criticism. By contrast, even Mr. Ferrer's supporters said Mr. Dinkins was more graceful in 1989 in trying to put together a black-Latino coalition to appeal to a multiethnic city, which he called a "gorgeous mosaic."
In using the phrase "the other New York," Mr. Ferrer has said that that was simply a description for New Yorkers who did not benefit from the economic prosperity of Mr. Giuliani's term. But his advisers acknowledge that the phrase has had resonance among black and Latino voters, accounting in part for his strong performance among those voters, an argument made by some of Mr. Green's supporters.
Similarly, Mr. Ferrer has avoided explicit racial overtures in this campaign, other than Spanish-language appeals to Hispanic voters, which were a variation on the kind of ethnic appeals that have been the bread and butter of urban politics for a century.
"The vote might be polarized, but Freddy is not a polarizing figure," said Prof. Douglas Muzzio of the School of Public Affairs at Baruch College. "Freddy is a real moderate, nondemagogic, inclusionary guy."
At the same time, though some of Mr. Ferrer's supporters, like Representative Charles E. Rangel, the Harlem Democrat, have framed Mr. Ferrer's appeal in more ethnic terms. After initially saying he was likely to stay neutral in the mayoral primary, Mr. Rangel switched to Mr. Ferrer because he saw a potential of building a black-Latino coalition.
But Mr. Sharpton said that any attempt by Mr. Green's supporters to portray Mr. Ferrer as running a racially based campaign would become increasingly difficult. 
"Vallone helps him," Mr. Sharpton said. "The fact that we can build an inclusive government helps him. And the fact that we have not been offensive helps him.
"I think the bogeyman thing backfired. He not only made the primary. He outpolled Mark!"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Yesterday, the day after the Democratic primary vote assured him a spot in the Oct. 11 runoff, Mark Green called for unity and rode the subway from Lexington Avenue and 86th Street to an appointment in Brooklyn. (James Estrin/The New York Times); Peter F. Vallone, left, on the steps of Borough Hall in Queens, endorsed Fernando Ferrer for mayor, the day after Mr. Ferrer finished first in the primary, qualifying for the runoff, and Mr. Vallone finished out of the running. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) Chart: "Where the Democrats Found Support"Percentage of vote won by the candidates in each of the city's assembly districts. (Source: Election returns reported by The Associated Press) Map shows districts of support.(pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (95%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); MAYORS (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: AL SHARPTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



813 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE INSURERS; 
Insurers Ask Help to Survive Future Losses

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 26 

 BODY:
Insurance executives told Congress today that they had plenty of money to pay for about $40 billion of losses from the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11. But they said they urgently needed help to provide coverage for possible future violence.
 In testimony before the House Committee on Financial Services, some of the leading insurers argued that since terrorism had the potential for enormous repeated financial blows, the government should take responsibility for paying the most expensive claims. They said they were not seeking a bailout, similar to the $15 billion relief package that the airlines received last week, but assistance in confronting an immeasurable financial abyss. 
 "There's no way to price for this," said Ronald E. Ferguson, the chairman of General Re, one of the country's largest insurers and a unit of Berkshire Hathaway, in an interview after the hearing. "There's no way you can expose your capital and your shareholders to what amounts to almost infinite risk."
Dean R. O'Hare, the chief executive of the Chubb Corporation, another big insurer, told lawmakers that something had to be done quickly. "We have a crisis brewing as we speak," he said.
Negotiations are under way for renewal of much of the nation's commercial insurance, he said. No insurer, he said, is prepared to take on all the risk of any huge corporation; and so far, none of the reinsurance companies that usually share the risk with retail or primary insurers are willing to provide terrorism coverage.
Unless a solution is found quickly, he said, American corporations will have no coverage for terrorism and, in the event of an attack, will have to pay for their own losses. That would bankrupt some companies and disrupt the national economy.
Representative Christopher Shays, a Republican from Connecticut, responded with skepticism. Was the question of insurers' providing coverage, he asked, a matter of "can't or won't?" 
Mr. O'Hare responded, "There's no way on earth a single company could offer hundreds of millions of coverage on its own."
Lawmakers generally responded sympathetically to the insurers, praising them for their decision to ignore war provisions in much of their coverage that might have enabled them to refuse to pay claims in the recent attacks. But they made it clear they were not eager to draw the government into the insurance business and take on commitments for untold billions.
"I would be extremely reluctant to accept any plan that puts the taxpayer on the hook for insurable losses," said Representative Richard H. Baker, a Republican from Louisiana. Particularly, he added, "when there is no federal office that exercises any real jurisdiction over solvency and business practices of the industry."
Insurance is regulated state by state without industrywide federal oversight.
In the short term, some help could come from the Securities and Exchange Commission. Harvey L. Pitt, the chairman of the S.E.C., told legislators that the agency was considering easing regulations to allow the airline and insurance industries to raise capital more quickly. He also said he might ask Congress to extend a waiver on certain trading regulations that has permitted companies and executives to help prop up the price of their shares. With the waiver, publicly traded companies can buy their own shares without the normal restrictions on volume and timing.
As a model for government action, the insurers cited a plan developed in London in the early 1990's in response to Irish Republican Army attacks in which private insurers paid the first $150,000 or so for terrorist damage. Then a pool of money created by contributions from insurers and the government paid claims. When those funds were exhausted -- which the insurers said had never happened in London -- the government would pay.
No previous terrorist attacks anywhere have come close to the ones in New York and Washington in casualties -- more than 6,000 people are missing and presumed dead -- and financial losses.
Until those attacks, terrorism coverage was included along with other commercial coverage in the United States, at no extra charge, under the assumption that the chance of its ever being used was remote.
Kathleen Sebelius, the president of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, the organization of state insurance regulators, encouraged the lawmakers to consider giving the industry financial backing. But she cautioned against any "new mechanism that would discourage private market capital."
The nation's insurers have tried for several years to get the government to take on the highest costs in natural catastrophes like hurricanes and earthquakes. But today, Mr. Ferguson said he felt the government had a greater obligation to help out with terrorism. "After all," he said, "the basic duty of the government is to defend its citizens."
The insurers and members of Congress said they expected furious negotiations on the issue over the next few days. "This is an issue for today, tomorrow and the next day," Mr. Ferguson said, "not next year."
But Mr. Shays said he did not expect Congress to decide as quickly on the insurance issue as it did on the bailout of the airlines, which was accomplished in a few days.
"I have confidence that this is going to be legislation that is going to be thoroughly debated," Mr. Shays said, "and is not just going to go through."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Customs agent views the damage to the Customs office in the wreckage of the World Trade Center. Insurance executives asked Congress yesterday for assistance in paying claims on such damage. (Reuters)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (93%); REINSURANCE (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); WAR RISKS & TERRORISM INSURANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (79%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (79%); EXECUTIVES (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); HIJACKING (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); SECURITIES LAW (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; INSURANCE; FINANCES; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

COMPANY: CHUBB CORP (69%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ;GENERAL RE CORP; CHUBB CORP 

TICKER: CB (NYSE) (69%); BRK.B (NYSE) (56%); BRK.A (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (69%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (56%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (56%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (58%) ;FERGUSON, RONALD; O'HARE, DEAN R; TREASTER, JOSEPH B 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



814 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: THE NEW YORK PRIMARY: NASSAU COUNTY; 
After Democratic Victory, Suozzi Turns to Republicans

BYLINE:  By ELISSA GOOTMAN

DATELINE: LEVITTOWN, N.Y., Sept. 26 

 BODY:
A day after he won the Democratic primary for Nassau County executive, Thomas R. Suozzi returned to the campaign trail today, preparing for a race that many believe will be less challenging than the one he faced Tuesday. 
 In a primary that drew 24 percent of Nassau's registered Democrats, about double what was expected, Mr. Suozzi, the four-term mayor of Glen Cove, soundly defeated Thomas P. DiNapoli, an assemblyman from Thomaston, by a margin of about 8 percentage points. 
 November's general election represents the Democrats' best chance in decades to seize the county executive office. That is because the county, one of New York's wealthiest, reached the brink of bankruptcy under years of firm Republican rule that was characterized by well-documented patronage, a highly paid police force, rampant borrowing and lavish spending on budget items like park maintenance. 
The county's fiscal crisis led Thomas S. Gulotta, the Republican county executive since 1987, to decide not to seek re-election this year, clearing the way for the man whom Mr. Suozzi will face in November: Bruce R. Bent, a multimillionaire financier running on the message that he is a scrupulous money manager and a political outsider. 
Mr. Bent said today that he would continue to put forward that message, arguing that Mr. Suozzi, the son and nephew of former Glen Cove mayors, is as much a political insider as Mr. DiNapoli. 
"They're both career politicians, which is specifically what I'm running against," Mr. Bent said in a telephone interview. "What I assumed and what our polls have been showing all along is that the people are fed up with politicians." 
Mr. Bent, 64, said he believed that the World Trade Center attack and the prospect of war would compound residents' economic concerns, enhancing the appeal of his own financial expertise and the need to break from politics as usual. 
"They're nervous, and they want somebody who they feel has got the experience to, as they say, move the ball along," he said. 
But within the Democratic Party, Mr. DiNapoli's supporters are wondering what effect the Sept. 11 attack, and the postponement of the primary that was planned for that day, played in Mr. Suozzi's victory. 
For one, some have attributed the high voter turnout to a surge in patriotism. Nassau was close enough to the attack to feel its impact, but distant enough to have its homes and polling stations remain intact. 
And all along, Mr. Suozzi pushed for high voter turnout, while Mr. DiNapoli targeted a narrower segment of prime Democratic voters.
Others suggested that the sense of helplessness following the collapse worked in Mr. Suozzi's favor politically, increasing the importance of his charisma and vigor. 
"This is a guy who looks like he could will a building to stand," said Lisanne G. Altmann, a Democratic legislator from Great Neck who supported Mr. DiNapoli. "I just think people must have gravitated toward his energy." 
Ms. Altmann said she believed that Mr. DiNapoli's supporters, including party leaders, would be quick to recover from their surprise and rally around Mr. Suozzi. 
Meanwhile, other party insiders speculated that one step toward restoring Democratic unity could involve Larry Aaronson, chairman of the Nassau Democratic County Committee, stepping down in favor of Jay S. Jacobs, Mr. Suozzi's campaign chairman. 
Mr. Jacobs said it was too soon to say whether he might replace Mr. Aaronson.
Mr. Aaronson did not return a telephone call seeking comment. 
Mr. Suozzi said he would work to unite his party and to attract Republican voters disillusioned with theirs. 
And while stopping short of a no-new-taxes vow, he said he did not believe that higher taxes were critical to restoring the county's financial health. If elected, he said, he will try to focus on cutting waste, citing as an example the Police Department's use of uniformed officers in jobs that civilians could fill. 
Mr. Suozzi held his first post-primary news conference outside a strip mall in Levittown, a Republican mainstay and the home of that party's chairman, Joseph N. Mondello. 
Flanked by television cameras, Mr. Suozzi returned to hand-shaking, greeting the people he found exercising at the Bally Total Fitness club. He came upon his ideal prospective voter when he saw Jim Georgoudes, a Republican who was exercising on a seated leg press, a towel draped around his neck. 
"I'm a Republican, I'm from Levittown -- but I like you, Tom," Mr. Georgoudes said. 
Mr. Georgoudes said he could not recall the name of his own party's candidate, but he could not help but recall Mr. Suozzi's. 
"I like what he stands for," he said. "And he called me about 25 times." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: A day after his upset victory in the Democratic primary, Thomas R. Suozzi campaigned at a gym in Levittown, home of the Republican chairman. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (91%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (89%); MAYORS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); BUDGETS (73%); POLICE FORCES (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



815 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Holds Informal Talks; Decision on Output Likely Today 

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE 

DATELINE: VIENNA, Sept. 26 

 BODY:
Ministers from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries ended informal talks today without announcing a decision on daily production levels, but delegates at the meetings said the group planned to leave output unchanged.
 OPEC, a 10-member cartel that produces 40 percent of the world's oil, is expected to render its official decision on Thursday. 
 It has been widely expected to leave production levels unchanged, despite a decrease in the commodity price of oil this week. The cartel is waiting for its earlier reduction in output, of one million a barrels a day effective Sept. 1, to take hold. It requires about 40 days to feel the effect of such a supply cutback as the oil makes its way from the Persian Gulf region to American refineries and finally to drivers and households. 
OPEC faces stiff international pressure to keep oil prices low. Members are aware, analysts say, that any production cuts to prop up prices would be considered insensitive in the wake of the attacks in the United States and the toll they have taken on the global economy. 
Crude oil for November delivery rose 57 cents today, or 2.6 percent, to $22.38 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, rebounding from a two-year low on Tuesday. Traders said they thought that the price already reflected the economic slowdown and the weaker demand expected after the attacks on Sept. 11.
Oil prices have dropped more than 20 percent since the attacks. Phil Flynn, vice president and senior market analyst at Alaron Trading in Chicago, told Bloomberg News that "the market has been pricing in recession fears for the past seven days."
In London today, Brent crude oil for November settlement rose 62 cents, or 2.7 percent, to $23 a barrel on the International Petroleum Exchange, after falling as low as $20.70 intraday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since April 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); CARTELS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); RECESSION (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (77%); FUTURES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (76%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); AIRLINES (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); HIJACKING (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); TERRORISM (67%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; PRODUCTION 

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%) ;ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%)

PERSON: BANERJEE, NEELA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRIA (79%); GULF STATES (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



816 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: CHARITY; 
For Many, the Good Times Have Ended

BYLINE:  By AARON DONOVAN 

 BODY:
When Dmitry Beznosov thinks about his life before the World Trade Center was destroyed, he recalls an exciting job as a limousine driver -- and wishes he still had it.
 "I really enjoyed working this job," he said. "Even though it might seem like I wasn't making that much money." 
 With tips included, Mr. Beznosov made about $400 a week driving throughout New York City, most often to and from the airports. "I drove a lot of nice people," he recalled. 
Those people included Jennifer Lopez, Jean-Claude Van Damme, James Woods and members of 'N Sync. "The girls were running after the car -- that was pretty crazy," he said.
But the good times for Mr. Beznosov ended on Sept. 11. The company he worked for was a mile north of the trade center along Washington Street, and most of its cars were covered with debris from the collapsed towers. Much of its business came from companies in the trade center or elsewhere in the financial district, and in the days that followed the attack, the company reduced its fleet from 15 cars to 3, Mr. Beznosov said.
Mr. Beznosov tried going back to work, but found there was nothing to do. He used to go out on three or four trips a day. One day last week, he waited by his car all day, but the dispatcher never called. "Nobody wants to drive in a limousine in a situation like this," he said.
His boss told him not to expect to return to work any time soon. "Maybe it's going to get better in a few months," Mr. Beznosov said, "but I don't think so."
So Mr. Beznosov, 24, applied for unemployment assistance and food stamps. But he worried about how he would pay the rent. An officer at the unemployment office in Jamaica, Queens, that was set up specifically to help those who lost their jobs because of the trade center attack, suggested that he call the Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service, one of the 10 local charities supported by The New York Times 9/11 Neediest Fund. The agency paid a month's rent, $406, for his one-bedroom apartment in Brighton Beach, Brooklyn.
Mr. Beznosov is not alone in facing difficult times ahead. According to government estimates, more than 100,000 city workers are likely to be at least temporarily unemployed. Many of those people are turning to charities like the Brooklyn Bureau for help. "Some of the people were either self-employed or they were independent contractors or they worked for small companies that were decimated or temporarily closed," said Donna A. Santarsiero, executive director of the agency.
Ms. Santarsiero said that her agency has always received many requests for help paying rent, but the trade center disaster has made a common New York problem more prevalent. When people come in for help with immediate expenses, the Brooklyn Bureau also tries to help them find work.
Despite being unemployed, Mr. Beznosov, who came to New York from the Soviet Union when he was 10, said he was still happy to be in America. But he is not fully content.
Melanie Fallon of the Brooklyn Bureau listened to Mr. Beznosov tell his story on Tuesday. "Like most of the people we've been seeing, Dmitry is really anxious to get back to work," she said. 
"Yeah," Mr. Beznosov said. "Really anxious."

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times 9/11 Neediest Fund should be sent to P.O. Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.

JOHN JAY COLLEGE OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE FOUNDATION
899 10th Avenue
New York, N.Y. 10019

NEW YORK CITY FIRE SAFETY FOUNDATION
555 West 57th Street
New York, N.Y. 10019

NEW YORK CITY POLICE FOUNDATION
345 Park Avenue
New York, N.Y. 10154

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK*
FDR Station
P.O. Box 5314
New York, N.Y. 10150

Donations may be made with a credit card online, courtesy of CharityWave.com, an internet donations service.

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times 9/11 Neediest Fund.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on Federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

*New address as of 9/12

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (89%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (85%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); LAYOFFS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); HIJACKING (76%); DISMISSALS (73%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); AIRLINES (71%); TERRORISM (68%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (62%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (62%); EXECUTIVES (62%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); NEW YORK TIMES 9/11 NEEDIEST FUND; LIMOUSINES 

COMPANY: SERVICE ONE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ;BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (52%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (52%)

PERSON: JENNIFER LOPEZ (55%) DONOVAN, AARON; BEZNOSOV, DMITRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



817 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: Poverty Rate Falls Sharply Among Hispanics, Study Shows 

BYLINE:  By NINA BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
Even as the gap in poverty rates between whites and blacks narrowed nationally in 2000, it failed to change in New York City, according to a new analysis of Census Bureau data by an advocacy group for the poor.
 In contrast, the poverty rate declined steeply among Hispanic New Yorkers, who began the boom years of the mid-90's as the poorest group, and by 2000 had the same average poverty rate as non-Hispanic blacks. 
 The analysis, based on figures from house-to-house surveys by the Census Bureau, is to be released today by the advocacy group, the Community Service Society of New York, which has been tracking city poverty rates for decades. Using two-year averaging, the society found that New York's overall poverty rate declined in 1999-2000 to 19.9 percent, a level not seen since before the recession that began in 1990. The city's rate mirrored the national decline to 11.3 percent. 
The economist who analyzed the data for the society, Mark K. Levitan, said there were many possible explanations for the trends that emerged from the numbers, which were based on a small sample.
"It seems clear that Hispanics were able to take advantage of the city's expanding job market in ways that were not open to non-Hispanic blacks," Mr. Levitan said. "Casually walking down the street and taking a look at who is busing the tables, who is making the beds, who's minding the children -- we've had this rapid expansion of low-wage service work, and it appears that it's mainly Hispanics who are filling those jobs."
But another explanation, suggested by Andrew A. Beveridge, a professor of sociology at Queens College, is that the rising immigration of Hispanics with greater skills, education and money has changed the Hispanic population of New York. 
Using two-year averaging to compensate for a small sample size, Mr. Levitan found that the poverty rate for Hispanics was now at 28.9 percent in the city, statistically indistinguishable from the 26.5 percent poverty rate among non-Hispanic blacks, but much higher than the 9.2 percent poverty rate among non-Hispanic whites.
Mr. Levitan and Professor Beveridge both stressed that the official poverty line is too low to be a realistic benchmark of well-being in a city as expensive to live in as New York. An annual income below $17,603 qualifies a family of four as impoverished; for one person, the poverty line is $8,794. 
For those who took advantage of the expanding service economy, Mr. Levitan said, "a lot of those jobs might get people over measured poverty, or they might be working more than one job." 
Some people, he said, will contend that "these are jobs blacks will not take, that blacks think are below them." There may be some truth to that, he said, because people born in this country and immigrants from poor countries have different expectations about what constitutes an acceptable standard of living. 
But Mr. Levitan said that more important was "statistical discrimination."
"With so many people coming off the welfare rolls and so many people coming from abroad, even though the city economy was generating very high employment growth, for employers it was still a buyer's market," he said. "Employers will hire employees that they think will work long, hard hours for low pay, and who fits the image? The immigrant with a Spanish accent." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POOR POPULATION (93%); POVERTY RATES (93%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); CENSUS (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); IMMIGRATION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



818 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE RETAILERS; 
Red, White and Blue Christmas

BYLINE:  By LESLIE KAUFMAN and CONSTANCE L. HAYS 

 BODY:
Earlier this year, as Saks Fifth Avenue was starting to plan its ad campaign for Christmas 2001, it chose to highlight a piece of jewelry: a white-gold-and-diamond bracelet shaped like the Manhattan skyline, including the World Trade Center's twin towers. 
 After terrorist attacks leveled the towers on Sept. 11, Saks realized that it had to change course swiftly. The company removed photos of the bracelet from the cover of a glossy 12-page magazine insert and from the Christmas catalog that will be arriving at customers' homes in November. 
 Like Saks, retailers are grappling to find the right mix of commerce and sensitivity in the weeks after the attacks. The quest is as precarious as it is urgent because the fourth quarter, which begins next week, can generate as much as half their profits for the year. 
Even before the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, consumer confidence was down and merchants were preparing for the toughest holiday season in a decade. The assaults have thrown new questions into the planning and created an atmosphere in which what to sell and how to sell it have become highly charged issues. 
It is still fairly early in the season, and the national mood could metamorphose in any number of ways in the weeks from now to Thanksgiving, when the heavy buying really begins. Indeed, some merchants far from New York, including several of the largest mass market retailers, seem to be making fewer changes, at least for now. But many more say circumstances are forcing them to make at least preliminary alterations for the holidays, examining merchandise to make sure it upsets no one and thinking, at least, about changes that the times may demand.
Mall owners are already saying that patriotism will be a big theme. "Santa is going to look a lot like Uncle Sam this year," predicted Mark Rivers, a spokesman for the Mill Corporation, which operates 12 malls, including one only 15 miles from the Pentagon.
Across the nation, browsers are likely to hear standards like Eartha Kitt's "Santa Baby," but also military bands playing Christmas carols and patriotic tunes. Stars and stripes will be ubiquitous. Trees will be draped in red-white-and-blue bunting, not just silver tinsel.
Still, this will mostly be a season of omission, of products that will not be advertised, parties that will not happen. Lord & Taylor, a unit of Federated Department Stores, will still open its Christmas windows, but this year there will be no opening fete. "We're doing it with very little fanfare," said Lavelle Olexa, a company spokeswoman. 
Saks has indefinitely shelved the Live a Little tag line for its print ads. "We are trying hard not to offend anyone," said Sheri Wilson-Gray, chief marketing officer for Saks Fifth Avenue Enterprises. "We have a lot more to lose by seeming to be insensitive then we have to gain by selling any particular product."
Some retailers are reassessing their merchandise. Until a couple of weeks ago, a hand-held electronic game called Pox looked as if it was on its way to becoming the new hot toy. The game, made by Hasbro, is billed as a "game of alien creation and universal destruction" and involves players zapping each other with wireless signals that control or contain "pox" infections. 
Then there is Project Gotham Racing, a game developed by Microsoft for its new Xbox game console. Players speed in cars through the canyons of Manhattan, trying to avert disaster, while the twin towers and other New York points of interest loom in the background. 
Both are being played down by toy sellers these days. "In the toy business, you have to do what you can about predicting the hot products, but you also have to deal with product delays, or a dark horse, or a change in the national mood," said Jeanne Mayer, a spokeswoman for Toysrus.com, the online arm of Toys "R" Us, the country's largest toy retailer. 
Americans are being encouraged to shop, both as an act of patriotism and to help them get on with their lives after the attacks. But it is not clear that they are doing so. Moody's Investors Service said yesterday that credit card use declined significantly in the days after the terror attacks. 
For many people, shopping and celebrating seem inappropriate at a time when families are grieving and flags only recently stopped flying at half-staff.
"There is generally a sense of survivor guilt, that even if you didn't have anyone directly lost in this catastrophe, you have guilt about having lived through this," said Sylvia Welsh, a psychologist at the New York University Psychoanalytic Institute in Manhattan. "The perspective right now is that the self-indulgence of the last decade is at fault. The degree to which that is going on will affect the holiday season. It doesn't bode well for retailers." 
Holiday window displays are hastily being reviewed in light of the new national mood. At Barneys, long known for its unusual and topical holiday displays in its windows on Madison Avenue, this year's theme was planned six months ago, and "fortunately, we had gone in a very traditional, sweet direction," said Simon Doonan, the store's creative director. 
The windows will be witty, he added, but in a kinder way than in the past. Instead of the live models who were parked there last December, playing out a "Survivor" theme, the windows this year will feature Santa Claus and an assortment of elves. One elf will be based on Elvis Presley, another on Dostoyevsky, a third on Elton John. The theme will be Christmas, not American resilience. 
"It's going to be our version of a groovy grotto, Santa's groovy grotto," Mr. Doonan said. "The irony that usually pervades our Christmas windows is now inappropriate. There is going to be wry humor, but nothing sardonic." 
At Wal-Mart Stores, a spokesman said patriotic themes would pervade whatever displays Wal-Mart put together for the holidays. "You can be sure that the overriding theme in the stores will be patriotic," said the spokesman, Tom Williams. "There will be flags. The stores will have the Christmas theme, but it will be very clear that the country is aware of itself and aware of what's at stake. We're in the U.S. of A." 
Target Stores plans no changes in its advertising for the holidays, a spokeswoman said. "But certainly we have looked at the merchandise and tried to make sure that everything from the merchandise to the commercials to the print ads is sensitive and appropriate," said the spokeswoman, Carolyn Brookter. 
So far, Target, a 1,000-store chain, has not canceled any orders from its suppliers, but executives are maintaining a watchful attitude about holiday shopping. "Everybody is wondering about what will be happening then," she said. 
Before Christmas, of course, comes Thanksgiving, and some retailers are expecting that holiday to resonate more than usual this year. Williams-Sonoma, which starts its holiday offerings with turkey roasting pans at Thanksgiving and addresses December with an array of housewares, linens and luxury food products, has made no adjustments to its catalog since the attacks, a spokeswoman said. But the company does plan to position itself as a kind of helping hand to those preparing Thanksgiving and subsequent celebrations this year. 
"We have really expanded our offerings in the food category, with things like squash puree and focaccia stuffing and other items that make it easier for people to prepare a Thanksgiving," said the spokeswoman, Tracy Brown. "I think Thanksgiving is going to be particularly important to everybody affected by what happened on Sept. 11."

CORRECTION-DATE: September 29, 2001

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day on Thursday about retailers that are altering their marketing plans in the wake of the terrorist attacks misstated the ownership of Lord & Taylor, which said it would still open its Christmas windows, but without a celebration. It is part of May Department Stores, not Federated.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At Barneys on Madison Avenue in Manhattan this year's theme had already been planned "in a very traditional, sweet direction," said Simon Doonan, above, the store's creative director. A shop at the Short Hills Mall in New Jersey features a patriotic theme. (Frances Roberts above , Jeff Zelevansky left , both for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Stores are concerned about offending anyone during the holidays. Collette Soucy, 2, looks over a display at a Target in Danvers, Mass. (Bloomberg News)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (92%); FINE JEWELRY (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); TERRORISM (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); MARKETING PLAN (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); PRINT ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (78%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); THANKSGIVING (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (70%); RETAIL PROPERTY (70%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); MUSIC (60%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; CHRISTMAS; SALES; ADVERTISING; TERRORISM; INDUSTRY PROFILES 

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (84%); MACY'S INC (58%)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (84%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (84%)

PERSON: ;KAUFMAN, LESLIE; HAYS, CONSTANCE L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); 

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



819 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: Schools Closed by Disaster Are Losing Some Children 

BYLINE:  By ABBY GOODNOUGH

 BODY:
The idea of sending her daughters to unfamiliar, severely crowded schools while their Battery Park City neighborhood recovered from the World Trade Center attack was too much for Suzanne Schiffman. So she fled New York City last week and signed the girls up for school in the Hamptons, where their summer home has become a semipermanent refuge from the chaos of Lower Manhattan.
 "The public school they were attending in Battery Park City was pretty exclusive and the ones they'd have to transfer to, I would never send them there," said Ms. Schiffman, whose sixth grader is now attending a private school in East Hampton for $10,000 a year and whose second grader is at the public elementary school in Southampton. "It's easier living out here, they're happy and I know they're getting good schooling." 
 The decision by Ms. Schiffman and at least three dozen other parents to pull their children out of schools temporarily closed by the attack is but one sign of the extreme disruption, confusion and anger flowing through the communities closest to the disaster site. In the latest jolt, one of the shuttered schools, Public School 234 in TriBeCa, may move its 600 students a second time because its temporary site, P.S. 41 in the West Village, is unacceptably crowded. The new site is a Roman Catholic school, St. Bernard, which closed in June.
The close-knit communities of parents, teachers and administrators at P.S. 234 and six other schools closed by the attack have mostly done their stoic best to provide normality and sound instruction for the roughly 9,000 children who had barely settled into their classrooms when they were displaced on Sept. 11. But there are daily yelps of frustration and fear from parents, some of whom are displaced from their homes and taking drastic measures.
Anna Switzer, the principal of P.S. 234, said that up to 40 students had enrolled elsewhere since the attack. Ellen Foote, the principal of Intermediate School 89 in Battery Park City, which Ms. Schiffman's older daughter attended before the attack, said that four students had not come back, but added that more might leave if their families could not return to their apartments. The principal of P.S. 89 declined to comment, but a spokesman for Manhattan's District 2 said the school's attendance had hovered around 75 percent.
Ms. Switzer, for one, remained hopeful yesterday that most of the lost students would return once P.S. 234, one of the city's top-rated schools, gets back on the corner of Greenwich and Chambers Streets. 
A quick survey of schools in the Hamptons yesterday found that more than a dozen students from Lower Manhattan had transferred to the Ross School in East Hampton and the Hampton Day School in Bridgehampton, both private schools, and to several public schools. Elka Rifkin, the acting head of school at Hampton Day, said her school alone had accepted six elementary school students and four preschool students so far. Tuition for elementary school students is $12,000 to $14,000 a year, she said.
At Marshall Elementary School in East Hampton, Tom Lamorgese, the principal, said that two students from Lower Manhattan had enrolled last week. One student's family is displaced from its home indefinitely, he said, and the other's parents are simply "a little too nervous" to send their child to school in Manhattan right now.
Back in New York, Board of Education officials were lobbying the Office of Emergency Management yesterday to speed up the reopening of the shuttered schools. The city has already returned Stuyvesant High School to the board's control, and board officials said yesterday that its 3,000 students would return by Oct. 9. Another school, P.S. 150 in TriBeCa, is also on the fast track for reopening, the officials said.
The future was less clear for P.S. 234, which is being used by the Red Cross, and P.S. and I.S. 89, whose shared building has been commandeered by the Office of Emergency Management. Anthony Shorris, the deputy chancellor for management and policy, said yesterday that the board would definitely get the buildings back and begin cleaning them in October. He said the board was waiting on whether to transfer P.S. 234 students to the St. Bernard building until it knew more about when they could return to TriBeCa.
Two other schools, the High School for Leadership and Public Service and the High School of Economics and Finance, both on Trinity Place, are even closer to ground zero and will be closed longer.
Despite the trying circumstances, many parents at P.S. 89 and P.S. 234 were fiercely defending and praising their schools yesterday. Andrew Giangola, a TriBeCa resident, initially planned to home-school his daughter Gaby after the attacks occurred, but decided it was more important for her to be with her teachers and friends. He said he was "just completely taken" by the enthusiasm at P.S. 234.
"Our neighborhood is resilient, everyone is standing tall and we are trying to do the same," he said. "Gaby's in first grade, so if the disruption is only for a few weeks, I doubt this is going to affect her SAT scores."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Despite trying times, Andrew and Viviane Giangola of TriBeCa, above, decided to keep their daughter Gaby at her Lower Manhattan school. (Melissa Jones for The New York Times); Suzanne Schiffman has enrolled her daughters, Remy, left, and Taylor, right, in schools in the Hamptons, where the family has a summer home. (Gordon M. Grant for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); DISPLACED PERSONS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); FAMILY (78%); SCHOOL ATTENDANCE (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (74%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); RELIGION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



820 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Terrorists Are Sought in Latin Smugglers' Haven 

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: CIUDAD DEL ESTE, Paraguay, Sept. 25 

 BODY:
For decades, this seedy border town has struggled with its reputation as the contraband capital of South America. But now the so-called Triple Frontier suddenly confronts a much bigger problem: 40 F.B.I. agents and police officers from three other countries are scouring the area for evidence that the region has become a haven for Islamic terrorists.
 "This is the very last thing that we needed here," lamented Faoud Fakih, a department store owner and prominent member of the Arab community here. "Business is already bad, and now we are going to be stained by an even more disastrous kind of propaganda?" 
 Argentina, Brazil and Paraguay meet here. Their porous common border has been a fluid and often-ignored barrier until now. Since the World Trade Center attacks, however, the Paraguayan police have been rounding up Arab immigrants who they say may have "links to militant groups" here that manufacture false passports and offer refuge and financing to terrorist networks.
Paraguay's former consul in Miami, Alejandro Weiss, is now under arrest, accused of having sold more than 300 passports, visas and cargo shipment authorizations at up to $8,000 apiece until he was fired this spring. At least 16 of those passports, the authorities say, ended up in the hands of suspect Lebanese, Syrian and Egyptian citizens who intended to melt into the fast-growing Arab community here.
Leaders of that community dismiss the entire effort as a witch hunt.
"There are people here who don't like the policy of the United States," said Ali Muhammad Hassan, the president of the local Islamic Society. "But that doesn't make them terrorists. You keep hearing people say things like that, and you get sick of it."
All told, an estimated 12,000 people of Arab descent, most of them members of Lebanese immigrant families, live in the Triple Frontier region. Many own or work in stores here in Paraguay, but choose to live on the Brazilian side of the border in Foz do Iguacu, which has an an Arabic school and social club, supermarkets that sell Muslim food products and four Arabic-language cable television channels. It also has a gleaming mosque on Palestine Street.
Among those who went undetected while he lived here was El Said Hassan Mokhles, an Egyptian who is now in jail in Uruguay, awaiting a court ruling on an extradition request by the Egyptian government. Arrested with a fake Malaysian passport as he was leaving Brazil early in 1999, Mr. Mokhles is wanted in Egypt on charges that he took part in a terrorist operation that killed 58 foreign tourists at Luxor in 1997.
What drew Arab businessmen here is the same thing that continues to attract people from China, Korea, India and Latin America: a chance to make a lot of money with little or no government interference. The annual turnover here is estimated at more than $12 billion, which would make the economy of Ciudad del Este larger than that of the rest of Paraguay.
Of course, nearly all of the Mont Blanc pens, Rolex watches, and other products sold here are fakes or pirates, imported from Asia or assembled in workshops on the edge of town. 
Thanks to Ciudad del Este, Paraguay has both a higher per capita consumption of whiskey than Scotland and a record consumption of cigarettes. These are often smuggled, or to use the favored local euphemism, "re-exported," to Argentina and Brazil.
"This is one of the world's great centers of lawlessness," said a Brazilian Federal Police official in Foz do Iguacu, just a 10-minute walk across the Friendship Bridge over the Parana River. "Every criminal activity that you can possibly think of flourishes here, from drug and arms trafficking to money laundering, counterfeiting, carjacking, contraband and prostitution."
On Monday, for instance, the Brazilian police seized more than 12 tons of marijuana hidden under a shipment of coal in a truck that had just crossed the border here.
It was a record haul, but the case has been overshadowed by the investigation into possible links between groups here and the attacks on the World Trade Center, with rumors that even Mossad, the Israeli intelligence agency, is involved.
The Argentine government was the first to step up surveillance activities in the area, acting after bombing attacks in Buenos Aires on the Israeli Embassy and a Jewish community center killed 115 people in the mid-1990's. Those attacks have been attributed to Hezbollah, with the Argentine authorities suggesting they were planned and organized at least in part here.
In 1997, the Argentine minister of the interior, Carlos Corach, described the Triple Frontier region as "a sanctuary" for crime and terrorism. Then as now, the government was accused of playing politics to cover up its inability to find the real perpetrators of the attacks.
"That response was orchestrated by the government of Carlos Menem, and he has no credibility whatsoever," said Mr. Fakih, the department store owner, referring to the former Argentine president who is now under house arrest in connection with illegal sales of arms to Croatia and Ecuador. 
But the Brazilian authorities tell much the same story, insisting that they have evidence that members of the Arab community here have financed Hezbollah.
If terrorists are really hiding out here, it should be easy for them to go unnoticed. More than nine million tourists visit the Triple Frontier area each year, to see the mighty Iguassu Falls, gamble at casinos or shop in the hundreds of shops that line both sides of the Parana River, which forms the border of the three countries.
"It's an anthill here, with all kinds of people coming from all over the world," said a Brazilian Federal Police official. "Every day we have more than 20,000 people crossing that bridge, and you can't stop and inspect them all."
The Brazilian police say they are also investigating the activities of Muhammad Kassem Jomaa, the mayor of Chui, a town just across the border from the Uruguayan customs post where Mr. Mokhles, the jailed Egyptian, was caught. Mr. Jomaa has acknowledged visiting Mr. Mokhle in jail, but the Brazilian authorities appear most concerned about his former wife's claim that he is a Lebanese and not a Brazilian citizen, which would make him ineligible for the office he holds.
As for Mr. Mokhles, his wife and three children still live here on charity supplied by sympathizers, according to Mr. Hassan. But the same Arab community leaders who complain of persecution here belittle the significance of the case against Mr. Mokhles anytime it is brought up.
"If someone has a problem with his government, is this our responsibility as a community?" asked Taleb Jomaa, imam of the the mosque the family attends in Foz do Iguacu. "This is an open city and I am not a police inspector, so if someone comes here and has had some problems, so what?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Special policemen, above, have been patrolling Cuidad del Este, Paraguay, where a search for terrorists is under way. Porters, left, carried goods to smuggle to Brazil. (Agence France-Presse); (Reuters) Map of Paraguay highlights Cuidad del Este: F.B.I. agents are part of the hunt for terrorists in Cuidad del Este.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); ARRESTS (89%); EXTRADITION (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); RELIGION (76%); HIJACKING (76%); RETAILERS (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); LITIGATION (72%); MISSING PERSONS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (67%); DISMISSALS (66%); AIRLINES (66%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (60%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; MISSING PERSONS 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (93%) ;FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION 

PERSON: ;ROHTER, LARRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) PARAGUAY (98%); EGYPT (94%); BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); LEBANON (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); SYRIA (79%); URUGUAY (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); PARAGUAY; ARGENTINA; BRAZIL; CIUDAD DEL ESTE (PARAGUAY)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



821 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-12

Arafat and Peres Agree To Cooperate on Security
Palestinian leader Yasir Arafat and Shimon Peres, the Israeli foreign minister, jointly pledged a renewed drive for peace and agreed to resume cooperation between their security forces. A8

Pact on Macedonia Force
As the initial NATO mission was ending, NATO and Macedonian officials agreed on the scope of a new military force to take over. The new NATO forces will have 700 troops and a three-month mission to provide security for unarmed international monitors in Macedonia. A12

Pope Grieves in Armenia
John Paul II, at an emotional ceremony at a memorial to the victims of the 1915 massacre of Armenians by Turks, deplored the killings that Armenians consider genocide without offending Turkey, a key Islamic American ally. A6

Canada Freezes Assets
Canada said it had frozen the assets of groups identified by the United States as linked to terrorism. A12

Western Culture Praised
The Italian prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, in a briefing for journalists in Berlin, praised Western civilization as superior to that of the Islamic world and urged Europe to "reconstitute itself on the basis of its Christian roots," comments likely to outrage Turkey and other Islamic allies of the West. A8

Mad Cow Scare in Japan
A beef scare is sweeping Japan after British scientists confirmed a case of mad cow disease in a Tokyo suburb, the first case of the disease outside of Europe. A12

Haiti Criticized on Rights
In Haiti respect for human rights and the rule of law has fallen to its lowest point since democratic rule was restored in 1994, according to a report by Amnesty International to be released today. A12

World Briefing A10

NATIONAL A14-16

Political Landscape Shifts In Aftermath of Attacks
Top Democratic officials said the terrorist attacks had severely hampered their recruitment efforts, particularly for candidates for Senate, and had upended their entire political game plan for the midterm elections next year. The political terrain has shifted so sharply that candidates are reluctant to take on incumbents -- and some incumbents are deciding to stay put rather than retire or seek higher office. A14

Farm Subsidies Threatened
Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman said the administration was uncertain whether there was enough money to finance the $171 billion House farm bill, raising the possibility that farm subsidies may be the first major program to feel the pinch of the new wartime budget. A14

Vieques Stance Changes
With the nation on a war footing, leading Democrats are backing away from their demand that the Navy bring an immediate halt to its bombing exercises on the Puerto Rican island of Vieques. A16

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Inhalers and Bone Loss
Researchers reported that inhaled steroids used to treat asthma have led to bone loss at the hip in premenopausal women. A16

ARTS E1-10

Art World in Turmoil
In the months leading up to the $500 million fall art season there is always uncertainty, but not since the Persian Gulf war has there been anything like this. Every corner of the art world is in turmoil because of its ties to the economy. E1

NEW YORK/REGION D1-7

Giuliani Seeks an Extension To Ease Political Transition
Mayor Giuliani suggested that he was trying to get the three mayoral candidates to agree to an extension of his term for two or three months to ease the transition to a new administration as New York tries to recover from the terrorist attack. The mayor appeared to be setting aside -- at least for now -- his and his staff's flirtation with a full third term, after receiving a lukewarm reception from some top lawmakers who have expressed reluctance to overturn the term limits law. A1

Manhattan Car Crackdown
A day after the mayor announced that the city would try, for the first time in 21 years, to tame traffic by prohibiting single-occupant cars from crossing into Midtown and Lower Manhattan on weekday mornings, many drivers said it was a sacrifice they were prepared to make, and they thought it made sense. But many others were in a state of shock, mingled at first with defiance and then confusion. D1

HOUSE & HOME F1-12

CIRCUITS G1-8

Hearing Aid Advance
A Swedish research team has designed a hearing-aid system that enables the user to determine the direction that any particular sound is coming from. The device could be helpful to people with severe visual impairment as well as a hearing problem. The system is a combination of microphones and vibrators fitted onto a pair of eyeglasses. G5

SPORTS D9-16

OBITUARIES A18-19

Fred V. Morrone
The superintendent of police and director of public safety for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey was 63. A18

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

OPEC Production Levels
Ministers from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries ended informal talks without announcing a decision on daily production levels, but delegates at the meetings said the group planned to leave output unchanged. C7

Coke Without Pringles
Coca-Cola machines will not be dispensing cans of Pringles around the world after all. The Coca-Cola Company and Procter & Gamble called off plans for a joint venture announced in February. C12

Passed Over, and Out
Jeffrey M. Peek, who ran the asset management division at Merrill Lynch and who in July was passed over for the firm's presidency, is leaving, the company said. C7

Wall Street Profits Decline
The Goldman Sachs Group and the Bear Stearns Companies posted steep declines in quarterly profits as investment banking fees and trading revenue fell. C7

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: A sacrifice for commuters; nation-building in Afghanistan; the return of Michael Jordan.
Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.

Bridge E8
TV Listings E8
Crossword E8
Weather D16

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (88%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (86%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (84%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (75%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); TERRORISM (74%); ISLANDS & REEFS (74%); GENOCIDE (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); JOURNALISM (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (69%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (67%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (67%); MENOPAUSE (61%); ASTHMA (60%); STEROIDS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (92%)

PERSON: SHIMON PERES (90%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (69%) MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (94%); ARMENIA (93%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); HAITI (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); CANADA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (79%); GERMANY (79%); PUERTO RICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



822 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE GUARDIANS; 
Demand Up for Security Services

BYLINE:  By RALPH BLUMENTHAL and BARRY MEIER 

 BODY:
As the airlines and tourism industries reel from the fallout of the terrorist attacks, companies that offer security and protection say they are being overwhelmed with demands for their services from businesses, public agencies, colleges and cultural institutions.
 Those requests, the companies say, include stepped-up building security, background checks and screening of job applicants, evacuation plans for overseas employees and even the development of protection plans against chemical and biological attacks. 
 The demand has become so strong that many security companies said they had been forced to turn away new customers, and some businesses and institutions have spent fruitless hours seeking additional security staff.
"People are emotionally scarred by what happened, and employers are willing to do everything necessary to give the employees a feeling of safety," said Michael Stapleton, president of a New York-based company that bears his name and provides bomb-sniffing dogs. 
In New York, an executive of a performing arts organization said his office made 62 calls last week in an effort to find two retired or off-duty police officers to help at an event, a shortage he had never faced before. "Everyone wants them now in every building," the executive said, referring to security guards. 
Before the attacks on Sept. 11, the financial outlook of the $100 billion security industry was flat, said William Daly, a spokesman for Control Risks Group, a security consultant. All that has changed, and some security companies said they were getting requests for types of services that they had never received before. 
Terry Lenzner, the chairman of the Investigative Group International, a consulting firm based in Washington, said he received a call earlier this week from the president of a venture capital firm in New York City who wanted to protect his employees from a possible biological or chemical attack.
"He wanted to know whether they should buy gas masks," said Mr. Lenzner, who added that his firm was evaluating the request.
Security firms say that many businesses want to increase building security with more employee and visitor screening, including high-technology face- and fingerprint-recognition systems. Companies also want improved fire safety plans and protection for mailrooms and loading docks.
Mr. Stapleton, who heads the company that provides bomb-sniffing dogs, said that before Sept. 11, companies only wanted dogs when they received bomb threats. But now some Wall Street firms want dogs to routinely patrol the lobbies or guard the loading docks.
Security companies said businesses were also hiring them to do more-thorough background investigations of employees. And those requests are not limited to the private sector. Michael H. Boyle, a director of forensic and litigation services in the Miami office of KPMG, a consulting firm, said it had recently been contacted by local and county governments in Florida trying to find ways to improve background checks on employees.
Much of the increased demand is coming from companies in New York and Washington or those with overseas operations. Mr. Daly said Control Risks had been asked to develop evacuation plans for companies with overseas offices in the event of a protracted war.
Jules Kroll, chairman of Kroll Inc., a consulting firm in New York, said it had been hired by companies to assess how well their plants and buildings would withstand explosions or chemical attacks.
The turnabout in the security industry has meant that it is hiring employees when many companies battered by a weak economy and the terrorist attacks are cutting back.
Ira A. Lipman, chairman of Guardsmark Inc., a company based in Memphis that provides security services, said it had received a surge of phone calls from job-seekers including retired military officers. He and other industry officials said they were hiring retired agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation and other law enforcement agencies.
Security industry executives said the biggest immediate demand was not for trained investigators but for building guards. But security experts said that new guards could not be hired overnight, especially in places like New York, which has some of the nation's strongest rules mandating background checks and training.
"That process can't be speeded," said Jack Donohue, a regional director for Securitas, which owns the Pinkerton Security Services and Burns International.
Many industry experts said they expected some of the new security measures would remain in place even after the demand for added services died down.
"A lot of things that we are doing now are more commonplace in European and Middle Eastern countries," said Mr. Boyle, the KPMG executive. "But while they adopted these kind of measures through a transitional period we are trying to accelerate them in a week."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul Stapleton and Tara, a 3-year-old golden retriever, work for a New York-based company that provides bomb-sniffing dogs. (Krista Niles/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); DOGS (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (89%); BIOMETRICS (78%); DISASTER PLANNING (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); HIJACKING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); TOURISM (73%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (72%); FORENSICS (72%); FINGERPRINTING (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%); RISK MANAGEMENT (70%); EVIDENCE (65%); VENTURE CAPITAL (65%); COUNTIES (60%); LITIGATION (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS 

COMPANY: CONTROL RISKS GROUP (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8748 BUSINESS CONSULTING SERVICES, NEC (54%)

PERSON: BLUMENTHAL, RALPH; MEIER, BARRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



823 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: After Tragedy, Publicists Are Hyper About Hype 

BYLINE:  By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
The World Trade Center tragedy may not have blighted the public relations industry entirely, but it certainly has given the business of ballyhoo a bad name.
 Happy-face press releases go unread. Enthusiastic e-mail messages are unanswered. Since Sept. 11, editors, reporters and news producers "haven't been interested in writing stories that have nothing to do with the crisis," said Jack Bergen, president of the Council of Public Relations Firms, the industry's New York-based trade group. 
 New York City's $792 million public relations industry, the most prodigious conflation of communications representatives and spin managers on the planet, had already been reeling during a miserable year, thanks to a sinking economy.
For the industry, following a boom year, "it's like a freight train hitting a brick wall," Mr. Bergen said. The year 2000 was the greatest year ever for flackery, hoopla and hyperbole -- some $4.2 billion in estimated billings nationally, the highest ever -- and in New York City, the industry grew 24 percent, according to the council. Now Mr. Bergen worries that industry revenues could be down 5 to 10 percent for 2001.
Since the attack, journalists "are defining news differently," said Fern Berman, a food-industry publicist who watched the World Trade Center horror unfold from her 12th-floor office on 21st Street near Fifth Avenue. "I am heartbroken," she added, "and I understand that right now, journalists don't need to hear about things that are not important."
In New York City, Mr. Bergen said, many public relations people "are having a difficult time focusing on their work, because they've seen a tragedy in which their friends have been killed, and many have been pulled out of buildings during bomb scares. Some say the work is unimportant."
Many are rethinking their techniques, as the industry tries to figure out ways to be useful. On the day of the disaster, Howard J. Rubenstein assembled the 200 employees of his eponymous Manhattan firm and told them "that they are more relevant today than ever," he said. "And I told them not to take advantage of the tragedy for any client, to not do anything inappropriate."
But those who did not have his counsel have been branded tasteless and, worse, have been ridiculed. Some news releases have been collected in journalistic rogues' galleries, and sent by e-mail throughout the news trade.
Although the public relations business has long been comfortable with crisis management, "there is almost a new political correctness we have to worry about," Mr. Bergen said. "This is a crisis in which the old rules don't always apply."
Dan Klores Communications in Manhattan brought in grief counselors and had prayer sessions for its 120 employees, several of whom lost friends and relatives in the disaster. Mr. Klores said he lost one account, United Airlines, but has picked up a few new ones.
Other companies found a purpose from the first moments of the tragedy. Diaz-Schloss Communications, which has represented the parent company of Windows on the World, Night Sky LLC, since 1996, "fielded hundreds of calls round the clock from all over the world," said Karen Schloss, a co-owner.
"The disaster didn't make us question what we do," she said. "It reaffirmed what we do."
Mr. Bergen has advised public relations firms to instruct companies "how to express to their community how they feel about this," he said. "We suggest that they can donate to appropriate charities, and take out newspaper and magazine ads. The companies want to do it in a way that does not look opportunistic."
More and more non-trade center articles are creeping back into newspapers, newsmagazines and television news broadcasts. "We'll return to a more normal environment for public relations," said Mr. Rubenstein, "but in a way this has scarred all of our psyches. We will never forget these horrifying images." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC RELATIONS (90%); WRITERS (89%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); CRISIS MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (73%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (68%); TRAINS (54%); GRIEF COUNSELING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



824 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: AID TO BUSINESS; 
Airline Bailout Encourages Other Industries to Lobby for Government Assistance

BYLINE:  By LESLIE WAYNE 

 BODY:
The $15 billion airline bailout approved overwhelmingly by Congress has lobbyists for other industries lining up now to make the case that their clients, too, need federal aid. 
 The insurance industry wants the government to help cover future terrorism-related losses. Travel agents want $4 billion. Pilots, restaurant workers and other groups want extra government money to provide shelter from the economic impact of the terror attacks. Big corporations are calling for huge tax cuts. 
 For corporate America, the spigots in Washington appear tantalizingly open: $40 billion in emergency money, the airline rescue package and a variety of other economic stimulus measures that Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, has suggested could amount to another $40 billion to $60 billion. With numbers this large, and with the economy already in a slump, business is casting a keen eye on what Washington can deliver.
"As soon as there was an announcement of an aid package, people started coming out of the woodwork," said James Albertine, president of the American League of Lobbyists, a trade group. "There are a lot of industries that will be looking at the pot of gold. The federal government is spending more and, obviously, there will be some winners. There's lots of opportunities and it cuts across all industries. It's pretty much open season."
Not so fast, caution some lawmakers. Fiscal conservatives, who expressed concerns about the $15 billion airline deal, are not enthusiastic about further tapping the Treasury for other bailouts. And House and Senate Republican leaders are reluctant to hand out more money for fear of creating a stampede. While Republicans want to help business with an overall stimulus package, which could include more tax cuts, and Democrats want to offer laid-off workers extended unemployment benefits, members of both parties are wary of the lobbying brigades.
The range of industries asking for help runs the business spectrum: Amtrak, hotels, restaurants, manufacturers, oil and gas, the steel industry and consumer products. They are calling for tax cuts, direct aid and support for new types of security-related activities.
Part of the reason the airlines scored so big -- aside from their dire straits -- was the platoons of high-powered lobbyists who scrambled to get the measure passed with lightening speed. Among them was Linda Hall Daschle, wife of Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Senate majority leader. Mrs. Daschle helped develop the lobbying strategy for American Airlines. "She is an aviation expert and she was extremely helpful to guide our company," said Al Becker, an American Airlines spokesman. Lobbyists for Continental Airlines included Rebecca Cox, wife of Representative Christopher Cox, a California Republican.
Their success last week is being cited as a model for others to follow -- if they can. But the corporate lobbyists know they could risk a backlash in Congress and among the general public if they appear as through they are trying to capitalize on a national tragedy.
"When Congress is looking at war and when you've got a lot of families grieving," said Kenneth E. Feltman, a lobbyist and former president of the lobbying league, "it isn't very becoming to go hat in hand."
Yet, in subtle ways and at the highest levels of government, that is what many lobbyists are doing. 
In line behind the airlines is the insurance industry. At a White House meeting last week with President Bush and more than a dozen insurance executives and lobbyists, the industry presented a new plan. Called Pool Re, it is a reinsurance pool, modeled after similar ones in Europe, that makes the federal government the insurer of last resort in acts of terrorism, lifting the burden of excessive payments from the industry. 
"We want the federal government to act as a backstop," said Julie Rochman, a senior vice president of the American Insurance Association. "It's not a bailout. It is not direct funding. We are not an industry lined up with our hand out."
Other industries are more clear that they want a handout. In testimony before a Congressional committee, Paul Ruden, senior vice president of the American Society of Travel Agents, painted a bleak picture of an industry about to be wiped out by a sudden downturn in travel. He is asking for $4 billion in grants and no-interest loans, and for protection against reductions in airline ticket commissions.
"There are a lot of industries being impacted by this; we are not alone," Mr. Ruden said. "But we have special problems, and if we are not helped, it could slow down the economic recovery."
John P. Connors, executive vice president of the American Hotel and Lodging Association, has been meeting with Congressional and administration officials to explain the problems facing hotels and to get support for immediate changes in the tax code. Among the changes he is seeking are increases in the deductibility of business meals, entertainment and spousal travel; a reduction in corporate tax rates; and financial help in installing new security systems.
To Mr. Connors, these items are not handouts. "We want to be responsible corporate citizens," he said. "We are not asking for corporate welfare."
Restaurant owners are haunted by the vision of a closed Ronald Reagan National Airport in Washington, with idled restaurants and absent customers. The National Restaurant Association is collecting data from restaurants around the country about how the national crisis is affecting them. 
In general, the industry continues pursuing its main legislative agenda, tax breaks for restaurants. Fearful of coming on too strong, Lee Culpepper, the government affairs director for the restaurant group, said he had spent the last two weeks trying to get information on the restaurant downturn to Congress rather than proposing legislation.
"I think lobbyists need to be very sensitive to running to Capitol Hill and asking for relief," Mr. Culpepper said. "I think we would be much better received if we provide information on the impact."
The steel industry says a military crisis means that the domestic steel industry needs further protections -- even though steel has become an increasingly small component in military products. And Amtrak, the passenger rail service, is asking for $3.2 billion in emergency money because of the increased use of trains, especially in the Northeast corridor.
Companies in many troubled industries will be joining with the A.F.L.-C.I.O. to endorse payments for laid-off workers. "It will not be inexpensive," said William Samuel, the labor federation's legislative director. "But given that we've already committed $40 billion to this effort, there are clearly resources to cover it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representatives of the insurance industry testified before the House Committee on Financial Services yesterday. The industry is seeking federal aid. (Susana Raab for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (91%); BAILOUTS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AIRLINES (90%); INSURANCE (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TRAVEL AGENTS (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (62%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); INSURANCE; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; TRAVEL AGENCIES AND AGENTS; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (53%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (53%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (53%)

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (67%); ALAN GREENSPAN (56%); CHRISTOPHER COX (54%) WAYNE, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



825 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Scrambling to Survive, at a Small Chelsea Caterer 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH P. FRIED

 BODY:
The New England chicken potpie and the shrimp pasta salad were about to be loaded into the delivery vans at Jason's Catering -- regular buffet lunches en route to the World Trade Center for 300 employees of two companies that were the small catering firm's linchpin clients.
 But that was on the morning of Sept. 11, and so, of course, the lunches were never dispatched. The two companies accounted for 25 percent of the corporate catering firm's orders. Wholesale cancellations of business meetings and parties by other clients in Manhattan have the previously prospering Jason's, in the West 20's in Manhattan, reeling from a total business plunge of up to 75 percent, its owners say. 
 "We are hemorrhaging cash," one of the owners, Gary Lyons, said this week.
Throughout New York City, hundreds of small businesses, from travel agencies to livery taxi companies and messenger services, have suffered severe blows since the trade center attack. 
Some are in general fields, like travel and tourism, and others, like Jason's, did a major part of their business with companies that were in the trade center or close to it. 
It will probably be months before the attack's long-term effect on the city's small enterprises can be assessed, as many of the severely weakened companies succeed and others fail in the struggle to regain their footings. 
But Jason's offers a microcosm of this struggle and of the fears of workers at small businesses hit hard by the disaster. A nine-year-old company with 30 employees, Jason's had been built with a great deal of effort, said its second owner, John Jason. 
From a ground-floor kitchen that sends cooking aromas into the intersection of 11th Avenue and 28th Street in an industrial slice of Chelsea, the company catered thousands of meals a day for Midtown and downtown clients, like Sony, Ralph Lauren and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
Its steadiest, most reliable income, Mr. Lyons said, came from two accounts. One was Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, an investment firm on the 88th and 89th floors of 2 World Trade Center, which ordered a daily lunch for more than 100 employees. The other firm, Baseline Financial Services, an information technology company on the 77th and 78th floors of the same tower, had ordered a buffet lunch for 200 employees three days a week. 
Keefe, Bruyette has reported that a third of its employees at the trade center are missing. On Monday, nearly two weeks after the attack, a Keefe representative called on Jason's to begin supplying breakfast and lunch for 20 employees at one of the sites where the investment firm had temporarily relocated, Mr. Jason said.
He expressed confidence that this meant that Keefe, Bruyette would resume its high volume of business once it was again at a single location. 
So far there has not been any indication of what will become of the business with Baseline, he said.
As Mr. Jason, a tall, muscular 39-year-old, spoke about his efforts to resuscitate his business by drumming up new clients and seeking more jobs from existing ones, he suddenly choked up and fought back tears. 
"This is not about accounts receivable," he said. "I knew so many people in those buildings."
Unlike many catering operations, Jason's is not part of a restaurant or food shop and thus has no other income to offset catering losses. Mr. Lyons declined to provide overall revenue figures before Sept. 11 but said that despite the downturn in the economy, "We were having a good year, as strong or slightly stronger than last year." 
He said that "at least 80 percent" of the meals his company was to have catered since the attack and in coming weeks had been canceled, at a probable loss of about $100,000, which is in addition to the long-term losses involving the two main accounts.
No employees have been laid off, Mr. Jason said, and he expressed determination that none would have to be. "I truly believe we will rebuild this company," he said.
Nearby, looking up from bowls of pasta and platters of grilled chicken that he was routing for delivery, Glen James, 30, an employee from Brooklyn with a young daughter and a wife who works part time, made clear that he was rooting for his bosses.
"I've got to pay my rent," he said. "That doesn't stop."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Emeterio Vega has worked at Jason's Catering, at West 28th Street and 11th Avenue, for four years.; John Jason the second owner of the nine-year-old caterer, is confident. "I truly believe we will rebuild this company," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATERING SERVICES (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); WHOLESALERS (77%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (71%); TRAVEL AGENTS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: KEEFE BRUYETTE & WOODS INC (52%); MORGAN STANLEY (52%); BASELINE FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (51%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (88%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



826 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 126 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
SKECHERS EXPECTING WEAK RESULTS AS SHOE COSTS RISE

BYLINE:  Reuters 

 BODY:
 The shoe company Skechers USA Inc. said yesterday that it expected third-quarter profit to fall sharply below analysts' estimates because of high costs and a weakening economy. The company, which designs and markets so-called lifestyle athletic shoes, cut its full-year earnings outlook in July and said yesterday that costs rose in July and August when sales exceeded its expectations, but it was unable to cut spending in September when sales slowed. Skechers, based in Manhattan Beach, Calif., said its third-quarter earnings will be "in line with or slightly lower than" the 40 cents a share it reported for the third quarter of 2000, compared with the analysts' average estimate of 51 cents compiled by the research firm Thomson Financial/First Call. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FOOTWEAR (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); SALES FIGURES (88%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%) FINANCES 

COMPANY: SKECHERS USA INC (96%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (70%)

ORGANIZATION: SKECHERS USA 

TICKER: SKX (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448210 SHOE STORES (96%); NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (96%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



827 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 111 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing Washington: City Regains Control Of Finances 

BYLINE:  AP 

 BODY:
 Five years after it was formed to help steer Washington back from economic collapse, a presidentially appointed panel ceded control of District of Columbia government back to local officials. 
"The fiscal situation is just light years better," said the economist Alice M. Rivlin, the outgoing chairwoman of the panel, the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority. She was presiding over the authority's final meeting. The five-member panel was imposed by a Republican-controlled Congress in 1995, just months after Mayor Marion S. Barry Jr., who had spent six months in jail for a 1990 drug conviction, won a fourth term.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (82%); JAIL SENTENCING (82%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



828 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Lobbyists Line Up to Make Their Case for Federal Aid
The $15 billion airline bailout approved overwhelmingly by Congress has lobbyists for other industries lining up to make the case that their clients, too, need federal aid.
 For corporate America, the spigots in Washington appear tantalizingly open -- with $40 billion in emergency money, the airline rescue package and other economic stimulus measures that could amount to an additional $40 billion to $60 billion. Page B6. 

Many Ways to Lift Flagging Economy
If the administration and Congress decide the flagging economy needs an additional kick after the terrorist attacks, they have a long menu of policy choices available. B6.

Starwood Hotel Chief Plans Ahead
Barry Sternlicht, chairman of Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide, encouraged any assistance and cleanup his chains could provide immediately after the Sept. 11 attacks. But much of his focus was on long-term issues like offering displaced companies space and rallying fellow hoteliers to push for their own piece of the federal pie. C6.

How to Disrupt Terrorist Finances
Disrupting the finances of Osama bin Laden's terrorist network and others will require a global crackdown, including an end to laws in countries that allow secret bank accounts, the Senate Banking Committee was told. B6.

Washington's Moves Faulted
The lack of a strong voice from Washington on the economy has contributed substantially to the sense in America that the economic center is not holding and is feeding the recessionary fires. Jeff Madrick: Economic Scene. C2.

Three Major Gauges Give Up Gains
Stocks gave up gains and headed lower. The Dow Jones industrials fell 92.58 points, or 1.1 percent, to 8,567.39. The Nasdaq composite index fell 37.60 points, or 2.5 percent, to 1,464.04. And the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 5.23 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,007.04. C8.

Delta and Sky Chefs Announce Cuts
Delta Air Lines became the latest airline to announce cuts and reduce flights -- up to 13,000 jobs worldwide and a 15 percent reduction in its schedule -- because of a plunge in demand. Also, LSG Sky Chefs said it would lay off 4,800 of its 16,000 employees. C6.

Uncertainty Increases on Campuses
The economy was already turning against students who will enter the job market in the spring, but the attacks have greatly increased the level of uncertainty on campuses. C4.

Coke-P.& G. Venture Called Off
Coca-Cola and Procter & Gamble called off plans for a joint venture that they had announced in February. The partnership would have combined Coca-Cola's Minute Maid business and P.& G.'s Sunny Delight drink and Pringles Chips brands. Analysts have been predicting the deal's demise for months. Shares of Coca-Cola fell $1.11, to $46.89. P.& G. rose 13 cents, to $71.13. C12.

$2.9 Billion Deal for Power Concern
Reliant Resources has agreed to acquire Orion Power Holdings, an electric power generator, for $2.9 billion in cash, executives said. C7.

$100 Million Bid for Gehl Rejected
A $100 million bid by Harold C. Simmons, the billionaire corporate raider, for Gehl, a small equipment maker, lost out. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Graph tracks the daily closing price of Coca-Cola shares for the week. Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,567.39 down 92.58Nasdaq composite -- 1,464.04 down 37.6010-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.63% down 0.07The euro -- $0.9233 down 0.0002The dollar -- 117.85 yen up 0.25 Graph: "TODAY" shows Durable Goods OrdersAugust figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -0.2% Graph tracks the percentage from February through July. New-Home SalesAugust figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -2.6% Graph tracks the percentage from February through July.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); HOTEL CHAINS (74%); LOBBYING (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); RESORTS (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); JOINT VENTURES (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (81%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (74%); STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS WORLDWIDE INC (70%); LSG LUFTHANSA SERVICE HOLDING AG (53%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (81%); DAL (NYSE) (74%); HOT (NYSE) (70%); PGP (PAR) (51%); PG (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (81%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (74%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (70%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (53%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (51%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (51%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



829 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place; 
What's Eating Those Giant Media Stocks?

BYLINE:  By SETH SCHIESEL 

 BODY:
The stocks of almost all major media companies have fallen since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. But some are down more than others, and one -- Vivendi Universal -- has even risen.
 Why have different media companies fared differently, and why is the outlook for some of them shakier than for others? 
 It all depends on their relative exposure to the economic uncertainties in the aftermath of Sept. 11 -- especially the implications for tourism and the United States advertising markets. And so far, investors generally seem to have factored those relative risks into the companies' share prices. 
The media company that appears to be most exposed on the advertising and tourism fronts, Walt Disney, has experienced a 26 percent drop in its stock price since the attacks. Shares of Vivendi, which draws only small parts of its revenue from theme parks and advertising, are up 3 percent.
In between are the recent stock performances of the media giants whose exposure to advertising and tourism falls between the Disney and Vivendi extremes. Shares of Viacom have fallen 14.4 percent; the News Corporation, 22.4 percent; and AOL Time Warner, 6.3 percent.
Based on estimates and the companies' own reports, Disney has the most revenue pegged to advertising and tourism -- about 56 percent. The next is Viacom at 47 percent; the News Corporation, slightly more than 32 percent; AOL Time Warner, 23 percent; and Vivendi, only about 4 percent. 
(Two other media giants are not included here: Bertelsmann, which is privately held, and Sony, the bulk of whose revenue comes from consumer electronics.)
The revenue percentages, of course, are not a perfect guide to the newly changed media landscape. There are other forces particular to each company, like the fact that members of the Bass family of Texas sold more than 6 percent of Disney's outstanding shares last week to help cover their own big losses in other stocks. 
And the media companies most at risk now, of course, are the same ones that appear poised to benefit the most whenever the advertising market finally improves and if consumers become more willing to travel. 
But it is telling that on Sept. 17 alone, the first day markets were open after the terrorist attacks and before the Bass move, shares of the five big companies were already moving in ways that reflected their relative exposures to advertising and tourism: Disney stock dropped the most, followed by the News Corporation, Viacom, AOL and Vivendi.
While the United States advertising market had been in the doldrums all year because of the dot-com collapse and the overall slowing of the economy, the Sept. 11 attacks largely dashed hopes for a quick recovery. Overseas advertising markets also appear to have suffered this year, but analysts say the terrorist attacks are less likely to play a direct role in determining their course. So only domestic advertising has been included in these risk calculations. 
As for the impact of the attacks on tourism, consider Disney, which drew nearly a third of its revenue -- and almost half of its operating income -- from its theme parks and resorts operation in its most recent fiscal quarter. 
Some of Disney's park revenue is generated overseas, and the company has said that its foreign parks have had no drop in visitors since Sept. 11. But as the early news photographs showed nearly deserted Main Streets at Disney's parks in California and Florida, investors were badly alarmed, even though the company says that attendance is now rebounding.
While the downturn in tourism has been severe, it may not last as long as the poor advertising environment, depending on whether there are any more major attacks. Compared with the falloff in travel, the stagnation in advertising is a result of a broader, more complex set of economic factors.
If tourism returns to normal more quickly than advertising does, Viacom and the News Corporation could be in more trouble than Disney. Viacom generates slightly more than 45 percent of its revenue from United States advertising, while the News Corporation derives about a third. For Disney and AOL Time Warner, the figure is slightly less than a quarter of revenue. And for Vivendi it is less than 1 percent. 
Even at the other companies where stocks have fallen, there may be pockets of strength. Disney's family-oriented films could be more popular than ever. And Viacom's Blockbuster unit, for instance, may see an uptick in video rentals and sales as people stay home. Much the same could potentially be said of Disney's family-oriented videos.
Through yesterday's close of trading, the one disparity between revenue at risk and the movement of share prices involved the News Corporation and Viacom. While the News Corporation's price declined only slightly more than Viacom's on Sept. 17, since then News Corporation shares have fallen much farther, even though Viacom has more revenue pegged to advertising and tourism. What's more, Viacom warned last week that its financial results this year would be below previous forecasts.
But more than bad news, uncertainty is detested by investors. The News Corporation and its chairman, Rupert Murdoch, have given investors little guidance since the attacks. In contrast, Viacom's top executives, Sumner M. Redstone and Mel Karmazin, have been holding conversations with big investors, analysts say.
Riding above the turmoil, for now, is Vivendi, which is based in Paris and is the only one of the five media companies whose shares have risen since Sept. 10. It does have a theme park business, including the Universal parks in Florida and California, but that unit contributes only about 3.4 percent of revenue. 
More important, only about 4 percent of Vivendi's overall revenue is generated by advertising, and that figure is set to decline as the company sells off European magazines.
And Vivendi has almost no direct presence in the United States television business. Long term, that remains a big weakness for the company. In the current environment, however, it can look like a strength.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Most at Risk"Media companies with the highest potential exposure to the financial effects of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks have suffered the biggest stock declines. COMPANY: DisneyREVENUE AT RISK*: 56.5% COMPANY: ViacomREVENUE AT RISK*: 47.3 COMPANY: News Corp.REVENUE AT RISK*: 32.5 COMPANY: AOL Time WarnerREVENUE AT RISK*: 23.3 COMPANY: Vivendi UniversalREVENUE AT RISK*: 4.2 Graph tracks the change in stock prices on first day after attacks and on Sept.10 yesterday. *Revenue from tourism and domestic advertising divided by total revenue(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); HIJACKING (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (71%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (70%) MEDIA; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: VIVENDI (94%); NEWS CORP (93%); AOL INC (92%); WALT DISNEY CO (56%); VIACOM INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: ;VIVENDI UNIVERSAL SA; DISNEY, WALT, CO; VIACOM INC; NEWS CORP; AOL TIME WARNER 

TICKER: VIV (PAR) (94%); VIV (BIT) (94%); NWS (NASDAQ) (93%); NWS (ASX) (93%); AOL (NYSE) (92%); DIS (NYSE) (56%); VIA (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (94%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (94%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (93%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (92%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (56%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (56%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (56%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%) SIC4941 WATER SUPPLY; SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TV SERVICES; SIC1623 WATER; 

PERSON: ROBERT BASS (55%); SID BASS (55%); LEE BASS (50%) SCHIESEL, SETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

TITLE: ;MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



830 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE AIRLINES; 
Delta Announces Job Cuts and Reductions in Service

BYLINE:  By SHERRI DAY 

 BODY:
In the latest blow to the ailing airline industry, which has lost billions of dollars because of the terrorist attacks, Delta Air Lines said yesterday that it would cut up to 13,000 jobs worldwide and reduce its flight schedule by 15 percent because of a plunge in the demand for air travel.
 Delta, the nation's third-largest airline, is the latest carrier to cut its work force to maintain its financial viability. Last week, 12,000 job cuts were announced by Continental Airlines; 11,000 by US Airways; 20,000 by the AMR Corporation, the parent company of American Airlines and Trans World Airlines; and 20,000 by UAL, the parent company of United. Among the major carriers, only Southwest Airlines has not announced job cuts. 
 Airline analysts said that with Delta's announcement, the total number of job losses in the aviation industry exceeded 100,000. That figure includes job cuts by airline-related companies like Boeing, which plans to cut up to 30,000 jobs, and the airline caterer LSG Sky Chefs, which said yesterday that it would lay off 4,800 of its 16,000 employees.
If airline travel continues to slump, airlines could lose as much as $11 billion in international revenue this year, the International Air Transport Association said.
The airline industry lost hundreds of millions of dollars when the government grounded all flights and sealed off domestic airports for two days after the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11. The attacks also made many people afraid to fly. On Friday, Congress voted to give the industry $5 billion in emergency aid and $10 billion in loan guarantees.
But Leo F. Mullin, Delta's chairman and chief executive, said yesterday that the $5 billion bailout, of which Delta will receive about $650 million, would cover the company's losses only for this month. Company officials estimate that Delta will post revenue losses of $2 billion through Dec. 31. The number of people aboard the company's flights has decreased by at least 30 percent since the attacks.
For example, on the Delta shuttle flights from Boston to New York yesterday, only 200 passengers were on board, Mr. Mullin said. Before the attacks, the shuttle flights carried about 3,000 people a day.
"Prior to Sept. 11, any discussion that questioned our airline's capacity for financial survival would have been unthinkable," Mr. Mullin said. "The operational and financial outlook for airlines has changed precipitously and drastic measures are required if we are to avoid becoming the first economic casualty of the war."
The job cuts, Mr. Mullin said, are needed to stem the company's losses. 
Mr. Mullin also said he would forgo his salary for the rest of the year. The chief executives of two other airlines, Donald J. Carty of American and Gordon Bethune of Continental, have also decided to give up their salaries for the remainder of the year.
Delta, based in Atlanta, has given its affected employees, who range from baggage handlers to pilots, six options regarding their dismissals including early retirement, voluntary severance, and one-, two-, three- and five-year voluntary leave packages. Some workers will also be put on furlough, a move that makes it impossible to know immediately which parts of the country will register the most job cuts, said Cindi Kurczewski, a company spokeswoman.
The majority of Delta's flight reductions, which are to begin on Nov. 1, are in Orlando, Fla., where the carrier will fly 38 percent fewer flights because of a decline in leisure travel. In New York, Delta will decrease flights by 36 percent, with the greatest reduction at Kennedy International Airport. That is in part because several international flights will be suspended until March.
Shares of Delta rose 34 cents, to $24.86.
Airline analysts said that Delta's announcement, which was made at a news conference yesterday, would likely serve as a precursor to revenue warnings from other airline companies.
"We will see a couple of carriers have to seek consolidation," said Kevin C. Murphy, an analyst at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. "This has really broken the back of the industry."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Delta's chairman, Leo F. Mullin, waited to speak at a news conference in Atlanta yesterday. (Reuters) Chart: "Drastic Reductions"In the wake of the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, the domestic airline industry has announced layoffs that exceed 90,000. AIRLINE: American and TWA*PREVIOUS WORK FORCE: 138,500JOB CUTS ANNOUNCED: 20,000 AIRLINE: UnitedPREVIOUS WORK FORCE: 100,500JOB CUTS ANNOUNCED: 20,000 AIRLINE: DeltaPREVIOUS WORK FORCE: 81,000JOB CUTS ANNOUNCED: 13,000 AIRLINE: ContinentalPREVIOUS WORK FORCE: 56,000JOB CUTS ANNOUNCED: 12,000 AIRLINE: US AirwaysPREVIOUS WORK FORCE: 46,500JOB CUTS ANNOUNCED: 11,000 AIRLINE: NorthwestPREVIOUS WORK FORCE: 53,000JOB CUTS ANNOUNCED: 10,000 AIRLINE: America WestPREVIOUS WORK FORCE: 14,000JOB CUTS ANNOUNCED: 2,000 AIRLINE: Midway+PREVIOUS WORK FORCE: 1,900JOB CUTS ANNOUNCED: 1,700 AIRLINE: American Trans AirPREVIOUS WORK FORCE: 8,000JOB CUTS ANNOUNCED: 1,500 AIRLINE: SpiritPREVIOUS WORK FORCE: 2,400JOB CUTS ANNOUNCED: 800 AIRLINE: Mesa AirPREVIOUS WORK FORCE: 4,000JOB CUTS ANNOUNCED: 700 AIRLINE: Midwest ExpressPREVIOUS WORK FORCE: 3,750JOB CUTS ANNOUNCED: 450 AIRLINE: FrontierPREVIOUS WORK FORCE: 2,600JOB CUTS ANNOUNCED: 440 *Both units of AMR +Halted all operations on Sept.12.(Sources: company reports, Bloomberg Business News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (95%); LAYOFFS (92%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (92%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); TERRORISM (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); CATERING SERVICES (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); EXECUTIVES (63%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FINANCES 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (91%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (90%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (90%); AMR CORP (84%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (72%); BOEING CO (56%); LSG LUFTHANSA SERVICE HOLDING AG (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION (55%) DELTA AIR LINES 

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); UAL (NYSE) (91%); LUV (NYSE) (90%); LCC (NYSE) (90%); BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (55%)

PERSON: DAY, SHERRI; MULLIN, LEO F 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



831 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE ALLIANCE; 
MILITARY CALLED JUST ONE ELEMENT IN WAR ON TERROR

BYLINE:  By JAMES DAO with PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Sept. 26 

 BODY:
Facing some skepticism from NATO allies over going to war to eradicate terrorism, the Bush administration said today that military operations would not be the "primary piece" of its campaign.
 At a meeting of NATO defense ministers that offered the administration a first opportunity to convey detailed plans to the alliance, some European states pressed for, but did not get, a detailed showing of evidence that would justify any attack on Osama bin Laden's Al Qaeda network in Afghanistan. 
 Rudolf Scharping, the German defense minister, said he had expected Paul D. Wolfowitz, the deputy defense secretary, to arrive with a "white paper" spelling out the evidence connecting terrorist acts to Al Qaeda.
But administration officials are still debating how much information to make public since much of it rests on secret communications intercepts. The allies had been led to expect more by Secretary of State Colin L. Powell's statement last Sunday that the government would "put before the world, the American people, a persuasive case." Page B4. 
After the Sept. 11 attack on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, NATO invoked for the first time an article of its founding treaty that says an attack on one member will be considered an attack on all. A sustained alliance military campaign against terrorism seemed possible, but today Mr. Wolfowitz said: "If we need collective action, we will ask for it. We don't anticipate that for the moment." 
Before the NATO meeting, a senior Pentagon official told reporters that the United States would ask the alliance for logistical, intelligence and other support, but "the military piece is not the primary piece." 
Some American military planners expressed private frustration today about the unattractive array of military options in war-torn Afghanistan, where destitute refugees were reported to be in flight toward the sealed borders of Iran and Pakistan. 
As a result, the Bush administration was being forced to broaden the scope of its planning for a possible humanitarian disaster while also lowering somewhat expectations for a major military campaign, officials said. Expectations had been raised by a steady buildup of American troops and aircraft in the Persian Gulf and elsewhere.
"The people of Afghanistan are already beginning to suffer the humanitarian consequences from this -- just in anticipation of events," a senior Pentagon official said, referring to possible military strikes against Mr. bin Laden's network.
Russia has helped decisively in preparations for any military action in Afghanistan and today it was rewarded. The United States, in a clear shift, stated for the first time that the Al Qaeda network played a role in inciting the bloody rebellion in the Russian territory of Chechnya, where the Russian Army has been accused of using indiscriminate force against civilians and committing numerous human rights abuses in putting down the revolt. 
Mr. Wolfowitz provided an overview of the administration's case against Mr. bin Laden, but did not go into detail, officials said. 
In public remarks, Mr. Wolfowitz said the "evidence is there for the whole world to see."
"Many of the people in this room watched it live on television," he said, referring the images of aircraft crashing into the World Trade Center. "There is no question that the Al Qaeda organization has been convicted in courts of law for acts of terrorism, including the bombing of our embassies in East Africa." 
The desire of some ministers for more evidence caused tension, but in the end there was at least public backing from the allies for the administration's antiterror campaign.
Still, as Mr. Wolfowitz explained that the United States would seek different kinds of help from NATO states, some worried that the American approach could lead to a wider war. "Most people in Europe would like to see that only the ones who are found guilty are hunted down and penalized," one NATO official said.
The NATO secretary general, Lord Robertson, questioned whether it was even necessary for "an ally to produce evidence." 
Even as administration officials voiced confidence that Mr. bin Laden was guilty, they seemed less sure that he could be brought to justice simply by military strikes.
"The diplomatic instrument with the intelligence instrument with the military instrument," a senior administration official said, "are much more effective than any one of them individually." It is important to understand, the official emphasized, "that if we take military action, one of the major objectives of that action will be to get more information; there is nothing more important in this war than information." 
Administration officials said today that they were urgently trying to marshal food aid for the Afghan people.Just a week ago, White House officials were opposed to efforts to send more aid, saying it would fall into the hands of Taliban fighters.
The International Monetary Fund today approved a $135 million loan installment for Pakistan in a sign that economic policy was being used to shore up critical allies. 
The shift in the administration's Russia policy was first announced at the White House, when Mr. Bush's spokesman, Ari Fleischer, delivered a strong expression of gratitude and support to the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, for aligning Russia with the United States against terrorism. In doing so, another senior Bush administration official said, "We know that Al Qaeda has exploited the war in Chechnya, may have even helped to provoke it." 
These remarks showed how much importance the Bush administration attached to Mr. Putin's identification with the Western cause. Russia agreed to open air corridors and played a decisive role in persuading Central Asian states to open bases for military and relief operations on Afghanistan's northern flank.
Mr. Fleischer's remarks were a sharp reversal of Mr. Bush's tone on Chechnya. During the presidential campaign, Mr. Bush said that international financing for Russia should be cut off because of Mr. Putin's crackdown in Chechnya. "This guy, Putin, who is now the temporary president, has come to power as a result of Chechnya," Mr. Bush said in a television interview in February 2000. Mr. Putin dealt with Chechnya in a way "that's not acceptable to peaceful nations," he said. 
At a meeting with Muslim leaders today, Mr. Bush stopped short of Mr. Fleischer's comments, saying that Mr. Putin should "deal with the Chechnya minority in his country with respect" for human rights. 
"I would hope that the Russian president while dealing with the Al Qaeda organization also respects minority rights within his country."

GRAPHIC: Photo: At a NATO meeting yesterday, Paul D. Wolfowitz, deputy secretary of defense, offered an overview of the case against Osama bin Laden. (Associated Press)(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (97%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); AL-QAEDA (91%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ARMIES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (75%); REFUGEES (73%); MISSING PERSONS (62%); AIRLINES (62%) TERRORISM; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; MISSING PERSONS 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); AL-QAEDA (91%) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (91%) DAO, JAMES; TYLER, PATRICK E; WOLFOWITZ, PAUL D (DEPUTY SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BIN LADEN, OSAMA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (52%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); BELGIUM (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GULF STATES (53%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



832 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE MONEY TRAIL; 
Pressing for Rules to Follow Terrorists' Cash

BYLINE:  By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 26 

 BODY:
Disrupting the finances of Osama bin Laden's terrorist network and others will require a global crackdown, including an end to laws in tax haven countries that allow secret bank accounts, the Senate Banking Committee was told today.
 The ease with which Al Qaeda, the terrorist network of Mr. bin Laden, has moved money around the world has drawn close scrutiny here as the nation searches for ways to fight an enemy that is not a state, but a network of radicals operating in perhaps 35 countries. 
 Americans, as well as residents of France and some other countries, have long lived with rules requiring banks to keep detailed records that are available to law enforcers, experts on money laundering and terrorism said. These experts urged that these rules be adopted by every country. Countries that refuse to comply should be shut out of global financial markets, current and former federal law enforcement and diplomatic experts testified. 
Most industrial countries have adopted bank disclosure rules, and even the Swiss, with a reputation for confidentiality, have come to cooperate with financial investigations of terrorism, drug dealing and looting of governments. But about three dozen tiny countries and much of the Middle East remain closed to investigators of financial crimes.
Tiny island nations like Nauru allow foreigners to create shell banks and businesses into which the trail of tens of billions of dollars abruptly ends because financial records are officially secret. Perhaps 2 percent of the global economy represents laundered money, the committee was told. The experts said that disclosure rules not only must apply to every country, they must extend beyond banks to stock brokerage firms, casinos, check-cashing services and informal money-transfer businesses.
The witnesses also called for closing loopholes that let the known assets of terrorists, drug dealers and tax cheats slip away even when they are on deposit in American banks. One loophole in American law shields the accounts of foreign banks at American banks, known as correspondent bank accounts, even when the money in them can be clearly identified as belonging to a specific terrorist or criminal.
An early sign of whether the financial front of the new war on terrorism is succeeding will be whether the prices charged by money launderers rise, said Jimmy Gurule, Treasury under secretary for enforcement. 
He said the administration was also moving up by six months, to Dec. 31, the deadline for domestic nonbank financial services businesses to register with the government. The registration is required under a 1993 measure to combat money laundering, a law that has not been fully carried out because of disputes over administrative rules.
Without nearly uniform worldwide rules on keeping financial records and making them available to investigators, the battle against money laundering that finances terrorism cannot succeed, said Jonathan Winer, a Washington lawyer who led the State Department's law enforcement efforts from 1994 to 1999.
"Cutting off terrorist finance is like cutting the heads of the hydra," Mr. Winer said. "Every time we chop off one head, more will grow back in place. To survive we must kill the entire beast and that means more than a single bin Laden or any part of his related terrorist finance networks."
Much of the hearing focused on concerns by Senator Phil Gramm, the Texas Republican and ranking committee member, who said that last year he killed a similar money laundering bill. The bill passed a House committee with one dissenting vote, but came under fire from Representatives Dick Armey, Tom DeLay and Ron Paul, all Texas Republicans.
Senator Gramm expressed concerns about violation of the due process rights of banks and their customers whose funds are frozen or seized because of suspected terrorist activities. 
Senator Gramm asked whether "a guy named Bobby Ben Loden from Iraan, Texas, has a right to come forward and say 'My name is Loden and I'm from Texas and you have made a mistake here.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York explains how people can open anonymous offshore accounts. (Susana Raab for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (95%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MONEY LAUNDERING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); TAX FRAUD (89%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); NARCOTERRORISM (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TESTIMONY (77%); EXPERT WITNESSES (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (74%); LAWYERS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); WITNESSES (73%); WIRE TRANSFERS (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); MISSING PERSONS (71%); SECURITIES BROKERS (67%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); MONEY LAUNDERING; BANKS AND BANKING; FOREIGN BANK ACCOUNTS 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (91%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (91%); CHARLES SCHUMER (57%) JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY; BIN LADEN, OSAMA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



833 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths; 
CIAFARDINI, CHRISTOPHER

 BODY:
 CIAFARDINI-Christopher. Died Tuesday, September 11, 2001 in the tragic destruction of the World Trade Center in New York City. He was 30 years old and a Vice President, Financial Analyst at Fred Alger Management, Inc. He joined Fred Alger Management, located on the 93rd floor of World Trade Center Tower North, in March of this year. Born May 8, 1971, Christopher leaves behind a loving family and many close friends and admiring co-workers. He is survived by his father, Edward, of East Norwich, New York; his mother, Maggie, of New York City; and an older brother, Dominic, also of New York City. Christopher also leaves behind loving grandparents, and numerous aunts, uncles and cousins. "Christopher was a quiet, deliberate man who had strong opinions and high ideals," Dominic recalls of his brother. "He had a passion for Wall Street, and was so happy to be working high in the sky for Fred Alger Management." Prior to Fred Alger Management, Christopher worked at Merrill-Lynch, Morgan Stanley, Gruntal, and CitiGroup. Christopher attended Oyster Bay High School on Long Island, NY. He graduated with distinction from the University of Colorado at Boulder in 1993, receiving a Bachelor of Arts degree in Economics. At Boulder, Christopher was a member of Phi Beta Kappa, the Golden Key National Honor Society, and Omicron Delta Epsilon International Honor Society in Economics. Christopher also attended the Johnson Graduate School of Management at Cornell University, where he received a Master of Business Administration in May 1999. 
Because of his dedication to his educational pursuits, Christopher was awarded a Johnson School merit-based scholarship. He greatly enjoyed his experience there and sought to continue his connection to the university after graduation by joining the Cornell Club in New York City. To honor his affection for Cornell and the Johnson School his family has established a scholarship in his memory. The family requests that in lieu of flowers and other expressions of condolence, contributions be made to: The Christopher Ciafardini Scholarship, care of SC Johnson Graduate School of Management, Cornell University, 221 Sage Hall, Ithaca, NY 14853. A Memorial Mass will be held for Christopher on Friday, October 5, at 10:30 AM at St. Thomas More's Church, 65 East 89 St. (between Madison Ave. and Park Ave.), in New York City. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (87%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%) 

COMPANY: FRED ALGER MANAGEMENT INC (94%); S C JOHNSON BENELUX SA (82%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (55%); PHI BETA KAPPA (55%); GOLDEN KEY NATIONAL HONOR SOCIETY (55%); OMICRON DELTA EPSILON (54%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (54%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: CIAFARDINI, CHRISTOPHER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



834 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
In responding to terrorism, the administration is falling short on the economic front.

BYLINE:  By Jeff Madrick; Jeff Madrick is the editor of Challenge Magazine and a collection of essays, "Unconventional Wisdom: Alternative Perspectives on the New Economy." He teaches at Cooper Union and the New School. E-mail: challenge@mesharpe.com.

 BODY:
DIPLOMATIC and military efforts may rightly take precedence, but the White House has provided minimal economic leadership since the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. What action has been taken, notably the aid to airlines, has been more a reaction to a clear-cut emergency than part of a coordinated plan.
 The lack of a strong public voice on the economy has contributed substantially to the sense in America that the economic center is not holding and is itself feeding the recessionary fires. President Bush's first speech on the economy was inexplicably relegated to a radio address last Saturday, 11 days after the attack. 
 Consider what the president might have said two or three days after the attacks. He could have stood before the nation and said -- to list a few possibilities -- that he would keep the mails running on time, get FedEx and U.P.S. back in the air, be certain there was enough telephone capacity to handle the rising load and put the federal government in charge of airport security.
He could have gone further. He could have asked for a patriotic gesture from big business. He could have suggested that it wait three or four weeks before laying off any worker to give him time to start the economy moving. Letting go 100,000 workers almost immediately, as the airline and aerospace industries did, was hardly an act of patriotism. Granted, the airlines are in trouble, but so is America. The growing prospect of losing a job has sent a shiver down the spine of many Americans. The support package to the airlines should have included a provision about the retention of as many jobs as possible. Working people have to be placed on the agenda again.
The mere presence of a strong president aware of the risks and potential economic pain would have provided serious comfort to the nation, much as Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's constant presence did in New York City. But instead we got platitudes about how the terrorists would not break America's spirit, and no substance.
There is every reason to believe that the economy has not been centrally damaged in any way. But what is important to understand is that recessionary behavior can feed on itself. If left unattended, unemployment can rise and profits fall much more than necessary. It is more than a little surprising that Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, has urged lawmakers to wait a while to see how bad conditions really are. That is like letting the patient bleed to see if the wound will heal itself. Maybe it will, but the bleeding itself will usually make matters worse.
The main concern, which Mr. Greenspan and others know well, is that the attacks came when there were many imbalances in the economy. Consumers are heavily indebted, savings rates are low, the dollar is high, the trade deficit is enormous, capital spending has dried up and, by historical standards, stocks are still overvalued. And a serious recession was almost certainly under way before Sept. 11. If dispirited consumers on average now begin saving just one percentage point more, they will reduce the nation's gross domestic product by roughly $100 billion. And they may save two or three percentage points more. 
The priority, even conservative economists now agree, is to pump money into the economy temporarily. Congress and the administration are preparing stimulus packages. The president has agreed to about $50 billion in emergency expenditures so far, but even if the new packages come to $100 billion, it is likely to be too little. A minimum of $200 billion to $300 billion of stimulus the next two years is probably needed. Some economists, like James K. Galbraith of the University of Texas and Wynne Godley of the Jerome Levy Institute at Bard College, say significantly more is required. 
What should the president do?
First, he should speak frankly. He should stop superfluous cheerleading, which the public mistrusts, and tell us precisely what he will do to maintain prosperity. In the economic arena, this administration has no equivalent of the steady public voice of Secretary of State Colin L. Powell. It is up to the president.
Second, tax cuts should take second place to public spending. But if there is no political way to avoid them, the tax cuts should be designed to be spent quickly, which means they should be directed toward middle-income and poorer workers. Cutting payroll taxes is the best alternative.
Third, new public spending should be aimed at those hurt most in a recession. Most important, the coverage of unemployment insurance, which has been radically reduced since the 1980's, should be expanded. Benefit payments should also be accelerated. These expenditures will rise in recession but fall when the economy recovers.
Some economists also sensibly advocate raising the amount of money available for revenue sharing with the states, which are cutting back spending on public services as a slowing economy reduces their tax revenues.
But, also, the best new social programs should now be put in place. These include health care programs as well as public investment in infrastructure, new railroad systems, education, and day care, all of which will strengthen the economy in the future. This may indeed mean permanently higher expenditures, but the nation has too long neglected its public investment under the guise of good economics, which the failures of the airline security system make all too clear.
Finally, the nation will spend on its military, its security and perhaps to support more ailing industries, like travel and insurance. Rebuilding Lower Manhattan will provide long-term economic benefits and pay for itself. But the greater danger is that we will exaggerate these needs when health care and specific areas of public investment have been so long neglected.
Mr. Godley makes one further important point. Stimulus to the American economy, without similar stimulus overseas, could send the nation's imports way up without a commensurate rise in exports. If the trade deficit soars, it will put pressure on an already overvalued dollar to fall rapidly, stimulating inflation and higher interest rates. Mr. Godley urges a coordinated stimulus package among developed nations.
This administration seems trapped in a noninterventionist ideology that had become the order of the day. But it is a new day. And if the action is swift enough, unnecessary pain can be avoided.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Delta Air Lines employees listen to an announcement that the carrier will eliminate 13,000 jobs. (Erik S. Lesser/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); RECESSION (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); HIJACKING (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); AVIATION SECURITY (77%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); DISMISSALS (75%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); AIRPORTS (72%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (65%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%) ;MADRICK, JEFF; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



835 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: NYC; 
Life Goes On, And Exits Must Be Made

BYLINE:  By CLYDE HABERMAN

 BODY:
MAYBE our universe didn't turn upside down as thoroughly as we had thought. That was one of the more surprising conclusions to be drawn yesterday from the New York City primary.
 Ever since our terror-induced nightmare began on Sept. 11, we have heard incessantly how nothing will be as it was before. The New York that we once knew was gone, we were told. Our cultural institutions may be in peril. The movies will have to search for new themes. Fashions will be different. No one will want to read the gossip columns. 
 Why, we may never smile again, or so suggested some sages who solemnly declared that the World Trade Center catastrophe had ushered in, as one put it, "the end of the age of irony."
Somehow, a New York that suffers terminally from irony deficiency anemia is a bit hard to imagine. A brief glimpse of Jay Leno telling an Osama bin Laden joke on the tube early yesterday suggests that not all of us have lost the American talent for laughing our way through horror.
Now we have the election results to suggest quite strongly that, even in our grief, life does go on. Not the same as before, of course. How could it? But New Yorkers' concerns, and their expectations of their local leaders, are in many respects what they were all along.
For starters, the voter turnout on Tuesday seems to have been about 26 percent. That is hardly great, but for New York it's not half bad. The pre-Tuesday conventional wisdom was that our souls were so crushed that it would be a minor miracle if more than 34 people showed up to vote. New Yorkers proved a lot more durable.
Conventional wisdom, foolishly accepted by this corner of the newspaper, also had it that Fernando Ferrer would lose ground, for who would want to hear now about this being a divided city? Who would vote for someone promising to be the antithesis of the wildly popular Rudolph W. Giuliani?
Many people, as it turned out. Mr. Ferrer, the Bronx borough president, finished first in the Democratic mayoral primary, ahead of the favored public advocate, Mark Green.
Nor have New Yorkers' top priorities been radically altered by the terrorists, especially among Democratic voters, still dominant in this city. Consider a survey done by Edison Media Research of Somerville, N.J., which interviewed people as they left polling stations.
They were asked to name their most important issue. The largest group of Democrats, 30 percent, said education, which was also No. 1 in most polls before Sept. 11. In second place was the economy, cited by 21 percent. "Preventing future terrorist attacks" came in third, with 16 percent.
As for qualities sought in a mayoral candidate, the largest group, 37 percent, wanted someone who "understands the city and its problems." A mere 3 percent emphasized that this person should be "strong in a crisis" (a trait also mentioned by only 8 percent of the Republicans surveyed).
THE focus that was there before is the focus today," said Julie Weprin of Blum & Weprin Associates, New York pollsters. "It doesn't minimize the jolt that we received. But the issues that concerned us before still do."
William B. Eimicke, a political science professor at Columbia University, said that the Edison poll results underscored New Yorkers' resilience. "We're saddened," Professor Eimicke said. "But I think the attitude has been, 'We're going to go on with our lives.' "
No one, he added, has embodied the chin-up spirit better than Mr. Giuliani. That is why the professor is not alone in wondering if the mayor is doing that spirit or himself much good by looking now for a way around the term-limits law that will force him out of office on Dec. 31.
Mr. Giuliani said yesterday that New York was emerging from the immediate crisis. As the weeks roll on, assuming no more terrorist attacks, the sense of crisis will inevitably recede. And life being what it is, many New Yorkers are bound to focus less on the gallant mayor of recent weeks and more on aspects of his personality that fail to inspire.
Baseball, Mr. Giuliani's beloved sport, provides a useful lesson, even if it involves the Boston Red Sox and not his cherished New York Yankees. In 1960, the great Ted Williams of the Red Sox was about to retire. As that season neared an end, he hit a home run. That was it, Williams said, with a grand flourish. He made it his last time at bat.
As the mayor surely senses, there can be no more graceful way to leave the field than having just hit a home run. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (72%); RUDY GIULIANI (57%); JAY LENO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



836 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: State Seeks to Play a Role In the Reconstruction Effort 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
Officials in Albany and Washington say that the effort to rebuild after the destruction of the World Trade Center will be controlled primarily by the state and federal governments, not the city, although they concede that as yet, they have little idea what that effort would look like or how it would be managed.
 In the two weeks since the attack, much attention has been focused on the city's recovery efforts. The only specific step toward rebuilding came from Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and City Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone, who have said they will create a reconstruction commission, and Mr. Giuliani's name has often been mentioned to head that panel. But state and federal officials say there is little that a city-only effort can accomplish. 
 "It is not realistic," said Senator Joseph L. Bruno, a Republican and the Senate majority leader. "The city will do whatever they feel is appropriate, but they're going to have to deal with the state. The state is going to have to have prime responsibility."
"The city can't do what's needed on its own," said Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Democrat. "I think there has to be a global redevelopment authority that goes well beyond just the jurisdiction of the city."
State officials in particular are determined that they will lead what could become the largest public works project of its time, and they tick off a long list of reasons. The trade center site is owned by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which is controlled by the governors of the two states; much of the nearby damaged property belongs to two state agencies, the Battery Park City Authority and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority; and much of the promised federal aid is likely to be funneled through Albany.
They also note that the city needs permission from the Legislature and Gov. George E. Pataki to take major financial steps like selling billions of dollars in bonds or imposing or cutting taxes. In the first days after the attack, Mr. Vallone and Mr. Giuliani turned to Albany for a $2.5 billion increase in the city's borrowing authority, which the state granted. The state also has broad power to alter city laws, over objections from City Hall.
But the federal government is likely to provide most of the money to help businesses and individuals recover economically -- it has committed $20 billion, compared to $500 million from the state -- and it might become a major contributor to the reconstruction of the trade center site itself. Under those circumstances, members of Congress warned, it is hard to imagine that they would not also have a direct role in deciding how the money is spent.
"Obviously, if there are federal dollars involved, then we will have a voice," said Senator Charles E. Schumer. "To make this work, you have to have the federal, state and city governments on board."
Mr. Pataki deflected questions about whether the state would take the lead role in reconstruction. "We've had a tremendous relationship at all three levels, federal, state and city," he said. "And as we go forward with reconstruction, we should have all three elements, federal, state and city, pulling together, working together, in a cooperative teamwork, and I'm confident that'll happen."
The governor's top aides were more direct. "Look, others are going to be involved," one said. "It's going to take Washington and it's going to take City Hall. But this is going to be mostly our job." New Jersey, as a partner in the Port Authority, is likely to have a role as well, he said.
Mr. Bruno and some advisers to the governor predicted that Mr. Pataki, both in his official role and as New York's main liaison to the Bush administration, will inevitably play the central role.
Several members of Congress and the state Legislature said that a possible mechanism for rebuilding is a city, state and federal commission that would decide how to dole out money, and perhaps even what to build. Some said they expected Mr. Pataki to push the Port Authority to take the lead role in reconstruction, which would bypass the Legislature -- a contention the governor's aides would not confirm or deny.
State officials have been full of praise for Mr. Giuliani's handling of the rescue and cleanup efforts, and Mr. Schumer lauded both the mayor and the governor. All sides are loathe to be seen as turning a tragedy into a power struggle, but all appear, to one degree or another, to expect one. "This is going to be a fight," said a member of Congress from New York City. "If we're lucky, it'll be a quiet one and a quick one."
On Monday, Mr. Silver took 70 Assembly members on a tour of the site, which lies in his district, and Mr. Bruno has since taken 20 senators there. Both said they wanted to prepare their colleagues for the enormity of the task to which they will be asked to devote billions of dollars. "No picture, no television picture, can give them the extent of it and impress upon them what it is they're a part of," Mr. Silver said.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 28, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the New York State role in the effort to rebuild after the attack on the World Trade Center misstated the number of state senators whom Joseph L. Bruno, the majority leader, took on a tour of the site. It was 55, not 20.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MAYORS (75%); PORT AUTHORITIES (74%); INFRASTRUCTURE (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (66%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (66%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (75%); CHARLES SCHUMER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



837 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE ECONOMY; 
Many Stimulus Options Weighed

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 26 

 BODY:
If the Bush administration and Congress decide that the flagging economy needs an additional kick in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks, they have a long menu of policy choices available.
 The White House and the leaders of the two parties in Congress have made clear that they do not want to rush into a decision and would like to see some hard data on the state of the economy after Sept. 11 before moving ahead. 
 But with unemployment rising, the stock market falling and a number of high-profile industries struggling, the political pressure on Washington to do something is strong and increasing. And as the pressure mounts, the partisan and policy debate is intensifying over the pros and cons of the specific options on the table. 
In Congress, the two parties are starting to clash over what kind of tax cuts would best deliver immediate help to the economy.
Congress is also beginning to look at all kinds of ideas for spending huge new sums of money, from rebuilding in New York to construction of new highways and rail lines. A lengthening list of industries is seeking special help. 
Then there are the growing ranks of the unemployed, who are likely to receive some help, perhaps in the form of an extension of the time they can collect unemployment benefits. And members of both parties have thrown out additional ideas like increasing the minimum wage and promoting free trade.
The fight over specific measures is unfolding against the backdrop of a broader debate about how much the nation can afford to invest in new tax cuts and spending now without creating a long-term budget problem that would in turn harm the economy again. There are camps within both parties concerned about a fiscally irresponsible free-for-all.
The sharpest debate is likely to be over further tax cuts. 
The most widely considered idea is to provide individuals with an immediate and sizable tax reduction, probably through a rebate much like the ones sent out this summer as the first big component of the tax cut signed into law by President Bush in June.
But Democrats said any such rebate should cover not just people who earn enough money to pay federal income taxes -- the group that received rebates this summer -- but also the 34 million low-income households who do not pay income taxes but do pay the payroll taxes that finance Social Security and Medicare.
In addition to having been passed over by the last rebate, low-income people are more likely than wealthier people to spend any windfall they receive -- and prompting people to spend more is the whole point of the exercise.
"The tax cut that makes the most sense to me is a rebate that includes the people who pay the payroll but not income tax," said Robert Greenstein, executive director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal research group. 
Republicans, however, are continuing to balk at a tax cut that would be paid for out of general income tax revenue and go to people who do not pay income tax. Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, said he would "rather just give flat rebate checks" to income tax payers, especially since lower-income people will benefit in coming years from a variety of increased tax credits included in Mr. Bush's tax cut.
Many conservatives continue to press for a reduction in the tax on capital gains. Their argument is that such a cut would make investment more attractive by increasing the rate of return, thereby putting upward pressure on stock prices and reversing a sharp drop off this year in investment by businesses in new factories, computers and other equipment.
The proposal has been losing steam, in part because even economists who support reducing or eliminating the capital gains tax -- including Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman -- say such a move would not have much immediate effect on the economy. Democrats say it would also disproportionately benefit the relative handful of people who own large amounts of stock at a huge cost to the budget.
Kevin A. Hassett, an economist at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative research organization, said a better approach to short-term stimulus would be to cut corporate income tax rates.
"If you think capital markets are in a wait-and-see mode, then the best policy imaginable is to do something that gets cash to corporations," Mr. Hassett said. 
Cutting corporate income tax rates has become the administration's leading proposal, and it is also being pushed heavily by large businesses.
"Some form of corporate tax reduction is just going to improve the earnings, the cash flow, the ability of corporate America to compete in a global economy," said John T. Dillon, the chief executive of International Paper.
But Democrats said reducing corporate rates would be prohibitively expensive and would not necessarily lead to the intended outcome of higher stock prices and increased investment by businesses in new equipment.
There are already indications that Congress will spend relatively freely, both to help the overall economy as well as to address specific issues. There are proposals circulating to increase spending on railroads as an alternative to air travel, to increase airport security, to build schools and highways and to funnel more money into weapons and other military technology.
After years in which budget politics made it hard for Democrats to push big spending packages through Congress, liberals are seizing this opportunity to press for some of their priorities. The Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research organization, today proposed $100 billion of new spending over the next year as part of a two-year, $300 billion stimulus package.
Economists said higher levels of government spending did give the economy a boost. But the degree of that boost depends in part on where the money goes and how quickly it gets from the government's books into the real economy. And if a spending spree led to budget deficits, it could push up long-term interest rates, offsetting all or much of the positive impact of the spending.
One spending proposal that seems likely to pass is an expansion or extension of the unemployment insurance program. The Senate is considering a bill that would extend, by a year, the current 26-week limit on benefits. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); INCOME TAX (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); HIJACKING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); MINIMUM WAGE (71%); MEDICARE (60%); CORPORATE TAX (60%); SALES REBATES (53%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (52%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



838 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE ADVOCATES; 
Much of the Policy Criticism Aimed at U.S. Turns Muted

BYLINE:  By ANDREW POLLACK 

 BODY:
Early in September, Oxfam, the British humanitarian organization, was circulating a petition calling on the United States to "put health before wealth" by supporting relaxation of international patent policies that Oxfam says make vital medicines too expensive for developing countries. 
 But immediately after the terrorist attacks at the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, the petition was removed from Oxfam's Web site. When it returned last week, the cartoon drawing of Uncle Sam had been replaced with a picture of a bottle of pills, and the language singling out the United States had been muted. The group also canceled a news conference at which it had planned to denounce the United States for its patent stance. 
 "It was not appropriate given the kind of national trauma that was occurring here," said Severina Rivera, a senior policy adviser at Oxfam America in Washington. 
Since the terrorist attacks, many other advocacy groups have been canceling planned actions as well, or have toned down oratory that could be perceived as insensitive or even unpatriotic. 
The Sierra Club has removed the "W Watch" column from its Web site because it could be perceived as critical of President Bush. It has also stopped its phone solicitations and pulled advertising from the air. The A.F.L.-C.I.O., the Mobilization for Global Justice and many other groups canceled plans to protest at the annual meetings of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund. The bank and fund later canceled their meetings, which were scheduled for the end of this month in Washington. 
Friends of the Earth let the one-year anniversary of its discovery of unauthorized genetically modified corn in the food supply pass without even a news release. "No one's interested in gene-altered corn right now," said Mark Helm, a spokesman for the organization. 
Even if activists are broadcasting their messages, few people seem to be listening. "What we find is a blackout on coverage and attention to activism," said Asia Russell, a member of Act Up Philadelphia, which has been campaigning to have lower priced drugs available to treat AIDS in Africa. 
Some groups fear that if they are perceived as unpatriotic it will hurt them in the long run. "We strongly need to avoid any perceptions that we are being disrespectful to President Bush," Allen Mattison, director for media relations at the Sierra Club, wrote in an internal memorandum. "Now is the time for rallying together as a nation; the public will judge very harshly any groups whom they view as violating this need for unity."
But several activists say they are concerned that the self-restraint, especially as expressed in the Sierra Club memorandum, has gone too far. 
"This self-censorship is dangerous in itself," said Kristin Dawkins, director of the globalism program at the Institute for Agriculture and Trade Policy in Minneapolis, which is critical of the influence of multinational corporations on agriculture. "It allows some of the very, very dangerous policies that the Bush administration is pursuing this very minute to go forward unchecked." 
Environmental groups say they are concerned that some proponents of opening the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil drilling are pushing their cause using the prospect of energy disruptions from a possible war. Some human rights groups, while dropping their usual causes, are starting campaigns to oppose any rush toward war and steps that they perceive would erode domestic civil liberties in the name of counterterrorism. 
Ms. Rivera of Oxfam, a lawyer who normally deals with trade issues, has shifted abruptly to analyzing international laws regarding military responses. "We have a position urging military restraint," she said. 
The International Action Center in New York had been planning a march in Washington on Saturday against the International Monetary Fund and World Bank. But with the financial meetings canceled, the group says it will now have an antiwar demonstration in Washington the same day, said Teresa Gutierrez, a national co-director. 
She dismissed concerns that such demonstrations would be unpopular. "We went to the vigils at Union Square with some caution and sensitivity and found there was no problem in handing out antiwar fliers," she said. 
Some groups are continuing with their campaigns. The Organic Consumers Association went ahead last week with planned leafleting outside Starbucks outlets to protest the use of genetically modified ingredients and to promote the sale of coffee grown by people earning what the association said was a decent wage. 
Ronnie Cummins, national director of the association, said about 20 of 300 volunteers nationwide postponed distributing the leaflets. 
Mr. Cummins said he received one irate e-mail message "from somebody who said it was a shame and why didn't we move to Afghanistan." But he added that his volunteers said that Wall Street resumed business "and so did our criticism of corporate behavior." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETITIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (87%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PATENTS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); CENSORSHIP (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); TELEMARKETING (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (73%); AIDS & HIV (73%); DRUG PRICES (72%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); CORN FARMING (68%); AGRICULTURE (68%); POLITICS (66%); AIRLINES (64%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (63%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); CENSORSHIP; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: OXFAM AMERICA (92%); SIERRA CLUB (55%); AFL-CIO (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) POLLACK, ANDREW; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFRICA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



839 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: AIRLINE SECURITY; 
Bush Shows Reluctance To Approve Guns for Pilots

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW L. WALD and ELISABETH BUMILLER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 26 

 BODY:
Indicating that he thought there were better options to increase flight security than arming pilots, President Bush said today that he would introduce "confidence-boosting" measures on Thursday to try to convince frightened Americans that it is safe to fly.
 "There may be better ways to do it than that," Mr. Bush said in response to questions at the White House about allowing pilots to carry guns in the cockpit. "But I'm open to any suggestion." 
 Administration officials said that the president was in favor of strengthening cockpit doors and that that would be among the security enhancements he would announce in a speech to airline employees at O'Hare International Airport in Chicago.
The officials said the president would also propose an increase in armed sky marshals on planes, although they would not give specific numbers. They also said that Mr. Bush would call for the federal government to assume responsibility for training and screening airport workers, but that he was opposed to making the workers federal employees.
The measures were among the first practical responses of the White House to fears about airline security since the Sept. 11 attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. At the end of last week, many airlines were flying at only 30 percent capacity, and the industry is facing thousands of layoffs.
"One of my concerns is that this terrible accident has said to many Americans, convinced many Americans to stay at home," Mr. Bush said. "And one of the keys to economic recovery is going to be the vitality of the airline industry."
Mr. Bush was to fly on Air Force One, but his transportation secretary, Norman Y. Mineta, was to fly on a commercial airline.
Mr. Bush did not say why he was apparently against allowing pilots to carry guns in the cockpit, which has been proposed by the largest pilots' union and is under consideration on Capitol Hill. Pilots have said they are worried that many pilots lack firearms training, that firing a gun at 35,000 feet could damage equipment and cause a catastrophic accident, and that hijackers could grab the guns.
Today aviation officials said they were still trying to work out the details of how to strengthen doors, a step they said could help thwart hijackings but create other safety problems.
"From the outside, it might look like we're dilly-dallying," one official said. "But we keep running into longstanding technical issues."
The president's proposal for airport screening may not satisfy all parties. Officials said today that Mr. Bush would call for having the screening continue to be done by contractors, although they would work for the government, not the airlines.
The new approach would give the government more control over training, performance standards, wages and benefits. It would also increase the likelihood that the required criminal background checks were carried out and would make it more practical to require other background checks. But it would fall short of what some lawmakers have called for, which is to have the work done by government employees. 
Government officials said that the precise program Mr. Bush would call for was still in flux, but that it was likely to include longer-term initiatives, like redesigning some airplanes so the pilots could have access to restrooms and food without going into the aircraft cabin. 
Mr. Bush's proposal was also said to include having a law enforcement officer at each of the 700 passenger screening points. But administration officials would not discuss how many sky marshals there are now on planes or how many there might be in the future.
Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, who will be accompanying President Bush to O'Hare, said he believed the administration was also considering a plan to place surveillance cameras in airplanes to allow pilots and possibly personnel on the ground to monitor the passenger cabin.
"We live in a world where there are video cameras at A.T.M. machines on every corner in America and we do not put them in airplanes," he said.
The door issue is complicated because sealing the cockpit from the cabin can cause safety problems. In case of explosive decompression on a Boeing 767, a one-pound per square inch difference between the pressure in the cockpit and the cabin would put 6,000 pounds of pressure on the cockpit floor, which might rupture and damage cables needed to fly the plane, Boeing said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AVIATION SECURITY (92%); AIRPORTS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); HIJACKING (89%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); APPROVALS (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (78%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); SHOOTINGS (76%); AIRPORT OPERATION (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); MILITARY TRAINING (72%); TERRORISM (71%); LAYOFFS (69%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; PILOTS; FIREARMS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) WALD, MATTHEW L; BUMILLER, ELISABETH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



840 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Have Trouble Finding 2002 Candidates 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 26 

 BODY:
Top Democratic officials say the terrorist attacks have severely hampered their recruitment efforts, particularly for candidates for the Senate, and have upended their entire political game plan for the midterm elections next year.
 Beyond Capitol Hill, the aftershocks of the attacks are being felt around the country at all political levels, by Democrats and Republicans alike. The political terrain has shifted so sharply that candidates are reluctant to take on incumbents -- and in some instances incumbents are deciding to stay put rather than retire or seek higher office. 
 Just today, John Ballou, a Republican legislator in Kansas, said he would not run for the United States House, saying, "I believe it is important for all elected federal and state officials to be united." 
The new dynamic is causing the most consternation for Democrats, who are trying to hang on to -- if not build on -- their precarious one-seat advantage in the Senate. In the past week or so alone, three Democrats who had been viewed as the most formidable prospects in their states, and were expected to challenge incumbent senators, decided not to run: Dan Glickman, the former agriculture secretary, in Kansas; Lt. Gen. Claudia Kennedy, retired, in Virginia; and Gov. John Kitzhaber in Oregon.
To make matters more discouraging for Democrats, Senator Fred Thompson, a Tennessee Republican who is popular in his state, said he had decided not to retire next year because of the terrorist attacks. "Now is not the time for me to leave," Mr. Thompson said. 
In Florida, the Republican governor, Jeb Bush, faces a challenge from Janet Reno, the former attorney general, but has one less potent Democratic challenger. Pete Peterson, a former congressman and ambassador to Vietnam, dropped out, citing the national crisis. (Mr. Peterson met today with Mr. Bush, apparently to discuss the prospect that the governor would appoint him to a job battling terrorism.)
Representative Ron Kind, Democrat of Wisconsin, recently said that he would remain in the House and not run for governor. "On Sept. 11, our ship of state took a hit," Mr. Kind said, and that "requires that all hands be on deck."
Among Republicans, Senator Craig Thomas of Wyoming decided against running for the open seat for governor in his state, also citing the attacks.
Some prospective challengers explained that it was ticklish for them to stump about domestic issues in a time of crisis or to even solicit people for donations when they would rather give money to help victims' families. They also speculated that voters may feel more comfortable turning to leaders who are already in power.
Democrats are particularly unsettled because before the attacks, polls showed the country was more in tune with their issue agenda of Social Security, health care and education. Now the party's talking points are obsolete because the single-minded focus is on war, protecting Americans and the economy.
"On Labor Day, we had them exactly where we wanted them to be," said James M. Jordan, executive director of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. "We were talking Social Security. It was nirvana. But the entire national issue agenda has radically changed."
Speaking of his new difficulty in recruiting candidates, Mr. Jordan said of the Democrats: "They feel that they've simply lost control of the agenda and their fates. It's certainly got to be discouraging for any challenger to work extremely hard for 13 or 14 months to find out on Election Day that he or she never really had a chance due to the national environment."
People's decisions about running for office are often quite personal and complicated, and it could be that some are using the attacks as an excuse to retreat from a contest that looked too daunting even before the attacks.
But party officials said they were convinced, at least in the case of Mr. Glickman and General Kennedy, that they were poised to run.
Mr. Glickman, a former House member who decided not to challenge Senator Pat Roberts, said in an interview that the attacks "sealed it for me."
"I don't think we should just emasculate politics," he said. "But to run a very, very difficult uphill race during a time of great national conflict would mean you can't run the kind of race you need to run."
Nicole Harburger, the top strategist for General Kennedy, who had planned to take on Senator John W. Warner in Virginia, said the attacks would have made fund-raising problematic. 
"For a candidate who is new to politics, you don't have your home team of contributors to call upon in this difficult time," Ms. Harburger said. "The plane hit where her former office was. She's lost a ton of her colleagues. The idea of having to grind away on the phone when she has a stake in this feels tough."
Taking care not to sound cavalier about the attacks, Democrats said they were confident that the issue agenda would eventually turn back in their favor.
"I fear that our issues may not" carry much weigh in the campaign, said Art Torres, chairman of the California Democratic Party. "But that doesn't stop me from trying" to raise them.
Mr. Jordan said bad economic news could shift the agenda to his party's favor. "It's going to be a hard truth for Republicans that they are sailing straight into the teeth of the Bush recession," he said. "At some point, the domestic agenda is going to re-emerge and it tilts very sharply in favor of Democrats."
Mitch Bainwol, executive director of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, was careful not to gloat in what, at first blush, is an improved positioning for his candidates. 
"It's just a different mix of issues, a different challenge, a different role and a different mood in this city," Mr. Bainwol said. "What this ultimately means is really hard to crystal ball."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); HIJACKING (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); APPOINTMENTS (66%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%) ELECTIONS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; ELECTION ISSUES 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) 

PERSON: JOHN KITZHABER (73%); FRED THOMPSON (58%); RON KIND (58%); PETE PETERSON (50%) BERKE, RICHARD L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



841 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Agriculture Secretary Says Wartime Budget Leaves $171 Billion Farm Bill in Doubt 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 26 

 BODY:
Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman said today that the Bush administration was uncertain whether there was enough money to finance the $171 billion House farm bill, raising the possibility that farm subsidies might be the first major program to feel the pinch of the new wartime budget.
 "The budget is uncertain," Ms. Veneman said at a hearing of the Senate Agriculture Committee. "I can't tell you where the budget is going to go with regard to anything." 
 A report on long-term farm policy unveiled by Ms. Veneman last week made clear that, regardless of budget factors, the administration did not intend to support continued rising subsidies for farmers, which it said distorted the farm economy. Today, she promised farmers that the administration would not leave them without a safety net.
The ranking senators on the committee were less circumspect in their criticism of the House farm bill, which is scheduled for a full vote next week.
Senator Richard G. Lugar of Indiana, the senior Republican on the committee, said it was irresponsible to even consider such a bill, which he said spent too much money on big grain and cotton farmers, undermined the American trade position and spent too much money in a time of war.
"It is inconceivable that the farm bill is going to be on the floor next week in the middle of a war," Mr. Lugar said, and he ridiculed the argument that $20 billion a year in grain and cotton subsidies was necessary for the war effort.
"I'm tired of everyone saying an army marches on its stomach to imply that we need a farm bill to feed our troops," Mr. Lugar said. "We've got food coming out our ears."
The battle was joined immediately by Representative Larry Combest, a Texas Republican who is chairman of the House Agriculture Committee, who said he would move ahead with his bill despite the criticism from the Senate and the administration.
"If the Senate has the desire to be seen as slowing this process, then it is certainly possible they simply do not intend to act," Mr. Combest said. "I do not intend for the House to neglect its duties to the American farmer."
At stake is a subsidy system structured to reward the biggest farmers, who receive 84 percent of federal cash payments even though they represent less than one-fourth of the country's two million farmers.
Mr. Combest's measure would increase subsidies and add new ones, an approach rejected by the administration in its new farm policy.
This week Senator Tom Harkin, the Iowa Democrat who heads the committee, joined Mr. Lugar in releasing the committee's new farm bill objectives, many of which were similar to the administration's ideas.
They said they wanted "a significant change from past policies" and advocated federal help for smaller farmers through conservation programs, new rural aid programs and greater promotion of trade.
Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota, who heads the Senate Budget Committee, pleaded with Secretary Veneman to tell him how much money would be available for a farm bill. Mr. Conrad said the farm economy was in trouble and warned that if money was not available "there will be a race to the auctioneer" by desperate farmers selling off their land and equipment.
"I've never seen such a sense of despair among farmers," he said.
Ms. Veneman said the Office of Management and Budget would decide how much money was available, and she promised that the administration would issue its response to the House farm bill before it was debated. 
She also said that while prices remained flat, there was good news for American agriculture. Farm income will be at an all-time high of $61 billion this year, she said, and farmland has risen in value by 21 percent.
In her report, released last week, Ms. Veneman said price supports encouraged overproduction, which keeps prices low and pushes up land rents. She said today that to reach the farmers who most needed help because of low crop prices, she would keep a safety net, but not one made up entirely of subsidies.
"What we have said is that we need to talk about more than the farm support program but the whole rural economy," Ms. Veneman said.
With the current farm bill not set to expire for another year, the senators said they have time to write their farm bill. 
Among the objectives they set out was the protection of farmers "actively involved in farming and ranching," which could affect many absentee landowners and corporations. The senators also called for greater diversity in farming and money to create jobs in rural America.
Senator Blanche Lincoln, Democrat of Arkansas, who receives subsidies through a family trust, said she feared that tampering with subsidies would encourage the growth of corporate farms.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (91%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); COTTON FARMING (78%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (78%); ARMIES (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); ARMED FORCES (64%) AGRICULTURE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: DICK LUGAR (89%) VENEMAN, ANN M (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); COMBEST, LARRY (REP); LUGAR, RICHARD G (SEN); BECKER, ELIZABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



842 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE INVESTIGATION; 
Nine Arrested as Licenses For Trucking Are Studied

BYLINE:  By DON VAN NATTA Jr. and NEIL A. LEWIS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 26 

 BODY:
As part of a Justice Department investigation prompted by concerns about a possible new terrorism threat, nine people were arrested today on charges of fraudulently obtaining commercial driver's licenses in Pennsylvania to allow them to transport hazardous materials, including explosives, fuels and poisons. 
 Law enforcement officials said they did not know whether the nine men, at least eight of them arrested in Michigan, Missouri and Washington State, had any connection to the hijacking of the passenger jets that attacked the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. The arrests followed by a day a warning from the Federal Bureau of Investigation to officials in New York and other cities about the threat of truck bombs and the possible use of trucks in a terrorist chemical attack. 
 Attorney General John Ashcroft said on Tuesday that the bureau had developed intelligence information indicating "a potential for additional terrorist incidents" on the nation's highways and that some truck drivers who had sought hazardous-material licenses might have ties to the airline hijackers. 
Today the bureau and state transportation officials across the country began reviewing the 2.5 million truck drivers holding licenses allowing them to haul hazardous chemicals and fuels.
Court documents outline a criminal operation in which as many as 30 people in the last several years have paid to fraudulently obtain commercial driver's licenses to carry hazardous materials. 
The nine arrested today were among a group of 20 who fraudulently obtained the special licenses in Pennsylvania from July 1999 to January 2000, law enforcement officials said tonight. Three of the nine were arrested in Washington State, four in Detroit, and one in Kansas City, Mo. The site of the ninth arrest was not available.
Court records said a driver's license examiner for the Pittsburgh office of the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation had provided the permits to people who did not take required tests or who had suspended licenses. The examiner was not identified in the court papers.
The examiner, the authorities said, worked with a middleman identified in court records as Abdul Mohamman, nicknamed Ben. One of the permits was bought for a man whose driver's license had been suspended for driving under the influence of alcohol, the court papers said.
The authorities quoted the examiner as saying that he had issued the special licenses "at Ben's instruction without conducting the required tests" and that Ben had paid him $50 to $100 a license "by placing the money in brand-new bills" under his desk calendar.
The intensified scrutiny of hazardous-material licenses came as federal prosecutors increased the pressure on a Virginia man whose name and phone number were found in a car registered to one of the hijackers of the jet that slammed into the Pentagon. That man, Mohamed Abdi, 44, a naturalized citizen from Somalia, was ordered jailed without bond today by a federal magistrate judge who said Mr. Abdi might otherwise flee the United States.
Mr. Abdi, who lives in Alexandria, Va., was arrested on charges that he had forged his landlord's name on rent subsidy checks. Ordinarily that kind of charge would have meant his release on little bail, if any.
But a federal prosecutor described Mr. Abdi as "an essential witness" in the terrorism investigation who "may be more," and in ordering him held today, the magistrate judge, Welton Curtis Sewell, said at a hearing: "The circumstances of this particular case are so extreme and so unusual. If this court released this defendant, there would be a risk of flight."
Federal prosecutors would not say whether they suspected that Mr. Abdi was an accomplice of the hijackers. 
When Mr. Abdi was arrested on Saturday, an F.B.I. agent said in court today, he had in his pocket a torn newspaper clipping of an article about Ahmed Ressam, an Algerian convicted of conspiring to bomb Los Angeles International Airport in a millennium terrorism plot. Mr. Ressam testified earlier this year that he had spent six months training at terrorist camps in Afghanistan.
Mr. Abdi is just one of 352 people who have been arrested or detained in the investigation springing from the attacks of Sept. 11 An additional 392 people are being sought for questioning.
At a separate hearing today, Magistrate Judge Sewell granted prosecutors' request that Herbert Villalobos be detained without bond. Mr. Villalobos was seized in Arlington, Va., on Monday and charged with helping one of the hijackers, Abdulaziz Alomari, obtain a fraudulent Virginia photo identification card. 
As the inquiry proceeded, Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, said investigators had learned that Osama bin Laden's finances were seriously hurt when regulators shut down the Bank of Credit and Commerce International 10 years ago. The bank was closed amid a vast scandal, having been connected to fraud, theft, secret weapons deals, money laundering and terrorist financing.
Mr. bin Laden had accounts at B.C.C.I., but investigators did not know it then, Mr. Kerry said today. "We have learned since from law enforcement and intelligence that when we shut it down, we dealt him a very serious economic blow because of the size of those accounts and his dependency on that flow," Mr. Kerry said, speaking at a Senate hearing on money laundering legislation.
Investigators are now trying to trace the money behind Mr. bin Laden's network, Al Qaeda, and Mr. Kerry and other lawmakers have called for tough new money laundering statutes.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The false Canadian passport used by Ahmed Ressam when he lived in Canada and attempted to enter the United States. (Associated Press) Chart: "The Investigation So Far"In a widening investigation into a possible terrorist plot, nine more people were arrested yesterday on charges of fraudulently obtaining licenses to transport hazardous material. And two others were ordered jailed on suspicion that they had information about the plot to commandeer the airplanes that crashed into the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. The Chief Suspect YESTERDAY: Though the Bush administration has promised to make public its case against Osama bin Laden and his organization, Al Qaeda, officials said the information had not been released because of internal wrangling over declassifying material that might inadvertently expose intelligence-gathering methods or sources. The Hijackers Investigators trying to retrace the steps of 19 hijackers have checked immigration records and questioned, among others, instructors at flight schools where they paid for training. Officials say the hijackers appeared to have exploited legal loopholes and lapses by the immigration authorities to get into the country and remain here. In Custody More than 350 people have been taken into custody, many for immigration violations, and nearly 400 others are being sought for questioning. A leading source of information about people linked to terrorist cells, federal investigators say, is Ahmed Ressam, an Algerian-born man awaiting sentencing near Seattle for conspiring to set off a bomb during the millennium celebration last year. But Mr. Ressam did not recognize any of the 19 suspected hijackers. YESTERDAY: Nine people were arrested in Missouri, Michigan and Washington State on charges of fraudulently obtaining licenses to transport hazardous materials. Mohamed Abdi of Alexandria, Va., whose name and telephone number were found in a car registered to a suspected hijacker, was ordered jailed without bond. Herbert Villalobos, charged with helping a suspected hijacker obtain a fraudulent photo-identification card in Virginia, was ordered held without bond. Investigators believe that the hijackers presented such cards at the boarding gate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); TRUCK DRIVERS (91%); DRIVERS LICENSES (91%); LICENSES & PERMITS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (90%); AIRLINES (90%); HIJACKING (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORT (90%); ARRESTS (90%); DRIVERS LICENSE SUSPENSION & REVOCATION (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); MAGISTRATES (78%); EXPLOSIVES (77%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (77%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (76%); BAIL (73%); MISSING PERSONS (73%); JUDGES (69%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; DRIVERS LICENSES; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (79%) VAN NATTA, DON JR; LEWIS, NEIL A 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); PENNSYLVANIA

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



843 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 77 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: Switzerland: Bank Expects Profit Fall 

BYLINE:  By Elizabeth Olson (NYT) 

 BODY:
 Switzerland's second-largest bank, the Credit Suisse Group, said its third-quarter profit would drop substantially below last quarter because of the drop in the markets after the attacks on Sept. 11. 
The aftermath will "exacerbate the already difficult economic and market conditions experienced by all our businesses," particularly Credit Suisse First Boston, the bank said. The group's second-quarter net income declined 23 percent. Elizabeth Olson (NYT)

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the daily closing price of Credit Suisse Group shares for the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); HIJACKING (87%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (86%); TERRORISM (84%) WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; FINANCES 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (94%)

ORGANIZATION: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP 

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (94%); CS (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%) SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES; SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS; 

PERSON: ;OLSON, ELIZABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (87%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) SWITZERLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



844 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: Leadership for a Wounded City 

BYLINE:  By John Mollenkopf; John Mollenkopf, director of the Center for Urban Research at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York, is co-author of "Place Matters: Metropolitics for the Twenty-First Century."

 BODY:
Before Sept. 11, New York City voters were thinking about choosing the leaders of an almost wholly new government to take office on Jan. 1. They were looking for candidates who would sustain the successes of Mayor Rudolph Giuliani's administration, like reducing the crime rate and welfare rolls, while tackling issues it did not successfully address, like school performance and affordable housing. They wanted a new mayor to listen more carefully to those who felt excluded from City Hall. With signs of an economic downturn, many voters also hoped our new leaders would be able to negotiate hard choices fairly and get more out of city government.
 The destruction of the World Trade Center, the loss of more than 6,000 New Yorkers and the shattering of the city's confidence dramatically changed this landscape. 
 Quite understandably, New Yorkers have rallied behind Mayor Giuliani, who has done a superb job of taking charge and working closely with emergency personnel, all the while assuaging anxiety and urging tolerance. It is natural that many New Yorkers would want him to continue to lead us through this crisis. It is also natural, if not entirely rational, that the mayor and his inner circle would want to continue to be in charge.
The last two weeks have apparently led many New Yorkers to feel that the Democrats emerging from Tuesday's primary, Public Advocate Mark Green and Bronx Borough President Fernando Ferrer, and the Republican nominee, the businessman Michael Bloomberg, do not have Mayor Giuliani's stature. But these nominees have not had the chance to be tested by, and be shown equal to, the challenges faced by Mr. Giuliani.
Such comparisons, one hopes, will be transitory as we shift from crisis mode to rebuilding the city. As we make this shift, Mr. Giuliani's strengths, like his bond with the emergency services, will become less relevant -- and qualities that had been in doubt, like whether he is sufficiently inclusive or whether he can strengthen communities, will become more important. If Mr. Giuliani seeks to use his current standing in public opinion to overturn the political process, he will tarnish himself and create the disunity he so wishes to avoid.
This election cycle already promised, mainly because of term limits, a remarkable turnover in our civic leadership, opening the way to a more diverse and representative group of elected officials with fresh ideas. Now the voters will need to judge those seeking election on Nov. 6 not by how well they would have handled the sad tasks of the last two weeks, but how they will face the even larger challenges of healing the city's wounds, reviving its confidence and managing its physical and social restoration.
An immediate task will be to organize the process for deciding how to rebuild our city. The struggle over this has already begun in government offices and corporate boardrooms, and the questions raised will confront the victors in November. Who should participate? Who will be the primary beneficiaries? Should we focus on restoring the financial services industry in lower Manhattan or address broader questions, like the relationship of the Manhattan central business districts to downtown Brooklyn, Atlantic Terminal, Queens West and Jersey City? Can this be an opportunity to create a more integrated regional economy, one with better mass transit? And how can we ensure that the massive investment we are about to undertake will lift the economic chances of all New Yorkers, not just investment professionals?
As we evaluate the candidates in the Democratic runoff and general elections, we must ask who can best rise above competing interests, make sure the decision-making process is inclusive and lead us to solutions based on consensus. This will require tremendous political skills as well as vision and drive. On Tuesday, voters disproved predictions that turnout would be minimal. In the next six weeks, New Yorkers will have a chance to show just how serious and democratic we can be about deliberating our future.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Stephen Savage) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HIJACKING (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); TERM LIMITS (72%); CRIME RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (67%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (62%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; ELECTION ISSUES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PENTAGON BUILDING 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (89%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) MOLLENKOPF, JOHN; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



845 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: A Nation Challenged 

 BODY:
 Action, but What Kind?

A SHIFT IN STRATEGY
The Bush administration, facing skepticism from NATO allies over going to war to eradicate terrorism, said military operations would not be the "primary piece" of its campaign. A1

UNCERTAIN PLANS
What form of military action to take appears to be an increasingly awkward issue within the Bush administration. A1

A HARD LINE IN IRAN
Iran's supreme religious leader said his nation would not join an American-led campaign, accusing Washington of using terror attacks as a pretext to further its interests in the region. B2

Uproar in Western Asia

BLOOD TIES
The Taliban are mostly from the Pashtun ethnic group, which dominates political and business life in Quetta, a Pakistani city 60 miles south of the border, where there is backing for the Taliban, though the depth is difficult to gauge. B1

KABUL PROTESTS
Thousands of protesters turned a Taliban march to the abandoned American embassy into a frenzied attack, chanting Osama bin Laden's name and waving white flags of Islam as they burned the compound. B3

STEERING A TRICKY COURSE
Arab leaders are trying to balance outrage over the Sept. 11 attacks and concerns that an American-led crackdown could spark a dangerous backlash. B3

Making the Skies Safer

AUTHORITY TO DOWN AIRLINERS
The Bush administration has authorized two mid-level Air Force generals to order, as a last resort, the downing of airliners that threaten cities without checking with President Bush. A1

HOW TO STOP A HIJACKING
Using an old airliner, the F.A.A. staged demonstrations featuring fake hijackers and real air marshals, whose ranks are rapidly growing. B7

AIR SECURITY PLANS
President Bush will introduce "confidence-boosting" measures today to try to persuade frightened Americans that it is safe to fly, though the arming of pilots will probably not be among them. B7

Painstaking Police Work

EXPLOITING THE SYSTEM
The hijackers apparently entered the country on student, tourist and business visas, taking advantage of an immigration system that critics contend is riddled with loopholes. A1

DEBATE OVER SECRET EVIDENCE
A public accounting of the evidence against Osama bin Laden and his allies has been delayed by a struggle within the Bush administration over the declassification of secret information, officials said. B4

TERROR HOUSE
A three-story house in Paterson, N.J., appears to have served as a hub for the people who planned the hijackings and who melted into a neighborhood teeming with recent immigrants. B4

The Search for Terrorists

INSIDE INFORMATION
A jailed Algerian-born operative for Osama bin Laden is said to be providing new information about people suspected of links to terrorist cells, while detailing how he and others were trained in low-level chemical attacks. B5

HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ARRESTS
Nine people in three states were arrested on charges of fraudulently obtaining commercial driver's licenses to allow them to transport hazardous materials, including explosives, fuels and poisons. B5

PRECAUTIONARY STOPS
The Transportation Department asked state law enforcement agencies to pull over every truck with hazardous materials placards and to check the drivers' credentials and paperwork. B5

NUCLEAR WASTE ON THE MOVE
The Energy Department said the moratorium on the shipment of low-level nuclear waste, put in place on the day of the terrorist attacks, had been lifted, sending truckloads of material to disposal and storage sites around the country. B5

The Spirit of Giving

DEATH WITHOUT A BODY
Hundreds of families who lost relatives in the trade center attack are having to deal with the rituals of death without the bodies of their loved ones. A1

THE DEATH CERTIFICATE
Forms were streamlined, waiting were periods eliminated and fees waived, but emotionally, the paperwork of death was a difficult chore for those who went to the city's Family Assistance Center to apply for death certificates for missing family members. B10

CHARITABLE COORDINATION
The New York State attorney general wants to create a list of every person who gets aid and how much each receives, to ensure that funds are shared fairly and without duplication. B1

An Epic of Engineering

FROM RESCUE TO EXCAVATION
The smoke has thinned at the trade center site and hope of survivors has dissipated. What remains is an excavation job with few parallels. B1

The Mood of the Country

TO STAY OR GO?
Most of the 40,000 or so college students from Arab nations who are in this country are staying put, despite a surge of anti-Arab harassment, though some of the students are heeding their worried parents' call to return home. B1

DRUGS TO FIGHT BIOTERROR
Many New Yorkers -- and to a lesser extent, people across the country -- are stocking up on Cipro, an antibiotic that can be used to treat anthrax, part of a panic that has led some Americans to stock up on gas masks, handguns and bottled water. B8

Bailouts and Crackdowns

SEEKING AID, TOO
The $15 billion airline bailout approved by Congress has lobbyists for other industries lining up to make the case that their clients need federal aid, too. B6

TOUGH CHOICES FOR THE ECONOMY
With unemployment rising, stocks falling and a number of high-profile industries struggling, the political pressure on Washington to do something is strong and increasing. B6

TAX LOOPHOLES AND TERRORISM
Disrupting the finances of terror networks will require a global crackdown, including an end to laws in tax haven countries that allow secret bank accounts, experts on money laundering and terrorism told the Senate Banking Committee. B6

Portraits of Grief B11

Dead and Missing
As of 11 a.m. Wednesday.

ON FOUR HIJACKED AIRPLANES
246 passengers and crew
19 hijackers

AT THE WORLD TRADE CENTER
6,347 reported missing, including passengers and crew of two planes
300 confirmed dead, with 232 identified

AT THE PENTAGON
124 reported missing
118 remains recovered, with 78 identified
1 death as a result of injuries sustained in attack

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TALIBAN (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); AVIATION SECURITY (89%); HIJACKING (89%); ARRESTS (89%); AIRLINES (86%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); IMMIGRATION (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); RELIGION (71%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (70%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (70%); ETHNIC GROUPS (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (67%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (60%); ACCOUNTING (60%); ETHNICITY (54%); DRIVERS LICENSES (50%); TOURISM (50%) NO INDEX TERMS 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); WESTERN ASIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



846 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: Merrill's Asset Management Chief Will Leave 

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Jeffrey M. Peek, who ran the asset management division at Merrill Lynch and who was passed over for the firm's presidency in July, is leaving, Merrill said yesterday.
 Robert C. Doll, the firm's global chief investment officer, was named to succeed Mr. Peek as president of Merrill Lynch Investment Managers, which at the end of the second quarter had $533 billion under management. 
 Mr. Peek, 54, joined Merrill Lynch in 1983 as a managing director in the investment banking division.
He had been a main rival of E. Stanley O'Neal's for the job of president and chief operating officer of Merrill. When Mr. O'Neal was named to those positions in July, it was widely assumed that Mr. Peek would eventually move on.
"It is a pretty safe assumption" Mr. Peek is leaving because he lost out to Mr. O'Neal, said Guy Moszkowski, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney. "It's a shame he feels compelled to leave, because he is a very talented, capable guy."
Mr. Peek did not return a telephone call seeking comment.
In a joint statement, Mr. O'Neal and David H. Komansky, Merrill's chairman and chief executive, noted Mr. Peek's "many important contributions to the firm."
"Most recently, he was instrumental in transforming Merrill Lynch into one of the world's leading asset managers for both institutional and retail clients," the statement said.
Though Mr. Peek is highly regarded within the firm, Mr. Moszkowski said, Merrill Lynch is well equipped to survive his departure.
"Like most large firms, Merrill has a pretty deep bench of talent," he said.
Mr. Doll, 47, joined Merrill Lynch in June 1999 as the asset management division's chief investment officer for equities after spending a dozen years at OppenheimerFunds Inc. He was named co-head of Merrill Lynch Investment Managers America in November 1999. Earlier this year he became the unit's global chief investment officer. He will continue to serve in that role, Merrill said, and will join the firm's executive management committee.
Under a new management structure, Merrill said, Mr. Doll will report to Michael Marks, the 59-year- old executive chairman of Europe, the Middle East and Africa region. Mr. Marks, who is based in London, will become chairman of Merrill Lynch Investment Managers.
In a telephone interview, Mr. Doll said his immediate goals were "to take the best of what we have and keep it happening."
Mr. Doll said the stock market's dismal performance in the wake of the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon might not be over. But, he added, prices look appealing.
"The low for the economy and the markets will be lower and later than originally believed" before the attacks, he said.
"On an absolute basis, the market still looks expensive," he added. "But relative to cash and bonds it looks more attractive than it has in years."
What is required now, Mr. Doll said, is a "confidence builder."
"Do we need certainty? No. Right now, we need less uncertainty." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (62%); TERRORISM (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (60%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); MERRILL LYNCH ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS LLC (85%); OPPENHEIMERFUNDS INC (64%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: MERRILL LYNCH & CO 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (64%); SIC6733 TRUSTS, EXCEPT EDUCATIONAL, RELIGIOUS, & CHARITABLE (64%) SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS & DEALERS; 

PERSON: JEFFREY M PEEK (93%); STAN O'NEAL (79%) PEEK, JEFFREY M; DOLL, ROBERT C JR; GILPIN, KENNETH N 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (76%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001 



847 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 2; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEW; 
Bruegel the Elder Explains It All for You

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL KIMMELMAN 

 BODY:
WE could all do worse right now than to lose ourselves for a while in the Met's show of drawings and prints by Bruegel, who knew a thing or two about vice and virtue.
 Bruegel lived in rough and crazy times, but beauty, his work reminds us, makes comforting order out of almost everything it comes into contact with. So whether he was drawing vanity or sloth or demons with nasty spiked maces or peasants harvesting corn under a high sun or a man slipping on the ice of a frozen moat in a crowd of happy skaters, he delivered the same lapidary message. The world is anarchic and cruel and can drive all of us to despair sometimes. But good art is a realm unto itself, with its own rules and rationale, and thankfully we can escape into it from time to time when we need to regain our senses. 
 We know next to nothing about the great Pieter Bruegel the Elder, not even when or where he was born. We know that he worked in Antwerp and Brussels and died in 1569, leaving two young sons, Jan and Pieter the Younger, who followed in his footsteps, making paintings and drawings sometimes confused with his. 
It's probably a relief that we don't know too much about him. Against the narcissism of our fin-de-siecle milieu, the dim figure of the elder Bruegel comes as a small and fortuitous counterpoint. Scant knowledge about him means, among other things, that he does not bear the burden of needing a meaningful and anecdote-filled life to justify attention. There is only his art to consider, or only the small, exquisite fraction of it that survives, to which generations of eager and tendentious historians have tried in vain to attach biographical significance.
They have theorized about his feelings regarding Spanish rule in the Netherlands and regarding the Inquisition, but nobody really has an idea where Bruegel stood. His work can be bleak and full of horror about the costs of war and persecution, but it stands apart from, which is to say above, contemporary specifics, benefiting from art's metaphoric flexibility and basic irrelevance. Longevity is the compensation for this kind of irrelevance, great art not losing its topicality as do the political and religious wars, plagues and other calamities in the midst of which the art is often made.
It's obvious that Bruegel learned from Bosch, whose strange influence runs throughout his amazing drawings and prints of the seven deadly vices. And we also know that he went to Italy, where he saw Italian art, meaning Michelangelo and Titian, although just how much he picked up from them is another thing scholars don't agree about.
The work in the show looks Italian-derived in some cases, Netherlandish in others. It looks old and modern. It seems like the end of one tradition and the start of another. The drawings are loose or microscopically detailed, partly depending on whether or not he designed them for engravers to make into prints. They are so varied that it's no surprise scholars wrangle over attributions.
One of the fine early landscapes is a precise view of the old marine customs house next to the church of Santa Maria in Turri on the Tiber in Rome, bobbing masted boats in the foreground; squat buildings rise heavily on the river's far bank in a shimmering light, a marvel of graphic economy, austere architecture and subtle atmospherics.
The drawing is from the same trip that must have taken Bruegel through the Alps, which he drew, too, with a mix of poetic license and topographical fidelity where it came to rocky outcroppings, craggy paths and needle peaks. Attitudes toward mountains were beginning to shift in Europe, a sign of the medieval world slowly yielding to the modern one. Luther's idea was that mountains were God's retribution for man's fall, an outcome of the flood before which the earth had been perfectly flat. But this view was starting to give way to the notion of sublime vistas. Bruegel's landscape drawings, part fantasy, part faithful, seem on the cusp of history.
Some of the landscapes in the show are also peaceable scenes of anglers and cows, of travelers looking at valleys, and of winding rivers and gingerbread towns nestled behind fortress walls. Bruegel loved the variety of unfolding information that comes from close, patient observation, and in a work like "Wooded Landscape With Mills" he leads the eye diagonally from the big, twisted tree in the foreground past thatched houses and a tiny water mill in the distance to an opening somewhere even farther away, the background barely big enough for him to register with his pen, a vertiginous effect akin to looking through the wrong end of a telescope.
Elsewhere, he adopts a God's-eye view, surveying broad panoramas with divine equanimity, although some of the really spectacular landscapes are not by Bruegel: the exhibition and its catalog devote much space to works formerly attributed to him, possibly by him, prints based on works he did or in his style. Some drawings are credited to Jacob Savery, Roelandt Savery and to someone called the Master of the Small Landscapes. A famous and elaborate Alpine scene, once considered a Bruegel, is now said to be by the anonymous Master of the Mountain Landscapes. The prints are by professional engravers.
This all makes for a connoisseur's paradise. At a time like now it is heartening to see how civilization goes on in the form of art historians obsessing about such minutiae. That said, the show will be a little confusing and diffuse to some people. And it would be nice one of these days to read an exhibition catalog, written not just for experts, that somewhere explains in plain, heartfelt words why anybody should care about the art in the first place.
You don't need any help, though, to appreciate the virtues of the vices, or Everyman as a greedy, nearsighted merchant, or some of the nimbler drawings like "The Beekeepers," an image of lumbering, faceless figures in woven masks and bulky clothes. One of the men is in a pose cribbed from Michelangelo's Sistine ceiling. They lug baskets around a big mandrake plant while a boy hides in a tree. Scholars have disagreed about whether the picture is an allegory of Protestants and Catholics; its impact is, if anything, greater because of its mystery.
"Summer" is not mysterious but, combined with Bruegel's fantastical scenes and with drawings like "The Beekeepers," it conveys a near-Shakespearean complexity of human understanding. A funny, rollicking image of peasant labor, its slightly above-it-all tone recapitulates Bruegel's attitude toward everyday life as amusing but also grotesque and absurd. His "Big Fish Eat Little Fish" is another example: the world is foolish and full of bizarre people, so all you can do is laugh.
The most memorable drawing, "The Painter and the Connoisseur," is not difficult to decipher: a long-suffering artist is with a slack-jawed patron, who squints through spectacles while grasping his purse, a quintessential image of the misunderstood genius getting the last laugh. The message is blunt, but the technique is a blend of delicacy and carelessness, suggesting Bruegel may have done the drawing for himself or a friend. Its excellence derives from the directness of delivery.
From it, you wouldn't say Bruegel was a compassionate artist, never mind his beloved pictures of peasants and ice skaters. Instead, his dark-humored viewpoint seems strangely moving and modern. Solace, he implies, comes only from the integrity of the artist's effort, not a bad lesson today.
"About suffering they were never wrong, the old masters," Auden wrote apropos of a Bruegel painting. He was right. Or about pleasure, he might have added.
"Pieter Bruegel the Elder: Drawings and Prints," organized by Nadine M. Orenstein and Manfred Sellink, is on view through Dec. 2 at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Vice and virtue: Among the works on paper in the "Pieter Bruegel the Elder" show at the Metropolitan are "The Beekeepers," top, and "The Painter and the Connoisseur," above. Both of these pen-and-ink drawings by Bruegel were done in the 1560's. (Photographs from the Metropolitan Museum of Art)(pg. E31); "Mountain Landscape With River and Travelers" (1553), above, and "Big Fish Eat Little Fish" (1556), both by Pieter Bruegel the Elder, are at the Metropolitan. (Photographs from the Metropolitan Museum of Art)(pg. E35) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (72%); FARM LABOR (71%); HISTORY (68%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (67%); RELIGION (50%) ART; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (91%) METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC) 

PERSON: BRUEGEL, PIETER (1527-69); KIMMELMAN, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) NETHERLANDS (86%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001 



848 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 2; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2812 words

HEADLINE: First Requiems, Then Resolve 

BYLINE:  By ALLAN KOZINN 

 BODY:
WHEN Gordon J. Davis, the president of Lincoln Center, convened the directors of the center's resident performing groups on Sept. 12, the day after the attack on the World Trade Center, the shock of the disaster was fresh, and life in New York was virtually frozen. But Mr. Davis believed that it was important to meet, partly to decide what to do next, and partly to make sure that all of the arts center's constituent organizations were fully informed about plans for everything from memorial concerts being planned to heightened security on the plaza and in the halls and backstage areas. 
 Lincoln Center had been evacuated immediately after the attack. Planning, fund-raising and administrative work came to a halt, box offices were closed and rehearsals were canceled. So were opening-night fund-raising galas at the New York City Opera on the night of the attack and at the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center the next night. Similar events at other Lincoln Center organizations were scrapped as well, and the first five concerts of the Rachmaninoff retrospective that was to have opened Lincoln Center's Great Performers series were also canceled when it became clear that the performers, from England and Russia, could not get to New York. 
 At the Lincoln Center meeting, Mr. Davis and his colleagues agreed that it was time to get back to work, if not quite back to business as usual. Other organizations have approached their seasons with a similar resolve. And although several say that they are likely to face substantial financial losses because of the disaster, executives at large and small concert halls in New York agree that the structure of musical life in the city -- seasonal rather than year-round, and with an audience that is mostly local rather than dependent on tourism -- has shielded them from the devastating drop in ticket sales on Broadway.
"There have been some difficult decisions," Mr. Davis said of his discussions with colleagues at Lincoln Center. "Probably the hardest call was at the New York City Opera, which had planned to resume its performances with 'The Magic Flute' on Friday. But on Thursday, when the president announced that Friday would be a day of mourning, we scheduled a vigil on the plaza, and City Opera had to decide whether to cancel its performance, which it did. They could have gone on -- it wasn't that the plaza was going to be so crowded that people couldn't get into the State Theater. But going on didn't seem to fit the tenor of the moment."

'A Sense of Shock'
City Opera also lost several rehearsals, said Paul Kellogg, the company's general and artistic director, and when the rehearsals resumed, the singers were still traumatized. 
"This is a deeply professional company," Mr. Kellogg said, "but there was a sense of shock that left people so affected that the will to proceed was momentarily shaken. People got over that, and realized that we have something here that's useful to do, and they got right into it again." 
The New York Philharmonic had different reasons to fret. Although the orchestra's season was not scheduled to open until Sept. 20, the Philharmonic had just completed a European tour, and on Sept. 11, the players were at the Frankfurt Airport in Germany waiting to come home when all flights were canceled. The nearest hotels that could accommodate the more than 100 musicians were in Stuttgart, more than two hours away. 
By the time the players returned to New York, on Sept. 15, the start of the season had been transformed. Anne-Sophie Mutter, the German violinist, who was to have played the Beethoven Violin Concerto on opening night, had decided not to travel. And in any case, Kurt Masur, the orchestra's music director, and Zarin Mehta, its executive director, had decided to replace the opening night Franck and Beethoven program with a memorial performance of the Brahms German Requiem, with the proceeds -- about $300,000 -- to be donated to a World Trade Center relief fund. 
"Putting this memorial together was so straightforward and easy," Mr. Mehta said. "The orchestra immediately said, 'Of course, we have to do it.' The first two singers I asked, Thomas Hampson and Heidi Grant Murphy, said yes, and when I talked to Kurt Masur about what to play, there was maybe three seconds of discussion. By Saturday, the choir already had its first rehearsal. And then, getting 'Live From Lincoln Center' and the whole PBS network together to broadcast a 90-minute program -- it all fell into place. I've experienced a surge of friendship and cooperation, and I hope we can continue to be nice to each other for a long time." 
Smaller organizations were affected as well. On the day of the attack, Merkin Concert Hall was about to open its Tuesday matinee series with an early afternoon performance by Concertante, a young chamber orchestra. "I was on my way downstairs, and I saw people huddled around the radio," said Vickie Margulies, the director of concert programs at the hall, "but I didn't know what was going on. 
"Meanwhile, the musicians were arriving with their instruments. Some had been watching what was happening on TV and were stunned, and as it became apparent how serious this was, we were all very shaky. But we had to decide what to do. I think, for a while, the musicians felt they could go on, and one of the things we discussed was the healing power of music. But it was just too shattering and too close, so we decided to postpone."
Several more performances were canceled at Merkin that week and the next, including two sold-out installments of the New York Guitar Festival, which were to have been broadcast live on WNYC-FM (93.9). But that was the least of Merkin's problems -- or WNYC's. The radio station, which broadcasts from the Municipal Building on Centre Street and which sent its signal out through the World Trade Center, was knocked off the air for a few days, and access to its studios was restricted. At Merkin, all telephone service was knocked out the day of the attack, and it has not yet been restored. (Its box office is using a cellphone: 917-579-3269.) 
City Opera and the 92nd Street Y have similar communications problems, if less severe. Both have lost their long-distance telephone service and their e-mail. At the Miller Theater at Columbia University, electronic communications were working, but a large mailing of season brochures, sent out just before the attack, was delayed, as were advertisements in some publications. And touring complications caused the immediate cancellation of three of the hall's new-music concerts, two by the Klangforum Wien, from Austria, on Tuesday and Wednesday, and one by the Intergalactic Contemporary Ensemble on Nov. 9. Otherwise, the hall's season, which begins tonight, has been unaffected. 
Schedules that were interrupted quickly got back under way. At Merkin, concerts resumed on Sept. 16, when the Western Wind, a vocal sextet, gave a concert of music for the Jewish New Year. The group had planned the concert as a benefit for its next recording project, and tickets cost up to $200. "But we decided instead to donate the money we raised to the Red Cross," said William Zukof, the sextet's countertenor. "There was no disagreement in the group about that." 
Having canceled its first two scheduled performances, City Opera raised its curtain on Sept. 15 with a new production of "The Flying Dutchman" that was to have opened the season on the night of the attack. There have been no further cancellations, and the company is planning to restore the lost performance of "The Flying Dutchman" to the schedule on Oct. 8 as a benefit for rescue workers and victims' families. 
The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center transformed its canceled gala into a free concert last Tuesday and solicited donations for Engine Company No. 40 and Ladder Company No. 30, the firehouse near Lincoln Center, which lost 11 firefighters at the World Trade Center. And Merkin Concert Hall, Lincoln Center and the Miller Theater all quickly set out to reschedule their canceled concerts and sought ways to commemorate those lost. 
"The spirit is alive, and people are making their statement by going on," said Ms. Margulies of Merkin Concert Hall. "In terms of human loss, this has been simply disastrous, and talking to musicians, the first thing on their minds is how to reach out. In terms of economics, this will have an effect we don't know the entirety of. There are many imponderables, and it's hard to do business without phones. We have no idea how many people are trying to reach us." 
Perhaps the most immediate financial effect of the disaster on the classical music business has been felt at the box office. 
"The box office is really suffering," was Mr. Kellogg's blunt assessment of ticket sales at City Opera. "On Monday, Sept. 10, our box office sales were twice what they were on that date last year. And our advance sales had been very good. But it stopped. Now, our day-to-day ticket sales at the box office, through Ticketmaster and the Internet, are 37 percent of what they were." 
Mr. Kellogg said that once the company opened, much of the audience returned and that the houses for the two new productions that have opened -- "The Flying Dutchman" and "The Mikado" -- have looked reasonably full.

A Drop at the Box Office
Aftershocks of the attack have been registered at the Metropolitan Opera box office as well. Before Sept. 11, the Met had sold 57 percent of its tickets for the season, roughly equivalent to sales at the same time last year. "Then, Sept. 11 happened, the tragedy," said Joseph Volpe, the Met's general manager. "Last year, in the 10 days starting on Sept. 11, we sold $2.4 million in tickets, or 2.8 percent of our total capacity. This year, in those 10 days, we sold $700,000, which is about seven-tenths of a percent of our capacity." 
Mr. Volpe pointed out, though, that the Met sold out an extra performance, the preview of opening night, presented as a benefit for the victims of the World Trade Center disaster, on Sept. 22. That concert also attracted some 3,000 listeners to the Lincoln Center plaza, where it was broadcast on a huge television screen, and it raised $2.5 million. 
Robert J. Harth, the new executive director of Carnegie Hall, arrived in New York from his last position, at the Aspen Music Festival and School in Colorado, on Sept. 8 and has been dealing with little but loss since then. Herman Sandler, a donor to several orchestras and musical programs, and a member of the Carnegie board, was among those missing at the World Trade Center. And the death on Sept. 22 of the violinist Isaac Stern -- Carnegie's president and an important presence at the hall ever since he led the fight to save it from destruction in 1960 -- is likely to be traumatic for Carnegie. 
Because of construction on its new Zankel Hall, Carnegie had planned to open later than usual this year. Although the first concert in the hall is a performance by the Orpheus Chamber Orchestra tomorrow, and Carnegie has just scheduled a Concert for Remembrance, with James Levine, Yo-Yo Ma and Leontyne Price on Sunday, the official opening of the season is a Berlin Philharmonic concert on Wednesday. No performances have been canceled, and none of the scheduled performers have decided not to travel. But like everyone else, Mr. Harth acknowledged a decline in ticket sales. 
"Our box office only opened for single ticket sales on Sept. 10," he said. "Clearly, our tickets are not being sold with the alacrity we're used to. But we are seeing sales pick up, as everything in the city is. It's too early to say that things are back to normal, but it's moving in that direction. Of course, our opening concerts, with the Berlin Philharmonic, are very well sold. But most of those sales took place prior to Sept. 11, by subscription." 
The major musical organizations in New York have been somewhat insulated from the aftermath of the attack, because they sell a significant percentage of their tickets by subscription. Subscription series are announced between January and March, and because people who are inclined to purchase them also tend to want to ensure the best seats, the core audience for the season is in place well before the end of the summer. Preseason subscription sales typically count for between 55 and 65 percent of an organization's tickets. 
Two other factors have helped the musical world. One is the seasonal nature of musical life. There is a heavy concert calendar from late September through mid-May, and a summer festival season from June through August. But on Sept. 11, opening night was anywhere from a week to five weeks away for musical organizations as diverse as the New York Philharmonic, the Met, Carnegie Hall, the Brooklyn Academy of Music, the 92nd Street Y and the Miller Theater. 
And many organizations say that unlike Broadway, which thrives on tourism, classical music plays mostly to a local audience. That said, the definitions of "local" and "visiting" are relative: City Opera estimates that 19 percent of its audience comes from outside New York City, but how much of that 19 percent can be ascribed to tourism is less clear. Mr. Davis, of Lincoln Center, said that as much as 70 percent of the subscription audience for Great Performers comes from New York City (all five boroughs), with another 15 to 20 percent from New Jersey, suggesting that tourism may account for as little as 10 percent of the total audience. 
Carnegie Hall has no figures on tourism, and representatives for smaller halls, from the Kitchen to the 92nd Street Y and Merkin Concert Hall, all guess that their ticket buyers are mostly New Yorkers. And Mr. Mehta, of the New York Philharmonic, was reluctant to guess what tourism contributed to the orchestra's ticket sales. 
"If we sell 65 percent by subscription, and we sell 85 percent of our tickets to a particular concert," Mr. Mehta said, "then obviously 20 percent is in single ticket sales. Whether the people who bought those tickets came from Manhattan or Milwaukee, we don't know." 
Mr. Mehta and his colleagues may have an chance to find out, however. City Opera and the Met have noted an inclination among ticket holders to exchange their September and October tickets for tickets to performances later in the season, and both say the requests are coming mainly from people outside New York. At the Met, this has been particularly true of tickets sold on the Internet. Although such sales accounted for only about 4 percent of the Met's capacity last season, Mr. Volpe said that 43 percent of those sales were in the New York, New Jersey and Connecticut region, 26 percent were from elsewhere in the United States and 31 percent were from outside the United States. 
"What's happening," Mr. Volpe said, "is that we're getting a lot of cancellations and requests for refunds on the Internet from people who have to travel distances. The highest number of these requests, for some reason, come from Florida. Germany is second, and Japan is third. Tourism will bounce back at some point, but it's going to be a while. So I can't say what the overall effect will be." 
City Opera does not offer refunds, but it does allow exchanges for performances later in the season, or even in future seasons. Generally, the exchange policy has been offered only to subscribers, but because of the disaster, City Opera has been extending it to all ticket holders. And Mr. Kellogg has found the response distressing. 
"People who are leery about coming back to New York are exchanging their tickets for later in the season," he said. "All those exchanges affect our ultimate box-office income, because we are exchanging people into seats that would otherwise be available for sale." 
One thing no one is able or inclined to do, at the moment, is to estimate the full financial impact of the disaster. The added security measures virtually all diminish profits. Lincoln Center has increased its uniformed security guards. And bomb-sniffing dogs have been used at Avery Fisher Hall, although Mr. Davis said that this was a precaution, not a response to a specific threat. Lincoln Center and Carnegie Hall will be instituting occasional bag and briefcase checks, and are encouraging concertgoers to arrive a few minutes earlier than usual. 
There are also not-so-incidental incidentals to be considered. Having its players marooned in Europe, for example, meant that the New York Philharmonic was liable for four days of hotels and daily expenses for more than 100 people, at a cost that Mr. Mehta said he had not yet calculated. 
"At this point," Mr. Kellogg said, "I'm just covering my eyes and trying to move forward. You just have to proceed, and measure the fallout later. It will be significant, and we're aware of it. We're steeling ourselves to hear the news when we've had the time and distance to compile it."

CORRECTION-DATE: October 2, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article in Weekend on Friday about the terrorist attacks' impact on New York's classical music institutions misstated the Carnegie Hall connection of Herman Sandler, a donor to several arts organizations, who is listed as missing at the World Trade Center. He was not a member of the Carnegie Hall board; his wife, Suki Sandler, is.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Despite declines in ticket sales, the musical life of the city continues: the audience at the Philharmonic's memorial concert; flags at the New York City Opera, far left, and Carnegie Hall. Below left, crowds watch a projection of the Metropolitan Opera's benefit for victims. (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times; left, photographs by Carol Halebian for The New York Times; below left, Stephanie Berger)(pg. E1); Difficult decisions: Gordon J. Davis, president of Lincoln Center. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. E4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSIC (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); OPERA (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); HIJACKING (77%); TICKET SALES (74%); TERRORISM (72%); CITY LIFE (68%); CITIES (68%); AIRLINES (60%); THEATER (58%); TOURISM (50%) CULTURE; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); MISSING PERSONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PENTAGON BUILDING; HIJACKING; MUSIC 

ORGANIZATION: LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (59%) ;CARNEGIE HALL (NYC); LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (NYC) 

PERSON: KOZINN, ALLAN; DAVIS, GORDON J 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); OLYMPIA, WA, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (95%); ENGLAND (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001 



849 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: Car Rental Companies Preparing for a Slump 

BYLINE:  By CHERYL JENSEN 

 BODY:
FEWER people are flying, and more are expected to be driving. Still, that is not good news for the $19.5 billion rental-car industry, since more than two-thirds of its business is done at airports.
 "Our feeling is that car rental companies will probably lose about 50 to 60 percent of their business in the next three to six months, especially at airports, due to the decline in business travel," said Sherb Brown, publisher of Auto Rental News, a trade magazine based in Torrance, Calif. 
 "We're expecting this to be pretty devastating to the car rental industry -- just as devastating as it will be to the airline industry," Mr. Brown said. "Some of the major companies are planning on decreasing their fleets by 50 to 60 percent immediately." 
Several rental companies said business improved this week, though rentals were still far below the levels before Sept. 11. At Hertz, the market leader, which does 90 percent of its business at airports, rentals fell by half in the week after the terrorist attacks, said Richard Broome, vice president for corporate affairs. But this week, Mr. Broome said, "we have been seeing a modest improvement, although we are nowhere near where we were before Sept. 11, by any stretch of the imagination."
Industry officials said they expected that fear of flying and the inconvenience posed by new security measures were likely to prompt more people to drive to business meetings, often in rental cars. A survey of 60 corporate travel managers for Fortune 500 companies, conducted by the National Business Travel Association last week, found that 65 percent were planning to recommend the use of rental cars for short trips.
Many of these customers will not be traveling through airports, though, and will be looking to rent in places that are more convenient to their homes and offices.
Budget Rent a Car, which already did a relatively high proportion of its business away from airports, is moving more of its fleet to those locations, a spokeswoman, Jennifer Sullivan, said.
Mr. Brown and industry officials said they did not think the increase in business driving would offset the loss of airport business. "We're expecting maybe a 5 to 10 percent increase in local markets," which are offices outside airports, Mr. Brown said. "That won't offset a 50 to 60 percent decline in the airport markets."
Even before the terrorist attacks, the industry had been struggling as business travel declined in a slowing economy. Business was off 5 to 7 percent before Sept. 11, said Michael Taylor, director of travel services at the Westport, Conn., offices of J. D. Power & Associates.
"When Pam Am Flight 103 blew up over Lockerbie, Scotland, it took about 9 months for the airline industry to recover," Mr. Taylor said. "This is probably going to take longer, because it happened on American soil and is so much more dramatic."
What will all this mean to the business and vacation traveler? In the short term, plenty of cars will be available at airports, and rates at those locations are unlikely to rise, Mr. Brown said. They may even fall.
There may be slight price increases at outlets away from airports, "because that's where we're expecting some additional rentals," Mr. Brown said. 
It may be difficult to find cars at a few locations because rental companies had a surge in one-way rentals right after the bombings, as stranded air travelers rented cars to get home. Mr. Brown said there might be slightly more demand for minivans and sport utilities because families may want to drive, instead of fly, on vacations. "But nobody is expecting anything dramatic," he added. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (89%); AIRLINES (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TERRORISM (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); AIRPORT OPERATION (77%); TRAVEL AGENTS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); MARKETING SURVEYS (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (67%) AUTOMOBILES; RENTING AND LEASING; INDUSTRY PROFILES; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); MISSING PERSONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PENTAGON BUILDING; HIJACKING; AIRPORTS; TERRORISM; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

COMPANY: J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%)

PERSON: ;JENSEN, CHERYL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001 



850 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1410 words

HEADLINE: TV WEEKEND; 
Viewing New York's Past But Seeing the Present

BYLINE:  By Caryn James 

 BODY:
In 1945 a plane crashed into the Empire State Building. As told in "New York: An Illustrated History," the companion book to Ric Burns's colossal PBS series, a B-25 Army bomber lost its way in the fog, then flew into the building and burned. Fourteen people died, but the building stood so firm that tenants returned two days later. 
 Because it came a few weeks before the end of World War II, "For New Yorkers the nightmarish accident was a reminder of just how lucky their city had been," Mr. Burns and his co-author, James Sanders, write. "Overseas, virtually every other major world capital had been humbled or destroyed," but New York "had emerged from the world's greatest conflict virtually unscathed, richer than ever, its great walls of stone and steel untouched by the horrors of war." 
 Like the book, the concluding episodes of the series, "New York: A Documentary Film," are loaded with details that resonate differently now that New York is no longer so lucky or untouched. It is fair to wonder if these chapters should have been postponed. After the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center, it is impossible to see them the way they were intended, as a history of the city from 1929 through the 1990's. (They are Episodes 6 and 7, picking up where the previous 10 hours, shown in 1999, left off.) 
Now their very first words vibrate with unintended meaning. Over a close-up of lights on a black, rainy street, an ominous voice warns, "The contemporary city is profoundly menaced." Philip Bosco is reading what the architectural historian Siegfried Giedion called the evil potential of the automobile; he feared in the 1930's and 40's that machines were becoming more important than people. But with the events of Sept. 11 still so fresh, the film becomes a catalog of accidental significance and observations that have become touchingly out-of-date.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani says here that during the Depression and World War II, Fiorello La Guardia was exactly the leader the city needed to get through those dark years. "He was the mayor of New York City during the most difficult time ever to be mayor of New York City," says the man who can now claim that role.
Every distant view of the skyline leads a viewer to search for the World Trade Center, which at times appears as a central image. The towers loom against a bright blue sky while speeded-up film propels clouds toward them and a voice says, "The world is in chaos." (In the Burns style, we find out whose words are being read only after the speaker is finished; this comment is from the secretary of the 1939 World's Fair.) 
Like the World Trade Center itself, the series now carries a symbolic weight it never had before. As several commentators have noted, the twin towers were not beloved buildings and are understandably not even mentioned in the film, but you don't need a New Yorker's perspective to feel how they haunt it.
While the program is constantly touching raw nerves, though, it is also timely in a more precise way than anyone could have imagined. As it happens, these episodes are not about New York's glory days, but about its plummet to the depths during the Depression and again during the financial crisis of the 70's, which brought the city social unrest, near-bankruptcy and the enmity of the rest of the country. The theme of these episodes, now intensified, had always been there: this is a story of resilience, a lucid reminder of how often New York City has rebuilt itself.
The films were not altered, except to replace the final credits (there is now a glimpse of construction workers raising the World Trade Center) and to add a title card explaining that the documentary was produced before the tragedy, adding: "For nearly 400 years, the people of New York have faced adversity and prevailed. This film is dedicated to them."
Taken on their own, these episodes are better than the sometimes plodding ones that preceded them. They are more focused, and at four and a half hours less of an endurance test. Stylistically they match, though, with period film and photographs, off-screen actors reading contemporary accounts, and on-screen commentators. These include the lively historian Mike Wallace, the biographer Robert A. Caro (whose subject, Robert Moses, is the film's most crucial figure) and Ray Suarez, familiar as a reporter for "The NewsHour With Jim Lehrer," but also an astute, no-nonsense observer of the city's history. Yet accidental meanings come to bear on the style, too. The narrator's prose, read by David Ogden Stiers, is as purple as ever, but today such a flaw seems trivial next to the series' reassuring insights about the city's hard times. Brian Keane's music, which had always seemed lovely though sentimental, takes on a mournful cast.
Episode 6, "The City of Tomorrow," focuses on the Depression and the war years, showing long lines for food and Hoovervilles in Central Park. Federal aid was siphoned off by Tammany Hall and the corrupt mayor, Jimmy Walker.
The reform-minded La Guardia held the city together for three terms, but it was Moses who planned and shaped it for nearly 50 years. He channeled money onto gargantuan road-building projects like the Triborough Bridge, though he never drove a car; he connected parts of the city while remaining troublingly disconnected from its life. He is heard here saying, "Cities are created by and for traffic," and his projects callously displaced entire neighborhoods.
In the 40's New York had everything, Mr. Suarez says near the start of Episode 7, "The City and The World." He adds, "New York sort of looked down on the rest of America from Olympus, and the seeds of its downfall might have been in that." After the war, manufacturing moved out, the middle class left for the suburbs, and the city's economic base was destroyed.
A sharp attitude emerges from this episode, creating a picture of urban blight brought about by federal programs that were wrongheaded or ineptly executed or both. High-rise housing projects were created, but they were inhospitable slabs of stone. By the 70's the South Bronx was a burned-out shell and a national symbol of urban decline. The low point came in 1975, when President Gerald Ford refused to guarantee loans to save New York from bankruptcy, and a now classic Daily News headline read: "Ford to City: Drop Dead." (He later changed his mind, fearing the ripple effects if New York defaulted.) This may not be the best time to hear it, but it is good to be reminded that New York was not always perfect; take it as a sign of normalcy.
More meaningfully at the moment, the film charts how fast the city returned to glory after its steep decline. The demolition of the old Penn Station (seen in black-and-white film, which must only hint at the architectural gem it was) in 1963 led to the creation of the Landmarks Preservation Commission. And Moses finally went too far when he tried to cut a great swath of highway through downtown neighborhoods, from the Lower East Side through what is now SoHo to Greenwich Village, and was thwarted by community resistance.
More piercing and more bracing than they would have been before, these final episodes also have an eloquence that is now enhanced. We see the ocean liners Queen Mary and Queen Elizabeth coming to New York after World War II, their decks crammed with hundreds of soldiers returning home. "That may have been the greatest time in New York," the historian David McCullough says. 
As the ships head toward land, the Statue of Liberty comes into view but -- then as now -- no World Trade Center rises nearby. The filmmakers could not have known how poignant their words would come to seem. When the ships entered the bay, the narrator says, "A gigantic cheer went up at the sight of the ravishing skyline of New York, which had never seemed more precious or more filled with promise for the future."

NEW YORK
A Documentary Film
PBS, Sunday and Monday.
(Channel 13, New York, at 9 p.m.)

Produced by Steeplechase Films in association with WGBH Boston, Thirteen/WNET New York and the New-York Historical Society; executive producer, Ric Burns; producers, Mr. Burns and Steve Rivo. Written by Mr. Burns and James Sanders; music by Brian Keane; David Ogden Stiers, narrator.

WITH: Mike Wallace, Robert A. Caro, Ray Suarez, David McCullough and others.

WITH THE VOICES OF: Philip Bosco, Keith David, Paul Giamatti, Josh Hamilton, George Plimpton, Susan Sarandon, Callie Thorne and Eli Wallach.

GRAPHIC: Photo: View of the Brooklyn Bridge, from "New York: A Documentary Film." (Thirteen/WNET) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); HISTORY (78%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); WRITERS (73%); TERRORISM (72%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (67%) TELEVISION; HISTORY; DOCUMENTARY FILMS AND PROGRAMS; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: EDUCATIONAL BROADCASTING CORP (59%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%) BURNS, RIC; JAMES, CARYN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

TITLE: NEW YORK: A DOCUMENTARY FILM (TV PROGRAM) 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001 



851 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: Asia Casts a Wary Eye to the West 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Sept. 27 

 BODY:
Mark Lettenbichler expected a flood of canceled bookings in the days after the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington. What worries Mr. Lettenbichler, the general manager of the Ritz-Carlton Hotel here, is that his guests have not yet returned.
 "At least with the Asian crisis, you knew where the bottom was," Mr. Lettenbichler said. "The disturbing thing here is you don't know what to expect. We know we're going to see a decline, but for how long?" 
 From luxury hotels to computer manufacturers to shipping agents, Asian companies are battening the hatches for a much-deeper-than-expected economic downturn. The Asian tempest of 1997-98was largely rooted in home-grown excesses, but this time, people here feel swept by events out of their control.
Mr. Lettenbichler recalled that hotels here and elsewhere were half empty during the Asian financial crisis. He worries that a deep recession in the United States could bring back those days. In this age of global linkage, he said, Asia's distance from the West will provide little insulation.
Like the United States, most Asian countries were well into a slowdown before the attacks. Much of the weakness in Asia was because of weak demand for Asian exports in the United States and, to a lesser extent, Japan.
That trend has now been amplified: economists are rapidly reducing their forecasts for consumer demand and growth in both countries. Salomon Smith Barney said in a new report that it expected the United States economy to contract 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter, while Japan's will shrink 1.5 percent.
As Americans and Japanese curtail their purchases of laptop computers, video games and designer clothing, their austerity is reverberating through the export-dependent Asian Tiger economies.
On Wednesday, Singapore reported a record 21 percent decline in industrial production in August, and South Korea is expected to follow with a double-digit drop of its own. Taiwan, with the technology sector as its linchpin, is rewriting its record books, suffering its worst recession in half a century. Unemployment is expected to exceed 5 percent, extraordinarily high for Taiwan.
"The slowdown in the tech sector has had a very adverse effect on our economy," said Taiwan's finance minister, Yen Ching-chang, in a recent interview. "If this tragedy affects the U.S. economy, Taiwan will not be exempt."
Nearly 40 percent of Taiwan's exports go to the United States or Japan. Mr. Yen is cautiously optimistic about the American economy, saying it was big enough to absorb the shock of the attacks. But he said that Asian countries could no longer depend on Japan to be a locomotive for the region, despite its size.
"After the financial crisis, no one can be sure when Japan will recover," said Mr. Yen, who conferred with other finance ministers at a recent meeting of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in Suzhou, China.
Not all Asian countries are affected the same way by a simultaneous downturn in the United States and Japan. Hong Kong's exports, while vulnerable to global weakness, are cushioned somewhat by its role as a middleman for the rest of China, packaging and reshipping goods to and from the mainland.
The weakening value of the United States dollar, a significant problem for countries like Japan whose exports lose competitiveness as a result, poses little or no threat to Hong Kong because its currency is linked to the dollar at a fixed rate; the same is true for China and for Malaysia.
Hong Kong will also benefit from the Federal Reserve's lower interest rates because its monetary policy is tied to that of the United States. Lower rates will be a relief to the territory's debt-burdened property developers.
A sharp rise in oil prices, a possible result of military action, would have a similarly uneven effect. Importers like South Korea and the Philippines would be badly hit, while producers like Indonesia and Malaysia would benefit.
What sets this downturn apart is its potential effect on China, Asia's most populous country. It came through the regional crisis with scarcely a scratch, mostly because China is less dependent on exports than its neighbors. But many analysts say it will not weather this one without damage.
Yiping Huang, a China economist at Salomon Smith Barney, said global weakness would diminish the country's exports enough to slow its overall growth. Mr. Huang has lowered his forecast for China's economic growth to 7.6 percent a year in 2001 and 2002, down from 7.8 percent this year and 8.2 percent next year.
Those numbers still put China far ahead of other Asian countries, many of them in recession or teetering on the brink. And when China's membership in the World Trade Organization is made official, analysts expect a stampede of foreign companies eager to enter China.
The trouble for China is that 11 percent of its foreign direct investment comes from the United States. Many experts say that American investors will steer clear of China and other emerging markets in the aftermath of the attacks.
"Everyone in China is expecting a very buoyant year in foreign direct investment," said Henry Lee, the managing director of Hendale Asset Management in Hong Kong. "But I think the first reaction of Americans will be to hold their own fort, before investing outside the U.S." 
That could spell trouble for Southeast Asian countries as well; they have already suffered a marked decline in foreign investment since the crisis of 1997-98. Most vulnerable are countries with large and potentially restive Muslim populations, like Malaysia, and Indonesia.
"President Bush's recent remarks may heighten the risk of Muslim insurgencies in some Asian countries," said Donald Hanna, the head of Asian economic analysis at Salomon Smith Barney in Hong Kong.
Few people say this downturn will prove to be as devastating as the Asian crisis, which wiped out years of development and redrew the region's economic and political map. Some, like Marc Faber, the money manager, even argue that investors should seize the opportunity to buy Asian stocks cheaply.
But most agree that Asia can forget any dreams of returning to robust health in 2002. "This disaster was televised worldwide and traumatized people around the world," said Ian K. Perkin, chief economist at the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce. "Are they going to feel like spending at Christmas?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: S. K. Jabbar, a rickshaw puller, awaits customers in Calcutta. Tourism has slowed since the terrorist attacks, and hotels and travel agents in Asia said there were many cancellations. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); TRENDS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); COMPUTER MAKERS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); AIRLINES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (68%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (67%) WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; PRODUCTION; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: RITZ CARLTON HOTEL CO LLC (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ;SALOMON SMITH BARNEY 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK; HUANG, YIPING 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); KOLKATA, INDIA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (56%) UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (97%); TAIWAN (95%); JAPAN (94%); SINGAPORE (92%); HONG KONG (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%) FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); JAPAN; TAIWAN; CHINA; SINGAPORE; SOUTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001 



852 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 324 words

HEADLINE: Mexico Hopes to Lure Travelers With Its Close-to-Home Status 

BYLINE:  By GRAHAM GORI 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Sept. 27 

 BODY:
As in much of the world, the economic outlook in Mexico has darkened in the weeks since the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, and analysts say the economy will grow only 0.5 percent in 2001, far off its 2000 pace of 6.9 percent.
 But one sector that is at the center of the trouble elsewhere may be a bright spot for Mexico. Officials say tourism here may not decline much and may regain losses because Americans who are nervous about security in air travel will want to visit places that are familiar, safe and close to home, and Mexico fills the bill. 
 "Flying is a concern, and longer flights are a larger concern," said John McCarthy, director of Mexico's National Trust for Tourism Development, emphasizing that flights to Mexico are only slightly longer than domestic flights for most Americans.
The Ministry of Tourism, which calculates that tourism accounts for one-tenth of the Mexican economy and that 85 percent of its 20 million annual visitors come from the United States, has asked for a $40 million increase in its adverising budget to reinforce the perception that Mexico is a safe place to visit.
Officials also say Mexico will weather the storm better than other nations because of its emphasis on time-share tourism, in which guests buy a part-ownership of a place to stay and the right to use it for certain weeks each year. Mexico has more time-share properties than any country except the United States.
"These are people who will be demanding tickets, and creating the necessary critical mass to bring some life back to these towns," Mr. McCarthy said.
In Cancun, where nearly the whole population of 600,000 depends directly or indirectly on tourism, one-sixth of the guest rooms are time-shares. In Puerto Vallarta and in the Los Cabos region, the proportion is nearly 40 percent.
Hotel occupancy is running 10 percent below normal this month, officials said, but they hope to see near-normal traffic by December.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (90%); TRENDS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (77%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (76%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (76%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (76%); TOURISM (76%); AIRLINES (74%); TERRORISM (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (72%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; ADVERTISING; HOTELS AND MOTELS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

PERSON: GORI, GRAHAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (95%) MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001 



853 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: America's Economic Cloud Extends Across Europe 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Sept. 27 

 BODY:
BASF, the German chemical conglomerate, had already warned investors last month that profits would be down this year. Today, assessing the fallout of the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington, the message was far more pessimistic.
 "The sensitive balance of the global financial and economic markets has been disturbed and must be re-established," Jurgen Strube, BASF's chief executive, said in a carefully worded statement. It was obvious, he said, that an economic recovery would not occur this year and that a recovery would occur next year only if political leaders made the right decisions. 
 European corporations and consumers have been badly unnerved by the events of the last two weeks. The European economy had already slowed considerably in the last several months, and the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11 extinguished hopes here that the United States would bounce back and pull the rest of the world along with it. 
Now, executives like Mr. Strube see two possible futures to prepare for. In the happier example, world leaders work together and manage to stabilize the world economy. In the grim one, consumer confidence continues to plunge, oil prices are volatile and recovery comes very late or not at all next year.
"Both scenarios are equally realistic," Mr. Strube said.
In France, Insee, the economic research institute, reported today that business confidence in September dropped to its lowest level since 1996 -- and four-fifths of the survey responses came in before the attacks, so the mood may now be even bleaker.
The prime minister of France, Lionel Jospin, went so far as to declare consumer spending tantamount to a civic duty. "The battle against terrorism is not merely an issue for the judges, the intelligence agencies and the nations," Mr. Jospin said in an interview published today in the French newspaper Ouest-France. "Let us together show economic patriotism."
In the two weeks since the attacks, European corporations have been racing to revise their plans and prepare for a more prolonged slowdown. LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, the world's biggest luxury goods group, said just after the attacks that its earnings would be down; similar warnings have since come from Gucci, the Italian fashion designer; Escada, the German producer and retailer of sports and casual clothing; and Leica, the German camera maker.
Most of those warnings stem from fears about slowing sales in the United States. But European consumers are likely to cut back sharply as well, especially if the slowing economy causes unemployment to rise. 
Economists have once again revised downward their forecasts for growth in the 12 nations adopting the euro currency. A few months ago, many expected growth of 2 percent this year and 2.5 percent or more in 2002; now most expect 1.5 percent or so this year and next.
The spreading gloom has already affected economic policy. European finance ministers, meeting last week in Belgium, made it clear that many countries would fall short of their goals for deficit reduction this year.
The European Central Bank's policy board decided at its meeting in Frankfurt today not to follow the emergency half-point cut in interest rates approved after the attacks with any additional reduction. But many economists are convinced that more rate cuts are to come.
Today's warning by BASF provided addition evidence that the fallout from the terrorist attacks is reaching heavy industry as well as consumer spending. BASF and other chemical companies had already been contending with slumping demand and prices, prompting BASF to shed 2,800 workers. Plans for another 1,200 layoffs were announced last month. But BASF said then that it could still increase profit by 10 percent a year.
Today, the company said the attacks made that goal unrealistic.
German machine manufacturers and carmakers are also under pressure. Germany's association of machine tool manufacturers said today that production would fall 2 percent next year as a result of weak global demand. Heidelberger Druckmaschinen, the world's largest maker of printing presses, warned this week that its sales would come in lower this year than last. 
Throughout Europe, many companies had based their optimism on the conviction that the American economy would bounce back quickly. 
Escada, the producer and retailer of high-priced casual wear, generates more than 24 percent of its sales in the United States and is still planning to build a store in New York City. But the chief executive, Wolfgang Ley, said this week that Escada's sales in America fell by half immediately after the attack and were still off by 25 percent. 
"We cannot yet say whether that is a trend," Mr. Ley said on Wednesday, as he discussed the company's third-quarter results. But, he said, the company has already started to search for ways to cut costs and will probably not meet its goal of increasing sales by 10 percent this year. 
Big clouds hang over Germany's luxury car companies as well, especially Porsche, which receives nearly half its profits from the United States.
The big question is whether European consumers will cut back their spending as well. The Dutch government reported this week that consumer confidence, measured just after the terror attacks, had dropped 9 percent from the month before -- the first evidence that the attacks had rattled consumers on this side of the Atlantic.
It is too soon to know if the effects are broad and lasting. Pinault-Printemps-Redoute, the big French luxury goods company, said this week that its Paris stores had experienced only a brief drop in sales after Sept. 11.
"From what we can tell, I would say the near-term impact is, if anything, less that we had been expecting," said Simon Irwin, a retailing analyst at BNP Paribas. The real effect will depend, he said, on whether unemployment begins to rise, as it has in America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); CHEMICALS MFG (90%); EURO (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PROFIT WARNINGS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (85%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); HIJACKING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); LUXURY GOODS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); INORGANIC CHEMICALS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); RETAILERS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); CONSUMER SPENDING (69%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (69%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); FASHION & APPAREL (60%); FASHION DESIGN (60%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); CURRENCIES (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%) WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; FINANCES 

COMPANY: BASF SE (95%); LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (83%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (59%) EUROPEAN UNION; BASF AG; INSEE (CO); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK 

TICKER: BFA (LSE) (95%); BASF (BIT) (95%); BAS (FRA) (95%); MC (PAR) (83%); LVMH (BIT) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (95%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (95%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (95%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (83%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (83%) SIC2819 OTHER INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS; 

PERSON: ;JOSPIN, LIONEL (PRIME MIN); ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); FRANCE (94%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); BELGIUM (78%) EUROPE; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001 



854 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Big Companies' Shares Rally on Hopes They Offer Safety

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK 

 BODY:
Stocks of large companies rose yesterday in an afternoon rally, as investors sought relatively safe places to place their money through an increasingly cloudy economic downturn.
 Money managers turned to companies that they thought were less likely to suffer in a recession, and they also bought Treasury securities, pushing those prices higher as well. 
 Investors generally disregarded the day's economic reports, which they found either unsurprising or virtually meaningless after the attacks against the United States. Instead, they mostly expressed confusion about what the United States might do with its military, about what might be done to the country and about how it all would play out in dollars and cents. 
"How long will people have their hands in their pockets?" asked Stephen J. Massocca, president of Pacific Growth Equities, an investment bank in San Francisco. "How long will people stay off airplanes?"
After being solidly down until midafternoon, the Dow Jones industrial average turned around and rose 114.03 points, or 1.33 percent, to close at 8,681.42. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 11.57 points, or 1.15 percent, to 1,018.61.
The Nasdaq composite index slipped 3.33 points, or 0.23 percent, to 1,460.71, although it recovered from steeper losses.
Still, analysts had doubts that the blue-chip rally reflected any broad turnabout in the stock market. "There's not going to be any instant gratification," said David Henwood, chief investment officer for Raymond James & Associates. "There's really nothing to sustain it."
The rally seemed to involve preprogrammed trading touched off by stock prices reaching certain low levels, said Brett Gallagher, vice president of Julius Baer Investment Management. Rallies caused by investors covering short sales, or bets that prices will fall, more typically begin in small-capitalization stocks, he said. By the middle of the day, the stock market "looked oversold on a technical basis," he said.
In contrast, prices of Treasury securities moved higher throughout the day, pulling down their yields, which move in the opposite direction. The government issued new two-year notes on Wednesday, a move that in other circumstances might cause prices to fall and yields to rise, but demand was hefty. The yield on the two-year note dropped to 2.76 percent yesterday, its lowest point in decades, from 2.79 percent on Wednesday.
The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell to 4.55 percent from 4.63 percent, while the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond dropped to 5.43 percent from 5.50 percent. 
Shares of drug makers, which are considered somewhat resistant to the effects of an economic slowdown, were rising all day. Merck gained $2.86, to $66.21, while Pfizer rose $1.20, to $39.75. Later in the day, prices began to rise for other large-capitalization companies, including the so-called cyclicals that had fallen sharply recently. The rally in the Dow was helped by gains by Exxon Mobil, up $2.41, to $38.42; Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, up $2.93, to $96.31, and General Motors, up $1.06, to $41.16.
Tobacco companies showed strength yesterday. Philip Morris rose $2.14, to $49, helping to lift the Dow. RJR Tobacco Holdings rose $2.73, to $58.
Weighing on the Dow, however, was I.B.M., which fell $1.30, to $90; the company was the subject of a few negative reports from influential analysts this week.
Semiconductor stocks continued to be among the weaker sectors. National Semiconductor lost $2.23, to $20.63, while Applied Materials dropped $1.26, to $27.87. The Philadelphia Stock Exchange's semiconductor index fell 8.63 points, or 2.33 percent, to 362.00, after plunging 7.9 percent on Wednesday.
Sonus Networks was the day's biggest loser, dropping $3.52, or 55 percent, to $2.88. The company, which makes telephone network equipment, forecast losses for the third quarter and the full year because of weak demand for its products.
The latest economic reports appeared to have little effect on the stock market. The government reported yesterday that sales of new single-family homes rose 0.6 percent in August, to an annual rate of 898,000, and orders for durable goods dropped 0.3 percent in August. But many investors seemed to feel that after August ended, everything that had happened during that month only mattered for 10 days.
The government also reported that the number of initial claims filed for unemployment insurance jobless claims rose by 58,000, to 450,000, for the week ended Sept. 22 -- the highest level in about nine years. "I don't think that caught anyone by surprise," Mr. Massocca said.
Market analysts often express the utmost certainty about their own opinions, if not about stocks. In contrast, William Tedford, a vice president of Stephen Capital Management, said that soon after the attacks, he accepted that the Dow would fall about 10 percent.
"It could be much worse than that," he said. "I just don't know yet."

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (85%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (62%); INTEREST RATES (59%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES INC (54%); ARTIO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (53%); PFIZER INC (50%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (50%); PFEB (BRU) (50%); PFE (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (50%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (50%)

PERSON: BRICK, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001 



855 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: The Economic Stimulus We Need 

BYLINE:  By Alan S. Blinder; Alan S. Blinder is a professor of economics at Princeton and former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve Board.

DATELINE: PRINCETON, N.J. 

 BODY:
It is time to get past the debate over whether or not the United States economy needs a fiscal stimulus and get on to the questions of how large and what kind. While history offers no real parallels to the terrorism of Sept. 11, it is all but certain that the American economy entered a recession on that day -- if not before. Prior to the attacks, only the mighty consumer was keeping the economy above water. And while the official data will be mum for some time, consumer spending probably fell off a cliff on Sept. 11. The longer we wait, the more likely it is that the terrorists will score a victory over our economy. 
 Three principles should guide the debate over the stimulus. First, we must act quickly. No policy action can match the speed of the likely drop in consumer spending -- in that sense, we are already behind the curve. So we must find policies that can sail through Congress quickly. Second, we must remember that rapid actions do not guarantee quick effects. For example, the Federal Reserve has already cut interest rates and will probably do so again on Oct. 2. But those rate cuts will not affect spending for many months to come. An effective stimulus must lead to new spending promptly. Third, the stimulus program must not damage the long-run prospects for federal budget surpluses, lest long-term interest rates rise and choke off spending. 
 These three principles eliminate many of the ideas that have been bandied about in Washington. And they lead me to recommend the following policy, which is nonpartisan, fast-acting and temporary: Let Congress offer to reimburse the tax receipts lost by any state that agrees to cut its sales taxes over the next 12 months (up to some limit). Since almost every state levies a sales tax, this plan should be well received by both Republican and Democratic governors and legislatures throughout the country. 
A sales tax cut aims its medicine squarely at boosting consumer spending, which is the highest priority right now. Since most sales taxes are regressive, reducing them would benefit low-income families, many of whom live from paycheck to paycheck. Such people are likely to spend their gains quite promptly. But everyone who purchases taxable items would receive a tax cut.
Since the proposed sales tax cut would be temporary, it would not damage the long-run budget outlook. As Alan Greenspan and many others have observed, fears that the surplus is disappearing have kept long-term interest rates too high for months. A stimulus program must not exacerbate those fears.
The effectiveness of many types of tax cuts -- like income tax cuts -- is undermined by making them temporary, because most people base their spending decisions on more than this year's income. But the situation is just the reverse for a sales tax cut. The impact of a lower sales tax is actually enhanced by making it explicitly temporary, because doing so creates clear incentives (albeit small ones) to buy now rather than later.
Finally, we could strengthen the stimulus by offering special tax rebate assistance to New York City, which, as the chief victim of the horrors of Sept. 11, is suffering a sharp economic downturn.
A temporary sales tax cut would be politically attractive, economically effective and administratively simple to boot. The American economy is going to experience a recession, almost certainly. But if we act quickly and decisively, it can be a short one. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); RECESSION (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); SALES TAX (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); INTEREST RATES (87%); TAX INCENTIVES (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); HIJACKING (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); GOVERNORS (73%); FAMILY (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); BUDGET FORECASTS (65%); INCOME TAX (61%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; TAXATION; SALES TAX 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) ;BLINDER, ALAN S 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001 



856 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: Into an Unknowable Future 

BYLINE:  By Tom Brokaw; Tom Brokaw, author of "The Greatest Generation," is managing editor of NBC Nightly News.

 BODY:
Every great turn of history's wheel takes us in a new direction, but the destination is not easily discernible because the lessons of history are not fixed and immutable.
 The terrorist attacks on Sept. 11 seem to have been every bit as jarring to most Americans as the Japanese attacks on Pearl Harbor were for another generation. But Pearl Harbor led us into a great war and out of a great depression. This new war on terrorism will be fought less conventionally, and it could lead us into a deep recession. 
 Nonetheless, the two events are bound by a common reaction of, first, shock, then patriotism, national unity and a determination to fight back. But as we learned so painfully in Vietnam and the Russians learned in Afghanistan, military superpowers can be brought to their knees by enemies who have geography and zeal on their side, whatever their number. The lessons of David and Goliath are as fresh today as they were in biblical times.
On the home front, the success of the United States in World War II was due in large part to the common commitment of civilians as well as of those who were in the armed services. Factory workers stopped producing cars and started producing war planes and tanks; women went without stockings; children went without toys; families learned to ration sugar and meat.
In this new fight, the American economy will take a hit, but it is coming down from a very high high. We've been living on a rich diet, and though that may now change, many of the sacrifices are more likely to be inconveniences.
An equally important measurement will be the effect on our political and popular culture. Will gratuitous violence in movies and the cheap and titillating confrontation of talk shows give way to a longing for more serious themes? Will the surge of bipartisan spirit endure, washing away the pettiness that devalues public life and alienates voters?
When John F. Kennedy was assassinated, I was a young reporter working in Omaha. I was a true child of the 50's, innocent and conventional in my ambitions. I remember thinking then: "This doesn't happen here. This will change us." But I could not have anticipated the cataclysmic change that followed, from Vietnam, through social upheaval, to Watergate. Almost 40 years later I feel as uncertain as I did then, knowing only that change is coming again in forms we cannot foresee. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); TERRORISM (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); AIRLINES (78%); HIJACKING (77%); WAR ON TERROR (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); FAMILY (70%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (66%); FACTORY WORKERS (51%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (50%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (53%) BROKAW, TOM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); VIET NAM (87%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001 



857 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: With War in the Air, Home's but a Dream; 
Mexican Migrants, Fearing Impenetrable Border, Are Staying Put

BYLINE:  By CHARLIE LeDUFF

DATELINE: HOLBROOK, N.Y., Sept. 27 

 BODY:
The Mexicans here are holding their fingers into the winds of war. If they are gauging it correctly, this year's Christmas is shaping up to be a lonely and indigent one.
 Normally, the migrant men who work illegally on Long Island's East End would be making travel plans. The summer construction and landscaping jobs are drying up, and the holidays are approaching. This is the time they begin drifting back to Mexico with money orders in their wallets and chocolates for their women. 
 But the ambushes on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon on Sept. 11 have changed all that. Word from the southern frontier is that there is now an almost impenetrable wall of federal agents on both sides of the border guarding against terrorists determined to sneak into the United States. 
In this atmosphere of high anxiety, illegal workers say they believe that if they go home now, they have little chance of returning later.
To make matters worse, the Mexicans say, if the attacks have socked the American economy, then they have pummeled the already anemic Mexican job market.
"It's like living in purgatory," said Lorenzo Castillo, 53, a former tenant farmer from central Mexico who walked the desert for two days last spring to make his way to Farmingville, a small Long Island town about an hour and a half's drive east of Manhattan where illegal immigration has sparked crackling tensions. Farmingville is still a place where a man can make $10 an hour raking another man's leaves.
"I want to go home," Mr. Castillo said. "But I can't go home. I haven't made enough money. And if I go, will they arrest me? Or if I come back, will they arrest me then? I can't take the chance. I'm staying here for the winter."
In fact, only 3 of the 15 men who sleep and eat in a small, well-kept house here said they would risk the return home. Eduardo Cervantes arrived in April after being robbed in the desert. The work has run out and he has saved enough money, he said. Besides, he has not met a Mexican woman since he moved to the suburbs. Javier Santillan wants to see his wife. Mario Huerta is a new father who has yet to lay eyes upon his child. 
They will take the chance, they said. The others will wait.
This appears to be the trend nationwide, said an official with the United States Border Patrol, who offered his expertise on the condition that he not be named. 
"We're counting less footprints on the dirt roads around the border and we're apprehending fewer people," the official said. "My gut feeling is no one is moving anywhere. The Mexican economy is in the dumps and there is a feeling of insecurity among those men."
Mexico's president, Vicente Fox, came to the United States less than a month ago, lobbying Congress and the American people for the legalization of some of the 3.5 million Mexicans working here unlawfully. 
But with the terrorist attacks, the Mexican workers who had hoped for an immigration amnesty just three weeks ago now say they believe that the discussion is dead.
"The border is going to be tougher than I've ever seen it," said Lalo Cervantes, 38, who has drifted around the United States for 18 years making his living. "But closing it down is the correct thing to do at a time like this. The Mexicans here are just going to have to do what they have to do." 
Miguel Escobar, the Mexican consul in Douglas, Ariz., said the lines at the legitimate crossing points into the United States are long and the checks are exhaustive as a consequence of the attacks. 
Moreover, Mr. Escobar said, the Mexican government has added agents along the border in an effort to close the porous points where illegal immigrants routinely cross. Agents now rummage through the guest houses where people wait to be walked across the border by guides for a $1,000 fee.
"We have more people at the federal, state and local levels working the border, and it is paying off," Mr. Escobar said. "For example, 13 men from Yemen were apprehended last Saturday in Agua Prieta, just across from Douglas." 
None of the men in the Long Island house has any desire to spend the holidays in an immigration detention cell. 
But, while there was work at the beginning of the construction season for anyone who wanted to stand on the street corners and battle for it, on any given day now, a quarter of these migrant workers stand idle. 
"Things just aren't as abundant as they were," Lalo Cervantes said. "But this won't discourage the men. We have too many ties to this country now."
In the aftermath of the attacks, some of these men drove to Manhattan to help in rescue efforts. They carried buckets on their backs and distributed food in the shelters. And in the front of the Mexicans' house here is a sign torn apart by the wind. It reads: "America We Are With You."

CORRECTION-DATE: September 29, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article in The Metro Section yesterday about Mexican migrant workers described their lonely and indigent lives on the East End of Long Island and their fear that antiterrorism measures would result in border shutdowns and strand them in this country. The article was illustrated with a photograph of a man in a house shared by 15 Mexicans. He wore a sombrero emblazoned with a Spanish vulgarism. The choice of picture evoked an ethnic stereotype, and the publication of the vulgarism violated The Times's standards. The picture should not have appeared.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Armando Perez at a house on Long Island shared by 15 migrant Mexicans, some of whom helped in rescue efforts. A sign outside reads: "America We Are With You." (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. D1); Of 15 Mexican immigrants sharing a house on Long Island, just 3 said they would try going home this winter. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (88%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); IMMIGRATION (77%); MIGRANT WORKERS (77%); BORDER CONTROL (77%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); TERRORISM (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001 



858 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Number of Uninsured Drops for 2nd Year 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 27 

 BODY:
The number of Americans without health insurance declined last year for the second year in a row, after rising steadily for more than a decade, the Census Bureau said today.
 The bureau found a significant increase in the number of people with coverage provided by employers, and it reported a substantial increase in the number of children with insurance. 
 Over all, the number of people without health insurance declined by 551,000, to 38.7 million last year, from 39.3 million in 1999, the bureau said. The proportion of people without coverage declined to 14 percent, from 14.3 percent. 
Several economists and health policy experts said the declines were unlikely to continue this year. Tens of thousands of people have been laid off, the economy has weakened, and the cost of health care and health insurance has shot up.
Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, said: "With the economic downturn, we need to be worried that more Americans will become uninsured. We know that when people lose their jobs, they are likely to lose their health insurance as well."
The number of people with employer-sponsored coverage rose more than 3 million last year, to 177 million, as employers competed for workers in a tight labor market by offering health benefits to employees and their dependents. The number of uninsured children dropped 693,000, to 8.5 million.
"The main driving force for children, as for adults, was the increase in employer-sponsored insurance coverage," said Charles T. Nelson, a statistician at the Census Bureau.
Congress has been considering proposals to expand coverage and even earmarked money for the purpose earlier this year. Democrats tend to favor expanding Medicaid and other public programs. Republicans and some Democrats support new tax breaks to encourage the purchase of private insurance. But Congress has set such proposals aside at least temporarily while it responds to the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, and the budget surplus has declined.
From 1998 to 1999, the number of the uninsured fell by 1.7 million.
Genevieve M. Kenney, an economist at the Urban Institute here, said: "The decline in the number of uninsured last year was encouraging, but the pace of change was slower than in 1999. It worries me that one in five poor children is still uninsured."
The number of poor people without health insurance declined by 825,000 last year, to 9.2 million, from 10 million in 1999. Still, 29.5 percent of the poor had no health insurance of any kind last year, the bureau said. The number of poor children without insurance declined by 248,000, to 2.5 million, from 2.75 million in 1999.
The bureau said that the number of people in government health insurance programs rose slightly, by 355,000, to 66.9 million last year.
John F. Holahan, director of health policy research at the Urban Institute, said it appeared that the number of children on Medicaid had declined, while the number in the Children's Health Insurance Program, which serves families with slightly higher incomes, had increased.
Kate Sullivan, director of health care policy at the United States Chamber of Commerce, said the increase in employer-sponsored coverage reflected the fact that employers, especially small businesses, had been trying to lure workers by offering health benefits.
"But," Ms. Sullivan said, "we now have very different economic conditions. Employers are experiencing the highest premium increases in a decade."
Thus, Ms. Sullivan said: "I expect to see an increase in the number of uninsured in 2001 because people have been losing their jobs. An unemployed worker cannot easily afford coverage. The average cost for a family health plan is just over $7,000 a year."
With revenues growing less than projected, many states are experiencing budget pressures, and some have considered trimming Medicaid. Matt D. Salo, director of health legislation at the National Governors' Association, said: "Medicaid accounts for 20 percent of state budgets and is growing at double-digit rates. That's unsustainable."
The proportion of Hispanic people without insurance, 32 percent, remains higher than that of other groups. About 18.5 percent of blacks and 9.7 percent of non-Hispanic whites were uninsured last year. Coverage increased for those two groups, but not for Hispanics.
Leighton C. Ku, a health policy expert at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, said: "A large proportion of Latinos are noncitizen immigrants. Because of that, they are less likely to have Medicaid and job-based health insurance."
To compare states, the Census Bureau suggested using three-year averages of data from 1998 to 2000. By this measure, the proportion of people without health insurance ranged from a high of 22.6 percent in New Mexico and 22.2 percent in Texas to a low of 6.9 percent Rhode Island and 8.2 percent in Minnesota and Iowa.
The proportion of people without coverage was slightly above the national average in New York, (15.3 percent), but was below the national average in Connecticut (9.5 percent) and New Jersey (12.9 percent). 
The Census Bureau said it had made technical changes that tended to reduce the number of people listed as uninsured, so the figures for 1999 and 2000 are not directly comparable with those for earlier years. In conducting interviews, the bureau said, it now asks follow-up questions to help people recall whether they have insurance.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "STATUS REPORT -- An Increase In Health Coverage"The proportion of Americans without health insurance fell last year, though some say the trend may not continue. TOTAL1999: 14.3%2000: 14.0 CHILDREN UNDER 181999: 12.62000: 11.6 RACE AND ETHNICITY WHITES1999: 13.12000: 12.9 NON-HISPANIC WHITES1999: 9.92000: 9.7 BLACKS1999: 19.62000: 18.5 ASIANS1999: 19.02000: 18.0 HISPANICS1999: 32.22000: 32.0(Source: Current Population Survey, Census Bureau) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (94%); CENSUS (90%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); MEDICAID (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (69%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; MINORITIES (US) 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (93%) CENSUS BUREAU 

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (54%) PEAR, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001 



859 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 146 words

HEADLINE: Moratorium by Nasdaq on Listing Rules 

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The Nasdaq stock market has temporarily suspended certain trading requirements to help companies remain listed and to ease the economic turmoil in the wake of the attacks on Sept. 11. 
 Nasdaq, which lists more than 4,300 companies, said yesterday that the moratorium would be in effect until Jan. 2. 
 The move exempts companies from meeting minimum stock price and public float requirements -- the number of shares available for public trading. 
"It gives those companies that were on the cusp of delisting a chance to weather the uncertain times a little more," a Nasdaq spokesman, Michael DeMeo, said. 
Nasdaq, part of the National Association of Securities Dealers, would not disclose the number of companies that face delisting. 
A company's shares must trade above a minimum price, usually $1, to stay listed on the Nasdaq market. The minimum value of a public float varies. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DELISTINGS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); DEREGULATION (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (88%); HIJACKING (88%); STOCK OFFERINGS (88%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (88%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (85%); BONDS (73%); TERRORISM (72%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (52%) STOCKS AND BONDS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

COMPANY: NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (57%) NASDAQ STOCK MARKET 

TICKER: NDAQ (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001 



860 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: JAKARTA; 
U.S. Lets Employees Leave As Indonesia Protests Mount

BYLINE:  By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Sept. 27 

 BODY:
With hundreds of protesters burning American flags outside its gates and with fringe groups threatening to kill Americans, the United States Embassy told most of its staff today that they could leave the country if they chose.
 While the government has expressed guarded support for the United States in its new battle against terrorism, militant Islamic groups have been staging demonstrations in several cities and vowing to take revenge if the United States attacks any Muslim nation. 
 These groups represent a small minority in this mostly Muslim country of 210 million, where the practice of Islam is largely tolerant and moderate. But they have made their presence felt in recent years with bombings, vandalism and threats. 
Last week, President Megawati Sukarnoputri affirmed in a meeting with President Bush in Washington that Indonesia joins America in opposing terrorist attacks, though she stopped short of pledging support for retaliation. "We share this moment of grief with you," she said.
At home, small demonstrations had already begun, almost daily, outside the fortified American Embassy, set far back from the street behind a high iron fence near government buildings in central Jakarta.
Such demonstrations are not uncommon -- protests erupted, for instance, over international aid to East Timor when it broke from Indonesia in 1999. There was a similiar but smaller wave of protests and threats in 1991 when the United States led an international force in attacking Iraq.
With emotions running high here, some leading religious and political figures have joined the vilification of the United States. Vice President Hamzah Haz suggested last week that the terror attacks could help America "cleanse its sins." The former president, Abdurrahman Wahid, said America itself is a "terrorist nation."
With the verbal attacks swirling, Ambassador Robert S. Gelbard criticized Indonesia's security forces today for not moving against militants who have openly threatened to attack the embassy and kill Americans, including himself. "They have not been prepared to act," he said, "to warn or to arrest people who break the law when there are threats against the lives of Americans."
On Wednesday, the State Department warned Americans to stay away from Indonesia, saying the attacks in the United States had raised security concerns here significantly. In an earlier statement, it said, "Extremist elements may be planning to target United States interests in Indonesia."
Mr. Gelbard said last week that Osama bin Laden, who is Washington's prime suspect in this month's attacks, could also be tied to threats that caused the closure of the embassy here for several days last fall.
The embassy statement today said, "The Department of State has authorized the voluntary departure of all United States government personnel in non-emergency positions and family members in Indonesia."
Many Americans who live here have been rattled by the threats and some diplomats and their dependents were already preparing today to leave. Extra police have been posted outside the embassy, which can only be entered, like a space capsule, through a series of secure locked chambers.
The rally at the embassy today was the biggest so far, with raised fists and chants of "Go to hell, America" and "The United States government supports terrorism." There were cheers when an effigy of President Bush was set on fire.
This is a time of broad discontent in Indonesia, which has suffered over the past four years from political chaos and economic collapse. Angry demonstrations and violent outbursts have become a common response to problems of all sorts.
The rallies outside the embassy provide a forum for expressing broader grievances against America, said Al Chaidar, an expert on Islamic groups at the University of Indonesia.
Indonesia's prickly form of nationalism sharpens its resentment of America's wealth and power and of the influence it wields here through multinational organizations like the International Monetary Fund.
In addition, America's perceived solidarity with Israel has continued to arouse anger here as in many other predominantly Muslim nations.
"We call on the Indonesian government to sever all ties -- diplomatic and economic -- with America and its allies," said Muhammad Ismail Yusanto, an organizer of today's rally at the embassy. "To close their embassies, expel their diplomats and take over their companies and assets."
It seemed an unrealistic plan for the world's fourth most populous nation, but the threats of violence that surround it gave the words a sharper edge.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Indonesia protesters chanted anti-American slogans outside the United States Embassy in Jakarta yesterday. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); RELIGION (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); TERRORISM (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); AL-QAEDA (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); HIJACKING (76%); BOMBINGS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); VANDALISM (70%); RIOTS (69%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE; ISLAM; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (56%) MYDANS, SETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); INDONESIA (94%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); IRAQ (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); INDONESIA

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001 



861 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: For Nicaragua's Atlantic Indians, Autonomy Means Neglect 

BYLINE:  By DAVID GONZALEZ 

DATELINE: ALAMIKAMBA, Nicaragua 

 BODY:
For generations, the Miskito Indians nestled in the remote jungles along the Atlantic Coast have been cut off from the rest of the country by distance, culture and even the weather.
 Other parts of Nicaragua have been parched from drought in 2001, but unrelenting rains swelled the Prinzapolka River here, turning it into a murky mess. Latrines flooded, and agricultural chemicals washed down its banks. When the rains subsided, the rice and corn fields became a feast for insects. 
 As difficult as the weather has been, so too have been the lives of those living in one of the most isolated -- and forgotten -- parts of Central America. Some villages are reachable just by canoe on a four-day journey. Public assistance is barely present, even though the region covers almost half of the country. Limited self-rule was granted in 1987 as part of a truce with rebels who had taken up arms against the Sandinista government.
Autonomy was supposed to give residents a say not only in how they were governed, but also control over abundant natural resources. Instead, it has resulted in neglect, with most people barely surviving on farming and fishing. Aid groups are increasingly worried about the licenses that the national government has recently issued to logging companies. 
Underscoring the neglect, the Inter-American Court of Human Rights has ruled that the Nicaraguan government had repeatedly violated the human rights of the Mayagana Indian community, according to its lawyers.
The court, part of the Organization of American States, is widely expected to announce its ruling publicly on Friday, Sept. 28, in Washington. But the lawyers say that in a near-unanimous decision, the court faulted Nicaraguan officials for ignoring the traditions and property rights of the Mayaganas when it granted the logging concessions. Nicaragua's protection of the Atlantic Coast residents has been "illusory," a summary of the decision said.
With little official attention charitable groups and relief agencies are the sole sources of assistance. The floods have left thousands of villagers dependent on donated food, and even that will run out in October, when heavier rains may arrive. 
"Then the matter becomes complicated," said Charles Grigsby, project director for Oxfam in Nicaragua. "We need to build wells and latrines. People want to plant their fields. But all you can do now is clear them." 
Rains and floods are not new to the villagers, whose houses line the river. Many said they knew that they should live further inland but did not have the resources to relocate and rebuild. 
On a recent visit, a few trees poked out from the river at Dos Amigos, a village an hour and a half from Alamikamba by motorboat. A thick puttylike mud was everywhere, from the riverbank to under the stilt houses and beyond, to the marshlands. A few chickens and hairy gray piglets scampered about, while a calf was tied to a post under one house. 
"A lot of animals died when the river swelled up," a farmer, Fidel Gomez, said. "The clothes that people had hanging outside their houses were lost when the current took them away. People were left very poor in this zone." 
Before the donated food arrived, many residents got by with bananas. Some ate a datelike fruit called ujon that is usually fed to pigs and that the residents said made the children ill and left mothers unable to nurse their infants. 
Mateo Rosales's wife, Eusebia, is too weak to nurse their 18-month-old in the one-room shack that they share with eight other people. Although they have been able to supplement their meager banana diet with corn and soy meal, they are not so sure about the fields that used to provide them rice, corn and other roots and grains. 
"I want to plant again, but I can't with these floods now," Mr. Rosales said as a steady rain sent knee-high streams of water creeping toward the houses. "We planted what seeds we had and lost them with the first floods. And without a harvest, we cannot get new seeds."
Without rice, people have had to depend on donated corn. But even that has been a mixed blessing, because the youngest children are not used to eating it and have become sick with diarrhea, residents said. 
Orlando Jacobo, who is in charge of providing health information for the village, said children suffered allergies, respiratory infections, rashes and colds. "We do not even have a pill to give them," Mr. Jacobo said. "I am the health leader for this zone, but we do not have medicine. I am only the health leader in name."
Carla Hernandez, a community health specialist with Christian Medical Action, a relief group in the region, said a three-month supply of medicine from donors had yet to arrive. Worried about mosquitoes, which thrive in stagnant water, she had already given out antimalaria drugs.
She said her group, as well as a team from the Health Ministry had not been able to assess the extent of the problems from the floods. "The city governments are just being formed now," Ms. Hernandez said. "The government does not exist here. There is only one clinic in Alamikamba with one nurse."
The Dos Amigos school had been turned into a warehouse, as residents gathered for emergency food. The village leader, Felipe Rivera, thanked the United Nations representatives who had arranged the shipment. That was about as close as he would get to an official body. 
"The government gives us nothing," Mr. Rivera said, as he pondered the difference between autonomy and abandonment. "The government is my papa, but he does not come to visit."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Corn from U.N. and U.S. aid programs arriving in Alamikamba, Nicaragua. Floods have left thousands dependent on donated food. (Alex Quesada/Matrix) Map of Nicaragua highlighting Alamikamba: The jungles near Alamikamba are isolated by distance and culture.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (86%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); RIVERS (77%); DROUGHT (77%); AGRICULTURE (76%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (76%); TRENDS (76%); MARINE VESSELS (74%); NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); FOOD CHARITIES (71%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (71%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (70%); CHARITIES (68%); LAWYERS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); RELOCATIONS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) MISKITO INDIANS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INDIANS, AMERICAN 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (54%)

PERSON: GONZALEZ, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (90%) NICARAGUA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%) NICARAGUA

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001 



862 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: Layoffs Push Jobless Claims to 9-Year High 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 27 

 BODY:
The number of workers seeking unemployment benefits surged to the highest level in nine years as people dismissed after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks began to file claims for state aid.
 Job losses "will probably get worse before they get better," said Nicholas Perna, a private economist at Perna Associates in Ridgefield, Conn. That is likely to push unemployment above its current 4.9 percent rate, analysts said. 
 First-time jobless claims rose by 58,000, to 450,000, in the week ended Saturday, the Labor Department said. That was the largest gain and the highest level since the week ended July 25, 1992, when a company-wide shutdown of General Motors plants led to an increase of 69,000 claims filed.
A more complete joblessness picture will emerge in comin weeks as the government receives updated state reports, a Labor Department spokeswoman said. For instance, New Yorkers have filed about 75,000 claims since the attacks, and only 11,000 have showed in the national statistics so far, the department said.
Companies have announced plans to eliminate more than 100,000 jobs since Sept. 11. The attacks also caused manufacturers to shut down plants because increased security measures delayed shipments of needed parts, and that will mean a decrease in factory orders in coming months. In August, orders for durable goods fell 0.3 percent, led by weaker demand for aircraft, computers and automobiles, the Commerce Department said. The drop followed a revised 1.1 percent decrease in July that was larger than previously reported.
The attacks most likely pushed the economy into its first recession in a decade, analysts said. The economy probably shrank 0.5 percent on an annual basis in the third quarter and will contract 1 percent in the fourth, economists said. They now see a recovery starting in the first quarter of 2002, with growth reaching a 3 percent rate by the third quarter of that year.
The Commerce Department, in a separate report, said new-home sales rose in August to a level that still suggested the housing market was weakening before the attacks.
Sales increased 0.6 percent, to an annual rate of 898,000 houses, from a July pace of 893,000 that was weaker than first reported, the government said. Analysts had projected sales at a 925,000-unit pace.
On jobless claims, analysts had forecast that they would rise by 48,000 from the 387,000 initially reported for the week before last.
"Layoffs are mushrooming and spreading," said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo & Company in Minneapolis. "This will probably kick the jobless rate to above 5 percent shortly, and clearly the risks of a recession have increased."
The four-week moving average of new jobless claims, a less volatile measure of unemployment, rose to 422,000 last week from 410,250 the week before. So far this year, initial claims have averaged 388,000, up from last year's weekly average of 303,000 as the slowing economy pushed up the unemployment rate to 4.9 percent in August.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Prices of New Homes"Median price for new homes in thousands of dollars. Graph shows prices from March 2000-August 2001. Aug.: -2.7%July: -1.1June: -0.6 (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); DISMISSALS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RECESSION (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); HIJACKING (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (77%); STATISTICS (76%); SALES PROJECTIONS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (74%); AIRCRAFT MFG (71%); AIRLINES (70%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (66%) LABOR; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); SALES; HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (61%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%) ;LABOR DEPARTMENT; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (61%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (61%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (61%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001 



863 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: AT&T Looks To Baby Bells For a Buyer 

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO 

 BODY:
AT&T, the stumbling communications company once known as the mighty Ma Bell, is seeking to sell its telephone operations to one of its Baby Bell offspring. 
 AT&T has approached at least three of the nation's largest local telephone companies -- Verizon Communications, SBC Communications and BellSouth -- about buying its consumer and business telephone operations, people close to the companies said. 
 The three local phone companies were once part of AT&T, before the government-enforced breakup of the Bell System in 1984. In terms of annual revenue, SBC and Verizon are now both bigger than AT&T's telephone business, which topped $45 billion last year but is expected to decline this year.
Consumers might feel little impact from an AT&T deal, because it would not include AT&T's cable television business, the nation's largest, which AT&T plans to spin off or sell. And residential long-distance service is a business that all the Bell companies are planning to offer anyway -- but only as they win regulators' approval state by state. Acquiring AT&T would do nothing to speed that regulatory timetable. 
Each of the Bells is interested in AT&T primarily for its business customers and its national and international network, the world's largest communications system. Analysts say AT&T's telephone business could fetch $30 billion or more.
For AT&T, the effort to sell its telephone operations, which include the largest consumer long-distance company, is yet another sign of the way a groping business strategy and a protracted long-distance price war have left the company a battered shell of its former self. 
In the last two financial quarters, AT&T has lost nearly $2 billion, largely a result of a sharp decrease in revenue from long-distance operations and the decline in value of Internet-related investments. The company is also saddled with almost $40 billion of debt. 
"AT&T is a rapidly depreciating asset," said Scott Cleland, a financial analyst who is chief executive of Precursor Research in Washington. "AT&T is throwing out lifelines wherever they can."
After spending some $100 billion buying cable television systems in the late 1990's in a strategy of combining cable, telephone service and Internet access into a single household service, the company chairman, C. Michael Armstrong, reversed course a year ago. In October, he announced a plan to break AT&T into three companies: a wireless carrier, a cable television company and a telephone company. 
The wireless spinoff has been completed. But the cable proposal was interrupted in July by an unsolicited $44.5 billion takeover offer for the cable business that came from Comcast. The companies have not negotiated since then, but they are close to signing a confidentiality agreement that would allow them to talk, people close to the matter said. But AT&T is also having discussions with other suitors.
Now comes word that instead of making its telephone business a stand-alone operation, AT&T is looking for a rescue by one of the Bell companies. 
Officials from AT&T and the Bell companies it has contacted declined to comment on the talks yesterday. People close to the talks said it would want to label any possible deal a "merger of equals," not only out of pride but for tax advantages. 
But analysts said it was clear that AT&T was seeking to sell its business and consumer assets to the highest bidder. People close to the company said that AT&T had also held discussions with at least one big overseas communications company, although they declined to identify the company. 
AT&T's discussions with BellSouth were reported yesterday on the Web site of Business Week magazine.
A deal between AT&T and a Bell company would raise regulatory issues, although perhaps not the hard opposition AT&T encountered in 1997 when it discussed a merger with one of the same companies, SBC. 
At the time, Reed E. Hundt, the Clinton administration's chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, said such a combination was "unthinkable." It was the derailing of that deal that eventually resulted in AT&T's cable television strategy. 
William E. Kennard, the Democrat who succeeded Mr. Hundt at the F.C.C., said yesterday, "If this is a step to putting the Bell System back together again, it would reverse more than 20 years of promoting competition."
But the current F.C.C., under the chairmanship of Michael K. Powell, a Bush appointee, is seen as much less likely to resist big communications mergers. Mr. Powell declined to comment yesterday. 
For a deal to pass regulatory muster, any Bell company would probably be forced to sell AT&T long-distance properties in states where it had not yet received federal approval to provide long-distance service. 
Verizon, based in New York, has local telephone operations in 31 states and is allowed to offer long-distance in Connecticut, Massachusetts, New York and Pennsylvania. 
SBC, based in San Antonio, has local operations in 13 states and has won long-distance approval in Texas. 
BellSouth, which is based in Atlanta and operates local phone companies in nine Southeastern states, has not been allowed to enter the long-distance business.
Another concern facing regulators is competition on the local level, where companies other than the Bells have no more than 10 percent of the market, according to the F.C.C. In fact, AT&T is one of the largest competitors with the Bells in this area, making co-ownership of local properties an important issue in any possible deal.
Regulators would be likely to require the resulting entity to sell AT&T's local telephone properties in the region in which it operates. But the companies formed by a merger could put this issue to their advantage by suggesting they would strengthen AT&T's local phone properties in the regions dominated by other Bells, thus increasing competition.
"It's a matter of structuring the deal to allow it to pass muster," said Bob Atkinson, a former F.C.C. official who is now director of policy research at the Columbia Institute for Tele-Information. 
Since the federally approved breakup of AT&T that spun off the original seven Baby Bell companies as local telephone providers, the Bells have emerged as the largest and best-financed communications concerns, consolidating into the four current companies. 
The fourth is Qwest Communications, based in Denver. Executives who described the AT&T discussions yesterday said they did not know if the company had talked to Qwest. 
In the last year, the telecommunications industry has been thrown into turmoil, as the dot-com collapse sent tremors through the economy. Companies that had expected the Internet boom to result in rapidly expanding demand for communications capacity were among the hardest hit when the weakening economy squelched that demand. 
The decline in value of large concerns that compete with AT&T, like WorldCom, which owns the long-distance company MCI, and Sprint, another large long-distance company, have led to speculation that they, too, might become takeover targets. 
Yet it is AT&T's decline that has perhaps attracted the most attention. The likely main attractions of AT&T's assets -- excluding its cable television properties -- are the data and voice communications services AT&T provides to large businesses. Business communications services is a $165 billion market, in which AT&T is the largest player, with a $35 billion share. 
An example of these services are the circuits and high-speed data transmission lines that AT&T leases to large companies that need to transmit information efficiently throughout the United States and sometimes around the world.
But the value of nearly all telecommunications properties has mostly declined in recent months, as the industry seeks to cope with the bankruptcies of numerous start-up companies that created a glut of network capacity.
The uncertainties make the value of a deal involving AT&T and a Bell company difficult to estimate. Analysts' estimates of the value of AT&T's long-distance and local telephone operations range from $20 billion to $50 billion, although most seem to fall at $30 billion to $35 billion.
"At these prices it comes down to who has the least hassle in getting a deal done," said Kevin Calabrese, an analyst at Argus Research.

GRAPHIC: Photo: C. Michael Armstrong, chairman of AT&T, at a meeting last fall in New York, where he discussed plans to break AT&T into three companies. (Reuters)(pg. C11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (92%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (89%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (88%); CABLE TELEVISION (88%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); RESIDENTIAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); TELEPHONE RATES (74%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (71%); APPROVALS (69%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (66%); DEPRECIATION (62%); INTERNET & WWW (61%); EXECUTIVES (50%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; TELEVISION 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (95%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (58%)

ORGANIZATION: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS; SBC COMMUNICATIONS; BELLSOUTH CORP; AT&T CORP 

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); VZC (LSE) (91%); VZ (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (58%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (58%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001 



864 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: Financial Magic Looked Good, but Left Companies Weak 

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
SUDDENLY, balance sheets matter.
 For the last decade, as the American economy prospered, corporate America focused almost exclusively on earnings. Even as profits soared, however, many companies were borrowing more and more. 
 Why the debt? You might think that companies would have sought to take advantage of high stock valuations by selling shares and building up cash reserves. But few did. As a whole, corporate America bought more stock than it sold during the final years of the economic boom. 
Buying back stock seemed like such a good idea. Companies could issue millions of options to their executives, and then buy back stock to avoid diluting earnings. Many borrowed money at relatively low interest rates and bought back more shares than they issued. That tactic raised earnings per share and persuaded investors that companies were growing when their revenues and overall profits were not. Wall Street loved it.
"One of the hazards of the boom in equities is that it made companies feel they were worth more than might have been supported by fundamentals," said John Lonski, the chief economist of Moody's. "So they felt more confident about borrowing." 
And borrow they did. By the second quarter of this year, corporate America had debts amounting to a record 28 percent of assets, noted Paul Kasriel, the chief economist of Northern Trust.
Some called such numbers irrelevant. Interest rates were low, so debt-payment burdens did not seem excessive. Debt levels were compared with the high market value of companies' shares, and called reasonable. Earnings looked good, especially after companies massaged them to create pro-forma reports that left out some expenses. Investors who doubted those numbers looked instead to operating cash flow. Neither the earnings nor the cash flow table reflected the cost of share buybacks, and neither showed what would happen if sales, and share values, fell sharply.
Even now, earnings statements will present the best possible picture. The accounting rule makers have rushed out generous guidelines about how to treat losses after the terrorist attack. The rules are so flexible that some losses that would have been realized in any case will now be classified as extraordinary. Some companies will be able to report pro-forma profits that are better than they would have been without the attack. Analysts will say companies exceeded expectations, and thus presumably did well, even as they report large (extraordinary) losses. 
It remains to be seen whether those numbers will reassure share buyers. But creditors will watch the balance sheet, where all losses, whether or not they are called extraordinary, look the same. Some companies may report good pro-forma earnings even as they file for bankruptcy.
Much of the commentary on the stock market since the attack has focused on which industries will be hurt the most by the recession and falling consumer confidence. But attention is gradually turning to the question of which companies have the strongest balance sheets, and thus will be best able to survive. This week's stock market recovery has been concentrated in higher quality companies.
As investors flee the junk-bond market, borrowing costs are up sharply for low-rated companies that can still borrow money. Many cannot.
Companies that go broke will blame the recession for their woes. But their complacent financial strategies during the boom will bear part of the responsibility.

GRAPHIC: Graph shows corporate debt as a percentage of assets from the 1970's-90's, plotted quarterly. (Source: Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (89%); CASH FLOW (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (78%); BONDS (77%); CREDIT BUREAUS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (74%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ACCOUNTING (73%); TERRORISM (61%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (61%) STOCKS AND BONDS; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT 

COMPANY: NORTHERN TRUST CORP (54%)

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001 



865 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: OPEC, Deep in Uncertainty, Leaves Oil Output Steady 

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE 

DATELINE: VIENNA, Sept. 27 

 BODY:
Facing great uncertainty about the full economic impact of the attacks on the United States, and any retaliation that may come, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries decided today to hold to its current production level of 23.2 million barrels a day.
 Despite a drop in oil prices this week, OPEC's decision to stay put was widely expected. If it had cut production to prop up prices, which it has already done three times this year as global demand slackened, it would have risked appearing insensitive to the spreading economic pain from the attacks two weeks ago. 
 Yet OPEC, which produces about 40 percent of the world's oil, appeared to leave open the option of cutting back production before its next meeting in November if prices continue to tumble. The group's president, Chakib Khelil of Algeria, said OPEC remained convinced that commodity oil prices "around $25 a barrel" were sustainable. In trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange today, the price of crude oil rose 36 cents, to $22.74 a barrel. Oil prices have fallen more than 18 percent since Sept. 10. 
Analysts note that OPEC has a means to decrease production by 500,000 barrels a day without a formal meeting if prices fall below a certain range. But it may not be as quick to reduce output as in the past.
"OPEC is not operating on its own timetable," said Raad Alkadiri, an OPEC specialist with the Petroleum Finance Company, a Washington consulting firm. "The clock they are looking at is Washington's -- and when Washington will go ahead with retaliation, what it will involve and how the world economy reacts to it. The situation isn't just murky for them, it's opaque."
Before Sept. 11, OPEC members had the luxury of gradually coming to terms with a slowing global economy and the decreased demand for oil. But the attacks raise questions that have left OPEC nations shaken.
Crude oil use in the United States alone fell by 930,000 barrels a day, or about 6 percent, after the attacks, as planes stood on tarmacs and the broader economy stalled, according to the Energy Information Administration, the analysis arm of the Energy Department. The question is whether that slide continues, and if so, for how long. 
"The impact of the disaster upon the international oil industry will be profound," Mr. Khelil said in opening remarks today at the OPEC meeting. 
The United States energy secretary, Spencer Abraham, welcomed OPEC's restraint. He said in Washington that the decision indicated the organization's understanding "that we need to have a strong and growing economy worldwide."
OPEC's only option for stabilizing prices now, analysts said, is to stop the informal overproduction that is rampant within the group. When oil prices were climbing most of last year, OPEC nations did not produce beyond their official quotas because nearly all lacked the extra capacity at the wellhead to do so.
But as the quotas were reduced and prices declined, some members stayed at a higher pace of production, especially in the last few months, to cash in on the still relatively high price of $25 or so a barrel. Analysts estimate that OPEC is overproducing by 700,000 to 1.3 million barrels a day.
On Sept. 1, a production decrease of one million barrels a day, ordered earlier in the summer, went into effect. Oil traders will be watching if that reduction is adhered to.
"A lot of the problem has been overproduction," said Thomas P. Bentz, senior energy analyst with BNP Paribas. "If they did adhere to quota levels -- and that's a big if -- it will take a substantial amount of crude off the market."
OPEC has no way of enforcing adherence, and analysts said that some countries, like Algeria and Qatar, have often gone their own way despite warnings. But OPEC has been stunned by the fall in oil prices this week, which might scare members into line. OPEC countries do not disclose actual production figures. But oil traders closely follow, tanker by tanker, how much oil is being shipped, and that information should have a great effect on prices. 
"OPEC lacks credibility right now," Mr. Bentz said, "so the initial reaction from the market is, 'We'll see.' Until there is clear information about production, the price will probably bounce around between $21 and $24 a barrel."
The organization has also turned to major producing nations outside its ranks, asking that they, too, pledge not to increase output. At today's meeting, representatives from eight non-OPEC exporters, including Russia, Mexico and Angola, said they would support the group.
But analysts said they considered the gesture mostly symbolic. Most of those countries lack the spare capacity to increase production, and Russia, which has steadily increased exports over the last year, may do so if it sees the chance, analysts said. 
Perhaps the harshest matter that OPEC has been forced to face, and much earlier than it wanted to, is that $25 for a barrel of oil may not be sustainable indefinitely. Despite Mr. Khelil's statement, some members said they could live with lower prices. 
The Iranian oil minister, Bijan Zanganeh, told the Reuters news agency, "Now I am comfortable with $22 because the OPEC basket price is about $20, and $22 is better than $20 for us." The "basket" to which he referred is the average of seven crude oil benchmark prices that the organization tracks. 
Indeed, early in 1999, when steeply falling oil prices approached $10 a barrel, OPEC would have been delighted at an $18 price, Mr. Alkadiri and other analysts said. "OPEC members aren't facing economic disaster because of these prices, he said. "They have to tighten their belts a bit."
If oil prices fall below $20 a barrel, that could eventually help lift the global economy out of its slump. Even before Sept. 11, high oil prices were thought to have been a major brake on economic growth.
"If oil ends up at $17 a barrel, is that necessarily bad?" said Leonidas P. Drollas, chief economist for the Center for Global Energy Studies, a research firm in London. "It's good for the U.S. consumer, and it is bound to help the economy."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "COMMODITIES" tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since April 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); HIJACKING (78%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); FUTURES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); TERRORISM (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); AIRLINES (65%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (64%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PRODUCTION; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%) ;ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES 

PERSON: ;BANERJEE, NEELA; ABRAHAM, SPENCER (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); ALGERIA (79%); AUSTRIA (73%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001 



866 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-12

During a Yearlong Intifada, Fear Has Gripped Mideast
Among the facts upon which Israelis and Palestinians disagree is what day the intifada began. Palestinians say Sept. 28, 2000, when Ariel Sharon, now the Israeli prime minister, visited a site sacred to Muslims; Israelis tend to say the day before or the day after. But people on both sides describe similar effects of the events since: fear and desperation. A3

Shooting Rampage in Swiss Hall
A 57-year-old gunman stormed into a crowded regional legislature in Zug, killing 14 people and detonating a hand grenade before shooting himself dead. It was the bloodiest episode in the normally tranquil country's recent criminal history and prompted talk of tightening Switzerland's relaxed security. A6

Macedonia Insurgency Ends
Ali Ahmeti, the political leader of the National Liberation Army, said that the ethnic Albanian rebels had formally disbanded and were returning to civilian life. The rebels ended their eight-month insurgency for greater rights hours after NATO agreed with the Macedonian government on the mandate for a new task force to keep the peace effort on track. A7

Britain Considers I.D. Cards
The British government is considering issuing mandatory identity cards to its citizens as part of a package of antiterrorism measures, raising the hackles of civil libertarians. A10

Deadline on Delhi Buses
The Supreme Court is scheduled to decide today whether to banish from the roads thousands of diesel buses that New Delhi's four million citizens ride daily, after ordering two years ago that the buses be replaced by more environmentally friendly buses. But the city never did, and the deadline is Sunday. A4

Tibetan Scholar Held in China
Khenpo Jigme Phuntsok, the renowned founder of a Tibetan study center in the mountains of western China, is being held against his will in a Chinese military hospital, human rights monitors abroad said. A8

World Briefing A12

NATIONAL A16-28

Tighter Border Security Cuts Flow of Illegal Drugs
Customs officials said that increased security along the border with Mexico since the terrorist attacks has helped reduce the flow of illegal drugs, at least temporarily. A16

Curfew in Cincinnati
The mayor imposed a nighttime curfew after protesters set small fires and pelted cars with rocks and bottles overnight in response to a white city police officer's acquittal in the death of an unarmed black man. A16

Donation Fraud Warning
Reports of con artists trying to prey on donors are increasing as millions of Americans try to help victims of the terrorist attacks, watchdog groups said. A18

Spy Sentenced to Life
The highest-ranking American military officer ever convicted of spying, George Trofimoff, a retired Army Reserve colonel, was sentenced to life in prison. A22

Boardinghouse Scholarships
A woman who was so frugal that she slept in the hallway of her boardinghouse so that each room had a tenant has left $3.5 million to her alma mater, Western Kentucky University, for scholarships. A22

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Ethics of Sex Selection
In a letter that has stunned many leading fertility specialists, the acting head of their professional society's ethics committee says it is sometimes acceptable for couples to choose the sex of their children by selecting either male or female embryos and discarding the rest. A16

Rise in Health Insurance
The number of Americans without health insurance declined last year for the second year in a row, after rising steadily for more than a decade, the Census Bureau said. A20

NEW YORK/REGION D1-5

Two Mayoral Candidates Back Extension for Giuliani
Mayor Giuliani told the three mayoral candidates that he would seek a third term if they did not agree to a three-month extension of his term. Michael Bloomberg, the Republican candidate, and Mark Green, one of the two Democratic candidates, said that they would support the extension. Fernando Ferrer, who will face Mr. Green in a Democratic runoff next month, said that he could not support the plan. A1

Manhattan Shifts Gears
While drive time may have been a little more annoying than usual on the first day of the morning ban on vehicles with one person entering Manhattan, commuters and transportation officials said that, by and large, traffic was not the muddle that it could have been. D1

Refugees in Their Own City
As New Yorkers try to return to normalcy, some 8,000 residents still displaced from their apartments near the World Trade Center calamity are increasingly frustrated. The main complaints are the constantly changing rules on access to the "frozen zone," a lack of authoritative information and the absence of a timetable for returning home. D1

WEEKEND E1-30; E31-40

Broadway Brightens
Box office figures rebounded for every Broadway show, dispelling some of the gloom that had fallen over the industry after two terrible weeks. The partial recovery was enough to cause some to suggest that producers may have panicked in the first days after the terrorist attacks, when theaters went dark and several shows folded. E2

SPORTS D7-13

OBITUARIES D6

Stanley S. Herr
A lawyer whose career of crusades for the mentally disabled altered the legal landscape from schools to death rows, he was 56. D6

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Buyer Sought for Part of AT&T
AT&T has approached at least three of the nation's largest local telephone companies -- Verizon Communications, SBC Communications and BellSouth -- about buying its consumer and business telephone operations, people close to the companies said. C1

Billionaire's Garage Sale
Craig O. McCaw built a telecom fortune that reached about $9 billion last year. Today, the value of those holdings has crashed to about $1 billion. Now he is holding a garage sale of sorts. For-sale signs have appeared on three homes, a private island, three jets, a yacht and even a collection of rare California wines. C1

OPEC Maintains Production
The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries decided to hold to its current production level of 23.2 million barrels a day. C2

Investors Seek Safety
Stocks of large companies rose as investors sought relatively safe places to park their money. C11

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A30-31

Editorials: The mayor's dangerous idea; progress on airline security; aid for a terrorized economy.

Column: Thomas L. Friedman.

Crossword E30
Weather D14
TV Listings E29

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); SHOOTINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); SENTENCING (88%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (75%); TERRORISM (75%); ARMIES (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (75%); CURFEW (74%); BORDER CONTROL (74%); LITIGATION (74%); PRISONS (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%); JAIL SENTENCING (74%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); RELIGION (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (68%); RANKINGS (65%); ACQUITTAL (64%); ESPIONAGE (62%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (61%); PEACE PROCESS (54%); POLICE FORCES (52%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (72%); ZUG, SWITZERLAND (55%) ISRAEL (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); CHINA (93%); SWITZERLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); TIBET (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); INDIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ALBANIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001 



867 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1375 words

HEADLINE: Guard Is Up for Stadium Security Officials Across the Country 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG

 BODY:
The football stadium sits across the Hudson River from the smoking debris of the World Trade Center. There will be more people with guns and uniforms there this weekend than at some minimum security prisons. They will look in bags and look over cars and scrutinize the tickets of tens of thousands of fans standing in long, long lines.
 But officials at Giants Stadium, which plays host to a Giants game Sunday afternoon and a Jets game Monday night, want those same fans to keep this bit of advice in mind: sit back, relax and enjoy the game. 
 Across the country, sports fans are trickling back into stadiums after a brief respite prompted by the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11. Those responsible for stadium safety are trying to walk a fine line between ensuring tight security and not ruining the fun. That middle ground will become only harder to tread during a fall season of high-attendance football games and baseball playoffs, and as the United States edges closer to military action in Afghanistan. 
"Our mandate here is what it always is, and that's to provide a safe, clean, effectively run facility for games or events to be staged in," said John Samerjan, a spokesman for the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, which runs Giants Stadium and the other athletic facilities at the Meadowlands in East Rutherford, N.J. "In terms of the atmosphere of the game itself, I think once the first pitch has been thrown or the kickoff has come, it is what it is. It's a baseball game or a football game, and I think fans' enjoyment of that will be the same as it has been at any other time."
But Samerjan acknowledged that "there will be some delays, and we're just trying to appeal to the fans' common sense here."
Many security experts say that sports arenas are logical targets for terrorists. Stadiums are gathering places for tens of thousands of people. And sports events often have a highly symbolic patriotic value.
"At least potentially, stadiums have an attractiveness to the terrorists because of the large gathering of a crowd, and it appears that the terrorists we're dealing with are intent on doing as much harm as they possibly can," said Jeff Schlanger, the chief operating officer of security services at Kroll Associates, a risk assessment company. "That's a potentially attractive target to a terrorist bent on wrecking as much havoc as one can."
John Woodward, a senior policy analyst at the RAND Corporation in Santa Monica, Calif., said that "stadiums and sports arenas in America, especially in light of the attacks, are legitimate terrorist targets," and that "those in charge of security in sports arenas and stadiums probably realize that very well."
Security experts say that, depending on intelligence gathered about the level of threat, new measures can include searching bags, using bomb-sniffing dogs and installing facial recognition technology, which was used at the Super Bowl last year. The Federal Aviation Administration has even declared no-fly zones within a mile of major stadiums and up to an altitude of 3,000 feet.
More security guards will be assigned to Giants Stadium. The Giants' home opener against the New Orleans Saints is expected to draw about 80,000 fans, as is the Jets' game on Monday night against the San Francisco 49ers. The events of Sept. 11, Samerjan said, "dictate that we increase our security presence, and our patrons would want us to do that."
The Meadowlands uses in-house security guards and the New Jersey State Police to staff events, although Samerjan declined to disclose their exact numbers.
When the attacks took place, he said, the company pulled out guidelines it had used during previous times of heightened security, instances that included the Persian Gulf war, a 1995 visit by Pope John Paul II and the 1994 World Cup. In addition to a ban on backpacks, coolers and large bags, stadium workers are required to wear identification badges at all times. Drivers are forbidden to park beneath ramps at the complex, which includes a racetrack and Continental Arena, home of the Devils and Nets.
Samerjan said tailgating would not be curbed because it "takes place at a considerable distance from the building itself." But stadium officials around the country are reviewing their policies on such practices. Bobby Goldwater, who oversees the 55,000-seat R.F.K. Stadium in Washington, said "that's something we're studying."
"There's a balance that has to be struck here, and I think every sports and entertainment venue will be searching for the right balance," he said. "I think there will be a challenge, and certainly a goal."
In Pasadena, Calif., a police officer said security officials overseeing the Rose Bowl, which plays host to college football games during the season and will play host to the national title game on Jan. 3, were reviewing their usual plans.
"As our situation nationally emerges, I would expect that planning and reviewing process to continue," the officer, Commander Mary Schander of the Pasadena Police Department, said.
But officials are keeping in mind that "the majority of people who want to go to an event want to go into the stadium and have a good time as expeditiously as possible," she said.
Along with Giants Stadium, the Rose Bowl played host to many of the games during the 1994 World Cup, and the heightened security measures for that event provided a useful template, Schander said. The measures included establishing inner and outer perimeters for the 90,000-seat stadium, searching all incoming packages and installing a surveillance camera system.
In 1942, a month after the bombing of Pearl Harbor, the Rose Bowl game was held in Durham, N.C., as a precaution.
At the Staples Center in Los Angeles, security guards are waving handheld metal detectors, known as wands, over the bodies of fans coming to the 20,000-seat arena, Michael Roth, an arena spokesman, said. Although many stadium officials said they had no immediate plans to use metal detectors, guards at the Staples Center used wands for Madonna concerts in the days after the attacks. Staples Center officials are now preparing for what they expect to be their two largest sports events of the next month: the Los Angeles Kings' home opener on Oct. 4 and the Los Angeles Lakers' home opener on Oct. 30.
As baseball teams look ahead to postseason play, stadium officials will be keeping in place security measures drawn up by Major League Baseball after Sept. 11. Coolers and large bags are prohibited and unauthorized cars parked within 100 feet of an arena are being towed. 
But baseball stadium officials are also tailoring security measures to their particular stadiums. At Pacific Bell Park in San Francisco, the number of security officers was increased by 10 percent for the first game after the attacks. Delivery trucks going to Wrigley Field in Chicago can only come in through the north entrance, and employees who park near the stadium have their ID's scrutinized more carefully.
At Safeco Field in Seattle, officials are still allowing large bags, but only after inspection, and "we're doing the same thing right now that we would do during any playoff game, except for the World Series," Paul Schieck, the director of stadium security, said.
Like the Super Bowl, the World Series will have security coordinated by league officials and federal, state and city law enforcement officials.
But the biggest test for sports security in the next year will undoubtedly come at the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City. Previous Olympics have been plagued by acts of terrorism, starting with the 1972 Games in Munich, where 11 Israelis were killed. In 1996, a bomb went off in Atlanta, killing a person and injuring 111.
Security in Salt Lake City will be overseen by a newly created state agency, the Utah Olympic Public Safety Command. On the federal level, it will be overseen by the Secret Service, the F.B.I. and the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Since Sept. 11, officials from the agencies have been meeting around the clock to review plans, Mitt Romney, president of the Salt Lake Organizing Committee, said.
"I'm sure there will be some changes made," he said, "and we have been assured that whatever resources needed to secure the Games will be made available."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tim Keane of San Francisco being frisked by a security guard Tuesday, contributing to longer lines at Pacific Bell Park. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); TERRORISM (89%); BASEBALL (78%); SPORTS FANS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); PRISONS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (67%); EXECUTIVES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (61%)

ORGANIZATION: SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (84%); NEW JERSEY SPORTS & EXPOSITION AUTHORITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001 



868 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
In this new campaign, the words of the advertisers are written on the subway walls.

BYLINE:  By Andrew Zipern 

 BODY:
SUBWAY passengers in Atlanta who looked through the dark windows of their moving train yesterday saw glowing full-motion ads for Dasani, the bottled water from the Coca-Cola Company. The start of the unusual advertising campaign, originally scheduled for Sept. 11, the day of the terrorist attacks, was a quiet event, but it may herald a new age in outdoor advertising.
 City transit systems are emblazoning the dirt and graffiti-covered walls of subway tunnels with illuminated signs that, when seen from a speeding train, appear to be animated. The effect, similar to that of a flip book, is not unlike watching a 30-second television commercial. 
 "As you pass by at high speed, you see a full-fledged motion picture," said Matthew Gross, president of Submedia, the outdoor advertising company based in New York, which has installed 1,000 feet of light boxes between the Dunwoody and Sandy Springs stations on the North Line in Atlanta. "We use a series of compressed images and are able to get an extremely high frame rate -- about 200 to 300 frames per second."
An offbeat and fast-growing phenomenon, "in-tunnel" systems began appearing this summer in Europe. Adidas and Coca-Cola, the first to experiment with them, bought space in the subways of Budapest and Athens through MotionPoster, a small company in Oxfordshire, England. MotionPoster has recently announced contracts to install systems in Frankfurt and Munich and in Seoul, South Korea.
Many of the world's mass-transit systems are considering similar proposals. Interest remains high even after the attacks on Sept. 11. "We really have not had any letup in interest from advertisers," Mr. Gross said. "No matter what happens, companies are still looking for a way to differentiate themselves."
In August, Submedia signed a contract with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey to install a system on the PATH commuter rail line in Manhattan. (Mr. Gross said that in the wake of the attacks, no firm date has been set.) Sidetrack Technologies, in Winnipeg, Manitoba, is setting up tunnel ads in the subway in Kuala Lumpur and has plans to bring at least two more systems to North America next year. All three companies are meeting with transit officials.
"Advertisers are using every opportunity they can find to communicate their marketing messages, to fight the clutter of advertising that surrounds us," Sid Holt, editor in chief of Adweek magazine, said in an e-mail interview. "And outside of prison, I can't think of a more captive audience than subway riders."
If in-tunnel media companies have anything in common, it is the belief that marketers must delve into previously unexplored territory to get consumers' attention.
Mr. Gross said advertisers could expect to pay $35,000 to $250,000 a month for in-tunnel media, depending on location and passenger traffic. The cost of Dasani's three-month run in Atlanta, he said, "is on the lower half of that scale."
Coca-Cola's subway ad is made up of saturated color images of cascading water. "It's a neat way to communicate in a targeted, closed environment," said Kellam Graitcer, Dasani's brand manager at Coca-Cola. Phactory Productions Inc., a New York design firm, created the ad.
"When you've got a brand new medium, people don't have anything that's been designed specifically for it," said Rob Walker, president of Sidetrack Technologies. "We can put images on both sides of the train so that the images can interact through the train."
Still, some wonder how effective such ephemeral imagery can be. Diane Cimine, executive vice president for marketing at the Outdoor Advertising Association of America, who has never seen the ads, said in-tunnel promotion sounds "wild and fun" but wonders whether "there's going to be a limitation on the communicability of these mediums."
Even if the market is relatively small, some critics say the idea will inevitably backfire, particularly given the new skittishness of subway riders. "There have been so-called breakthroughs like this for years -- like ads at the bottom of golf holes or in public toilets," said Kalle Lasn, the editor of Adbusters, a magazine published by the Media Foundation in Vancouver, British Columbia, that satirizes consumerism.
"The real story, the way I see it," Ms. Lasn said, "is that we are at the beginning of a huge backlash against the encroachment of our mental environment." 
Some point out that the technology is similar to one used by marketers in Ray Bradbury's dystopian vision "Fahrenheit 451."
MotionPoster maintains that there have been no negative comments in Europe. "None at all," said Michael Pelham, chairman of MotionPoster. "The passenger reaction is absolutely fascinating."
The ads "don't block any beautiful views of city architecture or mountains," Mr. Gross said. "This isn't a pristine environment. This is an industrial environment. It's just dark outside the window." 
He also points out that advertising revenues help the cities. "This is providing revenue to the subway system. It's actually directly helping the communities where these signs will be in place."
The economics of deals vary by city, but few transit authorities have the luxury of turning a blind eye to the potential revenue. Atlanta's in-tunnel advertisements are projected to bring the city several million dollars over the next few years. 
"I think people will ride the train just to see the ad," said Tony Griffin, marketing business manager of the Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority. "Obviously if this thing is a success, we want to look at it as a way of expanding."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers installed ads on the subway walls in Kuala Lumpur in August. When seen from a speeding train, the effect is similar to a flip book. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (90%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (90%); BOTTLED WATER (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); VANDALISM (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (73%); TERRORISM (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); PORT AUTHORITIES (62%) TRANSIT SYSTEMS; SUBWAYS; SUBWAYS; ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (93%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (64%)

ORGANIZATION: COCA-COLA CO; ADIDAS-SALOMON AG 

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (93%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (64%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (64%) SIC2087 OTHER FLAVORING EXTRACTS & SYRUPS; 

PERSON: ZIPERN, ANDREW 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MANITOBA, CANADA (67%) UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); MALAYSIA (92%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (78%); ENGLAND (55%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001 



869 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs; 
Talk Later

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
The day after the World Trade Center bombings an Egyptian TV show called and asked me to explain the impact on Americans. I scanned my brain for an analogy and finally said: Imagine how Egyptians would feel if three suicide bombers rammed airplanes into the Pyramids, with thousands of people inside. The World Trade towers were our Pyramids, built with glass and steel rather than stones, but Pyramids to American enterprise and free markets, and someone has destroyed them. 
 I'm still not sure the world fully appreciates what this has meant to Americans. We are not fighting for Kosovo, and we are not fighting for Bosnia, Somalia or Kuwait. We are fighting for our country. And Americans will fight for their country and they will die for their country. 
 The big question is how we fight this war to deliver to Americans what they want -- which is not revenge, but justice and security. It requires a new attitude toward the battle and new strategy on the battlefield.
What attitude? We need to be really focused, really serious, and just a little bit crazy. I don't mean we should indiscriminately kill people, especially innocent Afghans. I mean that the terrorists and their supporters need to know that from here forward we will do whatever it takes to defend our way of life -- and then some. From here forward, it's the bad guys who need to be afraid every waking moment. The more frightened our enemies are today, the fewer we will have to fight tomorrow. 
As for the new strategy, if our first priority is to destroy the Osama bin Laden network in Afghanistan, then we need to understand that it takes a home-grown network to destroy a home-grown network. Let me put it another way: If Osama bin Laden were hiding in the jungles of Colombia instead of Afghanistan, whose help would we enlist to find him? U.S. Army Special Forces? The Colombian Army? I don't think so.
Actually, we would enlist the drug cartels. They have the three attributes we need: They know how to operate as a covert network and how to root out a competing network, such as Mr. bin Laden's. They can be bought and know how to buy others. And they understand that when we say we want someone "dead or alive" we mean "dead or dead."
The Cali cartel doesn't operate in Afghanistan. But the Russian mafia sure does, as do various Afghan factions, drug rings and Pakistani secret agents. They all have their local, home-grown networks, and it is through such networks that the Afghan part of this war on terrorism will be fought. "The best news I've heard all week was that Vladimir Putin is serious about joining the coalition," said Moises Naim, editor of the journal Foreign Policy. "This sort of character can really help now."
Moises is right. Something tells me Mr. Putin, the Russian president and former K.G.B. spymaster, has the phone number of the guy in the Russian mafia who knows the guy in the Afghan cartels who knows the guy who knows the guy who knows where Mr. bin Laden is hiding. It is going to be that kind of war: an above-ground army you fight with tanks and generals, an underground network you fight with moles and exterminators. 
In fighting this kind of war the president and his advisers would do themselves a huge favor by not talking so much. They are already starting to contradict themselves and get tied up in knots. Be like the terrorists: Let your actions speak. It is much more unnerving to the enemy.
For everything there is a season. There will be a season later on for talking. There will be a season for dealing with other states that have supported terrorism. And there will be a season for promoting Arab-Israeli peace or economic development. But right now -- right now is the season of hunting down people who want to destroy our country. War alone may not solve this problem, but neither will social work. And one thing a focused, covert war will do is create a level of deterrence that has not existed up to now. Every state has to know that after Sept. 11, harboring anti-U.S. terrorists will be lethal. 
To drive that point home, though, people have to see that we are focused, serious and ready to use whatever tactics will make the terrorists feel bad, not make us feel good. As the Lebanese militia leader Bashir Gemayel once said about the Middle East -- before he himself was assassinated -- "This is not Norway here, and it is not Denmark." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); CARTELS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); AL-QAEDA (87%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); HIJACKING (77%); ARMIES (75%); ORGANIZED CRIME (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); ARMED FORCES (61%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (53%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%) FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BIN LADEN, OSAMA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); COLOMBIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); KOSOVO (79%); PAKISTAN (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); AFGHANISTAN; PAKISTAN; RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001 



870 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: Japan Is Hoping Weaker Yen Revives Growth 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The yen dropped to a one-month low against the euro and a two-week low against the dollar yesterday as the Bank of Japan sold its currency for the sixth day since Sept. 17 in an effort to steer the economy away from a recession.
 Meanwhile, the government said today that the unemployment rate remained at a record 5 percent in August and that household spending fell 1.3 percent in August, seasonally adjusted, from July. 
 Japan's currency weakened yesterday to 119.59 a dollar from 117.85 on Wednesday. It fell as much as 1.9 percent, to 120 a dollar, the lowest since Sept. 11. The decline rounded out a five-day losing streak, the longest this year. The yen sank for a fourth day against the euro, to 109.87 yen from 108.74. It traded earlier at 110.21 yen a euro, the lowest level since Aug. 23. 
Japanese policy makers want a weaker currency to bolster exporters' earnings and revive growth in Japan, the No. 2 economy in the world. A lower yen makes exports more attractive, which would help companies handle a three-year drop in domestic retail sales.
"They're not fooling around -- they really want to ensure a weaker yen," said Mark Thome, vice president for foreign exchange at Fortis USA Financial Markets. The yen may slide to 122 yen a dollar in coming weeks, he said.
The dollar strengthened to 91.76 cents a euro from 92.33 on Wednesday. The dollar has lost 1.8 percent against an indexed average of the yen, euro, Swiss franc, British pound, Canadian dollar and Swedish krona since the attacks on Sept. 11, raising concern the United States economy may slow further.
The yen extended early losses yesterday on speculation that the Federal Reserve Bank of New York sold yen on the Bank of Japan's behalf, said Vincent Palazzolo, chief trader at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking. Peter Bakstansky, a spokesman for the New York Fed, declined to comment on possible sales. The European Central Bank said it bought euros and sold yen for a third day this week.
Dustin Reid, a currency strategist at UBS Warburg in Stamford, Conn., said, "The Japanese authorities are upping the ante, and they're getting smarter with their intervention" by using other central banks to operate in various time zones and intervening while the direction of trading is already in their favor.
Mr. Thome at Fortis USA said there had been speculation that the Fed sold yen close to the 119.50 yen-a-dollar level. "The Bank of Japan should be successful," and the yen may slide toward 121 or 122 a dollar, he said.
Other than selling yen, Japanese officials "have no other policy options" to revive their economy, said Stefan Schilbe, an economist at HSBC Trinkaus in Dusseldorf.
Benchmark interest rates in Japan are already near zero, and government spending is constrained by debt amounting to about 130 percent of gross domestic product.
Japan has been stepping up yen sales as the end of its fiscal half-year approaches this Sunday. Japanese companies often buy yen to repatriate funds at such times, traders said.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "CURRENCIES" tracks the Japanese yen to the dollar, since April 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAPANESE YEN (92%); EURO (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); RECESSION (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); RETAILERS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); TRENDS (74%); BRITISH POUND (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); CONSUMER SPENDING (71%); RETAIL SALES (71%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (71%); MARKET RESEARCH (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%) CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (81%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (63%); BANK OF JAPAN (58%); SUMITOMO MITSUI BANKING CORP (53%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) BANK OF JAPAN; EUROPEAN UNION 

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (81%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (81%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (53%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); CANADA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); MEXICO (79%) JAPAN; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001 



871 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: MOVIE GUIDE 

 BODY:
 A selective listing by critics of The Times of new or noteworthy movies and film series playing this weekend in New York City. * denotes a highly recommended film or series. The ratings and running times are in parentheses. An index of reviews of films opening today appears on
Page 12.

Now Playing

"GLITTER," starring Mariah Carey. Directed by Vondie Curtis Hall (PG-13, 145 minutes). This film wants to be a heart-tugging tale of a rags-to-pop-royalty climb made poignant by love and loss. But "Glitter," with Ms. Carey as a talented performer who goes from backup singer to troubled star, is mostly dross, an unintentionally hilarious compendium of time-tested cinematic cliches that illustrate the chasm between hopeful imitation and successful duplication (Lawrence Van Gelder).

"THE GLASS HOUSE," starring Leelee Sobieski, Diane Lane, Stellan Skarsgard, Trevor Morgan and Bruce Dern. Directed by Daniel Sackheim (PG-13, 101 minutes). After their parents are killed in a car accident, Ruby Baker (Ms. Sobieski) and her brother are sent to live with the Glasses, a pair of dysfunctional creeps who also turn out, to no one's surprise but the children's, to be diabolical criminals. The movie might have succeeded as a minor entry in the thriller subgenre that includes "Single White Female" and "The Hand That Rocks the Cradle," but it takes more than a spooky score and horror-movie editing tricks to generate suspense. Mr. Skarsgard, who plays Terry Glass, is so cold and repellent from the start that it's impossible to imagine that anyone would trust him with a pet goldfish, let alone two innocent (and, of course, once it comes to outwitting him, absurdly resourceful) children (A. O. Scott).

"HARDBALL," starring Keanu Reeves, Diane Lane and John Hawkes. Directed by Brian Robbins (PG-13, 110 minutes). Daniel Coyle's nonfiction book about a children's baseball team from Chicago has been adapted into a mawkish, cutesy tearjerker. Mr. Reeves, as self-conscious as ever, is its reluctant coach, a down-and-out gambler who redeems himself (and pays off his debts) by leading these latter-day Bad News Bears to victory. The star is forced to deliver inspirational sound bites like the movie's meaningless tag line, "The most important thing in life is showing up" (Stephen Holden).

"LIAM," starring Ian Hart, Claire Hackett, Anne Reid and Anthony Borrows. Directed by Stephen Frears (R, 90 minutes). Like many other movies that revisit the turmoil and deprivation of the past century from the perspective of a child, Mr. Frears's new film, about a young boy in 1930's Liverpool, England, walks the delicate boundary between politically inflected realism and costumed sentimentality. At its best, "Liam" explores the effects of unemployment and poverty on Liam's working-class Catholic family with an impressionistic, detached lyricism that captures a boy's puzzlement and curiosity without being too cute about it. But the anecdotal treatment of the family's life gradually and inexorably turns melodramatic, and the violent conclusion seems not to grow out of the lives of the characters, but to be clumsily imposed on them (Scott).

"THE MUSKETEER," starring Catherine Deneuve, Mena Suvari, Stephen Rea, Tim Roth and Justin Chambers. Directed by Peter Hyams (PG-13, 106 minutes). This hopelessly confused and poorly written adaptation of "The Three Musketeers" tries to blend traditional costume adventure with MTV-ready attitude and Hong Kong-style duels. The nervous jump-cut editing chops the action sequences into visual coleslaw, and Mr. Chambers's lead character, D'Artagnan, mumbles like a dazed lobotomy patient. Ms. Deneuve and Mr. Rea, in small roles, pretend they're in another, more coherent movie, but it doesn't help (Holden).

* "OUR LADY OF THE ASSASSINS," starring German Jaramillo, Anderson Ballesteros and Juan David Restropo. Directed by Barbet Schroeder (R, 100 minutes; in Spanish, with English subtitles). One description for the ambience of this devastating portrait (filmed in high-definition video) of the corrupt Colombian city of Medellin might be documentary hallucination. With a screenplay adapted by Fernando Vallejo from his novel "La Virgen de los Sicarios," the film gazes into the soul of a burned-out homosexual writer who returns to Medellin (his hometown) after 30 years and finds it transformed into a circle of hell plagued by rampant, casual slaughter. He falls successively in love with two nihilistic street boys, both killers (Holden).

"ROCK STAR," starring Mark Wahlberg, Jennifer Aniston and Jason Flemyng. Directed by Stephen Herek (R, 142 minutes). Based on the true story of a heavy-metal fan who replaced the lead singer in the band he worshiped, this sloppy, charming melange of "This Is Spinal Tap" and "Almost Famous" looks back nostalgically at the big-haired, leather-and-spandex pop metal of the mid-1980's. Mr. Wahlberg, playing a Pittsburgh head banger who unexpectedly lives out his fantasy of sex, drugs and rock 'n' roll, captures both the naivete and the passion of obsessive fandom. Though the story of his transformation from regular guy to metal god and back again is predictable and unconvincing, the movie is full of well-observed details and authentically awful music. It both celebrates and, with gentle knowingness, ridicules the noisy, raucous world of big arena shows, endless touring and androgynous machismo that was 80's metal (Scott).

"TWO CAN PLAY THAT GAME," starring Vivica A. Fox, Morris Chestnut and Anthony Anderson (R, 90 minutes). Written and directed by Mark Brown. In this formulaic, featherweight romantic comedy, Ms. Fox, playing Shante, a young, supersuccessful advertising executive, dispenses tough-minded, good-humored advice on how to keep a man in line. Her resourcefulness is tested when her own man, a lawyer named Keith (Mr. Chestnut), threatens to stray. The two principals are appealing enough, but what little comic spark the film has comes from Mr. Anderson as a colleague of Keith's who becomes his counselor in love and war (Scott).

Film Series

OSCAR WILDE FILM SERIES. In conjunction with its major exhibition "Oscar Wilde: A Life in Six Acts," continuing through Jan. 13, the Morgan Library is presenting an eight-part film series that begins today and illuminates the multifaceted Wilde's life and work. The opening attraction, at 4 p.m., is "The Browning Version" (1951), directed by Anthony Asquith and starring Michael Redgrave as a middle-aged boarding school headmaster with an unfaithful wife. Redgrave's performance won him a prize for best actor at Cannes. At 6:30 p.m., the series continues with another Asquith film, "The Importance of Being Earnest" (1952), based on the classic Wilde comedy and again starring Redgrave. Coming up are "Maurice," "Salome's Last Dance," "The Picture of Dorian Gray," "An Ideal Husband," "The Trials of Oscar Wilde" and "Lady Windermere's Fan." Admission to the Wilde series at the Morgan, 29 East 36th Street, Manhattan, on Fridays through Oct. 19, is free with the regular requested contribution: $8; $6 for students and 65+; under 12, free with an adult. Tickets are available at the admission desk on the day of the show. Information: (212) 590-0333 (Van Gelder).

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rags to riches story: Mariah Carey as a pop star in "Glitter," directed by Vondie Curtis Hall. (Bruce Macaulay/Columbia Pictures) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); MOVIE RATINGS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); HORROR FILMS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); BASEBALL (73%); LITERATURE GENRES (70%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (69%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: MARIAH CAREY (87%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (50%) NEW YORK, USA (73%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (73%); ENGLAND (64%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001 



872 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: Aid for a Terrorized Economy 

 BODY:
With the nation almost surely cast into recession by the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, leaders in Congress and the White House have been looking for ways to stimulate the economy. They have already pledged $40 billion to reconstruction and counterterrorism. To further spur consumption and investment, Washington should focus on the households and growing businesses that need extra cash most. Any stimulus should be temporary and designed to preserve the government's long-term fiscal health. 
 Top Republicans' initial proposals were dated and irresponsible. Lawrence Lindsey, the president's economic policy adviser, made lowering the corporate income tax rate the centerpiece of the administration's proposals, to the delight of big business lobbies. Representative Bill Thomas, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, suggested a cut in tax rates for capital gains, an idea that fortunately seems to be losing steam. These dead horses from the Republicans' stable of long-term fiscal policy themes were to be reincarnated as measures to stimulate the economy now. 
 Yet neither of these proposals would give the economy much of a short-term boost, and they might cost the government hundreds of billions of dollars in lost revenues over the coming decade. A cut in corporate income tax rates would just let owners of companies keep more of their profits. It would not necessarily change their investment or employment decisions in the short term, or ever. Reducing the capital gains tax might provide an incentive to save when the economy recovers, but in the short term it would lead to mass selling in a faltering stock market. In both cases, the tax cut would mainly benefit the wealthiest Americans -- those least likely to use it for new consumption.
As Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, and Robert Rubin, the former treasury secretary, pointed out in testimony before the Senate Finance Committee on Tuesday, the best remedies would be temporary, and encourage spending or investment. A temporary cut in payroll taxes would give extra money for consumption to all working Americans, even those with earnings too low to pay income taxes. Temporary tax credits for new investment would help companies to grow, potentially creating jobs to offset the numerous layoffs expected to result from the attacks.
To protect the government's bottom line, any new tax relief should be offset by rollbacks of President Bush's mammoth, 10-year package of tax cuts. Controlling the level of public debt would take upward pressure off long-term interest rates, an essential step toward promoting recovery.
The more regressive elements of the president's tax-cut package should be the first to go. Repealing the phase-out of the estate tax would be one good place to start. Restoring the top income tax rate to 39.6 percent, a move that could yield up to $100 billion over 10 years, is another. Top-bracket taxpayers would still benefit from rate reductions in the lower brackets.
A cyclical recovery to normal economic growth should arrive within a year or two. The current focus should be on measures that offer temporary, rapid and broad-based improvements in welfare. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); HIJACKING (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); CONSUMPTION (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); ESTATE TAX (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); LAYOFFS (55%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); EDITORIALS; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; TAXATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (57%) ;GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001 



873 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Will Help States With Unemployment Insurance 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 27 

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill said today that the federal government would help states shore up their unemployment insurance programs to cope with the surge in layoffs after the terrorist attacks and might also extend benefits to jobless workers for a longer period.
 Mr. O'Neill spoke a few hours after the Labor Department reported that new claims for unemployment benefits rose last week to their highest level in more than nine years. The increase, to 450,000 from 392,000 the week before, was among the clearest indicators of how the aftershocks from the attacks are rippling through the economy. 
 Mr. O'Neill said the Bush administration continued to review a wide variety of options for helping the economy, including tax cuts that would be directed at individuals and businesses. But he said the debate within the administration was shifting from whether the government should pass an economic stimulus package to what types of actions it should take and that President Bush was likely to settle on a specific package soon.
"There's going to be something," Mr. O'Neill said in an interview. "It's obvious that some things need to be done. For example, we need to make sure the state unemployment trust funds have enough funds."
Mr. O'Neill singled out New York State, saying he was "not yet satisfied they have enough funds."
Beyond making sure that states do not run out of money to pay unemployment compensation, Mr. O'Neill said, "we're looking at the duration of benefits." He did not offer any details. Unemployment insurance is generally limited to 26 weeks.
Mr. O'Neill said Mr. Bush had directed his advisers at a meeting on Wednesday to develop detailed projections on what effects stimulus packages of different sizes and composition would have on the economy and job losses. 
Mr. O'Neill said that whatever the administration proposed now might have to be revisited later as the situation changes. He said there was already some thought being given to providing more aid to the airline industry, which was given $5 billion in cash assistance and $10 billion in loan guarantees last week to avert the threat of immediate bankruptcies.
"This is going to be a long and enduring thing," Mr. O'Neill said. "We may need to come back and look at it again. In the case of the airlines, the direct infusion of cash for liquidity, that's fine, but it may very well be that something else is required."
Mr. O'Neill said helping the airline industry was important because many of the economy's problems were related to the sharp decline in air travel, a problem Mr. Bush sought to address today by announcing new security proposals. 
But Mr. O'Neill said it was also important to address the ways in which the psychological aftershocks from the attacks are damping all kinds of economic activity. And he said Mr. Bush believed that making the economy strong was a critical element in sustaining the campaign against terrorism.
The president has "a strong feeling that a stronger economy makes everything else easier," Mr. O'Neill said. 
The administration and the leaders of the two parties in Congress are hoping to agree on a bipartisan stimulus plan within the next week or two, Congressional aides said today. The White House and Congress have been waiting for more data about the economy's course before moving ahead, but today's report on unemployment claims plus other new figures increased the likelihood that the country is near or in a recession.
The Congressional Budget Office reported today that the federal budget surplus for the year that ends Sunday will be about $121 billion, $32 billion below its estimate of just a month ago. The budget office said the decline stemmed largely from weakness in the economy both before and after the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11.
Lawrence B. Lindsey, Mr. Bush's chief economic adviser, said the White House was still early in the process of settling on specific proposals and did not want to be hasty in developing a plan, especially with the economic outlook still in flux. He declined to identify any specific steps the administration would push for in the stimulus package.
"We've got a pretty good grasp on the fact that action is necessary," Mr. Lindsey said in an interview. "But we don't have a sense yet of all the ramifications."
On Capitol Hill, both parties are floating proposals to help the economy. Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, said today that he would like to see as much as $31 billion in immediate spending increases, including $8 billion to expand the unemployment insurance program and as much as $20 billion to help people who have been laid off keep their health insurance.
With layoffs mounting, pressure is increasing on the administration and Congress to provide help for the unemployed. Congress is already considering a plan that would extend unemployment compensation by up to a year from the current limit of 26 weeks.
In New York State, new claims for unemployment benefits have risen from 12,423 in the seven days ended Sept. 6 to 15,500 in the week ended Sept. 13 to 22,200 in the week ended Sept. 20.
Robert Lillpopp, a spokesman for the New York State Department of Labor, said 10,800 of the new claims in the last two weeks were related to the terrorist attacks. 
Unemployment insurance is financed by a tax on employers, and New York currently has about $1 billion in its fund, Mr. Lillpopp said. He said that amount would be adequate in normal times, but that it was possible the state might need more money if job losses continue to surge.
"We're currently exploring our options with the U.S. Department of Labor," he said. "But at this point we haven't asked for any specific amount of funds."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill says the Bush administration is weighing various options, including tax cuts, to help lift the economy. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) Chart: "Jobless Claims"Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. Graph shows initial jobless claims from April-September 2001.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (86%); AIRLINES (85%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HIJACKING (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (74%); TAX LAW (74%); TAX RELIEF (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (69%) LABOR; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; TAXATION; STATES (US) 

ORGANIZATION: ;LABOR DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001 



874 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: REAGAN NATIONAL AIRPORT; 
U.S. Marshals May Be Key To Reopening Of an Airport

BYLINE:  By LIZETTE ALVAREZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 27 

 BODY:
As pressure builds to reopen Ronald Reagan National Airport, the only airport still out of service, Transportation Secretary Norman Y. Mineta said today that he would back a plan to place federal marshals on every flight using the airport as a requirement to reopen it.
 The decision to close the airport, in suburban Virginia, either temporarily or indefinitely, has battered the area's economy, prompted thousands of layoffs and angered just about every lawmaker on Capitol Hill, most of whom regularly use Reagan National to get home. And while President Bush visited O'Hare International Airport in Chicago today to encourage fearful passengers to fly, many here in Washington wondered why the message did not apply to them and their local airport. 
 They are quick to point out that none of the commandeered jets left from or were scheduled to arrive at Reagan National Airport and that two other airports -- Dulles International and Baltimore-Washington International -- are also within minutes, by air, of Washington. Both are operating without unique restrictions. 
"On the one hand he's telling people to fly, but on the other hand security people are telling him he can't open National Airport because it's not safe," said Representative James P. Moran, a Virginia Democrat whose district is home to the airport. "By the same token, he's saying we need to get back to normalcy and stimulate the economy, and we've closed down an airport that has so far resulted in the loss of 10,000 jobs."
Reagan National, which is across the Potomac River from Washington, was ordered closed, either indefinitely or temporarily, by the National Security Council because it is three miles from the White House.
Today, Mr. Mineta said he would be willing to place armed guards on all flights leaving from or coming to National Airport, if that is what it takes to get it running again. But he was the first to acknowledge that the decision was not his to make.
"I believe it should be reopened," he told Reuters today before he boarded a commercial flight from the Baltimore-Washington airport to join Mr. Bush in Chicago. "We are working on it, but it is in the hands of the National Security Council and the U.S. Secret Service."
Senator Jon Kyl, an Arizona Republican on the Intelligence Committee, agreed that placing armed guards on every flight was a logical step. "It seems to me that National ought to reopen," Mr. Kyl said, noting that increasing security is a "real imposition." But he added, "Why aren't people complaining? Because they can see a real effect."
After more than two weeks of limbo, lawmakers, local officials and the governors of Maryland and Virginia are getting restless. The administration has said little about what it intends to do, only that Mr. Bush is aware of the "harmful impact" the airport's closing is having on the economy, as the White House press secretary, Ari Fleischer, said on Wednesday. But, he added, security concerns remain.
The airport was recently remodeled and generates $5 billion a year in revenue. It normally employs 10,000 workers, but 4,000 of them have now applied for unemployment. US Airways, which operates a New York to Washington shuttle and maintains a hub at Reagan National, has cut 11,000 jobs overall. But the reverberations are being felt in other sectors of the local economy as well, including Washington-area hotels, restaurants, cab drivers and rental car companies.
On Capitol Hill, Mr. Moran, with the backing of a large number of House members, intends to introduce legislation next week to reopen the airport if an administration decision is not imminent. He said he hoped that would increase pressure on the White House. Several lawmakers will be going to the White House next week to discuss the situation.
"National Airport is a symbol of our nation's ability to move freely across this country," said Representative James L. Oberstar, the senior Democrat on the House Transportation Committee. "It if remains closed, the terrorists have won."
In general, lawmakers and local officials agree that security must be significaly heightened at the aiport, more so than at other structures, and they and a number of consultants have offered recommendations. They include placing armed guards on every flight, paying special attention to airports where connecting flights to National are made and expanding the regional airspace security program.
Pilots, for example, would have to identify themselves 20 minutes before landing at the airport, as opposed to just a few minutes. They could also use special codes to verify their identities.
"With those kinds of measures -- costly, time-consuming, disruptive, intrusive -- I think there will be enough confidence in security to allow the reopening of National," Mr. Oberstar said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The decision to close the Reagan National Airport, shown last week, has battered the area's economy. (Susana Raab for The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (99%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); MARSHALS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); AIRLINES (78%); HIJACKING (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); TERRORISM (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); TRENDS (64%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; REAGAN, RONALD, WASHINGTON NATIONAL AIRPORT; TERRORISM; AIRPORTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (59%) ;NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL; SECRET SERVICE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JON KYL (55%); JAMES P MORAN (55%) ;ALVAREZ, LIZETTE; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); MORAN, JAMES P (REP) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (98%); VIRGINIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); VIRGINIA; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001 



875 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: MEXICO; 
Fox Pledges Full Support For the U.S.

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Sept. 27 

 BODY:
Abandoning Mexico's history of neutrality in times of violent conflict, President Vicente Fox said today in an interview that Mexico pledged "unconditional support" to the United States in its war against terrorism.
 "We will act in solidarity with all of the nations of the world who have taken on this campaign, particularly the United States," Mr. Fox said. "We understand clearly that we are friends, neighbors and partners. And we are not going to run and hide when our neighbor needs us." 
 The remarks, to a small group of foreign journalists, were aimed at responding to critics who had said Mr. Fox's support for the United States seemed ambiguous and bound by conditions. 
Foreign Minister Jorge G. Castaneda said before Congress on Wednesday that at least 19 Mexicans had been killed in the attack on the World Trade Center, that Mexico's economy would suffer and that Mexico could just as easily be attacked by terrorists unless their organizations were destroyed.
"Even before the second tower fell," Mr. Fox said, "I declared before Mexico and the press how sad and painful the events were for us."
Although Mexico's stand may have more moral than practical significance to the United States, Mr. Fox's statements were his boldest challenge yet to Mexico's constitutional commitment to noninterventionist foreign policies and to finding peaceful solutions to conflict.
His position has fueled anti-American sentiment that political experts say has not only divided Congress, but also Mr. Fox's cabinet.
A few days before the terrorist attacks, Mr. Fox was in Washington as the first state visitor of the Bush administration. At the time, President Bush announced that the United States had no more important relationship than with Mexico.
But the attacks and Mr. Bush's declarations against terrorism have unleashed a resurgence of bad feelings toward the United States that threatens to undermine Mexico's new high-profile status.
Mr. Castaneda, the architect of Mr. Fox's campaign to make Mexico a more active influence in the world, has been scolded in Congress as a traitor. Some legislators called for his resignation.
Carlos Fuentes, the writer who is a former ambassador, said, "We are partners to the United States, but in no way should we be 'yes men' to the United States." He used a derogatory word that also translates as "subjects."
Another renowned author and historian, Enrique Krauze, responded: "Historic disputes do not justify a lack of moral solidarity. I believe President Fox should make a clear gesture of sympathy for the American people."
The government is sharing intelligence every day on Islamic immigrants who have been detained, the president said, adding that border security had been tightened.
"Of course," he added, "there will be voices of dissent. But that doesn't change anything, because we are expressing the voice of Mexican men and women. We do it because we know how they feel and think. And because of that, our path is clear." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HISTORY (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); HIJACKING (77%); IMMIGRATION (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); JOURNALISM (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); BORDER CONTROL (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); RESIGNATIONS (64%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (60%); RELIGION (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS 

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) THOMPSON, GINGER; FOX QUESADA, VICENTE (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) NEW YORK, USA (87%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (95%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001 



876 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: Changed Political Climate May Aid Jeb Bush 

BYLINE:  By DANA CANEDY 

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE, Fla., Sept. 27 

 BODY:
Janet Reno's campaign for governor was exactly a week old when she began speaking at a Miami synagogue at 9:30 a.m., Sept. 11, telling her stunned audience that the Pentagon was on fire and that her "heart was heavy."
 Ms. Reno, a former attorney general, made it through the address, hitting on the environment and other campaign themes. By the time she sat down, though, the talk among the heavily Democratic audience was already drifting from what a fine governor she would make to the news of terrorist assaults on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. 
 Now the satellite trucks that had camped out at her house the week before Sept. 11 are long gone, and the man Ms. Reno was hoping to oust from office, Gov. Jeb Bush, is expected by many experts to reap some of the benefits of his brother's surging popularity. 
For the time being, Ms. Reno and Governor Bush have pulled back from what was expected to be one of the marquee match-ups of the 2002 political year. She has suspended fund-raising, and Mr. Bush has stopped campaigning.
"The governor feels it is inappropriate to be out campaigning right now," said Karen Unger, his campaign manager. 
While partisan bickering is suspended and the Florida governor's race is still more than a year away, experts say the terrorist attacks and potential for future conflict will probably have a big effect on politics in general and the governor's race here in particular. 
Certainly by the Election Day in November 2002, the effects of a war and weakened economy could significantly alter the political mood once more. But for now, Democrats cannot count on reminding voters about hanging chads and butterfly ballots to suggest that Mr. Bush helped steal the presidential election for his brother.
What is more, with photographers snapping pictures of the governor climbing into the cockpit of an F-15 fighter jet, as he did at a recently rally for the Florida Air National Guard, attacking him even on issues like the state budget might seem unpatriotic, the political experts say.
"Whatever people believe about whether George W. Bush is the legitimate president of this country is totally forgotten," said Jim Kane, director of the Florida Voter Poll, a political news and polling service in Fort Lauderdale. "The advantage the Democrats in the state thought they were going to have based on the craziness of the 2000 count and recounts is, I think, lost forever."
Governor Bush's popularity is linked to his brother's, Mr. Kane said.
"And his brother's popularity will continue to be very high, I believe, while we're in battle or on crux of war," he said, "none of which is particularly helpful to any Democratic challenger, even Janet Reno."
Publicly, at least, Mr. Bush's supporters are careful not to talk of any political gain for their side from the patriotism born of the tragedy. But they acknowledge that the governor's race has been altered. 
"At least for the time being, there is a new tenor in Washington and in Florida, and obviously that affects the process as well," said Al Cardenas, the Florida Republican Party chairman. "I think because of the moment we're living in, Americans would be quite impatient toward anything that seems petty or partisan. It's obvious we're more likely to have a vastly different campaign for governor in Florida than anyone thought before Sept. 11."
One of the most immediate changes in the race came last week when Pete Peterson, a former prisoner of war who gave up his post as ambassador to Vietnam to run for governor, announced that patriotism would not permit him to continue his campaign. 
Mr. Peterson, whose young campaign had been eclipsed by the attention given to Ms. Reno, has since met with Governor Bush about the possibility of being part of a state-level antiterrorism initiative.
For Democrats, the biggest question is how to campaign against Mr. Bush and how to remind voters of the problems of last November's election without suggesting that the suddenly popular president is an illegitimate commander in chief.
"We will make sure that people know that they have to get out and vote and that they have to make their vote count," said Bob Poe, chairman of the Florida Democratic Party. "I think there are all kinds of ways you can approach that issue without at all bringing up the 2000 election."
Representative Lois Frankel, the state House minority leader, who is also running for the Democratic nomination, said she was still assessing how she might have to alter her campaign.
"Everybody is being very careful with what they say," Ms. Frankel said. "There might be things that I would have talked about three weeks ago that I won't talk about now." For example, she said, she will steer clear of referring to the 2000 election. 
Ms. Reno is considered the Democrats' best hope for unseating Mr. Bush. Polls before Sept. 11 indicated that she would easily win the primary but lose the general election. 
For her part, Ms. Reno said today that it was too early to tell how the changing mood of voters would affect the campaign but that she would continue to talk about issues from education to the environment, though with an even more civil tone.
"I had tried to describe how we disagree," she said, "But now I want to describe what my vision for Florida is without criticizing anyone." 
Ms. Frankel, however, said she was not ready to give Mr. Bush a free ride on issues like tax cuts.
"I've had serious disagreements with Jeb Bush and the Republicans," Ms. Frankel said. "It's important for people like myself to say we're going to go on with this process."
Even so, as J. M. Stipanovich, a Republican strategist and lawyer who managed Jeb Bush's failed campaign for governor in 1994 said, "Whether or not you agree with the governor's view on outsourcing state functions is probably just not something too many people are excited about today."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida, right, was greeted yesterday by Sheriff Larry Campbell of Leon County at a meeting in Tallahassee on terrorism, with Tim Moore, left, commissioner of the Department of Law Enforcement. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); TERRORISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); POLITICS (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); HIJACKING (75%); FUNDRAISING (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (66%); BUDGETS (63%); AIRLINES (61%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (57%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; TERRORISM 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) CANEDY, DANA; BUSH, JEB (GOV); RENO, JANET 

GEOGRAPHIC: TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (58%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) FLORIDA; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001 



877 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE PRESIDENT; 
Bush to Increase Federal Role in Security at Airports

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Sept. 27 

 BODY:
Trying to soothe the frayed nerves of reluctant American travelers, President Bush announced today that the federal government would take on a larger role in airport security and that more than 4,000 National Guard troops would begin protecting the nation's 420 commercial airports within days.
 The troops will be stationed at airport metal detectors and machines screening carry-on luggage. 
 "Some airports already meet high standards, and you all know that," Mr. Bush told a cheering crowd of thousands of airline pilots, flight attendants and other workers outside a hangar at O'Hare International Airport here. "But for those airports that need help, we will work with the governors to provide security measures -- visible security measures -- so the traveling public will know that we are serious about airline safety in America." Excerpts, Page B6. 
But the use of National Guard troops is intended to be only a temporary measure until the federal government establishes what a Bush administration official described as a new agency to oversee all domestic airport security.
The agency would take over supervision of the 28,000 workers nationwide who screen passengers and baggage at airports. It would contract out the work to private companies. The airlines now hire the contractors.
The official said the new approach would give the government more control over training, performance standards, wages and benefits. He added that the government would not necessarily hire the lowest bidder, as the airlines do now, but the company offering the best security. The administration official said it was not certain whether the new airline security office would be part of the homeland security office that the president announced.
The official could not say whether the government would hire more than the existing 28,000 workers or whether they would be paid better than the minimum wage. Critics of airline security workers have long said that the low pay keeps away the best workers.
In addition, the president said he would give grants to airlines to allow them to develop stronger cockpit doors and transponders that cannot be switched off from the cockpit. Government grants would also be available to pay for video monitors that would be placed in the cockpit to alert pilots to trouble in the cabin; and new technology, probably far in the future, allowing air traffic controllers to land distressed planes by remote control. 
Transponders, which allow air traffic controllers to track aircraft, were switched off in some cases in the Sept. 11 hijackings.
Mr. Bush also said his administration had ordered what he described as a major increase in the number of armed, plainclothes sky marshals on planes, although he would not provide numbers.
The official said that the administration would work with Congress on the new security agency, and that establishing it would probably take four to six months.
Until the agency is established, Mr. Bush made it clear that he wanted the presence of the uniformed National Guardsmen -- at an estimated cost to the federal government of $150 million -- to serve as a powerful psychological tool to get Americans back on airplanes. The troops, to be trained in baggage and passenger screening by the Federal Aviation Administration over three or four days, would augment, rather than replace, airport security personnel. 
How much additional security the National Guard troops will add to commercial airports is an open question. Since the Sept. 11 hijacking of four jetliners, airports have on their own increased security, using local police, state troopers or sheriffs' deputies who stand by screening machines and metal detectors -- often with little or nothing to do in half-filled airports. The administration official said the National Guard troops also would not operate the screening machinery. 
"Basically they'll be standing there watching and making sure everybody is operating in a safe way," the administration official said.
The announcement of enhanced security measures is the Bush administration's latest effort to give a boost to the aviation industry, which has been economically battered by the falloff in ridership since the suicide hijackings. On Sept. 21, Congress approved a $15 billion bailout package for the airlines. Mr. Bush also said he was setting aside $3 billion for aviation security, which is to pay for the measures he announced today.
The White House, which rapidly assembled its airline security plan as the nation's airlines were losing hundreds of millions of dollars a week, did not offer a specific picture of how a new airline security agency would work. The administration official who briefed reporters in Chicago, for example, described the security organization as either an agency or an authority and said that it had not been determined whether it would be part of an existing agency or cabinet department. 
Although the president's speech today was intended to buttress a gasping industry -- the Air Transport Association, the industry's trade association, quickly praised the measures as an "aggressive aviation security plan" -- Mr. Bush also was working hard as a cheerleader rallying Americans to travel again.
"Get on the airlines, get about the business of America!" Mr. Bush shouted into a brilliant Chicago morning as commercial airplanes roared regularly overhead.
The president was flanked by two airplanes on the tarmac, one from United, the other American. Two of the hijacked airlines were United, and two were American.
Mr. Bush spoke about his war on terrorism, which he said took many forms.
"One of the great goals of this nation's war is to restore public confidence in the airline industry," Mr. Bush said. "It's to tell the traveling public: Get on board. Do your business around the country. Fly and enjoy America's great destination spots. Get down to Disney World in Florida. Take your families and enjoy life, the way they want it to be enjoyed."
Although Mr. Bush flew to Chicago on Air Force One, he announced that his secretary of transportation, Norman Y. Mineta, had not. "I want you to know that Norm took a United flight," Mr. Bush said, to applause.
Mr. Bush added that on Friday nine members of his cabinet had plans to board commercial planes and "to fly around our country and to do their jobs." He said that "thousands of other citizens" would board planes as well, and that "these are good things for our nation, because this nation will not live in fear."
Nonetheless, the president's language did not unequivocally declare the skies safe from future attacks. 
The White House press secretary, Ari Fleischer, said on Wednesday that "the president will continue to remind people that it's important to remember the threat is not eliminated."
White House officials said they hoped to move the president's plan through Congress as early as next week. Reaction on Capitol Hill was generally positive, but a group of Democrats said that the federal government should be entirely in control of airport security, and that a $3 surcharge on airline tickets could finance it. Several senior Republicans also support that plan.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush announced new security measures in Chicago yesterday and urged the public to return to flying. (Doug Mills/Associated Press)(pg. A1); Thousands of airline employees turned out yesterday to hear President Bush speak about new aviation security measures at O'Hare International Airport in Chicago. One of them had a message for the president. (Paul J. Richards/Agence France-Presse)(pg. B6) Chart: "AT ISSUE -- Seeking Security for Air Travelers"These are the elements of the airline and airport security plan announced by President Bush yesterday. National Guard: Would have a presence at all commercial airports after receiving training in airport security techniques from the Federal Aviation Administration. Air marshals: Continue expansion of the air marshal program and seek Congressional approval to make the expansion permanent. Airplane modifications: Create a $500 million fund to modify planes as follows:Restrict opening of the cockpit door during flight. Fortify cockpit doors to deny access to the pilots by those in the cabin. Install video systems for the cockpit crew to monitor activity in the cabin. Ensure that aircraft transponders, which allow controllers to track a plane, cannot be turned off. Airport security: Put the federal government in charge of the following: Establishing new standards for all security operations. Supervising passenger and baggage security at the 420 commercial passenger airports. Performing intensive background checks on baggage screeners and security personnel, and training and testing them. Buying and maintaining all security equipment. Overseeing how secure areas are patrolled and how the quality of airport access controls is monitored. Working with other law enforcement authorities at the state and local levels. Implementation of the security measures is expected to take four to six months.(Source: White House; Associated Press)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (97%); AVIATION SECURITY (93%); AIRLINES (91%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (90%); METAL DETECTORS (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); HIJACKING (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (89%); TERRORISM (86%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); MINIMUM WAGE (75%); OUTSOURCING (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); REMOTE CONTROL DEVICES (66%); MISSING PERSONS (60%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRPORTS; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; LUGGAGE; PILOTS; RECORDINGS (VIDEO); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: ;NATIONAL GUARD (US) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) BUMILLER, ELISABETH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001 



878 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE INVESTIGATION; 
Document That May Have Been Used to Prepare for Attacks Is Reported Found

BYLINE:  By NEIL A. LEWIS and DAVID JOHNSTON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 27 

 BODY:
Law enforcement authorities said tonight that they had found an Arabic language document belonging to the hijackers that appears to be a spiritual and practical guide to preparing for their attacks.
 The Washington Post reported on its Web site tonight that the five-page, handwritten document was found in the luggage of Mohamed Atta, who was believed to have been a leader of the hijackers, and the authorities said another copy was found in the wreckage of United Airlines Flight 93 in Pennsylvania. 
 The Arabic translation of the document obtained by the Post showed a chilling message to the hijackers to stick together and overcome their fears in carrying out the terrorist assaults. The document tells the hijackers that "infinite paradise" awaits them. But it also advises them to be careful in carrying out their assignments. 
"Check all your items -- your bag, your clothes, knives, your will, your ID's, your passport, all your papers. Check your safety before you leave. Make sure that nobody is following you. Make sure that you are clean, your clothes are clean, including your shoes."
The letter promises: "You will be entering paradise. You will be entering the happiest life, everlasting life. Keep in your mind that if you are plagued with a problem and how to get out of it. A believer is always plagued with problems. . . . You will never enter paradise if you have not had a major problem. But only those who stood fast through it are the ones who will overcome it."
The author of the letter also seemed to be preparing the hijackers for the potential of conflict among them. "Obey God, his messenger, and don't fight among yourself where you become weak, and stand fast. God will stand with those who stood fast."
The excerpts published by the Post also try to try and ease fears of death. "Everybody hates death, fears death," the translation said. 
"Purify your heart and clean it from all earthly matters. The time of fun and waste has gone. The time of judgment has arrived. Hence we need to utilize those few hours to ask God for forgiveness. You have to be convinced that those few hours that are left in your life are very few. From there you will begin to live the happy life, the infinite paradise. Be optimistic. The prophet was always optimistic."
The letter became public the same day the F.B.I released photographs of the hijackers and the bureau's director, Robert S. Mueller III said "one or more of them do have contacts with Al Qaeda," the terrorist network linked to Osama bin Laden that is based in Afghanistan. 
But Mr. Mueller said that there appeared to be no connection between the 20 or so men who might have fraudulently sought driver's licenses to transport hazardous materials and the 19 hijackers responsible for the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
Most of the men are in federal custody, and the authorities say they are still investigating the possibility that the men might have been involved in a separate terrorist plot.
Mr. Mueller, told reporters that many people have been arrested, including several in Pennsylvania, on charges related to efforts to obtain the licenses.
But, Mr. Mueller added, "it is our preliminary belief that those arrests do not relate in any way, or the individuals arrested pursuant to that investigation do not relate, to the occurrences of Sept. 11."
Earlier this week, Attorney General John Ashcroft told a Congressional panel considering his request for expanded law enforcement authority that some of the 20 might have had links to the hijackers. Other law enforcement officials said at the time that this could have meant those involved in planning the Sept. 11 attacks might have ties to people considering other forms of terrorist strikes, including deploying explosives, poisons or other hazardous substances on trucks.
The officials noted that one of the suspected hijackers had also sought information about using light planes for crop-dusting, another suggestion of wider planning.
Although Mr. Mueller said there now appeared to be no connection between the suspected hijackers and those who obtained the hazardous-materials licenses, the authorities were still concerned about why the licenses were sought.
"We are looking at individuals who have obtained hazmat licenses, and particularly those individuals that may have obtained them under suspicious circumstances," Mr. Mueller said, "and we are tracking those leads." 
So far, 18 people have been arrested among the 20 that the authorities have said were involved in an effort, centered in Pennsylvania, to obtain the special licenses fraudulently. They were arrested in Pittsburgh and Rockview, Pa., and in Detroit, Seattle, Kansas City, Mo., and Dallas. A few have been released on condition that they remain available to the authorities.
Other law enforcement authorities said it was unclear whether the men arrested in connection with the licenses were contemplating terrorist attacks or were simply participating in a scheme to obtain the licenses without proper credentials to qualify for higher-paid driving assignments.
One official who spoke on the condition of anonymity said that investigators had not ruled out some link to terrorism in connection with the licenses, but that the possibility seemed to be abating in the minds of investigators.
Mr. Mueller and Mr. Ashcroft also released photographs today of the 19 men believed to have been involved in the Sept. 11 hijackings. Mr. Ashcroft said they were issuing the pictures in the hope of prompting recollections across the nation that might provide leads in the investigation.
Since the attacks, senior law enforcement have said that Al Qaeda, the militant Islamic fundamentalist group headed by Osama bin Laden, was behind the attacks.
Today, Mr. Mueller seemed to make the connection more explicit, saying that the evidence showed that one or more of the suspected hijackers had contacts with Mr. bin Laden's group. He would not provide details.
Mr. Ashcroft said the photographs were being released as part of a "national Neighborhood Watch program."
Mr. Mueller said, "These photographs have helped investigators across the nation and, indeed, across the world to uncover information relating to the hijackers."
He asked anyone with information about the men to contact the F.B.I.
But the release of the pictures also demonstrated how difficult the investigation has been. While Mr. Mueller voiced confidence that the identifications of the 19 men were largely accurate, he acknowledged that some might not be.
For 3 of the 19 men, the authorities provided two photographs. In those cases, the photographs are supposed to be different pictures of the same person, but in some cases they do not look alike.
The spellings of several of the names were different from those on the earlier list released by the Justice Department. And Mr. Mueller said it was possible some of the men were using false identities.
"These photographs are photographs that may come from passports, a driver's license obtained in the United States or other identification documents," he said. 
The police in Canada, in fact, said today that they might have a lead on how the suspected hijackers obtained false documents.
In one of the parallel investigations around the world, the Canadian police raided three apartments and a photocopy shop this week in and around Toronto that have been linked to a man arrested in Chicago last week in connection with the terrorist attacks.
The police were questioning Ahmad Shehab, who lives in one of the apartments and is the manager of the copy shop. The Toronto Sun reported today that the police were trying to determine whether false identity documents were produced at the copy shop.
Last week, the F.B.I. detained Mr Shehab's nephew, Nabil al-Marabh, in Chicago for questioning about the attacks.
Mr. Marabh, born in Kuwait, was deported to the United States from Canada in 1995 after the immigration authorities rejected his claim for refugee status.
He returned to Canada illegally last year, but was detained by the Canadian authorities at the border crossing at Niagara Falls in June after he was discovered carrying a false passport. The copy shop was closed today, and calls to Mr. Shehab's home went unanswered.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos: "Faces of the Suspected Hijackers"The F.B.I. released these photographs of the 19 suspected hijackers yesterday, and gave spellings for some names that were slightly different from those previously released. UNITED AIRLINES Flight 93 -- From Newark; crashed in Pennsylvania Saeed AlghamdiAhmed Ibrahim A. al-HaznawiAhmed AlnamiZiad Samir al-Jarrah AMERICAN AIRLINES Flight 11From Boston; crashed into the North Tower of the World Trade Center Satam M.A. al-SuqamiWaleed M. AlshehriWail M. AlshehriMohamed AttaAbdulaziz Alomari UNITED AIRLINES Flight 175From Boston; crashed into the South Tower of the World Trade Center Marwan al-ShehhiFayez Rashid Ahmed Hassan al-Qadi BanihammadAhmed AlghamdiHamza AlghamdiMohand Alshehri AMERICAN AIRLINES Flight 77From Dulles; crashed into the Pentagon Khalid AlmihdharMajed MoqedNawaf AlhazmiSalem AlhazmiHani Hanjour Chart/Photo: "The Investigation So Far"The government released new photographs of the suspected hijackers that raised additional questions about their identities as Pakistan prepared to send a top general and several Islamic clerics to Afghanistan in a last-ditch effort to persuade the Taliban leader, Mullah Mohammed Omar, to hand over Osama bin Laden. The Suspects and the Photographs YESTERDAY -- Hoping to prompt recollections that could help investigators, officials released photographs of the 19 men believed to have commandeered the four jetliners on Sept. 11. Several names were spelled differently from the names on the Justice Department's original list, and the F.B.I. director, Robert S. Mueller III, said it was possible that some of the hijackers had used false identities. A Link to Licenses? Earlier this week, Attorney General John Ashcroft said there may have been a connection between the hijackers and 20 or so men being held in federal custody who sought licenses to transport hazardous materials. YESTERDAY -- Mr. Mueller, right, said there now appeared to be no such connection. But the authorities still want to know why the detained men applied for the licenses. Financing the Attacks YESTERDAY -- Regulators said that leads hinting at a conspiracy to profit from advance knowledge of the attacks had not played out. The most suspicious trades, involving what amounted to big bets that certain airline stocks would tumble, were made by a smaller carrier that was hedging its financial risk against an economic downturn. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIJACKING (91%); TERRORISM (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); AL-QAEDA (88%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); WEB SITES (77%); MISSING PERSONS (72%); AIRLINES (71%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORT (69%); WRITERS (64%); DRIVERS LICENSES (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); AL-QAEDA (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (59%) ;AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%) LEWIS, NEIL A; JOHNSTON, DAVID; MUELLER, ROBERT S III (DIR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PAKISTAN (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001 



879 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: FILM FESTIVAL REVIEWS; 
You'll Enjoy Her Company If You Wear Your Galoshes

BYLINE:  By ELVIS MITCHELL

 BODY:
"Warm Water Under a Red Bridge" is the Japanese filmmaker Shohei Imamura's tribute to the concept of release, and for Saeko (Misa Shimizu) that euphoria is an expulsion of water from her body. At this orgasmic eruption, fish gather at her feet, and during peak moments she lets loose a freshet with the pressure of a fire hydrant.
 The sight leaves Yosuke (Koji Yakusho) in a state of simultaneous awe and desire and the local fishermen extremely pleased. When Yosuke first glimpses the clear puddles at Saeko's feet, his eyebrows lift at her unusual response when she compulsively steals cheese in a little fishing town. It's as if Yosuke, unemployed and at loose ends, who is searching for a stolen Buddha hidden near a red bridge, has been hand picked by Fate to become a part of her life. 
 Mr. Imamura's fascination with the physical representation of emotion, particularly guilt, cuts a wide swath through this film, though it could also be found in some of his previous work. The bridge in the title of this lurid and less than lucid work -- he's trafficking heavily in visual metaphor -- hobbles the film. 
It's as if he were trying to create a mythopoetic version of what some consider to be a pornographic classic, the Mitchell Brothers' insane "Grafenberg Spot," in which Niagara Falls was uncorked whenever Ginger Lynn found satisfaction. Saeko also demands satisfaction, and Yosuke, who's in the middle of a divorce, eagerly complies. 
There are complications that would never have occurred to the Mitchell Brothers, if only because they never found, um, actors. In "Bridge," being shown tonight and tomorrow as part of the New York Film Festival, Saeko's face is taut with shame. She steals cheese, an object of her obsession. (Her perpetual chanting of the word takes on a religious fervor, another way for her to find happiness and eventually salvation.)
Many of the "Bridge" characters are stricken with guilt. Yosuke is hamstrung by it and is living with a group of other broke and desperate fishermen at the outset. Saeko's grandmother (Mitsuko Baisho) has been abandoned by her lover, and she pines for his return. Saeko's mother drowned, and Saeko is full of survivor's guilt, and water.
Mr. Imamura's pursuit of guilt as a glue that binds like-minded spirits could be seen in his unforgettable 1998 film, "The Eel," in which characters linked by a crime sought spiritual escape and succor. 
The talented Ms. Shimizu, the director's muse, was in "The Eel," which also featured Mr. Imamura's skill in creating a community of eccentrics. A recurring bit here with a marathoner in training is reminiscent of a scene with athletes sprinting through the small fishing village in "The Eel."
Mr. Imamura sifts through a lot of history to develop explanations for his characters' emotional states. In this respect this masterly director is following the tradition of another master, Yasujiro Ozu, whose films are the ne plus ultra of lean, dry family drama (though dry literally isn't the word to apply to this film).
"Bridge" plays like a nutty psychological mystery; when the waters stop, anger and resentment cause the villagers' bliss to shrivel. The problem is that the unraveling of the root of Saeko's condition isn't nearly as interesting as the phenomenon itself. The silliness of the floods she unleashes washes away any attempt at narrative completion. You might think that the orgasmic device Mr. Imamura uses is so potent that it has given him a form of performance anxiety. In the end he doesn't come through.

WARM WATER UNDER A RED BRIDGE

Directed by Shohei Imamura; written (in Japanese, with English subtitles) by Motofumi Tomikawa, Daisuke Tengan and Mr. Imamura, based on the novel by Henmi Yo; director of photography, Shigeru Komatsubara; edited by Hajime Okayasu; music by Shinichiro Ikebe; production designer, Hisao Inagaki; produced by Hisa Iino; released by Cowboy Booking International. Running time: 119 minutes. This film is not rated. Shown tonight at 6:30 and tomorrow at 4 p.m. at Alice Tully Hall, at Lincoln Center, as part of the 39th New York Film Festival.

WITH: Koji Yakusho (Yosuke), Misa Shimizu (Saeko), Mitsuko Baisho (Mitsu), Mansaku Fuwa (Gen), Kazuo Kitramura (Taro), Isao Natsuyagi (Masayuki), Yukiya Kitamura (Shintaro) and Hijiri Kojima (Miki).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIE REVIEWS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); RELIGION (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001 



880 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
With Bailout Hopes Fading, Japan Banks Face the Music

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 28 

 BODY:
The deadline is at hand for Japan's banks to start swallowing the bitter medicine of bad-loan write-offs and portfolio markdowns, and the government is showing no inclination to sugar-coat it with a taxpayer-financed bailout. 
 With the first half of Japan's fiscal year ending on Sunday, financial institutions here are recording major losses on their books. Mizuho Holdings, Japan's largest bank, has said it expects to lose $2.2 billion in the half-year. A major rival, the Mitsubishi-Tokyo Financial Group, said today that it expected to lose $586 million for the half. And other banks expect big hits as well. 
 The finance minister, Heizo Takenaka, said the losses showed that the banks were finally coming to grips with their problems, and he gave no sign that the government was considering a bailout.
"This indicates they are writing off their nonperforming loans -- in a sense this is a good sign," Mr. Take naka said of the reports of heavy write-downs at the banks. 
The country's chief financial regulator, Hakuo Yanagisawa, met today with the presidents of the 15 largest banks in Japan, and affirmed the government's policy of speeding up write-offs of bad loans, officials said. "We have no alternative but to bolster the confidence of the global market with our actions," Mr. Yanigasawa told the bankers, according to Kyodo News Service.
With Japan now in its fourth recession in a decade, the huge weight of bad loans is dragging on the country like an anchor, economists said. The scale of the problem is immense: some estimates put the total of nonperforming loans at one-sixth of the economy's entire annual output; the comparable figure for the United States at the peak of the savings and loan debacle was only 3 percent. In Japan, bank lending has fallen every month for nearly four years.
"These unproductive assets translate into declining productivity," Glenn Hubbard, chairman of the United States Council of Economic Advisers, said in a speech televised to a symposium here on Tuesday. Calling for quick liquidation of bad loans, he added: "It is hard to overestimate the positive economic effects of resolving uncertainty." 
As hopes faded this week that Japan's government would channel rivers of yen into another bank bailout, banking stocks as a group fell 11.2 percent, while the broader market rose for the day.
The recent slump in stock prices hurts banks another way, by eroding the value of their investment portfolios, a portion of which they are allowed to count as capital to back loans. Under the new rules, today's closing prices, not book value, will be used to assess portfolios for the next six months. Since the fiscal year began on April 1, the broad-based Topix stock index has fallen 20 percent, lopping an estimated $40 billion off banks' assets.
"At current levels of the equity market, few (if any) major banks would have positive retained earnings, a situation that raises risks of financial sector turmoil," Nikko Salomon Smith Barney said in a report released Thursday. 
Takashi Kiuchi, economic adviser for Shinsei Bank, said, "I would not be surprised if the majority of the banks decide to make the losses appear" rather than using accounting devices to obscure them. "My gut feeling," he added, "is that the majority of Japanese banks are not in the dangerous red zone."
Mr. Takenaka, 50, a former university professor, appears to have won a bureaucratic battle with Mr. Yanagisawa, 66. After Mycal, a major retailer, collapsed two weeks ago, the government issued a plan to tighten up reporting of bad loans by banks. Mycal's $14.5 billion debt had been mildly classified "to watch" until the day it went bankrupt. "This assessment was not very accurate, regrettably, and this is the reason they decided to solidify the assessment process," Mr. Takenaka said. 
As the assessment of loans becomes more realistic, banks will have to write them off faster, Mr. Takenaka said. He said that Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi wanted to get the bad-loan issue under control "in two to three years." He did not hold out hope of bank bailouts or nationalizations of failing banks.
In contrast, Mr. Yanagisawa ignited a major market drop earlier this month when he predicted that the bad-loan cleanup would drag on for more than seven years. Mr. Yanagisawa's go-slow approach fits the outlook of many politicians of his generation, an outlook many outside experts say contributed to creating the problem.
In his office today at the Economy Ministry, with the miniature ziggurat atop Japan's Parliament visible through the window behind his desk, Mr. Takenaka gave the impression of representing a government with its political batteries recharged. Just three weeks ago, Japan's economic leadership seemed to be running out of time, but the terror attacks in the United States created an atmosphere of crisis that has galvanized popular support and strengthened the government's hand to act. 
"People understand how serious the situation is," Mr. Takenaka said. "People are ready to accept any solid emergency measure in many fields." He bluntly warned that over the next few years, Japan was in for "an intensive adjustment period."
The statistics are bleak -- unemployment is at a postwar high of 5 percent, and the economy shrank at a 3.2 percent annual rate in the second quarter -- and more bad news is expected on Monday when the Bank of Japan releases a quarterly survey of business sentiment. 
Major corporations across Japan are warning that they will not make their numbers this year. NEC, the electronics maker, said today that its forecast profit of $541 million for the year had turned into a likely loss of $1.25 billion. Sony slashed its profit forecast by 89 percent, to $84 million, and KDDI, a mobile phone operator, lowered its estimate today as well. 
"Given that industrial production usually drops after a stock market drop, we have to think about very bad economic conditions through next autumn," Kazuhide Eukusa, senior economist for the Nomura Research Institute, said Tuesday. The institute's forecasts now show contraction in the Japanese economy through the spring of 2003.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Heizo Takenaka, the Japanese finance minister, said yesterday that the losses by banks indicated "they are writing off their nonperforming loans." "In a sense," he went on to say, "this is a good sign." (Kaku Kurita for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); RECESSION (86%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (84%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SUGAR MARKETS (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (72%); TRENDS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (62%) BANKS AND BANKING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES; TAKENAKA, HEIZO (MIN); YANAGISAWA, HAKUO 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (92%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001 



881 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: THINK TANK; 
In New War on Terrorism, Words Are Weapons, Too

BYLINE:  By Celestine Bohlen

 BODY:
The title of his show is "Politically Incorrect," which, until recently, was politically acceptable. But in a time when public discourse is constrained by barriers of taste, propriety and patriotism, the comments on Sept. 17 by the late-night talk show host Bill Maher were denounced as both incorrect and unacceptable by two major sponsors, a dozen affiliate stations and even the White House.
 What Mr. Maher actually said was not that different from the comments of his guest that evening, Dinesh D'Souza, a conservative from the American Enterprise Institute, who quarreled with President Bush's characterization of the terrorists as cowards. "Not true," Mr. D'Souza said, according to a transcript. "Look at what they did. You have a whole bunch of guys who were willing to give their life; none of them backed out. All of them slammed themselves into pieces of concrete. These are warriors." 
 Mr. Maher replied: "We have been the cowards, lobbing cruise missiles from 2,000 miles away. That's cowardly. Staying in the airplane when it hits the building, say what you want about it, it's not cowardly."
But as it turns out, what you say is not half as important as where you say it. Similar comments had been aired on Slate.com, the Internet magazine, and in a short piece in The New Yorker by Susan Sontag, a prominent member of the New York intelligentsia.
Along with John Updike, Jonathan Franzen, Rebecca Mead, Roger Angell and other writers, Ms. Sontag had been asked to contribute her comments on the attacks to the magazine's opening Talk of the Town section in the Sept. 24 issue. In curt, dismissive tones, she took exception to what she called the "self-righteous drivel and outright deceptions" being broadcast on the airwaves. She went on to challenge the assumption that the country had witnessed a "cowardly" assault on "civilization" or "liberty"; rather, she wrote, it was an attack on "the world's self-proclaimed superpower, undertaken as a consequence of specific American alliances and actions."
"And if the word 'cowardly' is to be used," she continued, "it might be more aptly applied to those who kill from beyond the range of retaliation, high in the sky, than to those willing to die themselves in order to kill others. In the matter of courage (a morally neutral virtue): whatever may be said of the perpetrators of Tuesday's slaughter, they were not cowards." 
Like Mr. Maher, Ms. Sontag, too, came under attack, in particular from Charles Krauthammer, a columnist at The Washington Post, and John Podhoretz at The New York Post. Her comments were indeed the talk of the town, debated and dissected by other members of the intelligentsia, many disagreeing vigorously.
David Remnick, editor of The New Yorker, said the magazine received more than 100 letters in response, which, he observed, "is a heck of a lot." Most of them were angered by Ms. Sontag's questioning of the word "coward," he said. One letter will be published.
But that is a far cry from Mr. Maher's predicament. As the host of a television show that is watched by millions of viewers across the country and sponsored by national advertisers, Mr. Maher, not surprisingly, caused more of an uproar than The New Yorker, a New York-based magazine with a circulation of 851,000. First he watched as Federal Express and Sears withdrew their sponsorship of his show. Then he issued an apology and appeared on "The O'Reilly Factor" and the "Tonight " show to explain himself. Some ABC affiliates initially canceled "Politically Incorrect" and later put it back on the air, although not the station in Washington, where the White House press secretary, Ari Fleischer, warned on Wednesday that "people have to watch what they say and watch what they do." (The White House later dropped the first half of that warning.)
Ms. Sontag, to be sure, has come in for her share of public criticism. Mr. Krauthammer called her "morally obtuse," while Mr. Podhoretz said she was a prime example of the "hate-America crowd," which he described as "dripping with contempt for the nation's politics, its leaders, its economic system and for their foolish fellow citizens."
Bruised by the criticism, Mr. Remnick defended his decision to offer writers "a forum to react to what had happened from a political point of view or a descriptive or emotional."
"So far as I can tell, part of what is under attack is American culture, and part of that culture is argument," he said. 
Among linguists on the sidelines of such battles, there is little debate that the word "coward" is not applicable to the terrorists who piloted the four planes on Sept. 11. According to Webster's New World College Dictionary, a coward is "a person who lacks courage, especially one who is shamefully unable to control fear and so shrinks from danger or trouble."
If only they had been.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bill Maher, television host, and Susan Sontag, attacked for disagreeing that the terrorists were cowards. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times); (ABC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR ON TERROR (90%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (90%); TERRORISM (89%); WRITERS (86%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (57%); WASHINGTON POST CO (54%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001 



882 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1893 words

HEADLINE: Response To Attack Splits Arabs In the West 

BYLINE:  By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
Since the end of the First World War, when the French and British willy-nilly carved up the decaying Ottoman Empire, people have been divided over who is to blame for the veil of misery that shrouds millions of people across the Arab world.
 Are outsiders or insiders, Westerners or Arabs primarily responsible for the persistent poverty, corruption and repression? The question has been bubbling up since Sept. 11, as people grope to explain the virulent radicalism that has been growing across the region. For while a single madman can be dismissed as an evil aberration, what intelligence reports describe as a sprawling army of nearly 11,000 cannot. 
 Among Arab intellectuals educated and living in the West, who are at once both outsiders and insiders, the question is particularly pointed. Revulsion at the murderous attack has brought a moment of unity here. (In the Arab world it is not hard to hear voices calling the attack justified retribution.) Across continents Arab writers and scholars have been e-mailing one another vehement condemnations. 
But the attack has also created new pressures to choose sides within a group that is at times wrung with suspicion over loyalties and motives. Now, like feuding brothers who etch a chalk line across their bedroom floor, Arab intellectuals in the West are split over how to respond to the attack. All are horrified at the senseless deaths. But on one side are those who argue that it is essential to understand how United States policies helped create the conditions that produced such monstrous fanatics. On the other are those who insist that any attempts to link the attacks to grievances against the West play into terrorist hands.
"I say that's wrong," the author Kanan Makiya said. "Of course there's power and there's injustice, but we should be at the forefront of separating those issues from what happened Sept. 11." Islamic extremists have appropriated "anti-imperialist and anti-Zionist rhetoric" in order to erase the distinction between themselves and the broader Muslim world, he said. Including such qualifications now lends "credence to what the terrorists did," he continued, adding, "That's what they want to do."
Fawaz A. Gerges, a professor at Sarah Lawrence College and the author of "America and Political Islam," agreed. "This terribly hideous act, you can never justify it, never rationalize it, regardless of what American foreign policy has done," he said. "This is not the time to condemn" United States policy, he continued. "This is the time to condemn what has happened. It's time Arab intellectuals rise to the occasion."
To Edward Said, one of the most prominent intellectuals, Arab or otherwise, such logic is flawed. "The appropriation or hijacking of language by self-appointed spokesmen goes on all the time," he said in an e-mail. "But why should we simply accede to the hijackers? To understand is not to condone."
This split among the community of Arab scholars here mirrors the long-running -- and at points bitter -- discussion over American responsibility for the wretched conditions in most Arab countries. Vigorously defend the United States (and Israel) and risk being labeled an Uncle Abdul, the Arabs' Uncle Tom; keepquiet about the absence of freedom and rights and risk being called a silent accomplice.
No serious scholar denies that the reasons for the Arab world's ills are enormously complex. The question is how to calculate the algebra of blame. And to most Arab intellectuals the United States now commands the stage. As Rashid Khalidi, a professor of Middle East history at the University of Chicago, said, "To say the U.S. determines everything is to deny agency of the people, and that's obviously wrong." But he added, "The greater share of power is obviously in the hands of the West." 
America's entry into the Arab theater came midcentury. Before then the United States was considered a world apart from corrupt European imperialists. Woodrow Wilson's call in 1918 for self-determination electrified the Arab world. The following year an unscientific survey of representatives from some 1,500 Arab villages found that if forced under the rule of a foreign power, a majority would choose the United States.
From the moment the United States supported Israel's creation in 1948 and the partition of Palestine, Arabs scholars detail the catalog of wrongs: American and British support for the 1953 overthrow of the democratically elected Mossadeh government in Iran; backing of Israel in the 1967 war that led to its occupation of the West Bank and throughout the intifada; cold war opposition to Arab nationalism; support of undemocratic regimes like the one in Saudia Arabia; sanctions imposed after the gulf war that blocked food and medical supplies, contributing to malnutrition and death among Iraqis; American-led globalization that has widened the chasm between rich and poor. 
"I think blame can be distributed pretty evenly," Mr. Said said in a telephone interview, adding that "the main problem with the Arab national movement throughout the century has been the lack of attention to democracy and democratic rights." 
Still, he offered a blunt summation of America's shortcomings. "To most people in the Islamic and Arab worlds the official U.S. is synonymous with arrogant power, known mainly for its sanctimoniously munificent support not only of Israel but of numerous repressive Arab regimes and its inattentiveness even to the possibility of dialogue with secular movements and people who have real grievances," he wrote last week in The Observer in London. 
"Anti-Americanism in this context is not based on a hatred of modernity or technology envy," he continued. Rather, "it is based on a narrative of concrete interventions, specific depredations and, in the cases of the Iraqi people's suffering under U.S.-imposed sanctions and U.S. support for the 34-year-old Israeli occupation of Palestinian territories, cruel and inhumane policies administered with a stony coldness."
Mr. Said sees imperial designs in the United States' threatened military attack on Afghanistan as well, arguing that it would help solidify its control of oil "from the gulf to the northern oil fields." 
Afghanistan, one of the most blighted spots on the map and where Osama bin Laden is said to be holed up, is a place where outsiders -- in this case the former Soviet Union even more than the West -- has a lot to answer for, Mr. Khalidi said. The Soviets, who fought a brutal 10-year war there, and the Americans, who helped train militant rebels to oppose them, "created the conditions which put a monster into the world, a golem," he said, "one million killed, one and a half million maimed and five to six million refugees." 
Muslims' view of the United States now very much depends on America's next move, Mr. Khalidi said. If its military response fails to distinguish "between innocent people and people who have committed these crimes against humanity," and thousands of Afghans are killed, he said, to most Arab eyes the United States will be seen as no better than the suicidal hijackers.
To a small group of Arab scholars in the West, however, too many of their colleagues devote too much energy detailing outsiders' wrongs instead of focusing on the maladies at the heart the Arab system: tyrannical regimes, rejection of modernity and individual rights, rigidly hierarchical social structures and lack of freedom.
"The dominant tendency among Arab intellectuals is to put the blame for most of the problems in the area on the shoulders of the West," said Mr. Gerges, who spent the last two years doing research in the Arab world. That doesn't exonerate American policies, he said. "To suggest that somehow the U.S. in the second part of the 20th century has not played a preponderant role is to simplify and distort." He cited in particular United States support of Israel in its gnawing conflict with the Palestinians. But to ignore "the failure of the Arab leadership" to create accountable political institutions, ensure civil liberties and provide their people a measure of social justice and economic equity, he said, is also to distort and simplify.
These failings are the major reasons for the lack of Arab development, yet few Arabs take moral or personal responsibility for their predicament, he argued. 
Mr. Makiya, who detailed the atrocities of Saddam Hussein's regime in his book "Republic of Fear," said that since Israel defeated the Egyptian-led Arab alliance in the 1967 war, Saddam Hussein and other dictators in Libya, Algeria and Sudan have legitimized their rule by "finding scapegoats for their problems."
"For a while it worked," said Mr. Makiya, who is compiling an archive of Iraqi documents for the Center for Middle Eastern Studies at Harvard. But then "one catastrophe followed another: the Iran-Iraq war, the Lebanese civil war, the Iranian revolution, all leading to enormously large body counts and claiming more victims than all the Arab-Israeli wars together."
"A very, very important lost opportunity was the 1991 gulf war," he said. "Here the bankruptcy of this previous two decades of rhetoric was revealed in Saddam's land grab, the exposure of his Nazilike terror of the Arab world." But Arabs failed to seize the moment.
That's when Mr. Makiya wrote "Cruelty and Silence," which he described as his "J'accuse" of Arab intellectuals, a book that he said elicited some expressions of support and lots of fury. 
"The responsibility for the failure of the Arab political order can no longer be placed on the West or Israel, as Arab intellectuals are so fond of doing," he wrote. "It cannot even be placed only, or primarily, on the shoulders of the rulers of the Arab world."
"The deeper problem lies not in their psychology, but in the distorting lens through which they have been viewed by the real source of failure in the culture of modern Arab intellectuals," he continued. The title of his book referred to their silence on human rights.
Mr. Makiya argues that the language of human rights and the language of Arab nationalism and political Islam are irreconcilable.
Rather than trying to accommodate these two traditions, Arab intellectuals have defended not only the noble elements of Islamic culture but the repressive ones as well, said Hazem Saghyeh, an author and columnist for Al-Hayat, an Arabic newspaper published in London. The intellectual should be "the one who contradicts his nation, his army, his church, his national institutions," Mr. Saghyeh said in a telephone interview from London, "while the tradition that predominates in the Arab world is that the intellectual is the one who fights for the sake of his nation, his institutions, his hierarchy and his own heritage."
Whether the terrorist attacks will prove a transforming moment for Arab thinkers depends both on what the United States does and whether Arab intellectuals can shake their habit of mind, he said. 
Mr. Gerges said he was hopeful that would happen. "For me as an Arab-American intellectual it's a watershed," he said.
But to Mr. Said, the dilemmas of expatriate intellectuals are ultimately beside the point. "I think the crucial debate is the one taking place inside the Arab world," he said, adding that was why he started writing for an Arab audience at the end of the 1980's. "That's where the battle is, not in New York."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Pondering blame: Rashid Khalidi, left, and Fawaz A. Gerges. (Susan Harris); (Jean-Marie Huron/Editing, for The New York Times)(pg. A11); (Horacio Cardo)(pg. A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR I (90%); TERRORISM (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (86%); RELIGION (67%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001 



883 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: Economy Is Still Teetering Near Recession, Data Show 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 28 

 BODY:
The economy grew in the second quarter at the slowest pace since 1993 and consumer sentiment plunged this month after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, threatening to stifle the tentative growth left in the economy's record expansion.
 Gross domestic product expanded at a 0.3 percent annual rate from April through June, Commerce Department figures showed, revised from an earlier estimate of 0.2 percent. The University of Michigan's index of consumer sentiment fell to 81.8, the weakest since November 1993, from 91.5 in August. 
 The attacks on New York and Washington are damaging confidence and quashing demand, prompting companies to slow production and dismiss workers. Consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds of the economy, shows signs of eroding, leaving the economy on the precipice of recession.
The economy "was weak and it's getting weaker," said Joshua Shapiro, United States economist at Maria Fiorini Ramirez Inc. in New York.
The National Association of Purchasing Management-Chicago's index rose to 46.6 this month from 43.5 in August, suggesting that factories were starting to climb out of their slump before the attacks. A reading below 50 still indicates contraction, which began almost a year ago.
Second-quarter growth was the weakest since G.D.P. contracted in the first three months of 1993. Federal Reserve policy makers have been responding to sluggish growth by lowering interest rates. The Fed "will lower interest rates next week," Mr. Shapiro said.
Lawmakers are also pursuing efforts to bolster the economy. Congressional tax and budget leaders have begun drafting an economic stimulus bill that Congress could act on within weeks.
The University of Michigan's survey also showed consumer expectations for the economy in the next six months fell in September, to 73.5, also the lowest level since November 1993.
Consumer spending grew at a 2.5 percent annual rate in the second quarter, the same as previously reported, government figures showed. Sales are slowing after the terrorist attacks.
The sluggish economy is dimming the outlook for corporate profits, already under pressure. Second-quarter after-tax corporate profits fell at a 1.7 percent annual rate. That follows a 7.8 percent rate of decline in the first three months of 2001 and a drop of 3.5 percent in the fourth quarter of last year.
The government's final G.D.P. revision reflected an improvement in the trade balance. The net trade deficit was revised to $406.7 billion from $410.5 billion. Imports fell $33.6 billion, more than the $30.7 billion reported last month. Exports fell $35.8 billion, compared with the $36.7 billion decline previously reported.
Inventories dropped less than first thought during a period when factories, wholesalers and retailers sought to pare excess stockpiles. Inventories dropped by $38.3 billion in the second quarter, compared with a $38.4 billion decline previously reported.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Real Economic Growth"Annual rate of change in the value of the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for seasonality and inflation. 2nd Qtr. Final (1997-2001)To: +0.3%From: +0.2(Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); TERRORISM (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); RECESSION (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (84%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HIJACKING (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); RETAILERS (73%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (63%); MISSING PERSONS (61%); EXPORT TRADE (60%); DISMISSALS (55%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001 



884 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1459 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE TRADING FIRM; 
After Havoc, Reviving a Legacy

BYLINE:  By RIVA D. ATLAS with GERALDINE FABRIKANT 

 BODY:
Frederick Moulton Alger III is not a man easily given to sentiment. He gave up his American citizenship six years ago in a calculated attempt to preserve his fortune, built during a 40-year career in the money management business. He turned over day-to-day management of his firm, Fred Alger Management, to his brother, David, who had worked by his side since 1971.
 But on Sept. 11, David, 57, the chief executive, was lost in the World Trade Center attack, as were 24 of the firm's 32 fund managers and research analysts. That is forcing Mr. Alger to relocate from his self-imposed tax exile in Switzerland to resume direct control of the firm, which manages $15 billion. Once again, he was drawn not so much by sentiment as by the conviction that there was no other way to make sure that the fortune he built is preserved for future generations of his family. 
 While Mr. Alger turned teary-eyed when describing how he watched on television as the World Trade Center burned and collapsed, he showed calm resolve, even hubris, in describing how he and his firm will go on after losing so many of the firm's best and brightest employees. 
"Everything David knew he learned from me, which he would freely admit," Mr. Alger said in an interview last week at the firm's disaster recovery center in Morristown, N.J. He left no doubt that as far as he was concerned, Fred Alger Management will come back because Fred Alger himself has come back.
"One advantage to having your name on the door," he said, "is you are Louis XIV."
But leaders -- even absolute monarchs -- need people to follow orders. One of Mr. Alger's most urgent tasks is to rebuild his devastated staff, which was among those hit hardest in terms of percentage of employees lost. And, like other fund managers, he must also quickly reassure clients that he can help them recover from the worst quarter for the American stock market since the end of 1987.
To address the staff issue, Mr. Alger is personally recruiting new talent, and has named a new chief investment officer and second-in-command. Hiring has been made easier by recent layoffs on Wall Street caused by the faltering economy, but that same slump has hit the speculative growth stocks that are the firm's specialty.
Mr. Alger noted that he had never retired completely from the firm and had continued to make strategic decisions even while his brother handled the day-to-day investment management.
"At 66, I am healthy, active, and still motivated and fascinated by the marketplace," he wrote in a letter to clients on Tuesday. "You should know that my personal assets are managed by this firm and will continue to be managed by this firm. So I have much at stake as well."
Still, Mr. Alger's transition back to the role of chief executive could be complicated by the fact that he currently lives outside the United States for as much as six months of the year, to avoid forcing his heirs to have to sell the company to pay estate taxes upon his death.
Mr. Alger insists his foreign residence will not be a problem. He is applying for a special work-related visa, known as an H-1B, that he said would let him stay in the country for as long as six years.
But the terrorist attack could make those visas harder to get, said Michael J. Wildes, an immigration lawyer. "Our government may look into his case with greater scrutiny," he said.
If Mr. Alger cannot stay in the United States for an extended period, he will run the business from his home in Geneva, an Alger executive said.
Indeed, Mr. Alger casts his absence from Wall Street as an asset.
"In an interesting way, I come back to this fresh," he said. "I haven't been beaten up by the stock market over the last 18 months."
Mr. Alger is determined to rebuild his firm because, like many proud Wall Street entrepreneurs, he views it as his legacy.
He said he was inspired to enter business when his mother told him in the early 1950's that the family fortune, which dates back to a great-grandfather in the lumber business in Michigan, would essentially die with her and Mr. Alger's father.
"It was at that moment that I decided to rebuild the family fortune," he said.
Mr. Alger's father served as United States ambassador to Belgium but "had no business training whatsoever," Mr. Alger said.
"He knew how to ride a horse and that was it," he added.
Mr. Alger wants a more tangible legacy. He and his three daughters control 80 percent of the firm, while his brother -- who is survived by his wife and two daughters -- held the other 20 percent.
Mr. Alger built his personal reputation -- and a valuable brand name -- with his early focus on growth-stock investing. That will help him to rebuild the firm, which employed 235 people before the attack.
His career dates from the 1960's, when -- like the late 1990's -- investing in fast-growing new-technology companies was very lucrative.
In his self-published biography, he said that in 1965 an equity growth fund he managed rose 78 percent -- seven times the gain in the Dow Jones industrial average. (In 1990, he was criticized by the Securities and Exchange Commission for implying that his firm had operated the fund, when he was actually an outside adviser to the fund's manager. He settled the case without admitting or denying the charge.)
David Alger joined the firm in 1971, and oversaw the management of the firm's 17 mutual funds. One of them, Spectra, was the ninth-best- performing fund in the 1990's, according to Morningstar, a Chicago company that ranks mutual funds. The fund had a 29 percent average annual return in that decade.
Like many other fund-management firms, Alger has found the current decade more difficult. Even before the World Trade Center tragedy, Alger's performance was under pressure. As of Thursday, most Alger funds had fallen in value by more than 20 percent this year, according to Morningstar. Investors can take some small comfort from the fact that most of the Alger funds are doing better than a majority of other growth funds.
Still, the loss of talented personnel prompted at least one client to pull its account shortly after the terrorist attack. The Commonfund, which manages $30 billion on behalf of college endowments and foundations, decided two days after the attack to shift the $70 million it had invested with Alger.
"It was a phenomenally painful decision for us to make," said the Commonfund's chief investment officer, Todd Petzel, on a conference call with his clients last week. "But we felt it was the right step to take, and I would do it again today."
Executives at Alger insist that the Commonfund is an exception. Clients have redeemed less than 2 percent of the firm's mutual fund assets since the attack, they said.
To try to calm investors, Mr. Alger announced his new role as chief executive and promoted his son-in-law, Daniel Chung, to chief investment officer on the day after the attack. The next day, he was host to a conference call for 300 clients. He has since held separate meetings or conference calls with several of the big mutual fund distributors, including Fidelity, Charles Schwab and Merrill Lynch.
Four former employees have rejoined to help out, including David Hyun, a former portfolio manager at Alger who left in June 2000 to join OppenheimerFunds. He will now run three mutual funds formerly managed by David Alger. Mr. Hyun said he came back at the urging of Mr. Alger himself, who contacted him the Friday after the terrorist attack.
Fred Alger was at his home in East Hampton, N.Y., preparing to return to Switzerland after a summer at the beach, when the planes hit the World Trade Center.
"I didn't have a tremendous sense of alarm until the second plane hit," he said. After that, like the rest of the country, "we were frozen to the television set."
At some point, Mr. Alger said, he called his brother's wife, Josephine, to comfort her. "I said to Josie, 'David is probably gathering the troops to walk uptown,' " he recalled. "I said, 'Go out and get a lot of bread and make some sandwiches,' " since when the group arrived they would undoubtedly be hungry.
As he told this story, Mr. Alger's calm demeanor dissolved and tears came to his eyes.
While Mr. Alger is determined to do what it takes to keep his business going -- he has already arranged for new permanent offices on Fifth Avenue at 18th Street in Manhattan -- he said that he has had no second thoughts about giving up his United States citizenship, even with patriotic fervor so strong.
"I was in the Marines," he said, noting that although he is a citizen of St. Kitts, a Caribbean nation 1,300 miles southeast of Miami, he still pays income taxes in the United States. But his concern for preserving his fortune is paramount.
"I will continue to take steps to avoid estate taxes," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fred Alger, left, and his brother, David, who was lost in the World Trade Center attack, pictured on a book jacket. Below, Fred is managing the firm again.; Fred Alger (Top, Fred Alger Management; bottom, Emile Wamsteker for The New York Times)(pg. C1) Chart: "Track Record"Year-to-year performance of Alger Capital Appreciation B, one of Fred Alger Management's largest growth funds. Graph tracks growth fund from 1994-2001(Year-to-date)(Source: Morningstar Inc.)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LAYOFFS (77%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (77%); TERRORISM (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); HIJACKING (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); BONDS (75%); APPOINTMENTS (71%) STOCKS AND BONDS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); MISSING PERSONS; TERRORISM; TERRORISM; MUTUAL FUNDS 

COMPANY: FRED ALGER MANAGEMENT INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ;ALGER, FRED, MANAGEMENT INC 

PERSON: ATLAS, RIVA D; FABRIKANT, GERALDINE; ALGER, FRED; ALGER, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (76%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001 



885 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: New Drug-Offender Program Draws Unexpected Clients 

BYLINE:  By FOX BUTTERFIELD

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Christine Tello, her hair dyed flamboyant pink, mumbled as she tried to explain to Judge Stephen Marcus why she had not obeyed his order to report to a residential drug treatment center.
 She was supposed to have been one of the lucky first drug addicts sentenced under Proposition 36, a voter-backed initiative that mandates treatment instead of prison for first- and second-time offenders who use or possess drugs. But Ms. Tello told the judge, "I forgot, I lost the paper," and then added, "I didn't like the place." 
 It has been less than three months since the law took effect on July 1, and there are no statewide statistics on its effectiveness. But cases like Ms. Tello's concern many judges, prosecutors and drug treatment providers. 
Some of the problems that critics of Proposition 36 predicted have not arisen. California's treatment centers have not been overwhelmed, because far fewer drug offenders than anticipated have pleaded guilty under the new law. But among those who have sought treatment, there have been far more severe addicts than anyone expected, with the added complications of mental illness, homelessness and unemployment.
"One of the lessons we are learning is that we are getting a lot of people who are so addicted they just aren't ready for treatment," Judge Marcus said in his courtroom in the vast downtown Los Angeles County criminal courts building. "Their addiction is so powerful it controls everything in their lives."
In Los Angeles County, which accounts for one-fourth of all California drug arrests, about 30 percent of offenders who pleaded guilty under Proposition 36 have since had bench warrants issued for their arrests because they failed to show up at treatment centers or did not return to court for a review of their progress, Judge Marcus said.
"That is an ominous sign in such a short time," he added. 
Similarly in Sacramento County, planners projected that 7 out of 10 offenders under Proposition 36 would need minimal treatment because they were casual drug users with supportive families or jobs. Instead, county officials say, more than half have turned out to be hard-core addicts needing maximum treatment.
Supporters of Proposition 36, which won 61 percent of the vote, contend that the law is working well.
"The basic goals are being met," said Bill Zimmerman, executive director of the Campaign for New Drug Policies, the advocacy group in Santa Monica that sponsored Proposition 36.
"The key thing is, people who formerly were being incarcerated are now getting treatment," Mr. Zimmerman said, so the criminal justice system is being forced to change.
And Mr. Zimmerman insisted that the high numbers of arrest warrants did not bother him.
"The doctors tell us that we can't expect more than one-third of these serious addicts to recover," he said. "That's a very low number, but it is a lot higher than the number who were being cured in jail or prison without treatment. And there are the other not-so-serious addicts we can save."
The success of Proposition 36 is important beyond California, the nation's most populous state. Mr. Zimmerman's group has been trying to get similar initiatives on the ballot for the November 2002 elections in Florida, Michigan, Missouri and Ohio.
Supporters of such measures think the political winds are shifting their way after a 20-year trend toward ever-tougher criminal laws. This year more than half a dozen states have quietly rolled back some of their strictest anticrime measures, including those imposing mandatory minimum sentences and forbidding early parole. The new laws reflect an era of falling crime, budget crunches and the skyrocketing cost of running prisons. Among the states that have changed their laws as the prison population nationwide has quadrupled over the last two decades are Connecticut, Indiana, Louisiana, Mississippi and North Dakota.
One of the main selling points of Proposition 36 was that it promised to reduce the number of inmates in California's costly prison system, the nation's largest, and it may be succeeding. As of mid-September, the number of inmates in California had fallen since July 1 by 1,900, to 159,000, said Dan Carson, an analyst for the nonpartisan Legislative Analysts Office.
Not all the decline is attributable to Proposition 36, Mr. Carson said, but the drop is still significant in a state that in 1994 passed the nation's toughest three-strikes law, mandating sentences of 25 years to life for third-time felony offenders.
In Los Angeles, county officials had originally projected that an average of 80 people a day would accept sentencing under Proposition 36 and then be sent to treatment. But only about 45 defendants a day have done so, said David Davies, the chief of adult field services for the Los Angeles Probation Department.
Mr. Davies believes the main reason for the low number is that many defendants eligible for the new law -- those charged only with drug use or possession and no related crime like assault or robbery -- are choosing to plead guilty under the old law, where the sentence may be simple probation or a few weeks in jail. This is especially true for those charged with a misdemeanor, a less serious crime, rather than a felony, Mr. Davies said.
If they plead guilty under Proposition 36, they will be given treatment, but it could last for months and they would be on probation for three years. If they violate that probation by skipping treatment more than twice or failing a drug test twice, they could be sent to prison for years, said Mike Demby, the deputy head Los Angeles public defender.
"We are concerned they could have more exposure under Proposition 36," Mr. Demby said. "So there are cases where we would advise our clients not to plead under Proposition 36 and stay with the old law, even though we want people to get into treatment."
The unexpectedly high proportion of severe addicts accepting Proposition 36 comes in part from a decline in the numbers of people charged with lesser crimes, officials say. But it also represents the reality of drugs and the streets, said Mr. Davies, the probation official. 
The average person pleading guilty under the new law has had 16 previous arrests, Mr. Davies said.
"This is a tough group," he said. "They are not teenagers who just experimented with drugs for the first time."
One of the biggest concerns for everyone involved is whether there is enough money for treatment. Proposition 36 appropriated $120 million a year for the entire state, which under a complex formula translates to only $2,000 per defendant in Los Angeles, Mr. Davies said. Because the cheapest residential treatment costs $75 a day in Los Angeles, that amounts to less than a month of treatment.
Studies have shown great success even for hard-core addicts in residential treatment if they stay at least 12 to 18 months, said Liz Stanley Salazar, regional director for Phoenix Houses of California, a major drug treatment program. 
But the immediate problem, Ms. Salazar and others like Judge Marcus say, is that there is no enforcement mechanism to guarantee that defendants like Ms. Tello, whom the judge ordered temporarily held in the county jail, will go from the courtroom to assessment centers to treatment and then back to court for review. The county is huge, and many defendants lack cars to get them to their treatment center, Judge Marcus said.
In the end, the judge said, treatment that is not well financed, and not backed by legal sanctions, may be no more effective in curing addiction than prison itself.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Judge Stephen Marcus, in his Los Angeles County courtroom, sending a drug offender to rehabilitation instead of jail under a new California law. (Misha Erwitt for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITIES (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (89%); COUNTIES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); ARREST WARRANTS (89%); ARRESTS (88%); SENTENCING (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (77%); DRUG POLICY (77%); RESIDENTIAL SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITIES (77%); ALTERNATIVE SENTENCING (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); CRIMINAL LAW (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); HOMELESSNESS (72%); MENTAL ILLNESS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001 



886 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: Now, Plans Have to Be Revised Yet Again 

BYLINE:  By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
All Lincoln Center wanted to do was raise a little money -- well, a lot of money -- to pay for a redevelopment plan. Who knew it would be like shooting for the moon? 
 First, its president of 17 years, Nathan Leventhal, stepped down just as the effort was getting under way. Then the Metropolitan Opera held the project hostage in a very public battle over management issues. Then the economy took a dive, terrorists attacked New York, and now Lincoln Center's new president, Gordon J. Davis, has decided to resign after less than a year. 
 Can the institution still hope to raise $1.5 billion to rebuild its complex over the next 10 years? Some top cultural officials have said no, that the project was likely to be postponed or abandoned, perhaps simply because the Met and the other constituent arts groups still cannot agree on how to proceed.
Board members of Lincoln Center Inc. and its constituents say yes, but with caveats: It may take more time. 
"The dreams have been put on hold," said Linda Leroy Janklow, chairwoman of Lincoln Center Theater. 
The board members say the project remains important, not just to give the crumbling plaza a face-lift or to improve acoustics at Avery Fisher Hall, but also to maintain the city's cultural health. 
"It's more important than ever that New York City continue to be seen as the cultural capital of the world," said Irwin Schneiderman, a member of Lincoln Center's board. 
Some board members have suggested that aspects of the renovation plan may have to be revised at a time when the needs of World Trade Center victims are paramount and the the economy is uncertain.
"Times have changed," said Beverly Sills, Lincoln Center's chairwoman. "Witness Gordon's departure." She said she was not questioning whether to proceed with the renovation but simply whether the timetable and financial goals had to be adjusted. 
"I said we have to do this, we owe it to Lincoln Center and to its constituents to acknowledge that it is 40 years old and this renovation was not just a wish list or a silly whim," she said. "The timing may have to change. But in my mind there is no question we have to go forward and do this."
Ms. Sills said she hoped to have a meeting of the corporation overseeing the renovation -- on which each of Lincoln Center's 11 constituent groups are represented -- to determine a game plan.
Marshall Rose, chairman of the development project, says he is in favor of waiting until Jan. 31 to see how things evolve. "We should all be re-evaluating what's appropriate under the circumstances, whether the plan should be done on an incremental basis, what's the financial feasibility," he said. "I think it's going to take months to come up with an answer."
Without a doubt, board members say, raising funds for cultural institutions is harder now than it was just months ago. But Ms. Janklow said, "You don't stop what needs to be done over the next 10 years because of what's happened over the last few weeks." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); TERRORISM (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001 



887 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: TOURISM; 
Hawaii Reeling as Events on Distant Shores Keep Its Beaches Bare

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. CHEN

DATELINE: HONOLULU, Sept. 28 

 BODY:
It was bad after the Persian Gulf war broke out. It was bad when Hurricane Iniki leveled Kauai in 1992. It was bad, quite frankly, for most of the 1990's, when recessions first in California and then in Japan reverberated here, and Hawaii sat out the mainland boom years.
 But never have the prospects for Hawaii's tourism-dependent economy plunged as low -- or as quickly -- as in the days since the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11. 
 With tourists reluctant to fly and spend, Hawaii has become a forlorn and eerily quiet place. The famed beaches are mostly deserted. Most hotels are less than half full. Restaurants open late and close early, if they open at all. Taxis and tour buses are empty. Entertainers have canceled shows. About the only busy place, it seems, is the unemployment office, where the freshly furloughed wait in line up to four hours and the number of claims has tripled. 
The mood has become so grave that the state's normally cautious governor, Benjamin J. Cayetano, has warned that "Hawaii is facing its worst economic crisis ever" and called an emergency session of the Legislature to borrow $1 billion to stimulate the economy. He has huddled with lawmakers and business leaders and even accepted e-mail tips from constituents. A task force he appointed is recommending a $20 million marketing blitz to promote a state that usually needs no promotion.
"This is a threat to our economic well-being," Mr. Cayetano, a Democrat, said in an interview in his offices here. "If you do nothing, then all the doom and gloom are self-fulfilling prophecies."
While the situation has steadied somewhat since the first week after the attacks, Hawaii's predicament illustrates how places in parts of the country where tourism is a major engine for the economy are often at the mercy of events beyond their control.
From the Pacific to the Caribbean, tourist destinations are reporting sizable reductions in visitors and receipts. In Orlando, Fla., some hotels are reporting occupancy rates at below 10 percent. In Las Vegas, 182 meetings and conventions have been canceled, and 8 others have been postponed, a loss of 45,000 visitors.
But Hawaii is particularly susceptible, with an $11 billion tourism industry that directly accounts for a quarter of the state's economy and a third of its jobs. If the economy does not bounce back to 80 percent of its previous levels, economists estimate that the state could have 10 percent fewer visitors and lose $1 billion and 24,000 jobs.
So for the first time in decades, anxious residents are expressing long-term worries over their jobs, the rent, everything. And they are not sure what to expect, or for how long, should the United States find itself in a protracted war or economic downturn.
"One of the difficulties is that we don't have any models for this," said Jack P. Suyderhoud, a professor of business economics at the University of Hawaii.
"The uncertainty about the tourism, the uncertainty about the air transportation: you overlay it on top of a national economy that was already showing signs of weakness," Professor Suyderhoud said, and Hawaiians are left wondering, What next?
The cruel irony here is that after years of stagnation, Hawaii's economy was bouncing back. In August, the state had an unemployment rate of about 4.5 percent, compared with the national average for August of 4.9 percent -- the first time in recent memory that the state's rate was below the national one, said Tom Jackson, a spokesman for the State Department of Labor and Industrial Relations.
But through Thursday this week, there were 3,845 unemployment claims -- eclipsing the 3,377 from last week and on pace to triple the average of 1,400 before Sept. 11. About 80 percent of those claims were for partial employment, and 80 percent were related to tourism.
"They've cut shows, they've cut dancers, they've cut staff," said Noella Querubin, 23, a front-office agent at the Aston Waikiki Beach Hotel.
"We're feeling it from all sides," said Ms. Querubin, whose hours were just cut by half. 
Ms. Querubin's entire family is dependent on tourism. Her father works for an airline, her mother works at a time-share resort and her brother is a concierge.
"It's going to be really tough," she said, as she filled out an unemployment form in downtown Honolulu. "We may have to eat only rice or ramen."
At the moribund Honolulu International Airport, the number of domestic passengers has dropped by 31 percent since the attacks, and the number of Japanese passengers, who are so critical to the economy here, is down by 64 percent, according to the State Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism.
Hotel occupancy rates, once as low as 20 percent immediately after the attacks, have recovered to perhaps 50 percent. At the Hilton Hawaiian Village, the largest hotel in Waikiki, two of the five hotel towers have essentially been closed. And at most hotels, employees have been asked to cut back on their hours, take sick days and go on a long vacation.
At the U.S.S. Arizona Memorial in Pearl Harbor, attendance has fallen by 36 percent, said Skip Wheeler, a park ranger at the memorial. Hanauma Bay, usually teeming with snorkelers, is now dominated by the marine life. Golf courses have plenty of good tee times. Retail discounts of up to 80 percent are still failing to entice customers, because no one is here. 
Those visitors who have arrived say they are stunned at how quiet Hawaii is.
Ben and Sandy Artichoker, who run a therapeutic horseback riding center for the disabled in Denver, had planned to attend a conference this week. Though it was canceled, they were still determined to come.
One night, they went on a dinner cruise; the tickets were half-price. Normally, 225 people pack the boat; that night, there were only 50. Later, they went to a nightclub called Scruples. 
"We walked in, and we were it," Mr. Artichoker said.
Beyond Waikiki, locals are feeling the pinch, too. They are delaying haircuts and refraining from buying that new computer or mattress. Young people, frustrated at the lack of jobs, are thinking of going to the mainland -- Los Angeles, New York, anywhere but here.
In downtown Chinatown, Harold Goo Sun sells leis strung with fragrant tuberoses, carnations and ginger blossoms. He is a fourth-generation flower seller, but business has plummeted 90 percent since the attacks, Mr. Goo Sun said, and he will have to close one of his two Kapena's Leis and Flowers stores.
"I can't afford it, I'm behind on my rent, and everything is dead," he said.
And yet, some are trying to look at the bright side. Like Don Ho, who performed before a robust crowd on Wednesday night with both humor (the usual Viagra jokes) and sentimentality (a singalong of "America the Beautiful").
Sure, it was tough to see fellow entertainers scrambling for work, Mr. Ho said. But he was still confident that everything would turn out fine.
"We've been through ups and downs, and we always come back," he said at a post-show dinner. "We come back quicker than you think. You got to be optimistic because where we live, you can't go wrong. If no planes come here, it's still heaven."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The unemployment office at the Waipahu Civic Center in Honolulu was packed on Thursday with tourist-industry workers. (Cory Lum for The New York Times)(pg. B1); Upscale shops along Kalakaua Avenue, like most of Hawaii, are dependent on tourists, whose visits have slowed to a trickle.; Harold Goo Sun sells fragrant leis in Honolulu, but he says business is so slow that he will be forced to close one of his two shops. "I can't afford it," he said. "I'm behind on my rent, and everything is dead." (Photographs by Cory Lum for The New York Times)(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BEACHES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); DESERT STORM (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TOURISM (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); LODGING (76%); LEISURE TRAVEL (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (74%); SIGHTSEEING TRANSPORTATION SERVICES (74%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); TERRORISM (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); RESTAURANTS (69%); RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (93%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) HAWAII, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001 



888 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 471 words

PERSON: A. Joseph Debe 

HEADLINE: A. Joseph Debe, 73, Creator Of Unusual Stock Derivative 

BYLINE:  By ALEX BERENSON 

 BODY:
A. Joseph Debe, who had worked for more than two decades to create a stock derivative that became popular in the late 1980's, died at his home in Garden City, N.Y., on Sunday. He was 73.
 The cause was lung cancer, his daughter Gina O'Sullivan said. 
 Born in Italy on Nov. 16, 1927, Mr. Debe came to the United States in 1934. He spent his childhood in Maine before moving to New York, where he attended Astoria High School. He served in the Navy as a pharmacist's mate for three years, then returned to New York, where he studied economics at City College.
After a number of jobs in the securities industry, Mr. Debe became manager of the $160 million Surveyor mutual fund in 1971. Five years later, he founded the Americus Shareholder Service Corporation to work full time on a plan he had conceived in the late 1960's to create a kind of stock derivative that would help both conservative and aggressive investors.
Shareholders profit from stocks either by cash dividend payments or by the capital gains that result when a stock's price rises. Risk-averse investors prefer the security of dividends, while more aggressive investors like the potential profits that result from big price increases.
Mr. Debe realized he could split a single share into its dividend and capital gains components, creating two separate investments out of one stock. To do so, he formed trusts that issued two securities, the "Prime" and the "Score," on individual stocks like Philip Morris and Merck. The Prime's returns came mainly from dividends, while those of the Scores were generated solely by gains in the underlying stock -- although if the stock did not rise, the Score unit was worthless. Both securities lasted five years from the day a trust was created, and both could be traded on the American Stock Exchange.
Mr. Debe worked for more than a decade before winning approval from the Internal Revenue Service for a full-scale introduction of the new securities. "He worked on it for a long time," said Barbara Mehringer, his assistant of 30 years. "He was a very patient, very persevering person, and determined."
When Primes and Scores were introduced in 1987, they proved extremely popular, accounting on some days for more than 10 percent of the trading volume of the exchange. But after Americus had issued 27 of the trusts, the I.R.S. dealt Mr. Debe a heavy blow, ruling that the trusts would be subject to unfavorable tax treatment. The ruling effectively meant that Americus could not create more trusts.
The ruling left Mr. Debe very disappointed, Ms. Mehringer said. But he did not give up, working until his death on other ways to recreate his idea.
In addition to his daughter Gina, Mr. Debe is survived by three other daughters, Dawn Crociani, Karen Cosme and Joanne Hibner; two sons, Joseph and Peter; and 16 grandchildren. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (87%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); CANCER (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (69%); TAX AUTHORITIES (61%); LUNG CANCER (57%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: NYSE MKT LLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

DEBE, A JOSEPH; BERENSON, ALEX 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001 



889 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; 
Stocks End The Week On an Uptick

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK 

 BODY:
A strong week eased the pain for investors only slightly as the stock market ended its worst quarter since the crash of 1987. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 166.14 points, or 1.9 percent, yesterday, ending a week of recovery in which the index gained 7.4 percent for its best week since 1984. 
 But that gain erased less than half the loss recorded by the stock market in the previous week, when trading resumed after the World Trade Center attacks. The third quarter ended with the Dow down 15.8 percent, its worst showing since it lost a quarter of its value in the last three months of 1987. 
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 15 percent for the quarter, also the biggest drop since 1987. The Nasdaq composite fell 30.65 percent, slightly ahead of its dismal performance in the fourth quarter of 2000, when it skidded 32.7 percent.
As the third quarter began, investors were hoping for a quick end to the economic slowdown, and stocks had managed decent gains in the second quarter despite a long list of earnings warnings. But as the quarter progressed, it became clear that the economy was weakening further. And then came Sept. 11.
"Three months ago, the market was discounting some kind of slowdown," said Peter I. Cardillo, the chief strategist for Westfalia Investments. "The end of the quarter turned into a fiasco of a totally different nature, and that is the unknown."
Before the terrorist attacks, investors were uneasy. Aware that corporate profits might not improve soon, they were focusing on consumers, whose spending seemed to be steadying the economy even as companies halted capital spending. The Federal Reserve had already reduced interest rates six times, for a total of 2.25 percentage points, encouraging consumers to refinance their mortgages at lower rates and putting more money in their pockets.
But the corporate outlook continued to worsen as company projection after company projection disappointed investors. By August, the prospect of an overall recession, not just in the manufacturing sector, had crept into the minds of once-optimistic investors. Consumer confidence and retailers' reports reinforced the idea that the last support of the economy was slipping.
From the end of June through Sept. 10, the Dow fell 8.5 percent and the Nasdaq composite index fell 21.5 percent. Then came the attacks. Consumers retreated even further in their spending habits, and recession seemed unavoidable.
When trading resumed on Monday, Sept. 17, stocks plunged even though the Federal Reserve cut rates another half a point. The Dow fell 14.3 percent, its steepest one-week slide since the Great Depression.
Yesterday, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 166.14 points, to close at 8,847.21. Though bad, its decline of 15.8 percent for the quarter pales against its drop at the end of 1987. After Black Monday in October of that year, the Dow ended the quarter down 25.3 percent. 
On the final day of the quarter, all the major indexes rose. The Nasdaq gained 38.09 points, or 2.6 percent, to 1,498.80. It had a gain of 5.31 percent for the week. The S.& P. 500-stock index rose 22.33 points, or 2.2 percent, to 1,040.94. Its weekly gain was 7.78 percent.
Some of the week's move seemed to reflect a belief that last week's decline had simply been overdone in panic. Investors concluded that some shares were beginning to look like bargains. They eased back into the market, despite the uncertainty about the economy and further military action.
Owen Fitzpatrick, managing director of Deutsche Bank Private Bank, tentatively called the week of declines an overreaction.
Robert D. Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International, said that investors were somewhat encouraged by the interest rate reductions and the government's plan to stimulate the economy by spending, like the bailout of the airline industry and the immediate relief efforts. "The market is now beginning to look down the road and say to itself, those two measures will lead to recovery some time next year," he said.
The short-term picture looks sharply worse, however. Corporations have only begun to assess the damage to their finances from the attacks and the abrupt economic shock. They have issued 152 profit warnings since Sept. 11, according to Thomson Financial/First Call, for a total of 573 warnings on the quarter. The record, says the research firm, was 655 in the first quarter.
Stock analysts are just beginning to sort out the financial impact. Three months ago, they predicted that the companies of the S.& P. 500 would produce $13.82 a share in operating profits in the third quarter, and they have since lowered their forecast to $10.42. In all, analysts now expect profits to decline 19.4 percent from a year ago, far more than the 6.2 percent drop projected as the quarter began.
The industries with the worst performing stocks for the quarter were the automakers, semiconductor companies and airlines.
Even though the government announced a large cash infusion for the airline industry, its ability to recover to profitability is much in doubt, with traffic off sharply and many costs rising. American Airlines, a unit of AMR, and United Airlines, a unit of UAL, each fell from above $30 a share to below $20 during the quarter. The worst performers on the New York Stock Exchange included the U S Airways Group and America West Holdings, both of which fell more than 80 percent. 
Oil and gas drilling companies and entertainment companies also suffered.
The few bright spots included electronic military gear, metal and glass container makers and gold producers. 
Of course when stocks fall, investors look for havens. Bond prices, which had been stubbornly low, began to rise because of heightened demand. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell on the two-year note to its lowest level in decades.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Chart: "Leading Underwriters"Managing underwriters of corporate securities, ranked by dollar amount raised through new issues in the United States for the third quarter of 2001. For this ranking, the lead manager is given credit for the entire issue. ManagerMerrill LynchDollar volume (millions): $76,713.1Number of issues: 354Share of market: 12.6%Rank in 3rd qtr. 2000: 1 CitigroupDollar volume (millions): 73,235.5Number of issues: 212Share of market: 12.0Rank in 3rd qtr. 2000: 2 Lehman BrothersDollar volume (millions): 53,525.1Number of issues: 143Share of market: 8.8Rank in 3rd qtr. 2000: 8 Credit Suisse First BostonDollar volume (millions): 53,481.7Number of issues: 193Share of market: 8.8Rank in 3rd qtr. 2000: 6 Deutsche BankDollar volume (millions): 49,442.7Number of issues: 110Share of market: 8.1Rank in 3rd qtr. 2000: 7 J.P. Morgan ChaseDollar volume (millions): 48,157.3Number of issues: 180Share of market: 7.9Rank in 3rd qtr. 2000: 3 UBS WarburgDollar volume (millions): 41,456.6Number of issues: 139Share of market: 6.8Rank in 3rd qtr. 2000: 11 Banc of America SecuritiesDollar volume (millions): 36,975.0Number of issues: 180Share of market: 6.1Rank in 3rd qtr. 2000: 10 Morgan Stanley Dean WitterDollar volume (millions): 35,819.1Number of issues: 125Share of market: 5.9Rank in 3rd qtr. 2000: 4 Goldman, SachsDollar volume (millions): 34,563.4Number of issues: 133Share of market: 5.7Rank in 3rd qtr. 2000: 5(Source: Thomson Financial Securities Data)(pg. C4) Chart: "Leaders and Laggards in the Quarter"Securities with the largest gains and declines in percentage terms in the third quarter of 2001, as calculated by The Associated Press. Preferred shares are excluded as are securities that began the quarter at less than $5 a share. No more than one class of a security is listed. New York Stock Exchange LEADERS EdoClosing priceJune 29: 15.95Sept. 28: 28.75ChangeDollars: +12.80Percent: +80.3% Flagstar BancorpClosing priceJune 29: 13.93Sept. 28: 23.10ChangeDollars: +9.17Percent: +65.8 Interstate BakeriesClosing priceJune 29: 16.00Sept. 28: 25.50ChangeDollars: +9.50Percent: +59.4 TranstechnologyClosing priceJune 29: 8.72Sept. 28: 13.75ChangeDollars: +5.03Percent: +57.7 Alliant TechsystemsClosing priceJune 29: 59.93Sept. 28: 85.60ChangeDollars: +25.67Percent: +42.8 LAGGARDS MEMC Electronic MaterialsClosing priceJune 29: 7.65Sept. 28: 1.05ChangeDollars: -6.60Percent: -86.3% Hayes Lemmerz InternationalClosing priceJune 29: 6.40Sept. 28: 1.00ChangeDollars: -5.40Percent: -84.4 America West HoldingsClosing priceJune 29: 9.97Sept. 28: 1.85ChangeDollars: -8.12Percent: -81.4 US Airways GroupClosing priceJune 29: 24.30Sept. 28: 4.65ChangeDollars: -19.65Percent: -80.7 Penton MediaClosing priceJune 29: 17.50Sept. 28: 3.55ChangeDollars: -13.95Percent: -79.7 Nasdaq LEADERS Merit Medical SystemsClosing priceJune 29: 7.20Sept. 28: 19.00ChangeDollars: +11.80Percent: +163.9% LifeCore BiomedicalClosing priceJune 29: 5.00Sept. 28: 12.69ChangeDollars: +7.69Percent: +153.8 Fischer ImagingClosing priceJune 29: 5.80Sept. 28: 13.15ChangeDollars: +7.35Percent: +126.7 Advanced Technical ProductsClosing priceJune 29: 8.15Sept. 28: 18.20ChangeDollars: +10.05Percent: +123.3 Amarin Corporation ADRClosing priceJune 29: 10.02Sept. 28: 20.51ChangeDollars: +10.49Percent: +104.7 LAGGARDS Tripath TechnologyClosing priceJune 29: 11.25Sept. 28: .56ChangeDollars: -10.69Percent: -95.0% Matrix PharmaceuticalClosing priceJune 29: 10.43Sept. 28: .58ChangeDollars: -9.85Percent: -94.4 Pinnacle HoldingsClosing priceJune 29: 6.01Sept. 28: .39ChangeDollars: -5.62Percent: -93.5 Marconi ADRClosing priceJune 29: 7.48Sept. 28: .58ChangeDollars: -6.90Percent: -92.3 iBasisClosing priceJune 29: 5.00Sept. 28: .42ChangeDollars: -4.58Percent: -91.6 American Stock Exchange LEADERS American Sci. & EngineeringClosing priceJune 29: 6.15Sept. 28: 14.80ChangeDollars: +8.65Percent: +140.7% Allied Research AssociatesClosing priceJune 29: 8.05Sept. 28: 15.55ChangeDollars: +7.50Percent: +93.2 Wellco EnterprisesClosing priceJune 29: 9.00Sept. 28: 15.20ChangeDollars: +6.20Percent: +68.9 Income Opportunity Rlty. Inv.Closing priceJune 29: 8.20Sept. 28: 13.00ChangeDollars: +4.80Percent: +58.5 DRS TechnologiesClosing priceJune 29: 22.98Sept. 28: 34.75ChangeDollars: +11.77Percent: +51.2 LAGGARDS Titan PharmaceuticalsClosing priceJune 29: 30.01Sept. 28: 6.25ChangeDollars: -23.76Percent: -79.2% PYR EnergyClosing priceJune 29: 7.10Sept. 28: 1.85ChangeDollars: -5.25Percent: -73.9 GenStar TherapeuticsClosing priceJune 29: 7.40Sept. 28: 2.81ChangeDollars: -4.59Percent: -62.0 Price LegacyClosing priceJune 29: 6.86Sept. 28: 3.08ChangeDollars: -3.78Percent: -55.1 Avanir PharmaceuticalsClosing priceJune 29: 6.20Sept. 28: 2.90ChangeDollars: -3.30Percent: -53.2(Source: The Associated Press)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (89%); RECESSION (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (76%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); TERRORISM (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); INTEREST RATES (68%); RETAILERS (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (84%)

PERSON: BRICK, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001 



890 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: At Home Files for Bankruptcy; Will Sella Unit 

BYLINE:  By MATT RICHTEL 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Sept. 28 

 BODY:
The At Home Corporation, a once-mighty Internet portal turned high-speed access provider, filed for bankruptcy protection today, a victim of shrinking online advertising revenue and the collapse of the dot-com bubble. 
 The company, which does business as Excite@Home, said that it intended to sell its broadband business to AT&T, which now owns a 23 percent stake and a controlling interest in Excite@Home, for $307 million, pending court approval. The broadband business serves about 3.7 million customers nationwide and would continue to operate during the bankruptcy process, the company said. 
 The bankruptcy comes as little surprise, given that investors have put increasing, and public, pressure on the company, which is based in Redwood City, Calif. Still, it represents a downfall of a company that was one of the marquee brand names of the highflying dot-com era; for many months, it was among the top three most visited Internet portals.
Excite@Home officials could not be reached for comment about the bankruptcy. In a statement, Patti Hart, Excite@Home's chief executive, said the Chapter 11 filing would let the company "protect the value of the broadband business for the benefit of the company's financial stakeholders" 
She said the plan also "will help reassure our customers that service will continue uninterrupted through the restructuring process."
It is unclear what will happen to the service when, and if, a deal is completed and approved to sell the broadband assets to AT&T.
In recent weeks, however, several big-name cable providers, including AT&T Broadband and Cox Communications, that offer customers the Excite@Home broadband service, said they intended to continue service uninterrupted should Excite@Home declare bankruptcy.
In April, Ms. Hart was hired by Excite@Home and charged with finding a way to make the business work with dwindling cash reserves and a fading advertising market.
She later said that while she expected a challenge, she discovered that the situation was dissipating much more quickly than she anticipated.
The company announced in June that it had raised at least $100 million in additional emergency financing. But in July, it announced that its quarterly losses were $346.3 million and that it required additional financing. Just the opposite happened: some investors began asking for their money back.
In August, Ernst & Young, the company's independent auditors, concluded in a report that it had "substantial doubt" about Excite@Home's long-term viability. Shortly thereafter, creditors who had lent Excite the $100 million two months earlier demanded half of the money back immediately, asserting that they had not been fully apprised of the seriousness of the company's financial straits. 
Excite@Home said it had retained Houlihan Lokey Howard & Zukin Capital to help in continuing the bidding process for its assets. It will consider other bidders besides AT&T for its broadband service. The company said it had "sufficient cash on hand" to finance its operations during the bankruptcy process.
At least one industry analyst has said that Excite@Home suffered not merely because of the advertising market but because officials bet that the cable access business would grow much more quickly than it had. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (93%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); BROADBAND (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (89%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); APPROVALS (76%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (56%); EXECUTIVES (52%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; BANKRUPTCIES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: AT HOME CORP (95%); COX COMMUNICATIONS INC (90%); AT&T INC (86%); HOULIHAN LOKEY HOWARD & ZUKIN INC (60%); AT&T BROADBAND LLC (54%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AT HOME CORP; AT&T CORP 

TICKER: T (NYSE) (86%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (95%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (90%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (90%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (86%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (86%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (86%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (60%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (51%)

PERSON: RICHTEL, MATT 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001 



891 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE WORKERS; 
Northwest and American To Pay Severance Benefits

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
American Airlines and Northwest Airlines, facing the anger of their employees, have dropped plans to deny severance benefits to thousands of workers that they plan to lay off in their post-Sept. 11 slump.
 The two airlines originally invoked an emergency clause in their union contracts in refusing to pay severance benefits. After their labor unions protested that other airlines were making such payments -- and threatened to lobby Congress to deny bailout funds to any airline that failed to -- American and Northwest changed course. 
 Northwest said it would provide one week to six weeks' pay to laid-off workers, while American did not spell out how much assistance it would offer. 
"This is something we have wanted to do but weren't sure we would be able to provide, given our changing circumstances and the devastating impact of the terrorist attacks on our industry and our company," Donald J. Carty, American's chief executive, said in a written statement. American's change of heart was first reported yesterday in The Los Angeles Times.
The airline industry has plunged into crisis since the terrorist attacks. Passenger loads have dropped 50 percent, and airlines have maneuvered to cut costs sharply, announcing plans to eliminate nearly 100,000 jobs. 
But airline and union officials said yesterday that the number of layoffs would be considerably less than 100,000, largely because thousands of employees were taking voluntary furloughs. In addition, encouraged by some new incentives, more than 1,000 airline workers are expected to take early retirement, while hundreds of pilots plan to go temporarily into the Air National Guard or the Air Force Reserve, further reducing the need for layoffs.
Northwest Airlines originally announced that it would lay off 2,800 flight attendants, but because of a furlough program negotiated with the union, 2,500 Northwest attendants chose to take voluntary furloughs. With such furloughs, most of them five months long, Northwest's flight attendants will receive unemployment insurance payments, while retaining their health benefits and travel privileges. 
Union officials acknowledged that fear of flying was a factor in some flight attendants' decisions to accept a voluntary furlough.
"A lot of them were scared," said one union official who insisted on anonymity. But many airline officials said that at most several dozen flight attendants had resigned outright because they were afraid to fly after the hijacking of the planes.
The wave of airline job cuts has increased pressure on Congress to provide extended unemployment insurance to airline workers who lose their jobs and to have the federal government reimburse them for 18 months of health insurance coverage. Union officials and Democratic lawmakers voiced confidence yesterday that Congress would take up such measures next week, attaching them to White House-backed legislation to enhance airport security. 
Last week, Congress approved $5 billion in cash assistance and $10 billion in loan guarantees for the airlines. "We should also be helping the thousands of airline employees and their families who are hurting," Senator Tom Daschle, Democrat of South Dakota, the majority leader, said yesterday.
Ari Fleischer, the White House spokesman, said yesterday that the Bush administration opposed tying help for airline workers to the security package. Instead, he said, it should be considered as part of an economic stimulus package.
Union officials remained dissatisfied yesterday with the severance benefits being offered by American and Northwest.
"It's substantially less than what the contract offers," said Robert De Pace, the chairman of the machinists' union at Northwest. "But every little bit helps."
Last week, Northwest announced that it would eliminate 10,000 positions, but in recent days Northwest management said that voluntary leaves and attrition would reduce the layoff total to no more than 6,500 workers. 
"I have to acknowledge that the company has gone out of its way to work with this union to reduce the number of involuntary layoffs," said Danny Campbell, president of the Teamsters union local that represents Northwest's flight attendants.
Continental Airlines said that it would need to make 1,000 fewer layoffs than the 12,000 it initially announced, because that many workers had agreed to take one-year leaves of absence.
Airline executives have sought to share some of the pain by taking pay cuts, and yesterday the top officials of United Airlines and US Airways said they would join top officials at American, Delta and Continental in forgoing pay for the rest of the year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); LAYOFFS (92%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); SEVERANCE PAY (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HIJACKING (89%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); AVIATION SECURITY (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); BAILOUTS (76%); EARLY RETIREMENT (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); AIR FORCES (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); MISSING PERSONS (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); APPROVALS (65%); ARMED FORCES (63%); EXECUTIVES (53%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; TERRORISM; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; PILOTS; RESERVES (MILITARY) 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (92%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (92%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: ;AMERICAN AIRLINES; NORTHWEST AIRLINES; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES; UNITED AIRLINES; US AIRWAYS; DELTA AIR LINES; NATIONAL GUARD (US) 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001 



892 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
American and Northwest To Pay Severance Benefits
American Airlines and Northwest Airlines, facing the anger of their employees, have dropped plans to deny severance benefits to thousands of workers that they plan to lay off in their post-Sept. 11 slump.
 The airlines had invoked an emergency clause in their union contracts in refusing to pay severance benefits. After the unions protested and threatened to ask Congress to deny bailout funds to any airline that failed to pay severance, they changed course. Page C3. 

Huge Losses for Airport Retailers
Retail businesses at the nation's airports, which have expanded greatly in the last few years, are experiencing huge losses because of the decline in travel. C3.

United Airlines will cut the total number of passengers it can fly by six percentage points more than it had previously indicated. C3.

Growth in Second Quarter
Gross domestic product expanded at a 0.3 percent annual rate from April through June, government figures showed, revised from an earlier estimate of 0.2 percent. Second-quarter growth was the weakest since G.D.P. contracted in the first quarter of 1993. Separately, the University of Michigan's index of consumer sentiment fell to 81.8, the weakest since November 1993, from 91.5 in August. C2.

AT&T and Comcast Sign Agreement
AT&T and Comcast signed a confidentiality agreement that could pave the way for negotiations on Comcast's $37 billion offer to acquire AT&T Broadband. Final details were not immediately known, but in a statement, Comcast said it was restricted from holding certain discussions with third parties relating to AT&T Broadband without AT&T's approval. C4.

Bank of New York Profit Shortfall
The Bank of New York, which had many offices, including its headquarters, in Lower Manhattan, said the Sept. 11 attack would cost it $125 million, or 17 cents a share, in the third quarter. Still, it expects to get most of that back from its insurance policies. C3.

Japanese Banks Have Record Losses
With the first half of Japan's fiscal year ending on Sunday, financial institutions are recording major losses. The finance minister, Heizo Takenaka, said the losses show the banks are finally coming to terms with their problems, and he gave no sign that the government was considering a bailout. "This indicates they are writing off their nonperforming loans -- in a sense this is a good sign," he said. C2.

Daunting Lines Form at Airports
More rigorous screening procedures and an increase in business and leisure travelers have produced daunting lines at airports around the country in the last two days. Much of the delays were caused when the Federal Aviation Administration ordered more thorough examination of laptop computers and other carry-on luggage. A1.

South Korean Production Climbs
South Korea's industrial production unexpectedly rose 4.5 percent in August from July, after four months of declines. Sales of cars produced by Hyundai Motor were one reason for the upturn. Analysts had expected a drop of at least 0.5 percent in production. C2.

Hawaii's Lifeblood Slows to a Trickle
Never have the prospects for Hawaii's tourism-dependent economy plunged as low -- or as quickly -- as in the days since Sept. 11. The famed beaches are mostly deserted. Most hotels are less than half full. Restaurants open late and close early, if they open at all. Taxis and tour buses are empty. Entertainers have canceled shows. About the only busy place, it seems, is the unemployment office. B1.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,847.56 up 166.14Nasdaq composite -- 1,498.80 up 38.0910-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.59% up 0.04The euro -- $0.9099 down 0.0077The dollar -- 119.12 yen down 0.47 Graph shows gross domestic product from 1996 up to the 2nd Quarter of 2001 (+0.3%)(Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIRPORTS (90%); SEVERANCE PAY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); RETAILERS (75%); CIVIL AVIATION (73%); INSURANCE POLICIES (73%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (72%); LEISURE TRAVEL (69%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (63%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (63%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (59%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (59%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%); AT&T BROADBAND LLC (54%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (59%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (59%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (59%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (59%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (54%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001 



893 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-5

On Intifada's Anniversary, A Surge of Deadly Violence
Three Palestinians were killed and 80 others were wounded, most of them by bullets, after Israeli troops opened fire on Palestinians demonstrating, throwing stones and, at times, shooting on the first anniversary of their renewed intifada, or uprising. The fighting came despite a 10-day-old truce between Palestinians and Israeli forces, which remained officially in effect. A5

More Charges for Milosevic
A second indictment was issued against Slobodan Milosevic, the former Yugoslav president who is awaiting trial at The Hague on charges of war crimes in Kosovo. The additional chargesof war crimes in Croatia considerably broaden the case against him, tribunal officials said. A3

China Frees American
China has released Wu Jianmin, a freelance journalist who is a Chinese-born American citizen, after detaining him for almost six months on charges of spying for Taiwan, a United States Embassy official said. Mr. Wu is one of a handful of American citizens and permanent residents detained earlier this year by China's security forces. A4

Italian Conflict of Interest
Parliamentary leaders from Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi's coalition decided to appoint the members of a watchdog group that will monitor the actions of the news media outlets and other companies he owns, in order to address possible conflicts of interest.The watchdog group will then report back to Parliament, a plan criticized by the political opposition as further proof of the problem. A5

Swaziland's New AIDS Policy
The king of the tiny, AIDS-afflicted African country has told the country's young women that they are to stop having sex for the next five years, and wherever they go, Swazi girls now will be expected to wear a bundle of bright traditional tassels, signifying celibacy. Breaking the ban could cost each offender a cow, the country's true currency. A5

World Briefing A5

NATIONAL A6-8

Spending Deal Reached For Defense and Education
The White House and Congressional leaders of both parties have agreed to provide the full increase President Bush had sought for defense spending before the terrorist attacks and to allocate more money to education, officials said. The deal would push spending for the coming fiscal year $25 billion above what Mr. Bush had originally requested. A6

Early Results on Drug Law
Defendants sentenced under California's Proposition 36, a three-month-old law that mandates treatment instead of prison for first- and second-time offenders who use or possess drugs, have had far more serious addictions than anyone expected, and many of them did not finish their treatment. Yet supporters say the basic goal -- to offer treatment rather than incarceration -- is being met and the prison population has dropped. A6

New ID's for Border Crossing
The immigration service has yet to install machines to read identification cards that will be required starting Monday for Mexicans routinely entering the United States. The agency said it does not have the money to buy the machines. A7

R.O.T.C.'s Renewed Purpose
The war on terrorism has given R.O.T.C. recruiters fresh material for their pitches and cadets a visible expression of respect. "Before, no one paid attention to us," said one cadet, Cesar Feliciano. "Now I get the waves and the high-five's and the 'we're with you's.' " A7

SPORTS D5-14

Mets Fall Further Behind
The Mets slipped to four games behind the Braves in the National League East, losing 5-3 to them in the opening of a three-game series. D5

NEW YORK/REGION D1-4

Traffic Delays at Bridges Are Hurting Construction
City officials and construction executives are considering building concrete plants on the waterfront of Manhattan because traffic jams on the city's bridges have stalled the delivery of concrete to building sites and threatened the quality of the concrete itself. The delays have idled hundreds of workers. The last concrete plant in Manhattan closed in 1987. D1

Mayor Quiet on Snub
Rudolph W. Giuliani would not talk about Fernando Ferrer's rejection of his plan to remain in office until spring or run for a full four-year term. The two other major candidates for mayor had said that they were willing to let Mr. Giuliani retain the office for a few additional months. D2

Runoff Payments Authorized
The city's Campaign Finance Board authorized the runoff payments for all four eligible candidates in the race for public advocate amid concerns that a clear second-place finisher would not emerge until late next week. A fifth candidate did not qualify for public funds. D2

Hospital Fined for M.R.I. Death
The New York State Department of Health fined the Westchester Medical Center $22,000 for 11 safety violations that it said resulted in the death of a 6-year-old boy during a scan with a magnetic resonance imaging machine in July. D4

Beliefs D4

OBITUARIES C16

ARTS & IDEAS A9-17

Lincoln Center President Quits
Gordon J. Davis resigned abruptly as president of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts after an often stormy tenure of only nine months. The resignation was a new complication for the center's $1.5 billion refurbishment plan. A1

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

At Home Seeks Protection
The At Home Corporation filed for bankruptcy protection. The company, which does business as Excite@Home, suffered from shrinking online advertising revenue and the collapse of the dot-com bubble. C1

Pressure for Microsoft Accord
A federal judge ordered Microsoft and the government to begin a new round of intensive settlement negotiations to resolve the long-running antitrust case. She set a Nov. 2 deadline for the negotiations to end. C1

Bad Quarter for Stock Market
The Dow Jones industrial average had its best week since 1984, but also had its worst quarter since the crash of 1987. C1

A Bitter Pill for Japan's Banks
Japan's banks started to write off their bad loans and mark down portfolios as Japan's fiscal year was coming to an end and the government showed no inclination to provide a taxpayer-financed bailout. C2

Pace of Economy Slows
The economy grew in the second quarter at the slowest pace since 1993 and consumer sentiment plunged this month after the Sept. 11 attacks. Gross domestic product expanded at a 0.3 percent annual rate from April through June. C2

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: George Bush, moderate Republican; the exodus from Afghanistan; helping farmers help nature.

Columnists: Frank Rich, Anthony Lewis.

Bridge A12
TV Listings A20
Crossword A16
Weather D14

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); WAR CRIMES (89%); PRISONS (87%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); INDICTMENTS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); JAIL SENTENCING (75%); SENTENCING (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); TERRORISM (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); JOURNALISM (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); WOMEN (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (71%); DRUG POLICY (69%); AIDS POLICY (69%); ESPIONAGE (68%); ASIAN AMERICANS (68%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (68%); ALTERNATIVE SENTENCING (67%); DEFENSE SPENDING (66%); EDUCATION FUNDING (66%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (94%); SWAZILAND (92%); CROATIA (79%); KOSOVO (79%); SERBIA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); TAIWAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001 



894 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: Beliefs; 
Amid Islam's complexity, scholars are challenged to influence change without compromising.

BYLINE:  By Peter Steinfels 

 BODY:
Authentic Islam, the world has been told repeatedly in recent days, condemns terrorism, rejects violence against innocent civilians and advocates peace. The message has come from many of the highest Muslim religious authorities, from American Muslim organizations, from the pope, from the president and from many others. 
 Obviously, the message is welcome. It accurately reflects the view of millions of Muslims appalled by the carnage of Sept. 11, and especially of Muslims who have crossed oceans to begin new lives with their families in the United States. It counters stereotypes and forestalls vengeful and senseless attacks against Muslims. 
 But without in any way questioning the value or sincerity of these statements, many people want to know whether these condemnations, voiced to non-Muslim audiences at a moment of crisis, are consistently and systematically communicated to primarily Muslim populations.
And well beyond the denunciation of atrocities, there is a further question. Are there significant networks of Muslim scholars and intellectuals striving to articulate a genuinely Islamic vision that would embrace individual freedom, political democracy, pluralism, equal rights for minorities and women and other values that have emerged as the better part of modern civilization?
The question is important because it is an illusion to think that there is simply an authentic Islam and then a fringe group of inauthentic Muslims. What is authentic or inauthentic in Islam is contested, as it is in Christianity, Judaism and most other religious traditions. 
It takes only the slightest knowledge to recognize how incredibly diverse and complex Islam is, and if Osama bin Laden's network is only a tiny group at the end of a spectrum, at many other points on that spectrum there are Muslims closer to his worldview than to the West's. 
If that is going to change, the change must almost certainly come from within Islam itself. Westernized secular intellectuals remain significant in the Muslim world, but it is not too much to say that their day passed several decades ago. Sacralization, not secularization, is the wave of the future. 
That future is largely in the hands of religious thinkers. "The scholars are the heirs of the prophets," Muhammad is held to have declared. 
Unfortunately, the official class of religious teachers in many parts of the Muslim world has long appeared intellectually calcified and co-opted by governments. That opened the way for a new breed of religious intellectuals, in many cases the anti-Western, antiliberal theorists or ideologues of militant movements. 
Of course, their successes did not rest on intellectual efforts alone but also on the festering resentments in the Muslim world over centuries of economic and cultural decline, colonization, material inequities, local corruption and despotism, the seemingly intractable conflict between Israelis and Palestinians and all the other factors that serious thinking about combating terrorism must eventually confront. 
Meanwhile, are there counterparts to those extremist ideologues? Are there Muslim thinkers and scholars immersed in their faith, sensitive to the frustrations and resentments of the Muslim world, and yet appreciative of Western liberties not as an affront but as a stimulus to re-examine the riches of Islam and determine what can and cannot be affirmed with full religious integrity? 
Some individual Muslim thinkers come to mind immediately, not only academics but also two political leaders recently removed from power: Anwar Ibrahim, the deputy prime minister of Malaysia, jailed on politically inspired grounds in 1998, and Abdurrahman Wahid, the liberal leader of a large traditionalist movement in Indonesia whose personal eccentricities led to his removal from that nation's presidency.
But beyond such prominent figures, is there anything resembling a network or movement of such people who, without agreeing on everything, know one another, share the same podiums, write for similar journals -- and can get a hearing in the heartlands of Islam? 
"My immediate answer is yes, absolutely," said Azza Karam, one of a half-dozen scholars of Islam or Islamic politics who were asked that question this week. The others, in varying degrees, agreed. 
But Dr. Karam, director of the Women's Program at Religions for Peace, was swift to outline the obstacles such thinkers face. Attacked as compromisers by both militant Islamists and "secularists who don't wish to have anything to do with religious language," bridge-building religious thinkers are also discredited, she said, by governments that affirm some version of moderate Islamic principles but go on practicing the usual manipulations of power. 
Concretely, who might be seen as part of a network of Muslim thinkers engaged in dialogue with liberal values? Asked to name some representative individuals, these half-dozen experts offered lists that varied a good deal. Some reached further into the ranks of moderate Islamists whose attitudes toward the West, democracy and giving Islamic law a dominant role in Muslim societies others would find questionable. Some bristled at names that others mentioned, a reminder that creating circles of intellectuals is often more delicate than brain surgery. 
Azizah Yahia al-Hibri, professor of law at the University of Richmond, was the most concrete, pointing to a double issue of the Journal of Law and Religion that she has edited. Scheduled for publication next week, it has more than 600 pages of articles and reviews meant "to further Islamic thought and dialogue in the U.S. and around the world." 
Professor al-Hibri insisted that her experiences lecturing in Islamic countries on topics like democracy and the role of women -- and meeting with legislators and mullahs -- showed that advocacy of change could get a hearing if it was "honestly related" to the Koran and the hadith, the sayings of Muhammad. 
What can be done to encourage a network of Muslim thinkers -- without compromising them? American Muslim organizations might play an important role, as might private foundations and academic centers. 
An enterprise like this, although it cannot be directly part of a struggle against terrorism, is surely not irrelevant to the outcome. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (93%); TERRORISM (90%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); AL-QAEDA (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%) ISLAM; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (58%) STEINFELS, PETER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001 



895 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 76 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
ESTEE LAUDER WARNS THAT ITS INCOME MAY BE HURT

BYLINE:  Reuters 

 BODY:
 The beauty products maker Estee Lauder Companies lowered sales and earnings forecasts for its fiscal year 2002 yesterday, saying the recent terrorist attacks added to a weakening retail environment. The company said further uncertainty about consumer confidence and spending, inventory cutbacks by retailers and a significant reduction in worldwide travel, which affects business in retailers like airport duty-free shops, would hurt sales and earnings. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); RETAILERS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); TOILETRIES MFG (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); SALES PROJECTIONS (88%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); HIJACKING (87%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (85%); AIRLINES (82%) COSMETICS AND TOILETRIES; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

COMPANY: ESTEE LAUDER COS INC (98%)

ORGANIZATION: ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES 

TICKER: EL (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (98%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (98%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (98%) SIC2844 TOILET PREPARATIONS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001 



896 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 110 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Americas: Brazil: Growth Forecast Lowered 

BYLINE:  By Jennifer L. Rich (NYT) 

 BODY:
 Reflecting higher local interest rates and a worsening global economic picture after terrorist attacks on the United States, Brazil's central bank lowered the country's economic growth forecast to 2 percent from 2.8 percent for 2001. 
Fears of a recession were reduced, however, after the government revised the second-quarter gross domestic product up to 1.82 percent from a previously announced growth rate of 0.79 percent. Analysts say that lower economic growth will help keep a lid on inflation, which is already expected to exceed the central bank's goal of 6 percent this year. The government forecasts inflation of 6.5 percent. Jennifer L. Rich (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); TRENDS (88%); INTEREST RATES (88%); HIJACKING (88%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (88%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (87%); RECESSION (87%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (86%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT 

PERSON: ;RICH, JENNIFER L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (89%) NEW YORK, USA (89%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (94%) BRAZIL; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001 



897 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 252 words

HEADLINE: Sales of New Municipal Bonds Up 37% 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Municipal bond issuance rose 37 percent in the third quarter, as falling interest rates encouraged states, cities and other governments to refinance, Thomson Financial Securities Data said yesterday.
 Sales of new municipal bonds rose to $191 billion in the quarter from $139 billion a year earlier, Thomson Financial said. 
Bonds sold to pay off debt that carried higher interest rates more than doubled, to $62 billion. 
 Interest rates tumbled in the last 12 months as the economy slowed and the Federal Reserve reduced short-term rates eight times. Yields on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note sank 1.2 percentage points.
Municipal bonds issued for refinancing accounted for 32 percent of the total in the quarter, up from 18 percent a year earlier. The figures excluded short-term securities and private placements. 
The Sept. 11 terrorist attacks may have limited sales during the last two weeks. Municipalities are still likely to sell a record $300 billion of bonds this year, said Curt Hagfeldt, head of municipal bond underwriting, sales and trading at Banc of America Securities in San Francisco.
Yields on tax-exempt municipal bonds have fallen up to two percentage points from a year ago, but Mr. Hagfeldt said returns are still attractive compared with Treasury securities.
Municipal bond mutual funds grew to $299.7 billion in August, a rise of 2.5 percent from July, fed by the largest increase in investment since 1994, according to the Investment Company Institute, the fund industry's trade group. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (92%); BOND ISSUES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PRIVATE PLACEMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (70%); TERRORISM (68%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (68%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (54%) GOVERNMENT BONDS 

COMPANY: THOMSON FINANCIAL (93%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (54%) THOMSON FINANCIAL SECURITIES DATA 

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001 



898 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 88 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: Britain: Bleak Advertising Forecast 

BYLINE:  By Suzanne Kapner (NYT) 

 BODY:
 The British advertising agency Cordiant Communications Group said that it expected revenue for 2001 to fall 5 percent as a result of a weakening economy that has worsened since the Sept. 11 attacks in the United States. 
Cordiant, which owns the Bates Worldwide advertising network, had originally expected revenue to grow 11 percent this year. "Trading conditions in our industry are currently the most difficult experienced in recent years," the company said, as projects and campaigns are canceled. Suzanne Kapner (NYT)

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks shares of Cordiant Communications for the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); TRENDS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); HIJACKING (87%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (87%) ADVERTISING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: BATES WORLDWIDE (58%); CORDIANT COMMUNICATIONS GROUP PLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ;CORDIANT COMMUNICATIONS GROUP; BATES WORLDWIDE 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%)

PERSON: ;KAPNER, SUZANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (87%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001 



899 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: Scholars Divided on Giuliani Bid 

BYLINE:  By EMILY EAKIN

 BODY:
Politicians have responded in different ways to an adoring public. Julius Caesar declined attempts by his constituents to have him wear a crown, explaining, "Non rex sum sed Caesar" -- "I am not a king but Caesar." (Though in the end, his closest advisers got him out of office by stabbing him.) And George Washington refused to give in to public desire to keep him permanently in the presidency, stepping down at the end of his second term.
 But Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who has seen his approval ratings soar since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, opted for a another kind of response this week when he proposed extending his term in office by at least three months. 
 While the three candidates to succeed him as mayor scrambled to find a politically palatable response to the announcement, experts on American history, election law and New York City politics debated the merits of such a move and searched for historical precedents. An informal sounding of scholarly opinion yesterday revealed an academic community divided over whether the mayor's proposal, which was approved by two of the three mayoral candidates, amounted to an unacceptable breach of democratic tradition or a welcome, even necessary, response to a difficult time for the city.
"Though historians are very reluctant to say never, I can't think of a single historical precedent," said Eric Foner, a professor of history at Columbia University. "In times of crisis, we have always had transitions from one elected leader to another one and from one party to another." Mr. Foner cited several examples from American political history, including the presidential elections of 1864, during the Civil War, in which Lincoln was re-elected; of 1952, during the Korean War, in which Dwight D. Eisenhower was elected to succeed Harry S. Truman.
"I can't think of any time at which an outgoing official suggested he ought to stay on because he's indispensable," Mr. Foner said. "Our political system has gone through many political shocks and survived them." Ester Fuchs, a professor of political science and public policy at Barnard College and Columbia University and the author of "Mayors and Money: Fiscal Policy in New York and Chicago," agreed, arguing that New York City has weathered extraordinary circumstances in the past without tampering with its electoral laws or extending the terms of its political leaders.
In 1932 during the Depression and again in 1975, Ms. Fuchs said, the city faced debilitating fiscal crises, and in both cases, elected officials carried out their duties normally. The 1975 case, she said, was particularly instructive. Mayor Abraham Beame, she said, "restructured the city's debt and governance." Moreover, she stressed that unlike Mr. Giuliani, who has been able to rely on support from the federal government to pay for rescue and recovery operations at the World Trade Center, Mr. Beame was largely on his own. (Remember the front page of The Daily News summing up the White House's response: "Ford to City: Drop Dead." The government eventually did offer a loan guarantee.)
"People were satisfied with how Mr. Beame handled the crisis, no question," Ms. Fuchs said. But that did not mean they wanted to keep him on as mayor: he lost the 1977 election to Edward I. Koch. "Today we have the support of the nation and the state," Ms. Fuchs said. "We have a much broader resource network to get us through this than we did either in 1975 or in 1932."
But that network of financial resources is precisely what makes Mayor Giuliani indispensable to the city right now, said Fred Siegel, a professor of urban history at Cooper Union in Manhattan. "For our recovery, we need federal money, and the key to getting it and using it expeditiously is Giuliani," Mr. Siegel said. "We have many businesses on the verge of failure, not just in lower Manhattan but across the city. It's in our interests as a city to get those sluice gates open and get the money flowing, and Giuliani has those mechanisms at his disposal. There's no learning curve."
Even if a majority of New Yorkers supported such a move, extending Mayor Giuliani's term would require new legislation. Some scholars, including Laurence H. Tribe, an expert in constitutional law at Harvard University, said that there were no insurmountable legal obstacles to keep Mr. Giuliani from staying on. "Democracy has some play in its joints," Mr. Tribe said. "If he were looking for some underhanded or tricky way of extending his term, that would be disturbing. It's a matter of taking advantage of and acting in light of the fact that he is so widely valued in maintaining calm and order in the city in a time of terror."
But other scholars said the legal precedents were not encouraging. Some cited the unsuccessful attempt by President Franklin Delano Roosevelt to stack a hostile Supreme Court with justices favorable to his New Deal policies. In 1937, at the beginning of his second term, he proposed legislation to add as many as six justices to the court. The proposal, labeled court-packing by opponents, was even denounced by Roosevelt's supporters.
"The main point is that it was defeated," Mr. Foner said. "And this was right after F. D. R. won re-election. He was, like Giuliani, at the height of his popularity. Congress didn't pass the law for the basic reason that you don't change democratic process to accommodate a particular view or outcome."
Richard Briffault, a law professor at Columbia University and an expert on election law and local government, offered another analogy. Until the Depression, he said, the official start of term for the president of the United States was March 4. But after Roosevelt's election in November 1932, a Constitutional amendment was passed, making the date Jan. 20, partly, Mr. Briffault said, because "people were troubled by the fact that Hoover remained in office five months after being soundly defeated." But the amendment did not go into effect until after Roosevelt's re-election four years later.
"In general, people are critical of rewriting the rules in the middle of a process," Mr. Briffault said. "You're usually able to write rules for the future, not for the present."
Sean Wilentz, a professor of history at Princeton University, said that he was not in principle opposed to the idea of Mr. Giuliani's remaining in office for a few months, but he joked that he had a better idea for how to use the mayor's time. "Giuliani should step down and they should make him ruler of Afghanistan," Mr. Wilentz said. "He'll need a job, and, God willing, the job will soon be open. He'll bring law and order to the people. If he can make it happen in New York, he can make it happen anywhere."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani discussing his bid to stay on in office. (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. A9); The mayor's leadership in a hard time has increased his popularity. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); POLITICS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CITIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); APPROVALS (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); ELECTION LAW (74%); CIVIL WAR (73%); TERRORISM (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); KOREAN WAR (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (55%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001 



900 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: China Frees U.S. Citizen Held Since April on Spy Charges 

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 28 

 BODY:
China has released a Chinese-born American citizen who has been detained for almost six months on charges of spying for Taiwan, a United States Embassy official here said tonight. 
 Wu Jianmin, a freelance journalist with a United States passport, was released in the southern city of Guangzhou this morning and has already left China, the official said. Mr. Wu was detained on April 8 at a border crossing between Hong Kong and the mainland. 
 Mr. Wu is one of a handful of American citizens and permanent residents detained earlier this year by China's security forces. The detentions prompted the State Department to issue a highly unusual announcement, warning Chinese-born Americans that they could be at risk of arrest if they traveled to China.
But these high-profile detention cases have become a liability in the last few months as President Bush and his Chinese counterpart, Jiang Zemin, have sought to promote friendlier relations. 
One by one the cases have been resolved by the Chinese. Two academics, Li Shaomin and Gao Zhan, were sent home this summer after being convicted on espionage charges that both have since adamantly denied.
With Mr. Bush scheduled to meet Mr. Jiang for the first time three weeks from now, at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation group's summit meeting in Shanghai, lawyers and diplomats had been expecting more releases.
"I think this is because of the forthcoming presidential visit -- and we just had a visit to Washington by the Chinese foreign minister," said Jerome Cohen, a New York-based lawyer who has served as a consultant on several of the cases. "The State Department has made clear to the Chinese that there are these remaining cases that ought to be resolved."
Although United States Embassy officials here said they were unclear about the terms of Mr. Wu's release, others familiar with the case said he had been expelled from China after he had supposedly "confessed" to improper activities, but was never indicted or convicted. 
Mr. Wu, 46, a former journalist and instructor at the Communist Party School, left China in 1988 and wrote a book about the 1989 prodemocracy student protests in Tiananmen Square. 
Information about him is scant because his family has not mounted a public campaign for his release. Human rights groups have said he lives in New York, although the American Embassy here has previously identified him as "based in Hong Kong."
Several cases involving American citizens or permanent residents remain. 
Fuming Fong, a 66-year-old naturalized citizen from West Orange, N.J., has been held for 18 months by China's security apparatus on suspicion of gathering state secrets, although he has never been formally charged, in violation of China's legal code. Mr. Fong, who for most of his detention has been denied access to his glasses and hearing aid as well as medicine they have sent him, is accused of gathering technical documents about Chinese power projects.
A second American resident, Liu Yaping from Connecticut, has been detained since early March in Hohhut, the capital of Inner Mongolia. Charged only with minor economic crimes, Mr. Liu was held for months at a military detention center. 
While in prison, he developed symptoms of a previously undiagnosed brain aneurysm. Seven weeks ago, he was transferred to a local hospital with the understanding that he would soon be released. But since then he has received no treatment for what doctors say is a potentially life-threatening condition and is effectively a prisoner in the hospital under 24 hours police guard, said his wife. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE (90%); ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); WRITERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); NATURALIZATION (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); LAWYERS (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (74%) SOUTH CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (74%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); HONG KONG (93%); TAIWAN (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001 



901 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: NEW YORK OVERVIEW; 
City to Sell Debt as It Waits For Promised Federal Billions

BYLINE:  By LESLIE EATON

 BODY:
As Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said it could take a year to clear the site of the World Trade Center, the city prepared yesterday to sell $1 billion of debt on Tuesday to tide it over until the promised federal aid for the cleanup materializes.
 The need for the money was underscored by a daunting series of statistics reeled off by the mayor at his morning news conference: 1,131 families of the victims visited the city's aid center on Wednesday; 4,620 missing people are listed at the center and 5,960 are listed at the Police Department, which is checking its roster for duplications; 565 applications for death certificates have been filed; 133,024 tons of rubble and debris have so far been removed in 8,977 truckloads. 
 Traffic seemed to be moving fairly smoothly yesterday, the first regular workday morning on which new regulations forbade lone-occupant cars from entering Manhattan below 62nd Street. The new rules, in effect from 6 a.m. to noon, were imposed Tuesday when city streets and river crossings were clogged, before the relative quiet of the Yom Kippur holiday Thursday. Subways and buses were not overwhelmed by car-deprived commuters. 
Across the city, however, government officials, economists, labor unions, business people and other New Yorkers continued to grapple with the the Sept. 11 disaster. Several bomb scares were reported, including one that forced the evacuation of the Empire State Building. 
On the economic front, a labor group forecast that workers whose jobs were affected by the collapse could lose annual wages totaling $6.7 billion, while their employers' lost revenue could total almost $17 billion over the course of a year.
The report, prepared by the Fiscal Policy Institute for the Central Labor Council of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., is one of the first efforts to quantify the economic effects of the attack. On Tuesday, government officials said that about 112,500 people were likely to apply for unemployment benefits because of the disaster.
The Fiscal Policy Institute report estimates that 65,000 jobs were directly affected by the collapse and 43,000 were affected by its spillover. Though some of these jobs simply moved out of the city, some may be gone for good, said James Parrot, the group's chief economist.
The job losses reach from Wall Street (12,200), to stores (12,200), to restaurants (11,900), to Broadway (7,800). About 5,300 of the city's 54,000 air transport jobs and 2,700 jobs in advertising may disappear.
Despite the uncertainty of the city's economic future, the note issue to finance the recovery effort "is expected to be very well received in the market," said Adam L. Barsky, director of the city's Office of Management and Budget. The money will be used to pay for things like overtime for city workers and lump-sum death benefits. 
Details of the note issue will be advertised over the weekend, he said, and individual investors will be able to place orders on Monday. The sale will be conducted by the New York City Transitional Finance Authority, which has permission from the State Legislature to raise as much as $2.5 billion for the trade center effort.
Standard & Poor's said that while the city would not update its budget plan until November, the notes were not risky investments. If the federal aid does not appear within a year, the city can refinance the notes with long-term bonds, which would be backed by income tax receipts. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); POLICE FORCES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); DEBT NOTES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (76%); MISSING PERSONS (75%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (71%); OVERTIME (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); RESTAURANTS (68%); YOM KIPPUR (66%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001 



902 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE PACIFIC; 
Indonesia Radicals Issue Threats of Holy War

BYLINE:  By SETH MYDANS

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Sept. 28 

 BODY:
Holy war against America could be tough for Usmady Arafat, one of the angry young would-be warriors who marched through the rain here today with masks and headbands chanting, "Go to hell America."
 His girlfriend is an American who lives in New York. 
 "I was so sad when I heard from her about the attack on the World Trade Center," Mr. Arafat, 28, an unemployed tour guide, said. "My heart goes: 'Oh my God, who attacked that building? If I knew who did it, I would kill him.' " 
A young man named Rahmat, who went to high school in Oklahoma and rather liked the place, was also of two minds about holy war. "America is not bad," he said as he filled out a recruiting form in a small office here. "It's pretty nice."
Since the attacks on Sept. 11, radical Islamic fringe groups here among the 210 million people of largely Muslim Indonesia have been threatening holy war against the United States and against Americans who live here. Their appeals to Muslim solidarity have fired hundreds of young men with a passion to fight to defend Afghanistan, many of them unemployed and aimless in the broken economy.
The United States Embassy said today that gangs of young men had begun carrying out what they call sweeps in several cities, looking for Americans to expel. The embassy said Americans and American interests had been threatened. 
It is also true that Indonesia and the United States are connected by a web of personal and professional ties and that many Indonesians seem to feel affection for America.
Mr. Rahmat, an unemployed college dropout at 26, in fact asked a reporter to take him to America. "I want to see Michael Jordan," he said. In the next breath, he voiced readiness to die to defend his Muslim brothers in Afghanistan. Next, it was back to the good America as he said, "I hope America continues to be a superpower and maintain good relations with other countries in the world."
Organizers here at the main office of a radical group, the Islamic Youth Movement, conceded that they needed to do extensive weeding of applicants before anyone really became a holy warrior. Many of the volunteers sign up on the spur of the moment and quickly lose enthusiasm, said Muhammad Iqbal Siregar, leader of the Jakarta branch of the movement.
Some Islamic scholars here question whether anyone at all will end up going to Afghanistan. Al Chaidar, a researcher at the University of Indonesia and a member of a militant Islamic group, said thousands of Indonesians did join the war against Russia in Afghanistan a decade ago. He said some groups here were in contact with the organization of Osama bin Laden, cited by the United States for the attacks this month.
The Islamic Youth Movement office was decorated with portraits of Mr. bin Laden, and when Mr. Siregar passed by there were whispers, "He has actually met bin Laden." His organization says it has registered hundreds of volunteers, but there was no way to verify the numbers.
Despite the naivete of some recruits, the older men at the headquarters seemed hard and serious.
"As human beings, we are very, very sad about the deaths at the World Trade Center," said Mr. Siregar. "But we must take the analysis farther. Whatever happened was the result of American policy that oppresses Muslims. This shows that arrogance will be punished wherever it is. Now America is confused, panicked, broken inside."
Muhammad Naufal Dunggio, a researcher at an Islamic university who leads an allied radical group, said he, too, had studied in the United States and had not liked it.
"I lived in Virginia," he said as recruits listened, "and I'm telling you, the American people, they do not like Muslims." 
Mr. Dunggio said the mission of his group, the Hezbollah Front, was to conduct "sweeps" against Indonesians closely allied with the United States. The first target, he said, would be James T. Riady, the businessman who pleaded guilty to American campaign finance violations with contributions to President Bill Clinton. "We went to his office last week," Mr. Dunggio said, "and told the guard, 'We'll be back again if and when America attacks Afghanistan.' "
If his group is going to sweep up Indonesians, he was asked, who is going to sweep for Americans. "Ah," he said, "that's another organization. We've divided up our responsibilities."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A mock poster, above, being displayed at an anti-American rally yesterday in Jakarta. Several thousand demonstrators gathered as appeals for Muslim solidarity fire passions to defend Afghanistan. (Reuters); (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); AL-QAEDA (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); INDONESIA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001 



903 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Deal to Add $25 Billion To Budget 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 28 

 BODY:
The White House and leaders of both parties in Congress have agreed to provide the full $18.4 billion increase President Bush sought for military spending and to allocate more money to education, in a deal that could avoid a partisan fight over government spending for 2002, officials said today.
 The bipartisan deal would mean that spending for the coming fiscal year would be $25 billion more than what Mr. Bush requested in his budget proposal last spring. 
 Aides on Capitol Hill and Bush administration officials said they were nearing final agreement on a package of spending bills that would increase financing of programs beyond Social Security and Medicare to $686 billion for the next fiscal year, which begins on Monday. 
Both the White House and Congress hope the deal can eliminate the battles over spending that typically erupt at the end of each fiscal year.
An agreement could lead to speedy passage of 13 appropriations bills that pay for normal government operations. It would not address added spending for the campaign against terrorism or the cost of any stimulus package Congress might adopt to strengthen the economy, which would be dealt with separately.
But in a sign that partisan politics continues to play a role in policy decisions, the deal is being held up by Democrats' insistence that Mr. Bush make a formal new budget request for the additional money. 
Democrats said they feared that without such a request, the administration would criticize them in next year's mid-term election as having busted the budget.
Budget politics, which have revolved for the past few years around pledges to apply the Social Security surplus toward reducing the national debt, have been turned upside down by the costs associated with the terrorist attacks. Now lawmakers have judged the need to pay for the military response and to stimulate the weakened economy to be more important than the pledge not to touch the Social Security surplus.
The federal surplus for the current fiscal year, which ends on Sunday, is expected to be around $121 billion, $32 billion less than expected just a month ago.
The outlook for next year remains murky because of uncertainties about the antiterrorism campaign and the economy, but initial estimates by Congressional budget analysts suggest that the government might run a deficit.
Senior Democrats and Republicans have tentatively agreed on the basic outlines of a deal for the 13 appropriations bills for next year.
Mr. Bush would get the full amount of extra Pentagon spending he had requested; Democrats would get another $4 billion for education, the sum requested by House Democrats -- but $4 billion less than what Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts and other Senate Democrats had sought.
The agreement is also expected to include $2.2 billion in more spending for emergencies, including $1.2 billion that Representative Tom DeLay, Republican of Texas, sought for the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Congressional aides said the White House had raised objections to Mr. DeLay's request.
In seeking a deal, President Bush has walked a fine line between accommodating Democrats and not angering conservatives in his own party. Conservatives in the House in particular have resisted more spending beyond the $18.4 billion for the military, saying that to yield to Democratic calls for more money for education and other domestic programs would undercut their efforts to check the growth of government. 
But Democrats said they would block any deal until Mr. Bush embraced the full spending package as his own. 
Otherwise, "the historical record will reflect that Congress spent more than the president requested," one Democratic aide on Capitol Hill said. "We need to move forward together holding hands."
Any deal reached by the White House and Congressional leaders could be altered as the appropriations bills come up for votes in the House and Senate. Mr. Kennedy, for example, will push for further increases in education spending, his spokesman said. 
The $4 billion increase under discussion would be in addition to a $2 billion increase proposed by Mr. Bush and would bring total federal spending on education to $48.6 billion. Mr. Kennedy would like to raise that figure to around $52 billion. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (77%); MEDICARE (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (71%); TERRORISM (67%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001 



904 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: Journal; 
The End of the Beginning

BYLINE:  By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
Rudy Giuliani is being mercurial again. Nostradamus is falling off the best-seller list. CNN's ratings have dropped 70 percent from their post-attack peak. Jay Leno delivers a joke linking Osama bin Laden to Anna Nicole Smith. (Had it been funny, I'd repeat it.) Scattered among the bulletins of widespread layoffs are austere TV commercials in slo-mo black-and-white in which corporations pledge their solidarity with the American spirit. 
 Nothing has changed. 
 Then you pass by a fire station, and you see the snapshots of the dead, the flowers, the candles, the crayon drawings in which earnest young minds try to parse the irrational. This is grief served up raw, unmediated by artful "Band of Brothers" cinematography. No matter where you are in New York, a city where people like to think of themselves as being in control, the vertigo of Ground Zero still seems only a block or two away. 
Everything has changed.
As we straddle this incredible moment, poised between a glimpse of Armageddon and a future only a fool would predict, there is rampant hunger for certainty -- a precious commodity far harder to track down than anti-anthrax antibiotics. In truth we don't know where we are -- or where all our enemies are. We're in limbo. The best we can do is try to differentiate between what has not changed and what has, and, most important, to figure out what hasn't changed but should. If we can't have certainty, maybe we can have clarity.
Terrorists can't alter the fundamental human equation. People are still capable of being both angels and pigs. Countless Americans have given untold millions to help families maimed by the attacks. Other Americans ignored Warren Buffett, Jack Welch, the Treasury secretary and other optimists by betting against a "patriotic rally" on Wall Street and short-selling stocks when the markets reopened in a swoon. Countless Americans raised a flag to show their love of country and their solidarity with the thousands lost on Sept. 11. Other Americans wrapped themselves in the flag to engage in patriotic one-upmanship, with some news stars (though, commendably, ABC News soon forbade this) sporting lapel effusions large enough to dwarf that of the country's commander in chief. NBC now affixes every frame of sitcom swill like "Emeril" with its promotional peacock logo outfitted in the stars and stripes -- maybe the first good argument for a constitutional amendment banning flag desecration.
But some things have changed, and they are not small. A country that during its boom became addicted to instant gratification -- and to a post-gulf-war military policy predicated on the idea of a silver bullet fired safely (and often indiscriminately) from on high -- is so far willing to let its government take its time and choose its means of battle. Of all the statements from Americans since Sept. 11, few have been more reassuring than a representative opinion voiced by Ryan Clark, a 19-year-old firefighter in Lewiston, Idaho, to a New York Times/CBS News pollster: "I would like to see quick justice, but if you jump the gun and attack the wrong person, it's not going to accomplish anything."
The country's patient mood has matched that of its president. In a matter of days, George W. Bush moved from rhetoric drawn from a Steve McQueen TV western of his adolescence, "Wanted: Dead or Alive," to an exquisitely calibrated, adult speech that drew the essential distinctions between "Islamic extremism" and Islam, between the Taliban and "Afghanistan's people," between a TV-ready war of "instant retaliation and isolated strikes" and "a lengthy campaign" whose clandestine operations may be "secret even in success." 
But since that address, Mr. Bush is being given both less credit than he deserves from some quarters -- and too much from others. Liberals -- who, let's face it, assumed that the president would go off on a half-cocked, unilateral cowboy bombing spree -- must concede that he has put on the brakes. And in doing so, he stood up to a considerable chorus within his own constituency urging otherwise. 
Such was the hysteria on the right after Sept. 11 that National Review's Web edition disseminated a call from the TV commentator Ann Coulter to "invade the hijackers' countries, kill their leaders and convert them to Christianity." Presumably her targets include Saudi Arabia and Egypt, the home states of most of the 19 identified hijackers. Then came the "open letter" signed by William Bennett, Richard Perle, Gary Bauer and editors of The New Republic and The Weekly Standard threatening to brand Mr. Bush as a wimp -- guilty of "surrender in the war on international terrorism" -- if he bucked their demand to attack Iraq. Mr. Bush has to date blown off these influential armchair generals, coming down in favor of the more incremental, less unilateral strategy of an actual general, Colin Powell. 
Mr. Bush has so far turned aside other wish lists from the right as well, including The Wall Street Journal editorial page's patriotic call for the president to use his high poll ratings in the aftermath of a mass murder to push divisive judicial appointments through the Senate. Mr. Bush's quick condemnation of Jerry Falwell's and Pat Robertson's effort to blame America first, notably its gays and lesbians, for the attacks not only forced the TV blowhards to a hasty retreat, but also hammered in, perhaps for years to come, how Taliban-like America's own homegrown mixture of fundamentalism and politics can be. As the president jettisoned these former allies, so he nimbly embraced a former bete noire, big government, to pump up the economy and airport safety -- even to the point of creating a new federal agency, the Office of Homeland Security, whose name, though presumably not its mission, has an almost Stalinist ring to it. 
But the fact remains that, as far as the war goes, the Bush administration hasn't acted yet. The president's policies are a work in progress, subject to further about-faces. All sweeping judgments and bestowals of carte blanche on his leadership are laughably premature. Only in a foreshortened Hollywood scenario can an unproven leader change in an instant, with one speech, into a giant. Washington's rush to canonize Mr. Bush -- he's already been likened to Lincoln by the capital's dean, David Broder -- is gaseous complacency of the sort that got us where we are today. 
This is a time for more skepticism, not less, especially from news organizations tempted to blur the line between jingoism and journalism. Until CBS News and The Associated Press blew the whistle this week, the White House's excuse for the president's elusiveness on Sept. 11 -- a phoned-in threat to Air Force One -- was widely reported as fact, not the spin it was. The administration, whose efforts to restrict civil liberties have even brought Bob Barr and Maxine Waters together in opposition, is so eager to stifle dissent in the media that its press secretary publicly denounced a smart-aleck as benign as a late-night comic -- in this case Bill Maher -- for a tasteless wisecrack. 
In this atmosphere, boosterism can drive out information, especially at a time when we prepare to bond with regimes that abuse human rights and wink at terrorists in their own midst. From our flag-decorated TV screens you would hardly know that the Taliban's internal opposition and our would-be fellow freedom fighters, the ragtag Northern Alliance, is anathema to Pakistan, our other frail new ally. Or that Pakistan and its military, with its dozens of nuclear weapons, are riddled with bin Laden sympathizers. (USA Today, which has been aggressive on this story, reports that "12,000 Pakistani parents named their newborn sons Osama last year," with 5,700 others opting for Jihad.) 
Maybe it's now time to resuscitate irony from the deathbed to which it was recently consigned as well. Certainly it's an irony worth contemplating that, as the columnist Geneva Overholser has pointed out, the press largely ignored public Senate testimony a mere seven months ago in which the C.I.A. director, George Tenet, said that Mr. bin Laden's "global network" was the "most immediate and serious" terrorist threat to America.
The more we know now, the better, because knowledge is an antidote to the anxiety of change, and more change is the only certainty ahead. We can go back to watching all the late-night comedy we want, hopping on planes and rooting for Barry Bonds. But still the reality remains that another shoe will drop and that we have no idea whose, or when, or where.

GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); BESTSELLERS (78%); TERRORISM (77%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (77%); ANTHRAX (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (71%); ANTIBIOTICS (66%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (74%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (72%); JAY LENO (72%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%); JACK WELCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001 



905 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home; 
Progress And Problems

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY LEWIS

 BODY:
Where do we stand, two and one-half weeks after the terrorist attacks? How effective has the Bush administration been? I think the record is good, but with some serious shortfalls.
 After early miscues, President Bush has set exactly the right tone: firm but measured. And he has made the difficult, essential decision not to rush into military action. 
 That we have not yet retaliated with force is frustrating to many, but wise. There was a real danger that we would strike back in anger, heedless of civilian casualties and their consequences for our cause. The president and his people now plainly understand the cost of getting it wrong. 
The sense of deliberateness in our decision-making carries its own power in the world. So does the administration's recognition that the terrorist problem cannot be solved by force alone but will be a long struggle involving diplomacy, finance, politics. Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld, always reckoned a hawk, made just that point on the Op-Ed page of The New York Times the other day. 
The administration's diplomatic performance has been first-class. Secretary of State Colin Powell successfully pressed Saudi Arabia to break relations with the Taliban regime in Afghanistan, and pressed Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel to let his foreign minister talk with Yasir Arafat. At U.S. urging, Russia, Pakistan and others have agreed to join, in different ways, the alliance against terrorism.
But wise rhetoric and skillful diplomacy will not be enough to defeat what is an apocalyptic movement. If we want to do that, rather than just hold terrorism at bay with improved security, we will have to use military force at some stage.
There's the rub. Do we really have good evidence linking Osama bin Laden to the Sept. 11 attacks? If we do, how do we attack him? President Clinton had cruise missiles strike a camp where he was -- and missed him by an hour. If anything, he will be harder to locate and hit now. Americans may have to develop a tolerance for failure.
There is one other plus in the record: not the administration's but the country's. Attorney General John Ashcroft quickly produced a legislative package -- surveillance, detention of immigrants -- that would have done real harm to civil liberties. But both Democrats and Republicans in Congress resisted, and Mr. Ashcroft is negotiating. Democracy has worked better on civil liberties this time than it worked in the Civil War and World Wars I and II.
A critical need is to strangle terrorist finances. The administration has taken steps, but I doubt that they are anywhere near tough enough. We have to make banks abroad tell us who is moving the money around. We pressed the Saudis to break diplomatically with the Taliban; will we press them to give us the names of money manipulators?
Finance is generally a weakness of the Bush administration. Secretary of the Treasury Paul O'Neill does not have the respect needed, abroad or at home. Tellingly, Congress has turned to Robert Rubin, President Clinton's Treasury secretary, for economic advice in this crisis. 
The terrorists aimed to injure us economically, and their attack has intensified a developing recession. The belief is widespread that we need Keynesian measures: a large-scale infusion of money into the economy. But President Bush has no one on his economic team strong enough to put that case together.
The president's greatest achievement, I think, has been to hold the country together behind a careful, patient policy. There has been an extraordinary absence of partisan ideology. Two large exceptions, in their egregious character, prove that rule. 
Andrew Sullivan, a right-wing figure, wrote in The Sunday Times of London five days after the attacks: "The middle part of the country -- the great red zone that voted for Bush -- is clearly ready for war. The decadent left in its enclaves on the coasts is not dead -- and may well mount a fifth column." The disgusting diatribe condemns itself.
Then William Kristol, a leading conservative voice, used the op-ed page of The Washington Post to attack Secretary Powell as soft and disloyal to the president. To the contrary, as almost everyone else in the country has seen over these weeks, Colin Powell has been a strong, reassuring figure, giving crucial support to George W. Bush as he has grown into the presidency. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALIBAN (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); CIVIL WAR (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); WORLD WAR I (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); IMMIGRATION (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (86%); BILL CLINTON (78%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001 



906 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: NYC; 
Politics That Fray Civic Unity

BYLINE:  By CLYDE HABERMAN 

 BODY:
THE 20th Amendment to the United States Constitution seemed worth rereading yesterday.
 This is the amendment, adopted in 1933, that changed the dates when new presidents, vice presidents and members of Congress take office. Instead of March 4, which had been standard since the earliest days of the republic, Jan. 20 was fixed for the transfer of power at the White House, and Jan. 3 for Congress. 
 The reasoning was simple, said Michael Beschloss, the presidential historian. The four-month gap between Election Day and Inauguration Day, unavoidable in the horse-and-carriage age, had become as antiquated as a buggy whip. By the 1930's, Mr. Beschloss said, "there was no justification" for such a drawn-out transition period. 
"The feeling was that having a lame duck for that long would be a problem for the country," he said. "Foreign leaders won't make deals with him, and Congress obviously won't."
Mind you, the shift to a substantially shorter interregnum came while the country was mired in an enormous crisis, the greatest economic depression in its history.
All this is mentioned because New Yorkers are now caught in another tough time, the aftermath of the World Trade Center disaster. But we are told by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani that what was correct for the flat-on-its-back America of the 30's is wrong for the saddened-but-sturdy New York of today. We must have, Mr. Giuliani says, a longer transition period between mayors -- up to five months, instead of the present two months.
Hanging on to him now, he essentially says, is more important than hanging on to processes that have served the city for many decades. Clearly, many New Yorkers agree. To show that he means business, his lieutenants hint at gun-at-your-head alternatives, including doing everything possible to nullify the term-limits law that will force Mr. Giuliani out of office on Dec. 31, and then running for another four years. In short, apres moi, moi.
The very thought of four more years has some fervently anti-Giuliani New Yorkers in a cold sweat. Unsolicited, Richard D. Emery, a civil rights lawyer, phoned yesterday to say that the term-extension deal had to be accepted because it was "the least havoc-creating choice."
"Havoc" may sound a tad strong to some ears. There is no question, though, that Mr. Giuliani has managed again to do what he so often does: make himself the issue, no matter what the subject may be. In the end, it always seems to be about him. He is such a polarizing figure -- how many New Yorkers do you know who don't either love him or hate him? -- that this politicking for a term extension is already fraying the civic unity that he says he wants to preserve.
In the last few days, the mayor has begun saying that he always favored a longer transition period. He could have used one himself when he took office in 1994, he said. If that is so, he somehow never noticeably shared this recipe for good government with the public -- not until now, when he has a little more than three months to go.
MOTIVES aside, the proposal to stretch his term until April 2002 raises some questions.
For instance, who gets to prepare the direction-setting budget message that is due in January: Mr. Giuliani or the mayor-elect who should have taken office on Jan. 1 and who may have different priorities?
Would a longer term apply only to the mayor? Or should it also go to the city comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, guardian of pension funds and the city's chief investor while the stock market does stomach-churning loop the loops? Mr. Hevesi, who remains a mayoral candidate on the Liberal Party line, did not return calls yesterday to see if he had any thoughts on what would seem an important matter.
And why should the next mayor settle for a term lasting only three years and nine months? Doesn't he deserve a full four years? If so, the effect would be to create a permanent April 1 Inauguration Day and a transition period that drags on for an exhausting five months. That is hardly in the spirit of the 20th Amendment.
There is one more point, mentioned in case Mr. Giuliani persuades Albany's power brokers to unravel the term-limits law that city voters have twice approved.
The mayor says he has been boning up lately on Winston Churchill and his brave leadership during Britain's darkest hours of World War II. It is not clear if his reading has taken him up to July 1945, when Britain had national elections, a mere two months after the war ended in Europe.
For the record, Churchill lost. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TERM LIMITS (89%); HIJACKING (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); HISTORY (71%); BUDGETS (71%); TERRORISM (66%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (66%); LAWYERS (63%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; TERM LIMITS (POLITICAL OFFICE); TERRORISM; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (79%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%) HABERMAN, CLYDE; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); FERRER, FERNANDO (BORO PRES); GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE); BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001 



907 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Again, Democrats Find Giuliani at Center of the Race 

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

 BODY:
Just a few days ago, Mark Green was preparing for a runoff campaign in which he would stress unity -- a contrast with Fernando Ferrer's advocacy for "the other New York" -- while offering a sober discussion of how to rebuild the city. Mr. Ferrer was preparing to cite his work rebuilding dilapidated housing as Bronx borough president, while urging that New York, in its rush to recover, not neglect problems with housing, health care and education.
 But as Mr. Ferrer and Mr. Green began the third day of their runoff contest yesterday, they found themselves talking about the same thing: Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. Fittingly for a campaign in which the most prominent player has, from Day 1, been someone who is not even on the ballot, Mr. Giuliani has moved swiftly to the center of the Democratic runoff. 
 In a mayoral campaign with relatively few distinctions among the candidates, Mr. Giuliani helped create one by urging the contenders to bow to his demand for a term extension of several months, or face the threat of him trying to persuade the State Legislature to allow him to run for a third term. Mr. Green acceded to Mr. Giuliani's request. Mr. Ferrer, who is Mr. Green's opponent in the Oct. 11 runoff, did not.
These contrasting positions, in a year when all the candidates have struggled to balance criticism of Mr. Giuliani with praise of his tenure, caught the eye of many Democrats yesterday, among them Green supporters who were not happy with the turn of events. Some suggested that Mr. Ferrer, who waited for Mr. Green to issue a news release backing Mr. Giuliani before announcing his opposition, had seized the higher ground, at least from the perspective of Democrats who tend to vote in a primary.
Mr. Ferrer said that although the mayor had performed admirably since the attack, his handling of the crisis did not justify changing the law to allow him to linger in City Hall. Mr. Green, who is the public advocate, said he was trying to ensure that the city had an orderly transition during a difficult time. 
Nonetheless, he has acquiesced to Mr. Giuliani while the mayor's popularity is at its highest. And although Mr. Green said political factors did not enter into his consideration, the public advocate, understandably, has not been looking to alienate Democrats who have been applauding Mr. Giuliani's performance over the past two weeks.
Howard Wolfson, who was the communications director for Hillary Rodham Clinton when she ran for Senate last year, said Democratic primary voters might be wary of the extension that Mr. Giuliani has proposed, and to which Mr. Green has agreed, regardless of the extraordinary circumstances. "Many Democrats may be suspicious of this kind of arrangement," Mr. Wolfson said. He added: "Freddy looks big. He looks principled."
These events over the past two days served as a reminder of how often Mr. Giuliani has been the sun around which the Democratic candidates have revolved. If there has been one constant in this mayoral campaign, it has been the struggle of all the candidates to figure out how to deal with Mr. Giuliani. Many Democrats believe that this was one of the main forces that accounted for the collapse of the candidacy of Alan G. Hevesi, the city comptroller.
New York's outsized mayor seems certain to play a dominant role in the Democratic runoff, no matter what happens with his effort to extend his tenure. And by design or not -- and when it comes to Mr. Giuliani these days, politicians have given up trying to figure that one out -- the mayor's actions are creating all kinds of complications for the Democrats seeking to succeed him.
For example, the Black and Puerto Rican Legislative Caucus in Albany, which includes a number of Mr. Green's supporters, has come out firmly against any extension for Mr. Giuliani. As Mr. Ferrer has showed success at building a coalition of black and Latino supporters, the last thing Mr. Green wants is any erosion in his support among blacks who might be put off by the perception that he is trying to help Mr. Giuliani prolong his tenure.
In addition, some of Mr. Green's supporters have expressed concern that an impression among voters that Mr. Giuliani would be on the November ballot would discourage Green supporters from voting in the runoff. That could be a problem for Mr. Green because most politicians believe that Mr. Ferrer's supporters are more likely to turn out.
"Freddy wins if we don't get the white vote out," said one state legislator who supports Mr. Green. "If whites think Mr. Giuliani is running in November, they are not going to vote in great numbers."
Mr. Green's advisers contended yesterday that Mr. Giuliani's actions were causing problems for Mr. Ferrer as well. They said Mr. Ferrer risked a backlash by standing as a roadblock to an extended term for Mr. Giuliani.
"There are signs that more conservative Democrats are looking at how people respond to this tragedy, to see who acts responsibly," one of Mr. Green's advisers said.
Still, the concern among Mr. Green's normally sanguine advisers was clear yesterday. They acknowledged that they received a swell of protest from some liberal supporters. Mr. Green sent an e-mail message to Democrats yesterday offering an explanation of his actions, which veered from the praise he has offered for the mayor in recent days.
"As you know, no public official has taken on Mayor Giuliani on important issues more than I have over the last seven and a half years," he said.
Mr. Green said yesterday that while his decision was a "close call," he was trying to work with Mr. Giuliani to ensure the smoothest possible transition in City Hall. 
Asked what role political considerations had played in his decision, he responded, "Next to none."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fernando Ferrer, top, and Mark Green, Democrats running for mayor, differ on whether to support extending Rudolph W. Giuliani's tenure. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times); (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RUNOFF ELECTIONS (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CITIES (77%); TERM LIMITS (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); HIJACKING (72%); TERRORISM (62%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; ELECTION ISSUES; TERRORISM; TERM LIMITS (POLITICAL OFFICE); WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%) NAGOURNEY, ADAM; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); FERRER, FERNANDO (BORO PRES); GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001 



908 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: George Bush, G.O.P. Moderate 

 BODY:
The rush by President Bush and Congress to endorse bipartisan cooperation after Sept. 11 was to be expected. The surprise is that the harmony has held up. Mr. Bush has transformed himself into a moderate, while Democrats are shelving some of their liberal agenda. At the Capitol, Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve and a Republican, and Robert Rubin, Bill Clinton's Treasury secretary, have been anointed the twin wise men of the economy, whose every joint appearance is treated with awe. Measures on presidential war powers, airline bailouts, aid for New York and even overall spending have been hammered out by Republicans and Democrats together. Partisan plotting is out of season. Lunching with a legislator from the other party is au courant.
 This new spirit is as fragile as it is welcome, and its toughest test will come in early October, over the economic stimulus package. Democrats still want it focused on spending, Republicans on tax reductions. Hard-right Republicans like Representative Tom DeLay of Texas and Senators Don Nickles of Oklahoma and Phil Gramm of Texas are quietly seething over talk of scrapping proposed tax cuts for investors and corporations. But the White House has been virtually ignoring them and working with House Speaker Dennis Hastert, who actually listens to the anti-tax-cut pronouncements of Mr. Greenspan and Mr. Rubin. 
 Republicans are also upset about the way the current crisis has opened the doors to federal spending. Giving $20 billion to New York City was a jolt for many conservatives. Others fear -- correctly -- that the Democrats will try to exploit the current crisis to push such programs as federal rail subsidies, public health, job training and aid to the unemployed. (Senator Edward Kennedy has already proposed $30 billion.)
When it comes to spending, the White House has once again turned to Speaker Hastert, to the dismay of conservative Republicans. This week, after a great deal of haggling, the White House accepted a higher dollar figure than it wanted for overall domestic spending next year, including a substantial increase for education, rather than pick a fight.
For their part, the Democrats are so fearful of being portrayed by Mr. Bush as free spenders that they have insisted that any budget increases for the coming year be labeled as White House initiatives. Most Democrats acknowledge, moreover, that they will probably have to be careful about what they ask for. Some of them remember the first year of the Clinton presidency, when an economic stimulus package got so piled up with pork and well-meaning but not necessarily critical social programs that it collapsed under its own weight.
The bipartisan mood in Washington can be seen in odd gestures. After the president's speech to Congress, people noted the warm embrace shared by Mr. Bush and the Senate majority leader, Tom Daschle, and the affectionate presidential pinch on the cheek for Senator Charles Schumer of New York, compared with the cool handshake the president offered the Republican leader, Trent Lott. But the hero of the new mood has to be Mr. Hastert. In his three years as speaker, he has often seemed more concerned about Mr. DeLay's breathing down his neck than with trying to get passage of legislation with broad bipartisan support. His leadership approach has changed, and he is now telling Republicans they have no choice but to work with their colleagues across the aisle if they want to accomplish anything quickly.
Until the terrorist attacks this month, Mr. Bush also seemed to be a captive of his party's right wing. Then in short order he not only authorized a giant aid package for New York and the terrorists' victims, he also compromised with Democrats on language of the resolution backing military actions. He is listening to them, and other critics, on moderating the attorney general's request for expanded antiterrorism legislation for law enforcement. Democrats who talk to him come away impressed with what they say is the depth of his commitment to forge a new kind of government.
The new mood may not survive for long, but all legislators should now be trying to get as much done as they can while it lasts. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LIBERALISM (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); TAX INCENTIVES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (66%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); BILL CLINTON (88%); PHIL GRAMM (58%); TED KENNEDY (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); TOM DASCHLE (57%); ALAN GREENSPAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001 



909 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: A Nation Challenged 

 BODY:
 An Unconventional War

'HOT PURSUIT' -- President Bush said the United States was "in hot pursuit" of both Osama bin Laden and the Taliban forces harboring him in Afghanistan. American officials would not say whether intelligence operatives or commando units were in Afghanistan in recent days. A1

NEW APPROACH TO A NEW WAR -- Pentagon planners are focusing on commando raids and limited air strikes, a strategy that puts aside the military's long-standing insistence on using overwhelming force. B4

WAITING FOR ORDERS -- On Okinawa, life has been transformed for the 17,000 marines there, wondering if they will be sent into action. B4

Inside a Terrorist's Mind

WIDENING THE NET -- In the hours after the Sept. 11 attacks, German intelligence intercepted a phone conversation between jubilant followers of Osama bin Laden that referred to "the 30 people traveling for the operation." That led the F.B.I. to search for 11 more hijackers than the suspected 19, so far without result. A1

TERRORIST WRITINGS -- A letter left behind by the hijackers is a puzzling mixture of everyday piety and murderous resolve, scholars and Muslim leaders who read excerpts said. The letter contained religious references, inspirational commentary and step-by-step instructions for the suicide missions. B3

Friends and Enemies

U.N. BACKING SOUGHT -- The Security Council unanimously adopted an American-sponsored resolution that would oblige all 189 member states to crack down on the financing, training and movement of terrorists, and to cooperate in any campaign against them, including one that involves the use of force. A1

AT THE FRONT -- A general of the Northern Alliance expressed hope that American warplanes would help his fighters break a stalemate with Taliban forces 35 miles outside Kabul. But he also said no American forces had yet been in contact with him, for information or anything else. A1

VETERANS' VIEW -- Russian veterans of war in Afghanistan say that anything but a tightly focused guerrilla conflict there is doomed to disaster -- and that even that may be, too. B7

CONFLICTED IN JAKARTA -- A web of personal, professional and cultural ties between Indonesia and the United States is complicating life for some ardent Indonesian Muslims who want to defend Afghanistan. B7

Rewards and Rebuff

BACKING IN EUROPE -- European anxiety that NATO had handed the United States a blank check to retaliate against terrorism worldwide has lessened, with Washington winning praise for its deliberate response to the attacks. B1

REWARDING NEW PARTNERS -- The administration plans to ask Congress for $500 million in new economic assistance to Pakistan. And President Bush signed a free trade agreement for Jordan, another major partner in the antiterror coalition. B6

TALIBAN REBUFF -- A last-ditch effort by a Pakistani delegation to persuade Afghanistan's ruling Taliban to hand over Osama bin Laden failed when a group of militant Islamic clerics flew back to Pakistan and reported that the Taliban's leader had dismissed any possibility of a handover. B6

The Search for Clues

HOW DID THEY NAVIGATE? -- Investigators are still trying to determine how hijackers with limited piloting experience, who had apparently never flown jumbo jets, managed to navigate the airliners with enough precision to change course abruptly and strike the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. One possibility is cheap Global Positioning System devices similar to those installed in some automobiles to provide computerized maps and directions. B2

UNDER SUSPICION -- Law enforcement officials are often asking scattered questions in chaotic interrogations of people being held around the country -- or not asking questions at all -- lawyers, relatives and some of the 480 detained people say. Some complain that their appearance and nationality seem to be the basis for their being under suspicion. B2

Tourism and Travel

WAITING TO GO -- More rigorous screening procedures and an increase in business and leisure travelers have produced daunting lines at airports in the past two days. A1

HARD TIMES IN HAWAII -- With many people now reluctant to fly, tourism is down and prospects for the state's tourism-based economy are dim. The mood has become so grave that the state's normally cautious governor, Benjamin J. Cayetano, has warned that "Hawaii is facing its worst economic crisis ever" and called an emergency session of the Legislature to borrow $1 billion to stimulate the economy. B8

PASSENGER CHARGED -- An unruly passenger whose actions caused an Air Canada flight to return to Los Angeles under fighter escort on Thursday was charged with interfering with flight crew operations. B8

Transportation and Law

DECISION DUE ON AIRPORT -- As pressure mounted to reopen Ronald Reagan National Airport, administration officials said President Bush would decide on Tuesday if it would reopen and under what conditions. B5

FREEDOMS' LIMITS -- Justice Sandra Day O'Connor said that as part of the response to terrorism, "we're likely to experience more restrictions on our personal freedom than has ever been the case in our country." B5

GIRDING FOR A CHEMICAL THREAT -- A chemical industry emergency center in Washington is being used as a resource for emergency officials at the World Trade Center site and Pentagon and for officials wondering if a new wave of terror attacks will materialize and involve chemicals. B5

BRIDGES NOT THREATENED -- New York City officials said there had been no threats of attacks on the city's bridges and tunnels. And in Washington, senior law enforcement officials said they no longer took seriously any potential terrorist threat stemming from the arrest of about 20 people on suspicion of fraudulently obtaining driver's licenses to haul hazardous and explosive materials. B5

The Aftermath

TRANSFORMATION -- Fliers that relatives of people missing in the trade center attack posted in public places have been transformed into a kind of memorial. B9

TOWERS' STEEL BEING MELTED -- The huge steel columns and beams of the World Trade Center are being hauled off to be melted and recycled before engineers can inspect the metal, which they say may hold clues to building safer skyscrapers. B9

CLEANING UP -- Mayor Giuliani said it could take a year to clear the World Trade Center site, and the city prepared to sell $1 billion of debt to tide it over until it received federal aid. B9

A Place to Go

SAD JOURNEY -- The city has taken hundreds of people by ferry to the trade center site, where they have quietly toured what they now reluctantly regard as a final resting place for their loved ones, perhaps the only semblance of a graveyard the 5,000 or so lost will ever know. B10

BELATED INFORMATION -- Yemeni officials who were put off by the aggressive approach of John P. O'Neill, the F.B.I. counter-terrorism expert who investigated the bombing of the destroyer Cole, called the F.B.I. to offer evidence they thought might track down the hijackers, officials said at the funeral for Mr. O'Neill, who was killed in the trade center attack. B10

NEEDIEST CASES B10

Portraits of Grief B11

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TALIBAN (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); HIJACKING (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (71%); RELIGION (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (74%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); INDONESIA (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001 



910 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE WHITE HOUSE; 
PRESIDENT SAYS U.S. IS 'IN HOT PURSUIT' OF TERROR GROUP

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER and STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 28 

 BODY:
President Bush said today that the United States was "in hot pursuit" of both Osama bin Laden and the Taliban forces harboring him in Afghanistan. 
 Senior military officials insisted that there were no American military forces currently on the ground in Afghanistan. That, however, did not preclude the possibility that they had already gone in and come out. 
 Those and other officials would not discuss whether intelligence operatives had been in Afghanistan recently on reconnaissance or other missions, but one Pakistani intelligence official said allied special operations forces had been there. He declined to elaborate, but other officials suggested British Strategic Air Service units may have been in the country. 
Mr. Bush said that, while he expected that "the American people won't be able to see what we're doing," they should "make no mistake about it, we're in hot pursuit." That choice of words may have been intended to deflect criticism from conservatives in Congress that his administration is moving too slowly to retaliate for the terrorist attacks.
Or it may have signaled real progress on the military and intelligence fronts about which the administration would have no interest in giving details that might prejudice continuing operations. 
During an appearance in the Oval Office with King Abdullah of Jordan, the president also said that the coming campaign against those believed responsible for the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks would be a "guerrilla war."
Mr. Bush's statement today came as the White House, for the first time since the military planning began, gave a specific description of the administration's political goals in Afghanistan, and left little doubt that one objective is the forcible removal of the radical Islamic Taliban government. 
"The Taliban do not represent the Afghan people, who never elected or chose the Taliban faction," said a document prepared by officials of the National Security Council and the State Department. 
"We do not want to choose who rules Afghanistan," the document continued, "but we will assist those who seek a peaceful, economically developing Afghanistan, free of terrorism."
The days when military doctrine centered on the use of overwhelming force to crush a clear enemy appear to be over.
The president's comments today emphasized the role that special operations forces, rather than conventional military units, are expected to play in the first American military actions to punish Mr. bin Laden and his Al Qaeda network. 
One defense official said that American reconnaissance forces have set up operations in neighboring Uzbekistan.
This week the United States and Pakistan established a joint military intelligence group to deal with what American officials say have been the frustrations of poor intelligence reports emanating from inside Afghanistan.
In his comments today, Mr. Bush made it clear once again that he did not intend to occupy Afghanistan, and suggested he had studied the unhappy history of countries that have tried to tame the remote and mountainous land.
"I am fully aware of the difficulties the Russians had in Afghanistan," he said. "Our intelligence people and our State Department people are also fully aware."
He said it would be "very hard" to fight "a guerrilla war with conventional forces. And we understand that."
The deliberately vague reference to what groups the White House supports to replace the Taliban leaves open the question of whether Mr. Bush intends to provide aid to the rebel Northern Alliance, which has been conducting a stalemated war against the Taliban for years, or seek to restore the 86-year-old exiled Afghan king, Muhammad Zahir Shah.
He may choose both options. There is concern in the White House that too heavy a tilt toward the Northern Alliance would anger Pakistan, a critical but unstable American ally that is hostile to the rebels.
While some in the administration argue that the king, who has lived in Italy for more than a quarter century, would serve as a unifying force among Afghanistan's fractious tribes, he might also be regarded as a hapless puppet.
The Army Special Forces Command at Fort Bragg, N.C., has acknowledged that President Bush last week ordered its forces to deploy, but military and administration officials repeatedly refused to discuss any aspect of their operations.
Special operations, by their nature, are cloaked in secrecy and deception, making it impossible to know whether the officials who discuss them obliquely are being completely candid.
It was the legal doctrine of hot pursuit that the United States used to justify chasing Pancho Villa, the Mexican revolutionary commander, into Mexico in 1916, and to invade Cambodia in 1970 to pursue Vietcong forces.
Mr. Bush also announced today the release of $25 million in emergency food and medical aid for the refugees flowing out of Afghanistan and into Pakistan.
That aid, officials said, is intended to help alleviate the suffering, and to signal to Pakistan that the United States will not leave it to handle alone the flood of refugees that will likely accelerate once hostilities begin.
"This is the beginning of the aid, not the end," one official said. The United States has been the largest provider of humanitarian aid to Afghanistan, roughly $170 million this year. But the Taliban has ended air flights into and out of the country, crippling aid organizations, and it has harassed aid workers, many of whom have fled the country.
As the Pentagon has amassed a significant force in the region around Afghanistan, American military forces have already begun the difficult task of assembling intelligence on possible targets, including Mr. bin Laden's network and the Taliban government and military.
The Air Force has deployed high-flying U-2 surveillance aircraft to the region, apparently from Prince Sultan Air Base in Saudi Arabia. Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld has acknowledged that an unpiloted American reconnaissance aircraft was lost over Afghanistan last weekend, but officials declined to say whether drones like it have continued to collect evidence.
One of the core missions of Army Special Forces is infiltrating enemy territory and reporting on enemy positions, targets and other intelligence information. The Army has five major Special Forces units, including the 5th Special Forces Group based at Fort Campbell, Ky., which has responsibility for the Persian Gulf region and has frequently trained there in recent years, including in Pakistan.
The White House spokesman, Ari Fleischer, declined to discuss the activities of American Special Forces or any "operational details" of the budding military campaign against those responsible for the attacks on Sept. 11.
He also declined to discuss what Mr. Bush meant by "hot pursuit."
The Pentagon continued to build up its forces, drafting still more deployment orders that involve additional troops and aircraft, though none have yet been issued, defense officials said.
The Pentagon also announced that Mr. Rumsfeld had authorized the Air Force to raise by 7,000 the number of National Guard and Reserve troops it can call to active duty, bringing the total to 20,000.
From all branches of the armed services, the Pentagon has now authorized the mobilization of 42,000 reserve troops. 

CORRECTION-DATE: October 2, 2001

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page article on Saturday about the possibility that the United States was using Special Forces and intelligence operatives to track down Osama bin Laden and the Taliban forces harboring him in Afghanistan misstated the name of a British force that some officials said might be involved in the search. It is the Special Air Service, not the Strategic Air Service.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); TERRORISM (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); TALIBAN (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); AL-QAEDA (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); ESPIONAGE (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); CONSERVATISM (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (69%); RELIGION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (92%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); JORDAN (69%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001 



911 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 11; A NATION CHALLENGED: PORTRAITS OF GRIEF: THE VICTIMS

LENGTH: 3086 words

HEADLINE: Giving It All in Business and Pleasure, and Usually With a Wide Grin

BYLINE: These profiles were written by Nichole M. Christian, Leslie Eaton, Winnie Hu, Mireya Navarro, Iver Peterson, Susan Saulny, Barbara Stewart and Joyce Wadler.

 BODY:
The official number of bodies found in the destruction of the World Trade Center stood at 309 yesterday, and the city medical examiner had identified 248. In all, 5,641 could be missing. Here are glimpses of some of those lives.

SUSAN M. GETZENDANNER
Business and Buddhism
 One does not often encounter a practical business person who is a spiritual seeker, but this was Susan M. Getzendanner. She was a vice president at Fiduciary Trust, but she also trekked all over the world, including the Himalayas, and was a serious student of Buddhism.
 ''I think it was the all-inclusiveness of it and the spirituality of Buddhism,'' said Fiona Fein, a longtime friend. ''She had meetings with various Buddhist sages whom she found to be enormously spiritually powerful people. They were interested in something she wanted.''
 Ms. Getzendanner, 58, had a great grin, and silver-gray hair that she never dyed. She lived on the Upper East Side and worked behind the scenes for the Blue Hill Troupe, an amateur group of Gilbert and Sullivan players. On weekends, she went to her cottage at the foot of Mount Riga in Connecticut, which, like her apartment, was filled with handicrafts and art from her travels. Her brother Tom Getzendanner lamented the fact that a woman who spent her life traveling foreign lands and trusting others was killed in an act of international terrorism.

LARRY CURIA
Life With the Clam
 The Cantor Fitzgerald Web site has listed memorial services for about 200 people recently, but one name leaps out: ''Larry (the Clam) Curia.'' Mr. Curia, a broker, according to his longtime friend Peter Garofolo, used that name on the Bloomberg business site, too. The genesis of the nickname? There was a time, Mr. Garofolo explains, when Mr. Curia, 41, was very uptight. But that time seemed to be over. 
 ''We live in a decent-sized house,'' said Linda Curia, of the Garden City, N.Y., home she and the Clam shared with their two children, a son, 4, and a daughter, 8.
 ''But there's no furniture. He always said he didn't want to live in a museum -- he wanted for neighborhood kids to be able to Rollerblade and bicycle through it. My living room is completely empty except for two folding chairs and a computer. He wasn't materialistic; it was more important to him that the kids have a great time.'' 

PHILIP HAENTZLER
Steadfast Loyalty
 Philip Haentzler left for work early on Tuesday the 11th so he could take Wednesday off to help his 90-year-old mother, Madeleine, of Woodside, Queens, work out a winter lease for a Florida condo. ''He was the kind of guy who would work two extra days so he could take off one,'' said his longtime companion, Patricia Thompson. ''He was the most loyal person I knew.''
 Mr. Haentzler, 49, showed his loyalty in staying on as one of the last administrators working out the final details on dissolving the brokerage firm Kidder Peabody after its acquisition by PaineWebber Group and then, last year, PaineWebber's sale to UBS, the Swiss banking giant. And he showed it with his plants, which cluttered his office on the 101st floor of 1 World Trade Center and his home in Staten Island. Ms. Thompson stood among them in their home on Sept. 11, watching the towers burn across the harbor.

CHARLIE MURPHY
'Absurdly Generous'
 After growing up in Ridgewood, N.J., with four older sisters, Charlie Murphy somehow emerged as transcendently normal. ''We wanted to move to the suburbs,'' said Lyna Huie, his fiance, who worked with him at Cantor Fitzgerald. ''He wanted a big porch. A deck in the back with a pool and a fireplace were necessities.''
 He was ''relentlessly funny,'' said one sister, Nancy. He ruled the family's holiday Trivial Pursuit games. ''He'd insult you and you'd be laughing so hard you didn't care,'' she said.
 At 36, he was finally making some money, which he spent on presents.
 ''He was absurdly generous,'' Nancy said. ''He'd come at Christmas with the car loaded with gifts. He'd bring bags and bags of steaks and salmon to family parties. He'd do all the cooking and all the cleaning and if you tried to thank him, he'd insult you and make you laugh.''

GARY KOECHELER
A Reticent War Hero
 Gary Koecheler was awarded the Bronze Star in Vietnam, but few of his friends or acquaintances knew about it until his memorial service last week. He was not the kind of man to brag. He never even told his children what he had done to receive the medal; they still do not know. The son of a railroad worker, Mr. Koecheler, 57, put himself through college and law school and worked at Euro Brokers Inc. He and his wife, Maureen, raised their sons, John and Paul, in Harrison, N.Y., and tried to give them the easy life that he never had. He often teased them by saying that he was a simple man and not a part of the social elite, as they were. 
 ''I love him very much, and I'm proud to be his son,'' John Koecheler said. ''I hope I can step up to the challenge of carrying out his legacy.''

JODY TEPEDINO NICHILO
No Complaints, Just Smiles
 Jody Tepedino Nichilo, 39, never wanted anyone to worry about her. She would smile and insist that everything was all right, even if it was not. When she was thrown from a horse as a teenager, she just walked away with a hurt shoulder. ''She was walking crooked,'' said her older brother, Vincent Tepedino. ''That was typical. She would do her thing, and make sure everyone else was O.K.''
 She was a single mother raising a 13-year-old daughter, Jaclyn, in the same neighborhood in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, where she had grown up. She worked as an executive assistant at Cantor Fitzgerald. 
 Though she never asked for help herself, she was known for helping others. She volunteered with the Meals on Wheels program, and recruited her daughter, brother and mother as well. Last Thanksgiving, they delivered turkey dinners before sitting down to one themselves. ''She would make everybody feel special,'' her brother said.

GLENN WINUK
Sprinting Toward Danger
 As a boy, his dream was to be a firefighter, a hero. As a man, Glenn Winuk became a prominent Manhattan lawyer, but he used his lifelong interest in fighting fires as a volunteer in his hometown, Jericho, N.Y. He was so committed, such a natural, the town named him fire commissioner. 
 So on Sept. 11, Mr. Winuk, 40, did what he, as a firefighter, had been trained to do. First, he escorted people from his law firm, Holland & Knight, a block and a half from the trade center. He was last seen headed for the towers. ''If I had been there with him that day, I wouldn't have been able to stop him from trying to help,'' said Mr. Winuk's older brother, Jay. ''Even though he became a lawyer, my brother always saw himself as a firefighter. It was a passion for him, the chance to help someone.''
 When terrorists bombed the World Trade Center in 1993, Mr. Winuk, still dressed in a suit, rushed to help, too. ''If it has to be that he did not survive this time,'' Jay Winuk said, ''then in our eyes, he went down being an American hero. We're proud of him.''

ADIANES OYOLA
'She Gave Me Vision'
 Adianes and Felipe Oyola were at work when they fell in love seven years ago and when they last saw each other on Sept. 11. They had met as teenagers -- she was a cashier at the Brooklyn fast-food restaurant where he was a cook. ''She gave me vision and motivation to better myself,'' said Mr. Oyola, who married her last year.
 The couple made plans to save money, clear debts and move to Florida, where her parents and 13-year-old brother live. Both native New Yorkers, they craved a house almost as badly as they did children. ''We didn't want to raise our kids here,'' Mr. Oyola said. ''We wanted to give them things we never had. We've always lived in apartments, never having control. We wanted something of our own.''
 The Oyolas commuted together from their Brooklyn home to their jobs with Fuji Bank at 2 World Trade Center. She went to the 82nd floor, where she worked in human resources and payroll, while he went to the 81st floor, where he was supervisor of mail services. When the first plane hit the tower next door, the Oyolas found each other by a bank of elevators on the 78th floor. They were hugging when the speakers announced that it was safe to return to their offices.
 Mr. Oyola went back first, leaving his wife with her boss and a co-worker. Then the second plane hit, and he barely made it out. His wife is missing. ''She was crying,'' Mr. Oyola, 24, said of the last moments with his 23-year-old wife. ''I told her everything was going to be O.K.''

THOMAS CAHILL
A Crowded 37 Years
 Thomas Cahill knew his father, Jim, really wanted to win a recent golf tournament at the Metedeconk National Golf Club in Jackson, N.J. But that did not keep him from having some fun. He stuck a chunky cigar in his mouth, winked at the caddy and nonchalantly told his father: ''Don't worry, big guy. It's all under control.''
 Then the younger Mr. Cahill sank the ball into a hole about 14 feet away. The Cahills, father and son, took home a trophy that day.
 A natural athlete, the younger Mr. Cahill had skied in Utah and Colorado, trolled for fish in the Bahamas and putted on all the golf courses in Ireland by the time he was 37. He worked as a securities trader at Cantor Fitzgerald, and lived near his family in Franklin Lakes, N.J.
 ''He enjoyed life,'' said his mother, Kathleen. ''And he fit an awful lot in during his 37 years.''

KEVIN FRANCIS CLEARY
A Love of the Stage
 For some film buffs, it is enough to just watch and be amazed by actors. Kevin Francis Cleary, however, decided that he would rather be one of them, and maybe one day be as good as his idol, Paul Newman. So three years ago, Mr. Cleary, a stockbroker for Euro Brokers, which had offices in 2 World Trade Center, became Kevin Cleary, the part-time theater actor. ''It was so amazing that here he was 38 and starting a second career,'' Cate Cleary said of her brother.
 Fresh from a recent production of ''Waiting Station,'' Mr. Cleary was gearing up to play Lenny in ''Of Mice and Men.''
 ''He worked all day then rehearsed all night for his productions,'' his sister said. ''Twenty-four hours just never seemed to be enough for him.''
 Ever the thrill seeker, Mr. Cleary took time every year for exotic trips to places like Vietnam, Cuba, Thailand and, most recently, Tuscany.

DWIGHT DARCY
Bad Memories of '93
 Like many others who were there, Dwight Darcy, 55, lived with the memory of the 1993 trade center bombing. It bothered him for years, said his wife, Veronica. ''Every time there was a bang, he would jump,'' she said.
 But Mr. Darcy was at work again on the 66th floor of the north tower, where he was a labor relations lawyer for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, when the trade center was struck. Mr. Darcy had been with the Port Authority for 25 years, raising two sons with his wife in their Bronxville, N.Y., home, and serving on the parish board of St. Joseph's of Bronxville Roman Catholic Church. Opera was one of his great loves, Mrs. Darcy said, and the couple frequently attended performances at the Met and the City Opera with groups organized by Mr. Darcy's Fordham University alumni group and by the New York Athletic Club, where he was also a member.

MICHAEL ASCIAK
Many Facets of Competence
 While on vacation earlier this month, Michael Asciak picked up his toolbox and followed his wife, Elaine, to the elementary school where she teaches. After asking if anyone needed anything, he put together tables, mounted pencil sharpeners and adjusted blackboards. ''He just wanted to do it,'' his wife said. ''He was always helping someone.''
 Though Mr. Asciak, 47, crunched numbers for Carr Futures, he was just as adept at fixing things with his hands. ''Any kind of construction, heavy work, he liked that,'' Mrs. Asciak said. ''It's interesting that he ended up in an office.''
 At their home in Ridgefield, N.J., Mr. Asciak converted the attic into a family room and spent hours maintaining the yard. He often teased the neighbors about their own efforts before eagerly showing them short cuts. But his best student was his 11-year-old daughter. Not long ago, she fixed the VCR by herself.

MARLYN BAUTISTA
A Born Organizer
 Rameses Bautista said the cleaning crew at Marsh & McLennan loved his wife, Marlyn. She was the kind of worker who kept her cubicle and everything around it so neat ''that they didn't have anything to do,'' he said.
 Mrs. Bautista, 46, was a born organizer. She worked in the accounts payable department and liked to get there early ''just to get things started'' and stay late ''to make sure everything was finished all right,'' her husband said. ''That was her style, always making sure everything was in its place.''
 When she was a girl, Mrs. Bautista helped sponsor a town festival in Dagupan, in her native Philippines. Mr. Bautista was visiting from another part of the country, saw her, and they became childhood sweethearts, he said. Ten years ago, she became his wife. They moved to Iselin, N.J., and just last year, she received her naturalization papers. When she was not working, Mrs. Bautista enjoyed nature walks. ''She was always amazed by what God could do,'' Mr. Bautista said. ''She's with him now.''

JEFFREY BITTNER
A Brother's Paternal Streak
 If you talk to Pamela Bittner about her big brother, Jeffrey, you would probably assume that he was born at least a few years before her, the way she describes him as protective, nurturing, wise. She uses those terms as a little sister would: ''He was quite a protective big brother, always concerned about making sure I was happy and safe.''
 The truth of the matter is, however, that Jeffrey Bittner, 27, was born all of a whopping one minute before Pamela, his twin sister. But you would never know it. ''That was the big running joke,'' she said. ''He would always say, 'I'm a minute older!' You couldn't argue about it.''
 Mr. Bittner, who was a research analyst for Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, was a brotherly gentleman not only with his sister, but with everyone, she said. In the last few weeks before the attack, he had joined a mentoring program that made him a big brother to New York City schoolchildren.

CRAIG BLASS
Young Man About Town
 By all accounts, Craig Blass was living the high life, and he loved it. Bachelor parties in Las Vegas, summer weekends in the Hamptons, the social scene in the city. But there was one other thing he really liked to do that always seemed to surprise people. ''He loved to go shopping with me,'' said Mr. Blass's mother, Barbara Blass. ''My friends would say, 'He still shops with you?' And I'd say, 'Oh, yes.' ''
 He splurged on himself, his mother and others because ''he was living the good life, making good money and spending it because he made it,'' Mrs. Blass said. Mr. Blass, 27, worked as an institutional stock trader for Cantor Fitzgerald. He grew up in Greenlawn, on Long Island, and cheered for the New Jersey Devils hockey team. If he was not out at an athletic event or socializing, he could probably be found on his mother's couch, flipping through the sports channels with his younger brother and their father. He also loved to gamble.
 ''That was one of his joys,'' Mrs. Blass said. ''But I guess if you work on Wall Street you have that in you, you gamble all the time.''

CHRISTIAN MALTBY
Glamorous, With Grace
 Christian Maltby was so handsome that his college friends used him as bait. They would take him to a bar, wait for the girls to flock around him, and then move in to flirt with them. Mr. Maltby was usually too reserved to make any moves of his own. ''He was very handsome, but he didn't believe it,'' said his younger brother, Jason Maltby.
 With his dark brown hair, blue eyes and unassuming manner, the elder Mr. Maltby was a reluctant heartthrob who signed with Wilhelmina Models to help pay his way through Fordham. He appeared in Rolling Stone magazine, and on the covers of teenage romance novels. He later became a vice president for currency trading at Cantor Fitzgerald. Mr. Maltby, 37, gravitated toward a quiet life in Chatham, N.J. He spent weekends with his wife, Jane, and their three children, Max, Morgan and Samuel, in the backyard. He was training to be a Sunday school teacher at his church, and liked to read novels that he swapped with his brother.

PAUL NIMBLEY
A Father to His Team
 Paul Nimbley had four daughters and a baby boy of his own, and as if that were not enough, he also adopted a squad of teenage basketball players. He recently bought a Ford Expedition just so he could cart more kids around. ''He was not the kind of dad to leave his kids at home,'' said his wife, Cheri.
 Mr. Nimbley, 42, was a vice president at Cantor Fitzgerald, who doubled as a coach for the Hot Shots, a girls' basketball team in his hometown of Middletown, N.J. The players called him the ''voice of reason.''
 ''If they had problems, Paul would be the one the kids listened to,'' Mrs. Nimbley said.
 The morning of the World Trade Center attack, Mr. Nimbley called home to check on his wife and kids, the way he always did. He has not called since then, and the Ford Expedition sits empty in the driveway.

JOHN B. WORKS
A Love of Books
 John B. Works always had his nose in a book. Or books -- he usually had three or four going at a time, said his wife, Pamela Block Works. History books. Gold books. Economics books. Philosophy books. Historical fiction. (Dorothy Dunnett and Patrick O'Brian were favorites.) ''And lots of junk -- 'Star Trek,' '' she said.
 On his bedside table are ''Cryptonomicon,'' Neal Stephenson's novel about making and breaking codes, and Jack D. Schwager's ''New Market Wizards: Conversations with America's Top Traders.'' Mr. Works, 36, had recently become a trader himself; in March, he rejoined the investment firm of Keefe Bruyette, where he had started his career as an analyst.
 To house all those books, as well as their 3-year-old, Allison, the Workses were building a house on the site in Rowayton, Conn., where Mr. Works grew up. On weekends this summer, he would climb a ladder to the third floor, with its view of Long Island Sound. That floor was going to be his library, Mrs. Works said, ''with a large porch off it, because he always wanted a widow's walk.''

The Confirmed Dead
 Following is a list of the latest eight people confirmed to have died in the World Trade Center disaster, according to the New York City medical examiner's office. The office said the victims' families had been notified.

BACCHUS, Eustace
BOSCO, Richard
BRUCE, Mark
KNOX, Andrew
MONTESI, Michael
PAZ, Patrice
SHAH, Jayesh
SISOLAK, Joseph


GRAPHIC: Photos: Bernadette Lancaster, who used to work in the area, viewing the devastation with her daughter from the West Street foot bridge. (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (90%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (78%); MOUNTAINS (76%); TERRORISM (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HIMALAYAS (77%); CONNECTICUT, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2004



912 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 251 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS IN BRIEF: NONFICTION; 
Shapeliness Got in the Way

BYLINE:  By Sarah Shatz

 BODY:
 In 1933, three years before Walker Evans traveled to Alabama with James Agee to document the lives of tenant farmers for Fortune magazine, he went to Cuba on an assignment to illustrate the American journalist Carleton Beals's book "The Crime of Cuba." Andrei Codrescu speculates in his essay in WALKER EVANS: CUBA (Getty Publications, $24.95) that Evans's publishers may have been disappointed with the pictures he submitted. 
Beals wrote a fervent expose of American complicity with the practices of the oppressive Machado regime; Evans captured more of the formal beauty of Havana. "He tried to photograph misery, but shapeliness got in the way," Codrescu writes. Indeed, Evans's pictures are lyrical observations of Havana's streets and people: the cinema with posters advertising American movies, a crowd assembled on the steps of the Capitol, a barbershop, women and children in doorways, a shrine to the Virgin Mary. His images of prostitutes, the homeless, children and workers show the despair of unemployment and destitution, but Evans framed them within a "cornucopia of formal elements," Codrescu remarks. "Cuba's streets, buildings, slums, peddlers and beggars," he writes, "were almost irresistibly photogenic." Evans's later, more celebrated photographs that appeared in "American Photographs" and "Let Us Now Praise Famous Men" benefited from this trip to Cuba. In these striking pictures of Havana we see the emergence of Evans's style -- unpretentious, precise and poignant. Sarah Shatz

GRAPHIC: Photo (from "Walker Evans: Cuba")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (73%); SLUM DWELLINGS (72%); CHILDREN (68%); FILM (68%); HOMELESSNESS (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



913 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 3554 words

HEADLINE: Temporal Vertigo 

BYLINE:  By John Sifton; John Sifton is a human rights attorney and humanitarian aid worker. The views expressed here are personal reflections and do not represent the organization for which he worked. For security reasons, it is not named here.

 BODY:
I got my last haircut in Kabul, but Sept. 11 found me standing on John Street in lower Manhattan with about 20 volunteer rescue workers, amid masses of scorched paper and debris, watching fires burn near where the World Trade Center used to be. A recently returned humanitarian aid worker, I had rushed downtown when the towers collapsed. Brushing dust and ash out of my hair -- still short from my haircut -- I felt the low-level shock that came often in Afghanistan, the kind of shock I felt when I saw dead bodies, starving children, Taliban enemies hung from lampposts by cable. I marveled at the fact that I was feeling this familiar emotion in the financial district of Manhattan, an unusual place to be in shock. For a moment I felt that I had somehow not escaped Afghanistan, that I had brought its disaster home with me to New York.
 I have spent most of the past year working in Afghanistan and Pakistan for one of the international nongovernmental organizations that implement humanitarian aid programs for people suffering or fleeing from Afghanistan's multiple crises: civil war, persecution by the Taliban and by anti-Taliban military forces, economic stagnation, severe drought and food and water shortages. We were the welfare state for a failed state. 
 Of course, everything has changed now. Relief workers from international groups and the United Nations have been evacuated from Afghanistan in response to an expected military strike by the United States. Humanitarian operations have been severely curtailed, and an increasing number of refugees are pouring out of Afghanistan into Iran and Pakistan. "The country was on a lifeline," one of my colleagues said, "and we just cut the line."
Like many countries suffering from political instability, Afghanistan is a complicated and weird place. In some areas, there are few traces of modern life. Goods are carried by donkey or camel, and oxen plow the ground. Old men with long beards sit beneath trees, fingering prayer beads, their skin brown and wrinkled. Many rural people live as their ancestors probably did 400 years ago: iron pots over the fire, clothes they made themselves and babies delivered by candlelight. 
In other parts of the country, life is more complicated. Taliban troops speed around Kabul in their clean new Toyota pickup trucks, tricked-out, hip-hop ghetto rigs. On the sides they have painted pseudo-American phrases: "City Boy," "Fast Crew," "King of Road." Inside, young solemn-looking Taliban men sit in their black holy dress, sporting Ray-Bans. 
The juxtapositions can make your mind reel. Donkey carts carrying computer equipment. Hungry children digging through garbage piles using shovels from a Mickey and Minnie Mouse sand-castle set.
The number of people displaced from their homes is enormous. Populations of the desperate roam around, begging for money and scraps of food. People eat wild plants, garbage, insects and old animal parts discarded by butchers. In one camp, an old man showed me a bowl filled with rotten cow bowels, grass poking out in places. "This is what we eat, sir!" he said, wiping away tears with his fist.
I often had a strange feeling in Afghanistan, a sort of temporal vertigo. It was impossible for me to get a proper sense of time. Like many former cold-war battlefields, Afghanistan is partly frozen in time; most of its urban buildings and infrastructure were completed in the 1960's and 1970's during the height of Soviet and American spending on foreign aid to the developing world. The telephone in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Kabul is one of those heavy models from the 1960's; in a pinch, you could probably knock someone out with the handset. There is an old telex machine in one of the offices, sitting dusty in the corner, making you think it's 1976. Then you see the American and Soviet military remnants from the 1980's: broken old Soviet tanks painted and lined up in town squares, a mural on a wall in eastern Kabul showing a holy warrior with a Stinger antiaircraft launcher on his shoulder. And still there are antique doors on some buildings with designs from the 13th century. History presents itself in a disorderly montage, like one of those heuristic displays in natural-history museums -- dinosaurs, the bronze age, the renaissance, space travel -- rearranged at random: pre-cold-war, post-cold-war, cold war, Buddhist antiquities, Kalashnikovs. The timelessness of this jumbled history made me feel like an old museum curator: time-transcendent, fascinated and lonely. This is perhaps why I felt so crazy at times.
Taliban troops and police are always easy to spot. They have black flowing robelike clothes, long hair and big silky black turbans with long tails running almost to the ankles. (These accouterments are meant to identify them as direct descendants of Muhammad.) They are often tall and imposing, even impressive. "The Taliban troops are like gangsters," a colleague told me when I first arrived. "Tough guys." But there is often a particular dandyism in them; many wear black eyeliner (part of the descendant-of-Muhammad costume), and their hair is long and curly. I once saw one buying Prell shampoo at the bazaar. They carry themselves like supermodels.
The reputation for religious conservatism in the Taliban obviously doesn't come from their foppish troops. It comes instead from the leadership in the southern city of Kandahar, who founded the Taliban in the early 1990's. They are considered mullahs now, but 10 years ago they were essentially no more than a collection of seminary teachers from the rural south. These "original Taliban" are the ones who present the decrees barring women from work, making men wear long beards and prohibiting me from entering the country with "pork products or lobsters" (as one recent decree dictated). These are the people who proudly call themselves "the Mosquitoes of Islam," proclaiming, "Islamic faith is a bright light: we seek to be so close to it that we catch fire."
In urban Afghanistan, crime was rare (one of the seldom-mentioned upsides to Taliban authority), and expatriates were treated with a good deal of respect by government officials and the military. "He who believes in Allah and the hereafter shall perform good service for his guests," reads a sign in one small government office in the north. This is a telling poster. It might seem strange, but aid workers were considered guests of Afghanistan, and the title bestowed a special status on us. Even if we were seen as an enemy of sorts (perhaps by a particularly grumpy mullah), we were guests -- distrusted and carefully examined, but still welcomed.
In our humanitarian work, my colleagues and I interacted with neither the black-robed troops nor the mullahs from Kandahar. We dealt mostly with the "new Taliban" -- the civil servants who in recent years have appeared from between the cracks to run the country for the predominantly illiterate and uneducated "original Taliban." These people form the real bureaucracy of Afghanistan. Though they now sport the same flowing black turbans and long hair as the troops, many were ordinary municipal leaders a few years ago, local politicians. For the most part, they are opportunists who saw the direction the wind was blowing when the Taliban took power and adjusted accordingly; they grew out their beards and put on black robes and became Talibs. 
Of course, these new leaders' commitment to the moral righteousness of the Talib movement is questionable. Many seem fascinated by Americans and the West, eager to learn more English, more American phrases and more about America. (One afternoon, a Talib in Kabul kept me in his office for an hour to go over some English grammar rules and ask about New York and the "Hollywood movie company.") Still, the new Taliban follow the orders of the Taliban leadership. The decrees are enforced. 
The summer wind up in Mazar-i-Sharif in the north is just absurd -- you feel as if you are on another planet. The temperature is usually well over 100 degrees and the wind blows about 40 to 50 miles an hour almost every day, raising huge clouds of dust that hang hundreds of feet over the desert. You feel as if you're standing in front of a space heater in a dusty attic at the height of summer. Your nostrils fill with dust and dry up; your eyes turn to red slits. You have to wrap a turban around your head and nose and drink a great deal of water. It is a war against desiccation. 
On a particularly windy and hot day in June, some colleagues and I took an almost insane trip from Mazar-i-Sharif west into the scorching Iranian Plateau, to a province called Jozjan, to gather some information about the drought crisis areas there.
We started out at 5 in the morning to avoid some of the heat and drove for hours through the desert -- or what I thought was desert. I learned later that it was, in normal years, productive agricultural land. The heat and dust were intense. The car rocked in the wind, and sometimes visibility was reduced to only a few car lengths. To pass the time, the young Afghan staff members told me about their time in the jihad when they bombed Soviet installations from the mountains. I recited hip-hop verses at the request of one of the young Afghans, who wanted to know "about the African people with black skin in America" who "sing, but without music, like shouting." We drank huge amounts of water. 
We arrived in a small village called Aqchah, a dusty and extremely windy trading town. We stumbled out of the car, clothes soaked with sweat and filthy from the dust, and walked into the local Taliban office to "check in." (One must indulge in this courtesy in order to avoid problems later.) Then we sat for an hour with the entire village leadership -- 15 or so men with long beards who argued among themselves about what sorts of aid projects might keep more people from leaving town for the city. (We had this sort of meeting all the time.) 
We drank a lot of tea. The men spoke in Persian, and my interpreter just filled me in on essentials. In the next room, through the doorway, a man with a large knife stood cutting fat from a sheep carcass hanging from the ceiling. Every so often, the man would come halfway into the doorway in his blood-stained apron, knife in hand, join the conversation briefly, make a point and then go back to his butchering in the next room. The others listened to him with respect, but I never found out why. Our meeting finished when the tea ran out.
We drove through another desert -- a real desert -- to arrive in the capital of Jozjan, Shiberghan. The trip took about three hours. We arrived dusty, wind-blasted and spacey. We staggered into the local Taliban office -- a bombed-out building without windows -- to check in. The local liaison official for international relief workers in Shiberghan was about 22 years old. We were invited into his office, a room facing the courtyard with no furniture, just a rug on the floor and a phone. After the regular introductions, the young official explained that he would need to "ensure my safety" by supplying me with guarded accommodations. I insisted that this wouldn't be necessary. I told the official that I did not fear for my safety. I even flattered him and said that I was sure that his city was exceedingly safe. Still, after 15 minutes, he stood up, put on his black turban and left to go secure my lodging.
We had to wait for more than two hours. We got bored. I examined a curious calendar on the wall that displayed a map of Afghanistan surrounded by planes, tanks and ships all labeled "U.S. ARMY" and all pointing missiles toward the center of Afghanistan. Various Taliban functionaries came and went -- new Talibs mostly. Finally, the official returned to inform me that I would be staying at a hotel reserved "for foreign dignitaries" (this is how my interpreter translated it) called Dostum's Castle. It was obvious that this was an honor, so I made an effort to thank him profusely, despite the fact that I did not want to go. I insisted, however, that the Afghan staff accompany me. He obliged me at least on this point. Off we went.
Dostum's Castle. What can I say? It was chintzy Soviet-style public architecture combined with low-rent Miami design: long frosted-glass windows and a faux marble facade. There were peacocks on the front lawn -- peacocks -- and a swimming pool filled with algae-plagued water. 
Inside, it was like "The Shining." We walked down long wide corridors with dark red carpeting; each of the hotel-room doors had a padlock on it. We were the only guests. The air-conditioner in my room sounded like a Harrier jet, and there were bullet holes in the furniture.
The bathroom in our room didn't work, so we had to go down two floors to use another one. On the landing of the stairs two floors down, there was a large landscape painting, about 16 feet by 12 feet, of a pond, some flowers, a forest and a few animals. The heads of the three animals had been cut out of the painting to comply with Taliban aesthetic restrictions: the creation of images of living beings is forbidden under the Taliban's kooky interpretation of Islamic law. This left a decapitated deer standing by a pond and a headless beaver sitting on a tree stump. 
I considered the piece as I stood on the landing. A terrible painting in the style of Bob Ross, done entirely with two shades of green and one shade of brown and then vandalized by Taliban police trying to ensure its innocence before God without destroying it altogether. In its own way, I thought, it is a post-postmodern masterpiece. But surely I could add still more to this artwork. I could buy it from the Taliban, sell it for a fortune in New York and give the money to the Afghan opposition. Yes. Participatory political art. It just might be crazy enough to work. How much would a rich New York liberal with a sense of irony pay for this, this bad art, vandalized by the Mosquitoes of Islam and then sold to raise money against them? A new school: censorship as an art form unto itself. Politics as art. Art-dealing as art. I could be rich. 
I was still chuckling to myself when one of the Afghan engineers came down the stairs. "What are you laughing about?" he asked. "I don't know," I answered. 
The next day was a nightmare: human suffering on a shocking scale. Displaced persons without enough food to eat were drinking water taken from muddy ponds -- mud really. "They're drinking mud," I said into my tape recorder. "They're drinking mud." I remember one particular experience especially. We were in a windy camp for displaced persons, and a man was showing us the graves of his three children, who had died of disease on three consecutive days: Thursday, Friday and Saturday. It was Monday, and he had buried his last child the day before. After he described all this, we stood around the graves in the strangely loud silence of the wind, hot as an oven, and the man absent-mindedly adjusted a rock atop one child's grave. 
It was a very emotional moment, yet I didn't really feel sad. I was just fascinated by the realness of it all. You look out an office window, and you see a displaced family living in a bombed-out school, sleeping on the balcony and cooking some birds they caught, doves. This is their life. They can't change the channel. 
There are no channels, in fact. We are "off the grid," not linked up with the world's information sources or any of its culture. There are no telephones outside the cities. There is no television reception. We have no access to "entertainment." There are no theaters, films, galleries or circuses. The Taliban has even banned music. All this is in contrast with the Western world, with its many reality-altering and distance-distorting mechanisms: television, cellphones, the Internet. Again, there seems to be a time warp. Sometimes it feels as if we have been brought back not just to a time before modern entertainment but to a time before art -- a time in which reality was just more real, a time without images and ideas and representations, only actual events.
And yet moments here often seem cinematic to me. I constantly see things as scenes. Here we are walking in Kabul, near some women in their concealing blue burqas; goats are running by and an ancient Soviet tank lies gutted by the side of the road. Here we see the schoolchildren running by in their little Taliban uniforms, black turbans hanging to their knees, yelling to me in robot English: "Hello! Hello! How are you?" And here we are at the U.S. government club in Peshawar, over the border in Pakistan, sitting by the pool with some Belgian journalist, drinking Grand Marnier and orange juice and talking about German novels. I feel outside myself seeing these scenes play out: absurdities that seem so normal while they're happening.
There is a propensity among some aid workers (usually younger ones) to work endless hours during a crisis. You cannot take a break, it is argued, when children are hungry. You cannot sleep, have a beer or lie in your bed. You have to act. And so you work endlessly. And then, inevitably, you crack: you go nuts, start acting righteous and weird, and your colleagues come to despise you. Ultimately, your organization evacuates you on psychological grounds -- a procedure churlishly referred to as a "psycho-vac." You end up back home: unemployed, asocial, crazy, useless and pathetic.
I remember a story that a friend told me about an aid worker she worked with in Albania. During the Kosovo crisis, they were working together in a huge new refugee settlement across the border with inadequate sanitation facilities.
"We had to get 5,000 latrines built, like immediately. But I'll tell you, he was gone, man -- his brain was fried by trauma. He had been at Goma" -- in the Congo -- dead bodies and hacked-off limbs in a pile, and they had to clean it up. I guess he was scarred. Anyway, he got like a pound of pot from some Albanian mafia playboy in Tirana. He would drink huge amounts of that terrible instant coffee, Nestle's -- I think they put speed in that stuff. He was high all the time. He didn't talk to anyone. He just drank that crank coffee and smoked pot. He worked like a madman. But we did it, man. We built those 5,000 latrines. They psycho-vac'd him a little later though. He lost it."
Just a few weeks ago, on an unusually cool summer evening in southeast Afghanistan, I was sitting with some colleagues at an outdoor restaurant above a small pond beneath the beautiful mountain ranges southeast of Kabul. We were enjoying a rare night of relaxation away from the madness of our work. We sat on carpets, drinking tea, waiting for food and enjoying the evening sky. 
The pond below was unnatural -- the result of a small hydroelectric dam built by Soviet contractors decades before -- but it was pretty enough, and we were enjoying the scene. We had come to have some fried fish, a rare dish in this landlocked country. 
We watched as a young boy climbed down to the pond to retrieve our dinner, some fish previously caught but still alive, swimming in a burlap bag laid in the water. In Afghanistan, dried to the bone by three years of drought and enduring a decreasing food supply, the sight of both fish and water was strange.
Some Taliban troops appeared from the nearby road. "We are here for fish!" they announced in Pashtu. (My interpreter told me this later.) They sat beside us. My colleagues stiffened. 
"Is he a Muslim?" one of the Talibs asked, indicating me. (He appeared, incidentally, to be very stoned.) My interpreter answered in the negative. "Christian?" the Talib asked.
My interpreter turned to me. "Are you a Christian?" he asked.
"Basically," I answered.
My interpreter translated this, somehow.
Questions began to fly: "Is he an American?" the Talib asked. "Where is America? How close is America to Saudi Arabia? Are there Muslims in America?" 
My interpreter turned to me again. "These are very uneducated peasant people from the south." I nodded.
"Is this a problem?" I asked. "Should we leave?"
"No. They are bemused by you." 
The Talibs ordered some fish. Although we had ordered our dinners first, the owner gave the Talibs our fish and started to cook some more for us. The Talibs ate with gusto, spitting bones onto the floor, fish catching in their beards. When they finished, they rose and went to the next room for prayers. 
Our fish arrived. We began to eat, but soon the Talibs returned and sat down with us. "Which province are you from in America?" one of them asked. I told them I was from New York. "This is a place with many black people, from Africa, is this right? Very dangerous." I tried to explain that this was a misperception.
One Talib began to help himself to our fish, taking it from our basket as though he hadn't just eaten. "The black people are very dangerous," he said. "I hear that they are very tall. How tall are they?" 
I tried my best. There is only so much that can be translated from one language to another, from one culture to another.
After a while, the Talibs rose to leave. Amazingly, the one who had stolen from our bowl of fish wiped his hands on my turban, lying untied on the ground next to me. Then he started to leave, but turned back, and a smile came across his face. 
"God bless America," he said in English, inexplicably. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Everywhere, contrasts: Donkey carts on one street and Taliban soldiers in souped-up pickups on another. (Associated Press; Sniffing for mines outside the old royal palace in Kabul. (Arthur Fox/Gamma) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); MAMMALS (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); VOLUNTEERS (78%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (77%); REFUGEES (77%); STARVATION (77%); CIVIL WAR (77%); DROUGHT (77%); DISPLACED PERSONS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (70%); ARMED FORCES (66%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (66%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (62%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); HIP HOP CULTURE (60%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) AFGHANISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



914 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 4982 words

HEADLINE: Fear Itself 

BYLINE:  By Paul Krugman; Paul Krugman, the economics columnist for The New York Times and a professor of economics at Princeton, is the author of "Fuzzy Math: The Essential Guide to the Bush Tax Plan."

 BODY:
The American economy is usually quick to shrug off the effects of disaster. When Hurricane Andrew swept through South Florida in 1992, and again when the Northridge earthquake struck Southern California in 1994, the property damage was immense and the lives of millions of people were disrupted for months thereafter. Yet few economists thought of either event as a threat to national prosperity, and if you look at a chart showing the growth of gross domestic product, it's quite hard to see any effects.
 Will it be different this time? 
 Although Sept. 11 was a human tragedy on a scale far greater than any of America's recent natural disasters, in monetary terms the immediate loss was not much more than one might have expected from a severe hurricane or earthquake. Yet many people fear that the terror attack, unlike a hurricane or an earthquake, will have dire consequences for the economy -- indeed, that it may even tip the world into recession. And though they are probably wrong, they could be right. 
The reason they might be right has little to do with the nature of the calamity. It's true that there is something especially horrific about a disaster that was an act of man rather than an act of God. And the after-effects were unsettling: airlines losing hundreds of millions of dollars a day; empty airports, hotels and theaters; conventions canceled; Wall Street spiraling downward. It's also true that the story isn't over, that unknown perils -- another attack? a full-scale war in central Asia? -- lie ahead. And of course the terrorists struck right at the nerve center of global capitalism. 
But the economic repercussions from the World Trade Center disaster, unnerving as they are, would soon fade out if the economy had been strong to begin with. The main reason to worry about the economic fallout from the attack is not the attack itself, but the timing. Suppose the terrorists had struck five years ago, while the economy was in the midst of a healthy, investment-led expansion and before the rise and fall of the stock market bubble. Would we have been as worried as we are? I doubt it.
The point is that even before the attack, our economic condition was looking unusually precarious. We weren't in a severe recession; technically, we may not have been in a recession at all. But there was an alarming sense that things were out of control, that our economy's ailments weren't responding to the usual medicine. In another time we might mourn the dead and move on; but this economy was already fragile.
To understand the economic risks we may now be facing, in other words, we need to understand why we were in trouble even before terror struck. It's a story that takes us far afield in time and space -- to the Great Depression of the 1930's and to the difficulties of modern Japan. These stories of other times and places give ample reason to be concerned. For they remind us that even highly advanced economies like our own have sometimes stumbled badly. But the stories also give us reason to be optimistic, even if things go badly over the next few months. The terrorists may have taken us into uncharted territory in many ways, but the economic landscape is fairly familiar, and we have some pretty good ideas about how to deal with the risks ahead.
But first things first: although the atrocity was an immense human tragedy, it was limited to a small part of one city. How could destroying a few buildings, however large, even possibly threaten an economy as huge as ours?

The Psychological Impact
A disaster can hurt the economy in one of two ways. It can reduce supply -- that is, it can interfere with the economy's ability to produce. Or it can reduce demand -- that is, it can make people unwilling to buy the economy's products. What are we worried about right now?
The answer is that for all the damage in Lower Manhattan, the impact on supply of the terrorist attack will be minor compared with the awesome scale of the United States economy. Perhaps 15 million square feet of office space was lost. While that may sound like a lot, it's less than half of 1 percent of the office space in the nation. The cost of clearing the rubble and rebuilding will run into the tens of billions of dollars -- less than 0.1 percent of our national wealth. While airlines were grounded for the better part of a week, they are flying again. Yes, the airlines are in financial trouble, and they have cut back flights and laid off tens of thousands of employees, and Boeing is scaling back in anticipation of canceled aircraft orders. But the basic ability of the American economy to move people and products around the country has not been seriously impaired.
This story might change if a military confrontation leads to a disruption of oil supplies from the Middle East. For now, though, the ability of the economy to supply whatever people want to buy seems to be almost completely intact.
But how much will they want to buy? That is the question.
In the long upward march of American prosperity, there have been occasional setbacks. In the worst of these, from 1929 to 1932, G.D.P. fell by a third. Yet America was no less productive, no less technologically advanced in 1932 than it had been three years before. What happened was that people stopped spending, and the factories that could have been producing found no buyers for their products. It was, in short, a failure of demand rather than supply. 
And the thing about demand is that, to a far greater extent than supply, it's a matter of psychology. If you ask how much the United States economy is capable of producing over the next few months, the answer is mainly determined by the physical realities -- the capacity of the factories, the bandwidth of the fiber-optic cables, the size of the work force. If you ask how much consumers will consume and investors invest over the next few months, the answer is determined largely by feelings -- what John Maynard Keynes called "animal spirits." If frightened people decide not to spend, their nervousness can translate into a depressed economy. 
So could the terror attack -- a very small thing in terms of its physical impact on the economy -- have a disproportionately large psychological impact? Could a small cause have large effects? Yes, it could. After all, the Great Depression had no obvious cause at all.
So the reason to be concerned about the economic effects of terrorism is not the actual damage but the possibility that nervous consumers and investors will stop spending. Truly, the only thing we have to fear is fear itself. 
But isn't that always true? Why should we be any more vulnerable to fear now than we would have been five years ago? To answer that question we need to ask why in normal times it would be easy for economic policy to offset the psychological impact of tragedy on overall demand -- and why right now that may not be so easy.
When economists discuss the great depression, their general sentiment is "never again." This is partly a matter of resolve, but it is also a boast. We think, or we thought until recently, that we have learned enough about fighting economic slumps to prevent a recurrence on that scale. Modern economies, after all, have powerful defenses against economic slowdown and both the will and the knowledge to use them.
The first line of defense against an economic slump is monetary policy: the ability of the central bank -- the Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank, the Bank of Japan -- to cut interest rates. Lower interest rates are supposed to persuade businesses and consumers to borrow and spend, which creates new jobs, which encourages people to spend even more, and so on. And since the 1930's, this strategy has consistently worked. Specifically, interest-rate cuts have pulled the United States out of each of its big recessions over the past 30 years -- in 1975, 1982 and 1991. 
In fact, for most of the past 40 years the only serious problem with interest-rate cuts as a policy has been that they work too well, tempting countries to pursue overly ambitious targets for growth and employment. When they do that, the result is inflation. That is, when an expansion goes too far, companies take advantage of the good times to raise prices, workers demand higher wages, and a wage-price spiral threatens to develop. 
As a result, one preoccupation of economic and political thinkers these past few decades has been how to ensure that governments not cut interest rates too readily -- to rein in the temptation to seek short-term political gain by revving up the economy at the longer-term expense of price stability. That concern is one of the main reasons that all advanced countries now have independent central banks that are largely insulated from the influence of other branches of government.
Behind the first line of defense is a second line, fiscal policy. If cutting interest rates isn't enough to support the economy, the government can pump up demand by cutting taxes or increasing its own spending. The conventional wisdom among economic analysts is that fiscal policy is not necessary to deal with most recessions, that interest-rate policy is enough. In other words, they believe that stabilizing the economy is properly the job of the Fed, not the Treasury Department. But the possibility of fiscal action always stands in reserve.
Does the existence of these two lines of defense mean that the economy is no longer at risk of recessions? Obviously not: the United States has experienced three major downturns in the last three decades. But in a way there was less to those downturns than met the eye.
For one, they were partly intentional. In each case, the recession started when the Fed deliberately tried to slow the economy in order to cool off inflation. Each went further than the Fed intended, because monetary policy is a blunt instrument. But each recession did end after the Fed reversed policy and cut interest rates. So the overall track record has actually been reassuring. Recent history seems to suggest that recessions may happen, but also that we can deal with them.
So should we be relaxed about the economic picture in the aftermath of the terror attack? Maybe not.

Japan's Slow-Motion Depression
The history of the United States economy since World War II inspires at least a mild sense of complacency about the risks of economic downturn. The defenses in place against any repeat of the Great Depression have held very well. And if our own history were the only evidence at hand, I and many others would probably feel quite at ease about the current situation.
But we are not the only advanced economy that has had to face economic stress, and others have not fared so well. Three years ago I wrote a paper for the Brookings Institution titled "It's Baaack: Japan's Slump and the Return of the Liquidity Trap." The rather flip title was meant to convey the message that events in Japan -- a faraway country of which many Americans know little -- should trouble us, because they suggested that Japan's economic woes may not be unique. In fact, they seemed to show that we might not be as well defended against depression-style problems as we imagined. 
In the 1980's Japan had the most dynamic economy in the advanced world; indeed, many Americans viewed it as a dangerous competitor. But then came a recession in the early 1990's, and Japan has never really recovered. There have been ups and downs over the decade, but each slump has been deeper than the last, each recovery more anemic. The period as a whole amounts to a sort of slow-motion depression.
Still, why should that dismal record trouble us here? Because Japan's troubles show that the usual defenses against economic slowdown can fail. In Japan the first line of defense, interest-rate cuts, has in effect been overrun by the enemy: short-term interest rates have been reduced all the way to zero, yet the economy remains depressed. Fiscal policy has fared somewhat better: huge deficit spending has kept the economy from experiencing a full replay of the 1930's, at least so far. But the results look more like a holding action than a truly effective defense. And now, with debt piling up alarmingly, there is reason to worry whether even that holding action can long continue.
But let's look a bit more deeply at Japan's experience and why it should worry us.
Over the past decade Japan's economy has come to look more and more like a 1930's model. However, the Japanese haven't suffered a year like 1931 in the United States, when everything collapsed at once. Instead, depression has crept up gradually.
Averaging the ups and downs, an economy that grew almost 4 percent per year in the 1980's has grown only about 1 percent annually since 1991. Unemployment has risen almost without a break, from 2.1 percent in 1991 to 5 percent today. That still doesn't sound that bad, but Japanese statistics seriously understate the truth: nearly a million Japanese workers have lost their jobs in the last few months, yet only 120,000 of those displaced workers are registered as unemployed. You should probably think of Japan's labor market as being comparable to what ours looks like at the bottom of a deep recession, with unemployment approaching 10 percent.
The psychological impact of these job losses -- and the closely associated surge in bankruptcies, which were rare in the 1980's but have reached epidemic proportions -- is particularly severe in a society that usually tries to avoid such stark outcomes. Japan is, after all, the land of lifetime employment and the "convoy system," in which strong companies help weaker companies to stay in business. So perhaps it isn't too surprising that the grimmest indicator of Japan's troubles is a sharp rise in suicides, especially among those who have lost their jobs or their businesses.
So why hasn't Japan tried to get its sluggish economy moving again? The worrying answer is that it has tried, over and over -- and failed.
Remember that the first line of defense against recession is monetary policy, the ability of the central bank to cut interest rates. Well, in Japan monetary policy has hit the wall. Interest rates came down and down, falling below 1 percent in 1996. In early 1999 the Bank of Japan, the counterpart of the Federal Reserve, reduced the overnight rate to zero. Yet, there has been no sign of inflation -- or of recovery. And you can't push interest rates below zero.
Economists refer to Japan's situation, in which a zero interest rate just isn't low enough to restart growth, as a "liquidity trap." The point is that, other things being equal, "liquid" assets -- cash -- are better than bonds: you can't use a bond in a vending machine. The only reason people are willing to invest in bonds is that unlike cash, they offer interest. When the interest rate gets very low, this incentive disappears, and people just hoard cash instead. So if even a zero interest rate isn't low enough to get consumers and businesses to spend, there's nothing more you can do with interest-rate policy; you're trapped. 
To find another case of a liquidity trap, you have to go back to the United States in the 1930's. In 1939 the interest rate on Treasury bills was effectively zero (strictly speaking, it was 0.02 percent), yet the economy was still stuck in a depression. But that was a long time ago. By the 1990's, hardly anybody even thought about the possibility of a liquidity trap, and those who did usually dismissed it as something that probably couldn't happen in real life.
But Japan's example showed, ominously, that it could. The liquidity trap is back.
What about the second line of defense, fiscal policy? Japan has tried that, and it has worked -- sort of. Let me explain.
If you have visited Japan recently you know that it does not look like a country in the midst of a depression. There are strong similarities between Japan in the 1990's and the United States in the 1930's, but there is also a big difference. America descended rapidly into depression. Japan's crisis has unfolded far more gradually. Why has Japan's depression, if that's what it is, been so low key?
One important answer -- which is, by the way, a reason not to panic in the current situation -- is that, being a modern country, Japan has not allowed its banks to fail. Economic historians will tell you that the Great Depression didn't begin with the stock market crash of 1929. Although there was a recession following the crash, it was nothing out of the ordinary. Things didn't really fall apart until late in 1930, when a wave of bank runs swept across America, driving a third of the nation's banks out of business. 
Today, no government would allow anything similar to happen. In Japan, furthermore, the government has stepped in repeatedly to prop up the banks, merging weak banks with stronger ones and occasionally putting in big infusions of cash to cover the banks' losses. There is much to criticize about this process, which has kept the banks alive but not restored them to health. But by averting a banking crisis, Japan has helped protect the economy from any sudden collapse.
The other reason that Japan does not look like a country in the midst of a depression is that the government has found a concrete solution to the problem of mass unemployment. By "concrete," I don't mean serious, hardheaded, substantial. I mean concrete, as in roads, dams and bridges. 
Think of it as the W.P.A. on steroids. Over the past decade Japan has used enormous public works projects as a way to create jobs and pump money into the economy. The statistics are awesome. In 1996 Japan's public works spending, as a share of G.D.P., was more than four times that of the United States. Japan poured as much concrete as we did, though it has a little less than half our population and 4 percent of our land area. One Japanese worker in 10 was employed in the construction industry, far more than in other advanced countries. 
Without those public works programs, things might have been much worse. For there is no question that enormous public spending has helped keep the economy from sliding into a true, unambiguous depression. As one Japan expert, Adam Posen of the Institute for International Economics, points out, the record of the 1990's is unmistakable. Every time the government tries to scale back its spending, as it did under Prime Minster Ryutaro Hashimoto back in 1997, the economy goes into a recession. Every time the government goes back to its free-spending ways, as it did after Hashimoto resigned in disgrace, the economy perks up a bit.
Now for the bad news: deficit spending has slowed the Japanese economy's slide, but it has not reversed it. That is, the public works programs provide only temporary, symptomatic economic relief. The favorable effects last only as long as the spending itself. They don't seem to lay the basis for a permanent turnaround. 
And meanwhile, though Japan has thus far avoided mass unemployment, its policy of massive public works spending has produced many nasty side effects. One is the vast environmental damage that has been inflicted in the name of job creation. Another is pervasive corruption, as rakeoffs and kickbacks have become a way of life, distorting the whole economic and political system.
Furthermore, a decade of huge deficit spending has left Japan with an enormous public debt. Japan last ran a budget surplus in 1992. In that year, the nation's public debt was about 60 percent of G.D.P., about the average for advanced countries and slightly less than the figure for the United States. The years of deficit spending since then have pushed Japan's debt above 130 percent of G.D.P. That's the highest ratio among advanced nations, considerably worse than either Belgium or Italy, the traditional champions. It's almost twice the advanced-country average and 2.5 times the figure for the United States.
So far, thanks to the extraordinarily low interest rates on its debt, the Japanese government has been able to continue borrowing despite this burden. But how much longer can it go on? And what will happen to the economy when creditors begin to balk? (That may already have started. Just before the terror attack, Moody's, the bond-rating agency, reported that it was considering a downgrade of Japanese debt, which would have the effect of raising interest rates.)
Japan's experience, in other words, should puncture our complacency. It shows that an advanced country with all the advantages that status brings can still fail to cope effectively with economic slowdown.
But does any of this have any relevance to us? Does America look anything like Japan?

It Could Happen Here
I wish I could say with confidence that Japan's dismal experience is of no relevance to the United States. And certainly our nations are very different in many ways. But there is a distinct resemblance between what happened to Japan a decade ago and what was happening to the United States economy just a few weeks ago. Indeed, Japan's story reads all too much like a morality play designed for our edification.
At the most general level, Japan offers an object lesson of pride going before a fall. It has only been a few years since every other cover in the business section of the airport bookstore showed a samurai warrior or a rising sun, when Japanese businessmen and bureaucrats were both admired and feared. Now, to the extent that Americans think at all about Japanese managers and government planners, it is with contempt. These days we're the ones who think we have all the answers.
More specifically, the rise and fall of Japan's financial bubble sounds all too recognizable to post-millennial Americans. An already advanced nation pulls ahead of its first-world peers, taking the lead in all the hot new technologies. Stock prices soar to levels that look insane using conventional criteria, but everyone agrees that in such a dynamic economy old rules no longer apply. And then the bubble bursts, leaving behind a mountain of bad debts and an economic engine that refuses to turn over. Name two countries whose experiences in the last 20 years fit that description. 
That similarity between Japan and the United States was causing sleepless nights for many economic analysts, myself included, even before the world revealed itself to be a more dangerous place than any of us imagined. 
What did I think when tossing and turning? That we keep saying that we are nothing like Japan, but more and more it looks as if the language may be different but the song remains the same. 
When Wall Street first began to show signs of irrational exuberance back in the middle of the 1990's, a few lonely voices warned that we might be about to develop a Japanese-style bubble. But conventional wisdom said that this was nonsense, that our mature financial markets would never get that out of touch with reality. When stock prices reached multiples of earnings that were way above historical norms, some warned that it was indeed a Japanese-style bubble. But conventional wisdom said that this was nonsense, that the New Economy justified those higher multiples.
When our bubble finally burst, some warned that we might have a Japanese-style recession. But conventional wisdom said that this was nonsense, that the economy was more resilient than that. And when the slowdown came, some warned that we might find it as hard as the Japanese did to turn it around. But conventional wisdom said that this was nonsense, that the great Greenspan would soon set things right.
By Sept. 10, however, the Fed had already cut rates seven times, and it was still hard to see where a recovery would come from. Indeed, some business economists had started referring privately to the Fed chairman as "Greenspan-san." Business investment was still falling, because corporations clearly invested way too much back when optimism was the rage. Housing was doing better, thanks to low interest rates, but some analysts were warning about a housing bubble -- and even if they were wrong, how solid a recovery could we have from housing alone? 
So things were already looking fairly dicey before the terrorists struck. In fact, if we do have a recession now we will never be quite sure whether it was the result of the attack or something that was going to happen anyway. 
Still, as they say, everything is different now. What does the economic picture look like after the horror?

The Fear Economy
As I've pointed out, the terrorist attack inflicted only minor damage on the American economy's supply side. Its initial effects on demand were much more pronounced. Vacations were canceled, at first because there were no planes and later because people were afraid to fly. Consumers quickly returned to purchasing necessities, but many were in no mood to indulge themselves in luxuries. And businesses, worried about the economic effects of the crisis, scaled back their investment plans, introducing the risk that their concerns could become a self-fulfilling prophecy.
Looking out a bit further, the picture may be better. Life will go on, and people will eventually want their consumer goods -- and even their vacations. This return to normalcy will, of course, be delayed if there is another terrorist incident or a large-scale shooting war. At the time of writing, though, military analysts seemed to expect a prolonged but low-intensity campaign -- bombs and commandos, not tanks and heavy infantry divisions. If they're right, it will look like the sort of campaign Israel has waged more or less continuously for decades -- and Israelis have not lost their taste for life's small luxuries.
Meanwhile, the crisis has led to changes in policy that will offset some of the slump in private demand. In fact, I'd say that the odds are at least even that a year from now it will be clear that the terrorists indirectly gave the economy a boost. That's because the events of Sept. 11 have led to more expansionary policies, on both the monetary and the fiscal side. 
First, the Federal Reserve cut interest rates by half a percentage point on the first day the markets opened, just six days after the attack. The case for another rate cut had been building in any event, but the Fed was reluctant to move before its next meeting, which wasn't until October -- among other reasons because Greenspan and company didn't want to look as if they were panicking. Distasteful as it is to say this, the atrocity gave the Fed an opportunity to move earlier and more forcefully than it might otherwise have dared.
Second, the attack opened the door to a large but temporary increase in government spending -- precisely the kind of fiscal policy some economists had wanted but which had seemed politically impossible before. In early September, discussions of fiscal policy had been mired in bitter partisan politics. Democrats were reluctant to endorse fiscal stimulus because it might let Republicans off the hook on the consequences of their earlier tax cuts. Republicans wanted to use the economy's weak state as justification for further tax cuts. Those debates are still out there, but Congress, meanwhile, quickly agreed on a large spending package for the military and another large package for rebuilding New York. This spending package could quickly get much larger -- and provide an even bigger stimulus -- if, contrary to expectations, this does turn into a full-scale conventional war. 
Finally, the terror attack also seems to have led to some favorable policy changes elsewhere in the world. Until this September, many economists had been gnashing their teeth over the obduracy of the European Central Bank, which refused to cut interest rates in the face of gathering storm clouds over the world economy. And we had begun to suspect that the E.C.B.'s refusal to act was increasingly based on pride and stubbornness -- it wouldn't cut precisely because everyone was so critical of its actions. The terrorists changed all that. Just hours after the Fed's action, the E.C.B. matched it.
It's worth remembering that wars usually stimulate rather than depress economies; the main economic danger from war is inflation, not deflation. True, we are not at war in the traditional sense; the analogy with Pearl Harbor is a very bad one in many ways. Still, it wouldn't be that strange if the terror attack turns out to be a short-run plus for the economy.
Yet one can't dismiss the possibility that this time will be different, that the terror attack will have a persistent negative effect. Or, alternatively, that the positive effects will be too weak to offset the bad things that were already in train. How bad could it get?

Stopping a Slump
Before the terrorist attack, my great concern was that Alan Greenspan would run out of ammunition. Having seen him reduce the overnight interest rate from 6.5 percent to 3.5 percent since January without stopping the economy's slide, I envisioned him completing the process by reducing the rate all the way to zero without doing any better.
After the attack my great concern is exactly the same. The overnight rate is now down to 3 percent, which leaves only another 3 percent to go. Will it be enough? How much are we like Japan, anyway?
Here one can offer some slightly reassuring comparisons. Both Japan and the United States had stock market bubbles, and they were of roughly equal size: between 1985 and 1989 the Nikkei, Japan's main stock index, tripled; between 1995 and 2000 the S.&P. 500 did the same. But Japan also had an equally large bubble in real estate and land prices. I've never known whether to believe the famous factoid that the land under the Imperial Palace in Tokyo was worth more than all of California, but Japanese land prices certainly reached ridiculous levels. And much of the bad debt that still troubles Japan was run up to support real estate speculation. We had nothing comparable in this country.$ 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); RECESSION (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); AIRLINES (65%) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001



915 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: Fewer Passengers, Fewer Flights 

BYLINE:  By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON; DAVID CAY JOHNSTON is a reporter in the business section of The Times.

 BODY:
AIRLINES around the world have reduced the number of flights between cities, and even dropped some cities from their routes, following the Sept. 11 attack in which terrorists hijacked and destroyed four jetliners, prompting the unprecedented closing of American air space for three days.
 People still willing to fly find their choices limited, service to some cities ended, nearly all airlines reducing the frequency of flights and, on flights to medium-size cities like Rochester or Chattanooga, large jets being replaced with small regional jets or even smaller turboprops. In the first week and a half after travel resumed, most airlines posted schedules of 80 percent of their flights but flew far fewer because demand was weak. 
 When airlines drop cities they look first to those generating the least revenue and then to how to simplify the complex routing of planes, whose capacity must be matched to the number of passengers in different markets, said Sean Menke, vice president for marketing and planning at Frontier Airlines. 
Most airlines decline to specify just how much business has been lost, but America West, the nation's ninth largest airline, said nine days after the attack that its bookings had fallen by half. 
The Air Transport Association, an organization of major domestic carriers, said that it expected airline revenues in the last three months of the year to be 40 percent below those of the same period last year. While the six largest domestic airlines -- American, United, Delta. Continental, Northwest and US Airways -- all announced cuts in their capacity of about 20 percent, further reductions are certain if the transport association estimate proves correct.
Only one major domestic airline, Southwest, said it would not cut flights. But with passengers so scarce in late September that check-in at many airports was a breeze, despite increased scrutiny of carry-on bags and repeated checking of identification papers, even Southwest may be forced to cut its schedule.
United Airlines stopped flying to New Delhi from both London and Hong Kong immediately after the attacks. United also said that it would not proceed with plans to begin nonstop service from Chicago to New Delhi next month.
Northwest Airlines said that "market conditions" would compel it, too, to suspend flights from Amsterdam to New Delhi, but that it would continue flying to Bombay.
Delta Airlines has canceled, at least through Oct. 31, flights between Kennedy Airport and Tokyo, Munich, Shannon and Dublin, Cairo and Dubai, Brussels, Stockholm, Tel Aviv and Zurich.
Continental Airlines, as of tomorrow, will have dropped service to 10 airports and suspended service to two others. 
Continental and its commuter operation, Continental Express, said that as of tomorrow they were ending service to Atlantic City; Daytona Beach and Melbourne, Fla.; Abilene, Waco, San Angelo, Houston Hobby Airport and Houston-Tyler Airport in Texas; Stansted Airport near London; and Dusseldorf, Germany. 
Continental said it was suspending flights between Cleveland and Gatwick, near London, and nonstops between Newark and Rio de Janeiro, also as of tomorrow. It said it would not proceed with plans to begin service late this year from Newark to Montego Bay and Kingston, Jamaica.
Scheduling data released to its pilots revealed that US Airways has dropped service from Baltimore-Washington airport to Midway Airport in Chicago, and by December will end its discount Metrojet service, which served 19 cities, and stop trans-Atlantic flights out of Charlotte, N.C.
It will also quickly replace jet service to 10 cities with either smaller regional jets or turboprops. Those cities are: Akron-Canton, Ohio; Charleston, W.Va.; Chattanooga and Knoxville, Tenn.; Columbia and Greenville-Spartanburg, S.C.; Grand Rapids, Mich.; Huntsville, Ala.; Roanoke, Va.; and South Bend, Ind.
These cuts in jet service were in addition to a major shift away from large jets, announced before the attacks, that affects flights between La Guardia Airport and upstate New York cities and some other medium-size Northeast cities. 
JetBlue, a discount airline based at Kennedy, reduced daily flights to 79 from 84 on Sept. 20 by cutting two of five daily flights from Kennedy to Rochester and one each from Kennedy to Buffalo, New Orleans and Syracuse. JetBlue also said it would, as planned, begin new service between Dulles Airport outside Washington and Long Beach, Calif., on Oct. 8. 
American said it would cut flights by 20 percent, but as of Sept. 24 would not say whether it would drop service to any cities. 
America West and Frontier said they were not dropping any cities from their routes, but would reduce service by about 20 percent.
One airline closed the day after the attacks -- Midway, a discount carrier based in Raleigh-Durham Airport in North Carolina that was already in bankruptcy proceedings. Its creditors agreed to let it refund $20 million in prepaid tickets.
Another discount airline, AirTran, said it would add daily flights beginning Nov. 6 between its base in Atlanta and Pensacola, Fla.
SkyWest, which operates short flights on the West Coast as the United Express, said it did not expect layoffs but is re-evaluating the current makeup of its fleet. It has not changed its plans to shift from turboprops to regional jets.
American Trans Air, also known as ATA, took delivery of two new Boeing 737's this month and said that six more would arrive before the end of the year. It seemed to be flying nearly all of its posted schedule. 
Many foreign airlines were also affected by the attacks. Virgin Atlantic said it would stop flying to Chicago and Toronto from London and reduce capacity on other flights.
Aer Lingus, British Airways, Lan Chile and Lufthansa all cited a drop in passengers to and from the United States as the reason for reducing capacity by as much as a fifth.
British Airways said that it still intended to resume Concorde flights between London and the United States next month, while Air France said that its Concorde flights would resume in November.
Singapore Airlines, which relies on flights to the United States for nearly a fourth of its revenue, said it would make unspecified cuts in service.
Aeromexico, the largest carrier in Mexico, did not immediately cut flights, but its president, Alfonso Pasquel, said that he expected the number of passengers between Mexico and the United States to decline by a fifth.
Air Canada, already facing economic problems from its acquisition of a smaller competitor, Canadian Airlines, has asked Ottawa for at least $1.9 billion in aid, because of a decline in traffic to the United States as well as international markets. .
Qantas, the Australian airline, said it would also reduce its international flights, although some of them are expected to be taken over by British Airways, which owns a minority stake in Qantas.
None of the airlines based in Arab countries announced cuts.
Cathay Pacific, based in Hong Kong, and EVA, based in Taiwan, said their bookings, including those on flights to the United States, were normal despite the attacks.
Those who do fly may soon encounter higher fares as the changes wrought by the attacks bring new pressures on the airlines. Fewer passengers and a greater emphasis on security, which will mean that each plane can spend fewer hours in the air generating revenue, will squeeze the airlines.
Airlines around the world have also been told that their war-risk insurance would becanceled by tomorrow. Air France said new insurance would cost 10 times the old; Singapore Airlines was the first to announce a surcharge of $1.25 per passenger to cover the higher premiums.
The price of oil is also likely to rise if, as President Bush predicted during his address to a joint session of Congress on Sept. 20, the campaign against terrorism is protracted. A 1-cent increase in the price of a gallon of jet fuel adds $800 million in annual operating costs for domestic carriers, or at least it did before the attacks led to a sharp drop in the number of flights.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Delta jet, the first plane to leave Los Angeles International Airport after its reopening on Sept. 13.; At Hartsfield Atlanta International Airport. (Photographs by The Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); HIJACKING (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (79%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (79%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (79%); TERRORISM (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (85%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (74%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (58%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (55%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (54%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (92%); UAL (NYSE) (85%); DAL (NYSE) (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (85%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (85%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%) TEXAS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (93%); GERMANY (51%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



916 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1644 words

HEADLINE: Film; 
Making Argentina Matter Again

BYLINE:  By B. RUBY RICH; B. Ruby Rich, author of "Chick Flicks: Theories and Memories of the Feminist Film Movement," writes about film for The Nation.

DATELINE: TORONTO 

 BODY:
DURING the 1960's, Argentine cinema carried the torch for revolution in Latin America, blasting onto screens worldwide with polemical force. But by the 90's the country was better known for telenovelas, the overwrought television soap operas avidly watched by millions more people than ever saw the revolutionary film classic "The Hour of the Furnaces" back in 1968. In the intervening decades, with few exceptions, Argentina became something of a cinematic backwater.
 Recently, however, a new generation of Argentine directors has begun to come of age with films that are again attracting international attention. And one young filmmaker, Lucrecia Martel, with her first feature, has raised the stakes even higher. The film, "La Cienaga" ("The Swamp"), opening Wednesday for two weeks at Film Forum, may change the perceptions of Argentine cinema and, for that matter, of Argentina itself. 
 In the world according to "La Cienaga," the heat is unbearable, the sun unrelenting and the air thick with the ominous rumble of thunder. A middle class family, seeming marooned in a shabby mansion in an isolated corner of the country, goes through the motions of life. 
The house is rotting in the humidity, its swimming pool is fetid with decaying, fallen leaves, while the masters of the house slowly collapse into middle age, aided by a never-ending supply of alcohol.
In the opening moments of the film, a mother (played by the Argentine diva Graciela Borges) downs one drink too many, drops her glass and falls on the shards. She is rushed to the hospital while her inebriated husband is busy blow-drying his hair. Their feral children play wildly in the hills with BB guns, shooting anything that moves. A grown son (played by Ms. Borges's real-life son, Juan Cruz Bordeu) returns home from the city. A cousin arrives with her brood. The whole extended clan depends upon their young maid -- to bring ice, to bring affection. In "La Cienaga," hope and despair arrive with equal randomness. Everything changes forever, and nothing changes at all.
If the alcoholic parents and savage children of "La Cienaga" weren't speaking Spanish, they could be figures in a William Faulkner novel. "Yes," said Ms. Martel, its diminutive director. "The Argentine north is very much like the South in the United States. I identify very much with Faulkner." Ms. Martel grew up in Salta in northwest Argentina, near the Bolivian border, where she hunted lizards until she was 15 and, while still a child, accidentally shot a brother and sister with the same sort of BB guns brandished by the children in her film -- one of the many familial details that underline the story. 
Ms. Martel, who is 34, looks less the part of an enfant terrible than the adolescent philosophy student she once was. She has long pre-Raphaelite hair and wears owlish glasses, and to an interview during the Toronto International Film Festival this month she carried a gilt-edged black leather book in which she had been feverishly writing her next screenplay. She confessed that she had never immersed herself in Latin American films while growing up. "I lived in a town where it was impossible to see anything except Hollywood movies," she said. "For years, I didn't even know that films were made by individuals. I thought they just came from the U.S." 
Ms. Martel credits her family for her becoming a filmmaker. Long siesta hours spent listening to her mother and other women talk about children, husbands and family life impressed her deeply. "In Buenos Aires, where people are more analytical, they speak directly," she said. "But in the provinces, saying something can be a very long journey. Nothing is direct."
Equally compelling were her grandmother's ghost stories about the dead coming back to visit the living. "When I was writing and directing 'La Cienaga,' I tried to keep the rhythm of those conversations and stories in my mind," she said. "They were the kinds of narrative I wanted to capture on film." 
It was her father, though, who got her started by bringing home a brand-new video camera when Ms. Martel was a teenager. "I still remember his words," she recalled, making it clear that she considers memory vital to her artistic process. "He told us: 'This machine cost as much as a car. So anyone who wants to use it must thoroughly learn the manual.' I recently came across my typed translation of the English-language manual." She added, laughing, "I was obsessed with that video camera." 
The camera became her film school. Her six brothers and sisters tolerated her nonstop videotaping. She never tired of capturing seemingly uninteresting moments and then watching them on tape with fascination. It's fair to say that her aesthetic -- loopy humor, real-time pacing and an unblinking composition -- started here. When her father eventually updated the heavy equipment to a camcorder, Ms. Martel was freed to roam. "For five years," she said, "there's no image of me in family pictures or videos. I was always operating the camera." The other half of her visual style -- the restless movement, curiosity and shifting geography -- may be traced to those days.
"La Cienaga" bypasses conventional narrative. Imagine family photographs by someone like Sally Mann mixed with the real-life disintegration of the mother and daughter in David and Albert Maysles's 1985 documentary classic "Grey Gardens," then insert the jumpy visual energy of Harmony Korine's "Gummo," add a meticulous script with the sensibility of David Lynch and you'll have a rough idea of Ms. Martel's accomplishment -- as well as some insight into the screenplay's unconventional shape, which seems to have made initial financing in Argentina difficult.
Ms. Martel got to make her first short film through a state-financed competition. The resulting program, "Historias Breves" ("Short Stories"), was so successful that most of the nine original directors have gone on to make features. Ms. Martel was working in television when she met the producer Lita Stantic. As the producer for Argentina's best-known director, Maria Luisa Bemberg ("Camilla," "Miss Mary"), Ms. Stantic is fast becoming the godmother of the new Argentine film generation. She was smitten, basically, by the script for which Ms. Martel had been trying and trying to get financed.
"It was so original and literary, so unlike anything else," Ms. Stantic said recently by telephone from Buenos Aires. "It had a tremendous impact on me." She forwarded the script to the Sundance Institute, where it won an international screenwriting award sponsored by the Japanese broadcasting giant NHK; the award carries a guarantee of financing. Asked to compare "La Cienaga" to other Argentine films, Ms. Stantic could cite none. "Perhaps the screenwriter Beatriz Guido's collaborations with the director Leopoldo Torre Nilsson in the 50's,' she said. "But really, nobody has ever dealt with this region, this ambience, or exhibited such a purity of style."
It was this very unconventionality and originality that earned "La Cienaga" a place in the Berlin International Film Festival's competition last winter. One of the festival's directors, Wieland Speck, discovered the film in Buenos Aires and pronounced it his festival favorite. "Really, I think it's one of the greatest films of the year," Mr. Speck said in New York last month while scouting a new season of films. With the relish of a curator who's bagged the prize, he went on, "I mean, a film like this only comes along every 10 years or so." 
RICHARD PENA, director of the New York Film Festival, where "La Cienaga" will screen tomorrow and Tuesday, called it "the most impressive debut feature yet from the ever-surprising new Argentine cinema."
Certainly "La Cienaga" is packed with intriguing, fanciful and fearsome details: a son takes up with his father's mistress, a little boy lives in fear of dogs, believing they might be African rats. The telephone rings and rings and rings.
Apart from Ms. Borges and Mr. Bordeu, the roles were filled by an inspired band of nonprofessionals cast over several years in a marathon of exacting auditions in which Ms. Martel saw 2,400 people. What stamps every frame of "La Cienaga" and makes Ms. Martel a presence at film festivals from Berlin to Telluride is the visual style that animates these actors and their settings. Time can seem to stand still, then the pace becomes impossibly fast, picking up the quotidian rhythms of a family in the provinces.
Straining to explain the film's style, some critics have resorted to the "magic realism" label -- so handy for any number of Latin American cultural offerings. "No," Ms. Martel said definitively. "I reject that label, because it implies that there is something, a reality, into which some kind of magic then comes. I reject this idea completely. In fact, I think it's fascist. For me, reality is, of course, a construction that we have to believe in, but we can change it."
Ms. Martel's spirited defense of the imagination makes sense in the context of her own experience of Argentine reality. "I was born and I think I will die in a time of economic crisis: all my life I saw the middle class falling," she said at the Toronto festival, where she was temporarily stranded after the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington. Arguing that the Argentine middle class had yet to address its complicity during the years of dictatorship, she ruefully concluded that her generation had been raised with a distaste for politics. "It's why we all avoid polemics and want to speak about that which is personal, local, even familial," she said.
Does that mean, then, that "La Cienaga" is autobiographical?
"It's impossible to say," Ms. Martel said. "I suppose so, in part, but where do we draw the line? If someone asked me to make 'Alien 6,' it would be autobiographical, too. In fact, I'd really like to make 'Alien 6!' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Silvia Bayle, left, and Juan Cruz Bordeu in "La Cienaga." (Cowboy Booking International) (pg. 15); Andrea Lopez, left, and Sofia Bertolotto in "La Cienaga," a debut feature film by the Argentine director Lucrecia Martel. (Cowboy Booking International) (pg. 20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (86%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (86%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); FILM (78%); ADOLESCENTS (75%); FAMILY (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (69%); FIREARMS (68%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (65%); SHOOTINGS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARGENTINA (95%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



917 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Art/Architecture; 
A Master Craftsman For America

BYLINE:  By RITA REIF

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN 

 BODY:
DECADES before the Revolutionary War began in 1775, both Tories and Whigs helped make the silver workshop of Myer Myers the busiest place for status-symbol shopping in Lower Manhattan. Myers, the leading silversmith in New York in the late Colonial period, lived and worked in a house at the center of the city's business district, on King Street, now called Pine, one block north of Wall Street and about six blocks south of where the World Trade Center towers stood.
 Myers appealed to people of different political persuasions with his spirited takes on the latest London fashions in baroque and rococo plate: the elegantly tapered tall, thin cups called beakers; the ruff-edged small trays called waiters; and the pitchers called milk pots with their robustly swirled handles, sharply beaked spouts and well-defined hoof or shell feet. 
 His teapots, though, were the most expressive of his silver forms, reflecting the changes taking place in New York society in the late 18th century, when affluent colonists shed their conservative taste for the baroque and sought independence, even in their choices of tablewares, through rococo fantasies. The teapots Myers produced in the early 1750's were as plain and plump as their owners. Those made 15 to 20 years later were extravagantly embossed with glittering images of feathers, leaves and flowers and more daringly shaped, with at least one of them resembling a bosomy, well-corseted matron of the period. 
"Then overnight, the war transformed the city," said David L. Barquist, the curator who organized "Myer Myers: Jewish Silversmith in Colonial New York," an exhibition at the Yale University Art Gallery through Dec. 30. "George Washington arrived in New York in April 1776 and made it his headquarters." A few months later the British attacked the city and Myers, a native New Yorker, fled with his family to Connecticut.
The show of 104 silver and gold objects by Myers also includes 50 other works that provide a larger context -- engravings, maps and portraits of his clients, as well as silver produced by colleagues and competitors. It is the first large museum exhibition on Myers in nearly 50 years, and its wall labels and catalog offer voluminous insights into Myers's silver work and his life.
Myers (1723-95) lived most of his life in New York, which offered Jews greater freedom than almost any other place on earth. The community was so small -- about 250 Jews, less than 1 percent of the population in the mid-18th century -- that no one really cared. "New Yorkers then were a pragmatically tolerant people who lived in an unusually heterogeneous community," said Jon Butler, a professor of American history and religious studies at Yale, who writes about Myers's New York world in the catalog.
Myers completed his seven-year apprenticeship with a master silversmith and registered as a goldsmith in 1746. He was the first native Jew within the British Empire to establish himself as a working retail silversmith since the Worshipful Company of Goldsmiths was established in London in 1327.
Myers's elite clientele included influential men like the Rev. Samuel Johnson, the founding president of King's College, now Columbia University; Robert Livingston, a rich landholder who was chairman of the Stamp Act Congress and a cousin of Philip Livingston, another client, who was a signer of the Declaration of Independence; and Samuel Cornell, a New Yorker who became a successful West Indies merchant and later a political leader in North Carolina.
Myers was lucky from the start. Soon after he went into business in the late 1740's, New York's economic boom began, propelling him to prominence as the savviest master craftsman of precious metals in the rococo style in the colonies. The outbreak of the Revolutionary War temporarily erased the prosperity that had made the city the most flourishing in America. After Myers relocated to Connecticut with his wife and six of his children (he had 13 in all by two wives), he continued producing silver there, in Norwalk, until it was destroyed by the British in 1779, and later in Stratford.
His Connecticut silver and the pieces he made after he returned to New York, in 1783, reflect a diminished taste for opulence. Eventually he produced silver in the increasingly popular neo-Classical style, but his pieces lacked the distinction of his earlier work. 
Mr. Barquist spent six years tracking the complex story of Myer Myers. His research has produced a greater understanding of Myers's business than had been known, exploding forever the myth that every craftsman in the period worked by himself in a small workshop. "His shop was large, employing many craftsmen, subcontracting work to others and forming partnerships," Mr. Barquist said. "This should not reduce the importance of his name, because he initiated the projects, maintained artistic control and did the selling."
His research took him to Amsterdam, where, according to family records, the Myers family originated. But he was unable to document a 19th-century claim that Solomon and Judith Myers, the parents of Myer, were from the Netherlands, and no written birth, marriage or death records dating from 1723 or later have been found. 
"When Myers returned to New York after the war, he was in his mid-60's, had rheumatism and was just too old to restore his workshop to the scale he had become accustomed to," Mr. Barquist said. "But he had dominated silver making in the rococo style in America before the war and had worked as an active maker for a total of nearly 50 years. He's a textbook example of the artistic mastery in American 18th-century silver."

GRAPHIC: Photo: An 18th-century rococo silver teapot with a wood handle, made by Myer Myers, is on view at Yale. (Yale University Art Gallery) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); SILVERWARE & HOLLOWARE MFG (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (86%); JEWS & JUDAISM (86%); EXHIBITIONS (86%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (78%); HISTORY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (77%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (70%); RELIGION (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); EARTH (66%) UNITED STATES (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



918 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: PASTIMES; 
For Some, Finding Solace Means Returning to Malls

BYLINE:  By FRANCINE PARNES

 BODY:
ONLY a day after her office was destroyed in the World Trade Center attacks, a lawyer showed up at Tuesdays Child, a women's fashion boutique in Scarsdale. She bought a Michael Kors designer outfit. 
 "She did not know where she would go to work or what tomorrow would bring," said Alissa Emerson, the store's owner. "But in times like these, movies, theater and fashion can provide important relief. People might not enter into larger projects such as remodeling their homes but they might find fashion an affordable luxury." 
 Across the street at Fitigues, a casual clothing boutique, a similar scenario played out. Two women, including one whose husband had been evacuated from his lower Manhattan office, arrived from Manhattan for a day of shopping last weekend, said Lisa Veltri, the store manager.
"Each spent more than $1,000 and walked out in new cashmere outfits," Ms. Veltri said. "What struck me is they were saying, these are comfort clothes. For some people, comfort comes from food. For others, comfort comes from fashion."
As the nation mourns, one barometer of a creeping return to routine is when people resume the mantle of consumerism. 
At Family Britches, a men's and women's clothing store in Chappaqua, "People have come more for the camaraderie than the shopping," said Barry Mishkin, president. "They've wanted to say hello, be greeted by their first name and see a familiar face in a comfortable environment."
After the attacks, many customers visited from Manhattan because the suburbs seemed safer, Mr. Mishkin added. "People walked the streets here and said, 'Maybe we do want to rent that house and get out of the city after all.' "
Still, Mary Jane Denzer, owner of her namesake designer boutique in White Plains, said, "A lot of people have felt guilty about shopping and spending." 
After the attacks, her sales were down by two-thirds, but business has picked up. Normally, she said, "September is the most important month of the year, if you follow fashion and like to buy clothes."
But now, "the customer's mood is different," she said. "There are many more requests for the simplest clothes. It's not a time for ball gowns, it's not a time for celebration. And people don't want black -- it's too sad."
As consumers return to fashion stores, shopping is more somber and subdued. Flags dominate showcases, clothing sometimes plays second fiddle and signs tell shoppers where to donate to the Red Cross. 
Three days after the attacks, Neiman Marcus at The Westchester mall in White Plains emptied its windows of clothes, substituting a terse "We grieve." At the Galleria mall in White Plains, shoppers have seen the flag reigning at stores including Victoria's Secret, starkly occupying an entire window where padded bras once commanded attention. 
Westchester consumers have a string of opinions on whether to shop or not to shop. Some say they're too sad to shop. It's too soon. It's pointless, it's tasteless. For those who shop, it's a chance to embrace normalcy, a patriotic answer to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's call to help the economy.
"It's weird," Kim Speed, a Rye native and Salt Lake City-based activewear designer, said at The Westchester last Sunday when asked how it felt to resume shopping in a post-Sept. 11 world. "What's even weirder," she added, "is that people shopping here seem really back to normal. This insulated cosmos feels eerie, a little like escape." 
In the weekends after the attacks, retailers said, shoppers bought mostly basics.
"That was the first toe back into the water, though it wasn't just about 'I need something,' " said Wendy Liebmann, president of WSL Strategic Retail, marketing and retail consultants in Manhattan. "After the tragedy, parents wanted to hug their kids, and then shopping for their children became another form of a hug. In our culture, shopping is an emotional connection, the first steps toward healing." 
Despite a weakening economy, clothing stores are holding up, said David Wolfe, creative director of The Doneger Group, retail analysts in Manhattan. "Many stores are back to normal," he said, "though normal was not so great. Most people were concerned that the disaster mindset would mean no business at all would be done for a long time. But Americans are so resilient, they bounce right back to the mall. 
"Let's say this loud and clear, fashion is a trivial pursuit," he said. "But the economy is not trivial, and the fashion industry contributes enormously to the economy." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (91%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (90%); WOMEN (78%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (78%); MEN'S CLOTHING (73%); SALES FIGURES (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



919 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1907 words

HEADLINE: For Arab-Americans, a Time of Disquiet 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT WORTH

 BODY:
THE day after the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, Abdel Sharab was tending his store in southwest Yonkers as usual when two local men burst in and began cursing him. One threatened to bomb the store, which sells Middle Eastern food.
 "I told them you can't say that, it's a felony," Mr. Sharab recalled, standing over a counter display of sugar-dusted Turkish Delight. 
 The men left without doing any harm, and one of them came back later and apologized, Mr. Sharab said. Other local people, hearing about the incident, have come to his store to express their support and offer help. 
Still, he seemed shaken as he recounted other incidents of Arab-Americans being threatened or harassed merely because they come from the same part of the world as the suspects in the Sept. 11 attack.
"All Americans are victims of this," Mr. Sharab said. "We love the flag just as much as they do." 
The anxiety spawned by the attacks is palpable in southwest Yonkers, where most of Westchester County's roughly 20,000 Arabs live. Until recently, the cluster of Middle Eastern restaurants, markets and stores here known as "Little Arabia" drew little notice. But business is down in the wake of the attacks, several merchants said, and they keep a nervous eye on the street. 
"Many Arab Muslims feel we have suffered a double blow," said Ahmed al Khatib, the director of the National Muslim Merchant Association and a member of the Westchester American Muslim Association. "Hundreds of Arabs worked in the World Trade Center, and many are missing. I myself know of 20, and their families are devastated."
At the same time, Mr. Khatib said, Muslims have seen their religion unfairly characterized as a violent faith that lends itself easily to terrorism. Many Arab-Americans say their friends and families have been threatened, harassed and cursed in the street. District Attorney Jeanine Pirro's office is investigating four possible bias attacks since Sept. 11, including one in which a man sprayed mace in the face of an Arab-American store owner in Ardsley. 
In Westchester, most Muslim women were afraid to go out while wearing traditional Muslim headdress, known as the hajib, Mr. Khatib said.
Even if the current wave of suspicion subsides, there are fears that Arab-Americans could suffer disproportionately from layoffs as the economy heads toward a recession, said Joseph Sayegh, a former head of the Westchester Arab American Foundation. There could be similar damage to the community's efforts to gain political representation, he added. No Arab-American has held elective office in Westchester, though two are running for seats on the Yonkers City Council this fall.
Most of the Arabs in Yonkers are not Muslims but Christians of Jordanian or Lebanese descent -- a distinction that is lost on many who have threatened or harassed them, said Majed Samarneh, president of the Arab American Council of Westchester.
The first Arabs came to Yonkers in the mid-1950's, said Issa Ereifej, executive director of the Arab American Foundation. They were Jordanian Christians, and that group continues to be the most well-educated and affluent in the community, with many professionals and business owners. Most of them came to the United States in search of better jobs rather than for cultural reasons, and were followed by Arabs from other countries, with a growing portion of Muslims.
As in Brooklyn and Queens, which have the largest Arab populations in the East, many left in the 1980's to try their luck in Arizona and California or to join the even larger Arab enclave in Detroit, Mr. Ereifej said. But others continued to arrive from the Middle East. 
Today, the Arab community in Yonkers is roughly the same size as the two other major suburban Arab communities in the region, Jersey City and Paterson, N.J. 
All the Middle Eastern restaurants, markets and stores in Yonkers now have American flags placed prominently in their windows, and often a statement of solidarity with the victims. Many local merchants seemed especially eager to be friendly. 
"Salaam aleikum," said Niazy Tawfik, 62, as he greeted a reporter entering the Madaba Deli on South Broadway. "That means 'peace on you.' We say that all the time."
Muhammad Khalil, the owner of the deli, said there had been no real trouble so far. 
"Two detectives came in the day after the attack," he said. "They said there was a threat to blow up the store. Maybe they just wanted to look around and see if we had any bombs here," he added with a smile. "Anyway, they said they would come back the next day with dogs, but they never came back."
Others have said the police and local governments have been helpful, and seem eager to make the Arab community feel safe. But they also know their neighborhoods may well become targets for law enforcement in the domestic struggle against terrorism.
Ten days after the terrorist attack, Abbas Hamideh was speaking to a reporter in front of the apartment building his family owns in Yonkers when a group of armed men from the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the New York City Police Department walked up and asked to speak to him.
As it happened, the agents only wanted to ask him some questions about a man named Muhammad Hamideh who apparently sent an e-mail boasting of his involvement in the terrorist attacks. Mr. Hamideh told them he had no relatives by that name, and after a few more questions they thanked him and went on their way.
Still, as the agents walked away Mr. Hamideh, who was born and raised in this country, seemed uneasy. 
"That's the first time I've been questioned," he said. "I wonder if they'll be back."
One side effect of the added scrutiny, Mr. Hamideh said, has been reluctance to criticize American policy in the Middle East. 
Mr. Hamideh, for instance, is co-chairman of Al-Awda, a Palestinian human rights group that has been strongly critical of United States support for Israel. The group had planned a march on the Israeli mission in Manhattan for Sept. 23, but called it off after the attack.
"We decided it would be very insensitive, while the city is torn apart," he said. The group also received a death threat from someone who said he planned to kill group members at the rally. 
Perhaps the most painful thing for many Muslims like Mr. Hamideh has been a public perception of Islam as a violent or anti-American religion.
"Believe me, these terrorists are not Muslims," said Muhammad Ali, 56, a lay spiritual leader of the Westchester Muslim Center who wore a long white beard, and was dressed in a full-length white jalabia and the traditional Muslim cap, or kaffiyeh.
He pointed to a verse in a bilingual copy of the Koran that forbids suicide, and to another that forbids murder. "We need to bring the news to people, to show them this is not the way of Islam," he said.
The Muslim Center's mosque, a brick building shielded by hedges on Brookfield Road in Mount Vernon, is the largest in Westchester. 
Most of the center's 1,000 members are from Pakistan, Bangladesh and India, but there are smaller clusters from other countries, and about 10 percent are African-Americans, said Shafi Bezar, the chairman of the center's board.
As they arrived for Friday prayers at 1 p.m., about 150 men removed their shoes in the vestibule and sat down on a green rug to listen to a 20-minute sermon before the five minutes of prayers began. The women pray in a separate room downstairs that houses the center's school.
Imam Hafiz Amjad announced "the conduct of a Muslim" as his theme for the day. He emphasized the importance of moderation, and spoke about the dangers of extremes, mentioning the terrorist attack as an example.
The previous week, the sermon addressed the attack and its victims. 
Several leaders of the Arab and Muslim communities have made special efforts to reach out to Christian and Jewish leaders. In Rockland County, Dr. Mohamed S. Bhana, former president of the Rockland Islamic Center, attended the Jewish New Year ceremonies at Temple Beth Torah in Upper Nyack.
After the prayer, as men milled around eating a catered Pakistani lunch in front of the mosque, several said they had been far less concerned about their own safety than about that of their wives and children.
Some of the children attend Darul Arkam, Westchester's only Muslim school, which is in the basement of the Muslim Center's mosque. Founded two years ago, the school has grown rapidly, and now has 105 students, mostly from lower Westchester. It offers classes in English and Arabic for children in kindergarten through fourth grade. 
On the outside, it seemed like the safest possible place for a Muslim child. As the men arrived for prayer, laughing children played tag on a sheltered lawn next to the mosque with their teacher, a young woman in a black gown and hajib. At one point a police car nosed gently into the center's parking lot, and the officer leaned out and asked with a smile if everything was all right. 
But one parent who gave her name only as Fatima said she was moving her children to a conventional public school. She was worried that her child's isolation in Muslim school would make him more vulnerable to discrimination, she said.
And when asked about their experiences over the last two weeks, several teachers spoke bitterly of insults and a climate of fear. All of them said they had been afraid to wear their hajib in public, sometimes even to go outside at all. 
"Yesterday when a man was cursing me in front of my children I felt so weak," said Lydia Haider, who came to this country from Yemen at age 11. "And a woman shouted at my friend in the street, 'You better pray to God that he'll forgive you for this.' "
Ms. Haider added that the expressions of bias seemed particularly unfair because Americans do not seem to care when Muslims lose their lives in other countries, particularly Israel. 
"Six thousand people are important, but millions of people have been killed because of U.S. policies," Ms. Haider said. "Isn't that terrorism too?"
Another woman who identified herself only as Shereen said that an assistant in a Westchester doctor's office refused to speak to her, and then told her she should have her tubes tied so that she could have no more children.
Nazim Khan, the principal of the school, said: "I don't see why we're being treated like this. We're law-abiding citizens." His own wife, he added, who had never gone in public without her hajib for 25 years in this country, went without it during the week after the attack.
Even in the more affluent suburbs of central and northern Westchester, Muslim women have been anxious.
"For the first week I did not leave the house," said Malika Niazi, 43, who lives in Chappaqua and with her husband arranges a weekly prayer meeting for 50 Muslim families in a room provided by the Mount Kisco Presbyterian Church. 
Ms. Niazi's daughter Zareen said one of her Muslim classmates at Horace Greeley High School had reported being harassed, and there were several anti-Muslim notes on a message board in the school in the week after the attack. 
But the school administration has been very kind and supportive, she said, and she and the other Muslim students felt safe.
And one good side effect of all the scrutiny has been that Americans, after a few missteps, seem to be learning more about their Muslim fellow citizens. 
"I'm finding that the press is starting to show Islam in its true light," Ms. Niazi said. "That's a wonderful thing."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Students at Darul Arkam, Westchester's only Muslim school, play with a teacher during recess at the school in Mount Vernon. Below, Abbas Hamideh and his wife, Kajida, and son, Muhammad, are among the many Arab Muslims in the county. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Outside the Westchester Muslim Center in Mount Vernon, are Lydia Haider, left, Maysa Abdallah and Kulsoom Butt. F.B.I. agents leave the Yonkers apartment building owned by the family of Abbas Hamideh, right, after questioning Mr. Hamideh and his relatives about a man with the same last name. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); ARAB AMERICANS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); RELIGION (89%); RETAILERS (78%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); RESTAURANTS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); FELONIES (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (66%); LAYOFFS (60%); CITY GOVERNMENT (50%); CITIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



920 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS; 
On the Campaign Trail With an Underdog

BYLINE:  By MAREK FUCHS

 BODY:
TONY CASTRO has been called a dead duck, a sacrificial lamb and Pirro fodder. Just don't call him someone who is acting the part. 
 Mr. Castro, a 44-year-old Democrat, is running for Westchester County district attorney against the well-financed, well-known Jeanine Pirro. His cause is almost universally perceived as hopeless, despite the tax fraud conviction of Ms. Pirro's husband, which was supposed to have threatened her political future. 
 Against this backdrop of long odds, a small band of true believers gathered at Mr. Castro's ranch home in Rye early on the Sunday morning before the World Trade Center attack. Over espresso, they prepared for a day of campaigning. 
Born in Portugal to a fisherman and a seamstress, Mr. Castro immigrated to New Bedford, Mass., at the age of 9. He first had to learn English and then, thanks to a scholarship, went to Harvard, where he played varsity soccer and met his wife, Rose Palermo, in a French class. He has been working for 14 years as a prosecutor in the Bronx district attorney's office, a job he loved but left in June to wage a full-time campaign.
Richard Blassberg, a volunteer campaign manager, who said he "follows Tony everywhere but the men's room," was ready for the day of campaigning. His career has taken him from harness racing to running a home for veterans to social work to law school at the age of 55. 
He promised to help dethrone Ms. Pirro when he was a social worker with a legally blind client who, Mr. Blassberg said, was unjustly prosecuted by Ms. Pirro for being the lookout at a robbery. 
"This campaign is David versus Goliath," Mr. Blassberg said. "But I remind you how that turned out." Cathy Nappi, who used to be a social worker with Mr. Blassberg, was there too, on her first day of campaigning.
The first stop would be a fund-raiser in Chappaqua. With Mr. Blassberg and Mrs. Nappi driving in a separate car, the candidate spoke about how he hoped to foster a distrust of Ms. Pirro in the public's mind.
"I am approaching this campaign as a prosecutor," he said. "I don't have any background in politics. I'm trying to put out information to the jury, the public." After he makes the case against Ms. Pirro, the public will hand down its verdict on Election Day.
Mr. Castro feels there is no doubt that Ms. Pirro knew of her husband's misdeeds and as such has besmirched her office.
"She has no credibility to prosecute public integrity or economic crimes," he said. "It's hypocritical." 
He added, "Though people are under the impression that she signed one tax return, we've researched the record and the record says that she signed 9 or 10 fraudulent tax returns." 
Mr. Castro acknowledged the challenge he faces and gave Ms. Pirro barbed praise for her "image." But, he said, "I'm hoping the truth, the facts, the hard evidence will shatter that image and the public will see Jeanine Pirro for what she is." 
Mr. Castro said he would cut the office's public relations staff in half and add community outreach programs. 
The Pirro campaign refused to address Mr. Castro's charges. Instead it released a statement all but calling him a shin-kicker. 
"It's unfortunate," said the campaign spokeswoman, Sara Gaffney Mahoney, "that rather than articulating a vision for the future of law enforcement in Westchester County, Mr. Castro has done nothing but demean the work of the district attorney's office. He has shown himself to be a desperate candidate, running a campaign of negative personal attacks. 
"The facts are clear: crime is down 28 percent in Westchester, convictions are way up and those who are least able to defend themselves from crime -- children, the elderly and minorities -- have a champion in Jeanine Pirro." 
The fund-raiser was at the home of Robi Schlaff and Mark Goodman, and about 75 people paid $100 each to meet Mr. Castro, who mingled with them comfortably. In one circle of donors, he mentioned how, in the wake of her husband's legal troubles, Ms. Pirro was critical of the United States attorney's office. "And now," he said, "when was the last time you read about any case with a joint task force of the Westchester D.A. and the U.S. attorney's office?" No one could remember. "Does that mean we don't have organized crime here in Westchester?" 
After the fund-raiser, Mr. Castro left for an Ecuadorean parade in Tarrytown. 
But there was a hitch. In Tarrytown, Mr. Blassberg stopped his car, made a phone call and walked back to Mr. Castro's car. "Looks like we got some bad information back when," he said, "The parade was 10 to 2, our calendar said 1 to 3."
Mr. Castro, however, made his way to a waterfront park where most of the paradegoers had assembled. He shook hands and gave brochures to more than 300 people, who received him warmly, especially when he greeted them in Spanish. 
Though retail politics of this sort can be grueling, Mr. Castro seemed energized. When he was called onto a stage to address the crowd, he even gushed, "You have a very proud heritage and are highly respected in the community," before shouting "Viva Ecuador!" and receiving a roar. 
From there, Mr. Castro drove to Rye before driving back across the county once more for an Italian fair in Yonkers, where Mr. Blassberg and Mrs. Nappi had already been campaigning for a while. "Italianos, Latinos and Americanos," Mr. Blassberg shouted in greeting, "everyone is here. It's beautiful." 
As Mr. Castro approached a Sabrett truck, Ann Yurko leaned out of it. "We got you up already," Mrs. Yurko shouted, pointing to the brochure taped to the side of the truck. 
"I don't like that her husband is in jail," she explained. "How's a criminal going to keep us safe? Like you don't know what your husband is doing." 
Nearby a man spoke to Mr. Castro. Afterward, he said that although he liked him and thought his credentials were strong, he was going to vote for Ms. Pirro because he thought she had done a good job keeping the county safe, "even though I don't think she's completely divorced from the things her husband is accused of." 
Walking uphill, Mr. Castro went to the parking lot of Our Lady of Mount Carmel Church, where there were carnival rides, to shake more hands. Maria Ricciardi, 42, accepted Mr. Castro's brochure politely but, when he left, conceded: "I really like Pirro. She's on the ball. Even with the family conflicts, she still didn't let it interfere with her work. She's a strong woman." 
After shaking hands hundreds more times, it was off to a festival at the Portuguese American Community Center of Yonkers. There, as the sun set behind the building and people danced in the parking lot, Mr. Castro, without pause or concern for his chances, kept making the case against Ms. Pirro and reaching for any hand he could.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tony Castro, a former prosecutor in the Bronx district attorney's office, is running against Jeanine Pirro to be Westchester's district attorney. He spent time recently at Ecuadorean Day at Pierson Park in Tarrytown, pictured, shaking hands and getting his message out. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); JURY TRIALS (76%); TAX LAW (76%); VERDICTS (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); TAX FRAUD (76%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (76%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); FUNDRAISING (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEW BEDFORD, MA, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



921 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: L.I. @ WORK; 
Displaced Companies Call, but Few Sign Leases

BYLINE:  By WARREN STRUGATCH

 BODY:
AFTER fielding a flurry of phone calls from displaced New York City companies frantically searching for office space in the wake of the World Trade Center disaster, Long Island landlords and the brokers who represent them have largely been unable to come to terms. Instead, the companies have mostly found temporary (and possibly permanent)space elsewhere in the metropolitan region.
 Since the disaster, the uprooted companies have contracted for nearly five million square feet of office space around Manhattan and another 2.5 million square feet in New Jersey, Westchester and Connecticut, according to industry reports. Brokers and landlords on Long Island said that while several New York companies are temporarily housing some of their employees at branch offices in Nassau and Suffolk, no new leases had been signed, even for temporary space. 
 An estimated 30 million square feet of office space was destroyed or is no longer usable in Manhattan because of the terrorist attacks. Some of the displaced companies may still be in the market for space, so relocation deals may yet be made on Long Island. But the two county economic development agencies that routinely sweeten relocation packages by offering financial incentives have bowed out, and despite the professed optimism of some local brokers, the possibility of corporate relocations diminishes with every passing day. 
Fred Trump III, the managing director of the Long Island office of Insignia/ESG, said: "So far on Long Island, we see people looking, and there are a number of letters of intent out there. However, no deals have been secured as of yet."
In one instance, Benjamin Development offered to waive the rent on up to 120,000 square feet of new Class A space near the federal courthouse in Central Islip for up to three months for any displaced companies, but there were no takers. "I really have no idea why nobody took us up on the offer," said Russell Mohr, the director of sales at Benjamin, which built the Courthouse Corporate Center on Carleton Avenue. "You read that companies want to go where the talented employees are, and Long Island has a talented work force."
In another outreach effort, a Long Island coalition of professionals and executives have created www.libusinessrelief.com, a Web site to assist those providing emergency office space and supplies. 
Brokers, developers and others who work in the real estate industry offer various explanations of why Manhattan companies seem to have shunned Long Island. The reasons include the usual suspects: lack of mass transit, Manhattan decision makers' unfamiliarity with Long Island as a place to do business, and their perception that no space would be immediately available. 
David Pennetta, a vice president of Oxford & Simpson, a real estate brokerage company in Jericho, attributed the region's failure to attract its share of the displaced companies directly to mass transit. "Most of the people working in New York City aren't driving to work," he said. "Long Island does not have a great infrastructure in terms of mass transportation. Because it's so difficult for people to get to work without cars, it becomes very difficult for companies to relocate quickly out here. Executives don't want to tell 4,000 employees, 'O.K., go out and buy a car to get to work Monday.' "
In contrast, he said, companies found sites in New Jersey that were near PATH stations and new locations in New York City that were accessible by subway. Taking space in those markets, he added, allowed executives and their employees to make relatively few changes in their daily schedules. 
"They also aren't familiar with Long Island as a business environment," said Mr. Pennetta, a former president of the Commercial and Industry Brokers Society of Long Island. He suggested that the region's insularity can be mysterious and off-putting to the outsider. "Long Island can be difficult to figure out if you're seeing it for the first time and you have to make an immediate decision," he said. 
Mitchell Rechler, a co-president of Reckson Associates, the largest developer of office space on the Island, said that in the days following the attacks, many New York companies telephoned to ask about space availability but ended up leasing elsewhere. "It's just not going on," he said, referring to the lack of relocation deals. "I think it was a question of space. There were large blocks of space available in Jersey City, for example, which is just a quick train ride across the river from where they had been."
Nevertheless, nearly 11 percent of Long Island office space is currently vacant, up from nearly 10 percent last fall, according to Insignia/ESG. Available office space includes blocks of modern space in the former Sperry headquarters in Lake Success and in the former Grumman test hangar in Great River that has been rebuilt as the Long Island Technology Center. 
David Leviton, the senior director at the Long Island office of Cushman & Wakefield, the commercial real estate company, said Manhattan executives had expressed substantial interest in the 1.4 million square feet of office and technology space at the former Sperry headquarters, now known as i.park. Most of that space, which is 16 miles from Midtown and just over the Queens border, is still available, Mr. Leviton said. Although the office park's proximity to New York City and the fact that it is served by several bus lines should heighten its appeal, he said, so far no one has signed a contract.
Arthur Stern, the chief executive of the Cogswell Realty Group, which represents the Long Island Technology Center, said he had found many lookers but no takers. "We've had a number of inquiries, and we are close on a number of deals," he said. "One thing I've noticed consistently is that companies want to stay in Manhattan. They are being told they will be able to come back in six months, in some cases, and they are not abandoning the city."
The financial incentives that have sweetened the pot in the past have been absent. Alice Amrhein, the commissioner of the Suffolk County Industrial Development Agency, said the county was not offering incentives to companies displaced by the World Trade Center attacks. "Out of deference to New York City, we're not actively recruiting those companies," she said. "New York City wants to keep them in the city."
In Nassau County, the post of commissioner of the Department of Commerce and Industry, which has traditionally provided relocation incentives, has been vacant since Stephen Latham retired last year. Patrick Zagarino, the executive director of the county's Industrial Development Agency, which can provide low-cost loans to relocating companies, did not return two phone calls seeking comment. 
Mr. Pennetta, the broker, said he was not particularly surprised that most of the corporate relocation activity had gone elsewhere. Historically, not many companies from New York City have ever relocated to the Island, and in turn, Long Island has never depended on them.
"The market here is the big companies like Computer Associates and Symbol Technologies that started out here small and stayed here as they grew," Mr. Pennetta said. "There haven't been a lot of companies relocating here from somewhere else."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield employees who had worked at 1 World Trade Center set up laptop computers at folding tables at the insurer's offices in Melville. (Ed Betz for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (76%); LABOR FORCE (75%); SALES MANAGEMENT (74%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (74%); EXECUTIVES (70%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (59%); TERRORISM (53%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



922 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1668 words

HEADLINE: 'Shop Till You Drop' Survives, but Economists Remain Wary 

BYLINE:  By JOHN RATHER

 BODY:
RECOVERING from the shock that nearly paralyzed the region after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, Long Island residents turned off their television sets last week to venture out in search of what remained of life the way it used to be.
 For many people, that meant shopping, dining out, family gatherings, taking a Sunday drive and being with friends and strangers in an atmosphere that was strangely more civil than usual but still filled with apprehension about what might come next. 
 How close to normal life had become nearly three weeks since the attack may become clear only in retrospect, when figures for key economic indicators are posted. But even with the threat of recession and more disruption, early signs suggested a powerful rebound toward normalcy.
From Roosevelt Field in Garden City to the Tanger Factory Outlet Center in Riverhead, the parking lots at major malls and shopping centers filled up again last weekend, almost to levels seen before "shop till you drop" became a patriotic admonition. 
"We had a good weekend, not a great weekend," said Janine Nevons, the general manager of the Tanger mall, one of the largest outlet centers in the country. She said store traffic was up 6 percent over a year ago. Ms. Nevons said that shoppers were buying practical household items and apparel on sale but were staying away from fashion and high-end items. "People are buying the basics," she said.
The Simon Property Group of Indianapolis, the owner of Roosevelt Field, Walt Whitman Mall in Huntington Station, Smith Haven in Lake Grove and the Mall at the Source in Westbury, does not discuss mall attendance figures. But Irwin Kellner, a professor of economics at Hofstra University and the chief economist for North Fork Bank and CBS MarketWatch, said he had cruised the lots at Roosevelt Field and the upscale Americana at Manhasset over the weekend and found them full.
"People were out in numbers, and they were carrying shopping bags," Dr. Kellner said. "I think shopping here on Long Island has already recovered."
Another economist, Thomas Conoscenti of the Center for Regional Policy Studies at the State University at Stony Brook, said he also saw signs of recovery.
"Just because people didn't feel like shopping in that week or so of depression following the attack doesn't mean demand has fallen off," Dr. Conoscenti said. "We may now have some pent-up shopping demand, and we may end up with some strong retail activity." He said he found Smith Haven Mall "fairly packed" during a recent visit.
Dr. Conoscenti said that the economic impact of the terrorist attacks would be greater in Nassau, which he said was "a much more formalized community with white-collar ties to the city and down in Wall Street" than in more self-contained Suffolk.
High-tech companies on the Island could see an increase in sales as the government issues contracts for equipment for a war on terrorism. Francis M. Scricco, the president and chief executive of Arrow Electronics in Melville, acknowledged that his distribution company might be one of them.
Pat Iannucci, the vice president for communications at the Pall Corporation, an East Hills company specializing in highly sophisticated filtration, separation and purification equipment, said that Pall was "ready and prepared to do whatever our country asks." Pall supplies filters for military jets, helicopters and armored vehicles; one product protects helicopter engines from desert sand.
Lee E. Koppelman, the executive director of the Long Island Regional Planning Board and chief planner during the region's transition from a defense economy in the 1980's to a small-business and service economy in the 1990's, said that sales-tax revenues would be the most accurate measure of recovery on Long Island. "The real test is going to come when we see those sales-tax receipt numbers," he said. 
In Suffolk, a $1.5 billion budget for 2002 proposed by the county executive earlier this month relies on sales taxes for $780 million in revenues, more than half the total. By contrast, far more predictable property taxes account for just $51 million in revenues. 
In Nassau, a four-year financial plan submitted by the county executive took a conservative approach on increases in sales-tax revenues. Frederick E. Parola, the county comptroller, said that even though shopping activity had "literally fallen off the cliff" after the attacks, "the good news is that sales-tax revenues were so strong prior to Sept. 11 that they were running ahead of predictions." 
But he said that the county could now fall short of even the modest increases forecasted in the four-year plan, throwing off all its financial assumptions. "Whether and when things will get back to normal we don't know," he said. 
Frederick B. Pollert, the director of the Suffolk County Legislature Budget Review Office, said the attacks and their aftermath added even more uncertainty than usual to predicting sales-tax revenues. "Under the best of circumstances it is difficult to forecast," he said. "At a national level, we know that right after the World Trade Center disaster, durable purchases decreased dramatically. The question is to what extent is that going to come back."
Some activities, like dining out, seemed to have rebounded sharply last week. Mr. Parola said that he couldn't watch any more television last week, so he took his family to Le Nook on Sunrise Highway in Wantagh for dinner, expecting to find empty tables. "It was packed," he said. "Everybody must have wanted to get out." Last weekend patrons also filled the Wantagh Inn, a nearby bar and restaurant, an employee there said. 
At Pumpernickels, a German seafood restaurant with a bar in Northport, Arthur Glad, the owner, said that his regulars had returned. "When this hit, the first couple of days were horrible," he reported. "I don't think anybody did anything but stay home and watch television. Then it started to pick up pretty good, and now it's pretty busy."
Jane Baxter Lynn, the executive director of the Long Island Wine Council, said the number of visits to tasting rooms at East End wineries had been about the same as a year ago.
What has changed dramatically, she said, was the ambience. "The mood has been very different," she said, "with people saying they needed to get out into the fresh air and open spaces, away from their televisions."
Farm stands also seemed to be relatively active last weekend. Joseph Gergela, the executive director of the Long Island Farm Bureau, said a looming question was how crowded the East End would be next weekend, the Columbus Day holiday at the conclusion of the harvest, traditionally farm stands' busiest weekend of the year. 
Judy Desiderio, a vice president of Cook Pony Farm, the Hamptons real estate company, said that demand for winter rentals was up sharply. "It seems that people who only summer out here are thinking they would like to be here as much as possible and only go into the city when they have to," she said. 
Others talked of a spirit not felt since Pearl Harbor. "It's really remarkable, " Dr. Koppelman said. "I have had people telling me they are going back into the stock market even if it's going down just to show the terrorists they can't win." He said he also sensed "an overwhelming desire to return to normalcy and sanity."
Dr. Koppelman said he anticipated that retail sales during the Christmas shopping season would be normal to strong, reflecting a consumer determination to spend despite uncertainties. "I think by Thanksgiving time this horror will have receded to a great extent from people's minds," he said.
This week the Long Island Association will begin an employment assistance program for families of attack victims and for displaced workers at 14,000 affected New York City businesses. "Unfortunately, it's likely that a significant portion of the people who perished will have come from Long Island," said Matthew T. Crosson, the association's president. 
Mr. Crosson said it was too early to gauge wider economic impacts on the region. "Long Island is certainly ground zero for retail, but it still remains to be seen how shoppers will respond," he said. "There are going to be people whose financial ability was directly affected and some who harbor fears. And I suspect the general economic conditions may cause some people to cut their spending."
"But a good deal of that may be offset by a need to collectively demonstrate that we are not going to be adversely affected by this terrorist attack, and people may indeed spend," he said. 
Dr. Kellner went further, predicting that the regional economy would emerge stronger than before. "I don't want to use the word 'benefit,' " he said, "but there are trends that will give us a boost." 
The slump in the stock market and job losses at dot-com companies, he said, had already softened the high-end real estate market in New York. Now with personal safety a concern, interest in Long Island addresses will mount, he contends.
Dorothy Herman, the president of Prudential Long Island Realty, which has 37 branch offices, said that by last week sales activity was resuming after a post-attack week in which "everyone was traumatized, and there was not a whole lot of anything." She said that open houses held last weekend were "for the most part active."
"I think we're going to be O.K., but nobody 100 percent knows because it's kind of early," she said. "I think people are going to feel a little safer living here on Long Island in case we have another terrorist attack." 
John M. Kennedy, the president of the Building and Construction Trades Council of Nassau and Suffolk, said that rebuilding in Manhattan would mean jobs for the 60,000 unionized construction workers who live on the Island. 
"Whenever New York City gets busy and we have any unemployment at all, our sister locals have always called on us for manpower," he said. "They will certainly reach out, and we will respond. We will be right there to fill that void." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (91%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); RETAILERS (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); RECESSION (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (63%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: TANGER FACTORY OUTLET CENTERS INC (56%); SIMON PROPERTY GROUP INC (54%); CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (53%)

TICKER: SKT (NYSE) (56%); SPG (NYSE) (54%); COF (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (56%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (54%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



923 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 115 words

HEADLINE: Through Children's Eyes and Adults' Pocketbooks 

 BODY:
OVER the last two weeks, classrooms throughout the Island have been forums for students to express their emotions about the World Trade Center disaster. 
Many students have prepared messages for emergency workers, and others have composed personal drawings, poems and essays. Here and on Page 8 are samples of some expressions from Long Island students.
 Adult Long Islanders seem to have recovered their pre-disaster spending habits. But the economic repercussions could still touch everything from unemployment rates to county budgets. Page 8. 
 The Island's commercial real estate market is faring poorly in the scramble to attract tenants displaced from lower Manhattan. L.I.@Work, Page 6.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Taylor, first grade, Daly Elementary School, Port Washington; Fidel Murillo, 12th grade, Computer Graphics High School, Brentwood; Andrew Padovano, third grade, Jericho Elementary School, Centereach; Carolina Murillo, fourth grade, Twin Pines School, Brentwood; Kevin Conde, sixth grade, East Middle School, Brentwood; Samantha Happ, first grade, Jericho Elementary School, Centereach; Carl Voelker, fourth grade, Jericho Elementary School, Centereach; Chelsey, Harry B. Thompson Middle School, Syosset 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); BUDGETS (86%); REAL ESTATE (83%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (83%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (83%); COUNTIES (52%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



924 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2757 words

HEADLINE: An Economy on the Edge 

BYLINE:  By SUSAN WARNER

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
FOR New Jersey, the turn of the new century was rich. Wall Street was riding high, and a good share of its wealth filtered across the Hudson River. Telecommunications and computer companies were expanding, fed by the New Economy investment wave. Developers were building starter mansions and shopping centers on any cornfield they could rezone.
 Even in the past year -- as the national economy began to slow -- the state was able to defy decline. But by the end of the summer, New Jersey, too, had begun to lose jobs. Income growth had slowed, and the economy was growing only slightly. 
 That was before terrorists ripped through the World Trade Center towers, killing more than 6,000 people. 
Today, the state's economy is as fragile as at any time since the Gulf War.
"The short-term effect on the region is going to be negative," said Joseph J. Seneca, a professor of economics at Rutgers University who is also chairman of the state's nonpartisan Council of Economic Advisors. "We were hit directly."
Mr. Seneca said that the loss of business activity, consumer confidence and jobs as a result of the Sept. 11 attacks would constrict the state's economic growth -- even more than the nation's as a whole -- this quarter.
Yet despite the complications, the state's economic prospects in the longer term -- sad but true -- could benefit from the enormous loss.
"Over time," Mr. Seneca said, "the relocation of activities out of downtown Manhattan and the stimulus of rebuilding may actually benefit New Jersey."
In addition, jittery Manhattanites are giving serious thought to what was once the almost unthinkable: moving to New Jersey.
When speaking about the state's economy these days, experts are careful about using the word slowdown, since it may be months before it meets the technical definition of a recession -- two consecutive quarters of economic contraction.
Even before the trade center disaster, the state's overall output of goods and services was expected to grow an estimated 4.8 percent in 2001, to $372.7 billion, slower than the rate of 7.8 percent the previous year.
In the economic expansion from May 1992 to February 2001 -- the longest peacetime expansion in New Jersey's history -- the state added 585,000 jobs bringing total employment to more than four million. But from February to July this year, the employment figures changed direction and the state recorded a net loss of 15,000 jobs, according to a New Jersey Economic Review and Outlook prepared by Rutgers.
"February seems to be the critical month," said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers. "That's when we seemingly hit the economic bridge abutment."
Yet as Mr. Hughes and Mr. Seneca were presenting their economic outlook in Trenton, life was being rearranged in ways they could never have imagined. They presented their data on Sept. 11 as the catastrophic events were unfolding in Lower Manhattan and at the Pentagon.
"The world has changed so much since then," Mr. Seneca said in an interview days afterward.
One example is the airline industry, which crashed along with the planes that sliced into the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. In New Jersey alone, there were 46,000 people employed by the airline industry as of July.
Continental Airlines, which has one of its three major hubs at Newark International Airport, has announced its intention to lay off as many as 12,000 employees.
"We're going to get a major hit from the layoffs at Continental," Mr. Hughes said.
Unemployment had begun creeping up even before Sept. 11. The state's unemployment figures for August showed the rate rising to 4.3 percent, up from 4.0 in July, but still not as high as the national rate of 4.9 percent.
Shirley Goetz, director of labor market and demographic research for the state Department of Labor, said the unemployment rate, while on the rise, remained at historically low levels.
Ms. Goetz said many economists considered 5 percent unemployment to be what they called the natural rate of joblessness after taking into account the number of people searching for jobs because of changes in their own lives rather than economic cycles.
On the other hand, Nancy Mantell, director of the Rutgers Economic Advisory Service, a forecasting service run by the university for private clients, was not optimistic, at least for the short term.
Ms. Mantell said she expected new job creation to shrink to an annual rate of 13,000 by the end of next year before beginning to grow by 42,000 each year from 2003 through 2006.
The state's economy as a whole is expected to grow at a rate of 1.6 percent next year, before rising to 2.8 percent a year through 2006, according to Ms. Mantell's forecast.
"We do have very serious short-term cyclical worries," said Mr. Hughes, "but they need to be seen in the context of an optimistic long term."
Even before events rearranged the economic landscape, Mr. Hughes said New Jersey was in the process of a major change similar to the one that occurred more than 100 years ago -- when the state emerged as an industrial giant with large urban centers. Now, he said, the state had embraced the information-based economy and was undergoing a second great transformation in the form of a tidal wave of suburbanization.
Moreover, in the aftermath of the assault on the Trade Center, moving to the suburbs and the exurbs is more appealing.
Paul Kuchinski, a sales associate at Prudential New Jersey Properties in Millburn, said that since the attacks city residents had made up about 70 percent of inquiries as against about 40 percent only six months ago.
"Maybe before they were on the fence," Mr. Kuchinski said, "and now they have come to the realization that it is time to do something about it."
In Watchung, Bob Rose, president of Prudential Rose Realtors, said business had begun to slow down before Sept. 11.
But now, Mr. Rose said, his firm has noticed a renewed interest on the part of city residents who had been contemplating a move.
"I think we'll probably hear from more of them," he said. "We'll know more in a month or two whether they are really ready to relocate."
New Jersey, to some extent unwittingly, had been preparing for a downturn. Joel Naroff, chief economist at the Commerce Bank of Cherry Hill, said the state had developed a more diverse economic base.
"In the past," Mr. Naroff said, "New Jersey felt the pain earlier and harder. While the state's economy is not ripping along, based on traditional patterns, we wouldn't have expected New Jersey to be doing as relatively well."
Getting down to specifics, state economic development officials have identified six industry clusters they expect to continue to outperform the rest of the economy: warehousing and logistics; pharmaceuticals and health care; science and technology; casinos and entertainment; and information technology and finance.
These six sectors employed 1.2 million people, or about 30 percent of the state's work force, at the end of 2000, and employment in these sectors was growing at a rate of 2.5 percent compared with 1.6 percent for the entire state.
Manufacturing makes up about 12 percent of the state's economic output, with heavy concentrations in chemicals and pharmaceuticals, electronics, computers, publishing and machinery, according to the Council of Economic Advisors.
Mr. Hughes said the state and the nation had undergone a two-phase manufacturing recession. The first phase, beginning in the first half of 2000, hit old-line manufacturers. The second phase, beginning this year, hit technology companies and business service firms related to the computer industry.
"New Jersey had been fairly resistant to the national slowdown," he said. "But the aftershocks of the New Economy retreat have fully engulfed the state."
Mr. Seneca said he found it ironic that the computer industry, which produced the means to manage business inventory, now finds itself overstocked and out of work.
Then there is the drug industry, the crown jewel of the state's economy and one that is largely recession-proof. New Jersey is home to 19 large pharmaceutical companies, more than any other in the nation, including several that have consolidated operations from other parts of the country and the world.
"When you talk about New Jersey, you're talking about pharmaceuticals," said Mr. Naroff.
Aventis Pharma AG and Novartis Pharmaceutical Corporation, which both have their corporate headquarters in Europe, have made New Jersey their base for their operations in the United States, the world's largest drug market.
Aventis has more than 2,000 employees spread between two major locations and is building a new campus at Bridgewater Crossing that is expected to house 1,200 workers by the middle of next year.
Novartis, in East Hanover, evolved out of the 1996 merger of Sandoz and Ciba-Geigy, which both had operations in the state. It employs 4,100 workers in New Jersey.
"It was not by design, but now we all feel very comfortable here," said Paulo Costa, the chief executive of Novartis. "The costs may be slightly higher than in the Midwest or somewhere else, but the talent pool that's available from all the metropolitan areas around New Jersey, New York and Philadelphia makes it very easy for us to recruit high-level scientists, marketers and so on."
One potential threat to the industry appears to be receding. In the 2000 election camp, presidential and congressional candidates campaigned on the promise of a prescription-drug benefit for Medicare recipients. While industry executives supported the move in general, they were concerned about how the benefit would be structured. They feared that having one huge buyer would result in de facto price controls that could cut deeply into profits.
But a shrinking federal surplus was already dampening this debate before the government was faced with the prospect of financing the rebuilding of Lower Manhattan and waging a global war against terrorism.
While the pharmaceutical industry remains healthy, the telecommunications and computer industries, which also experienced strong growth in the state in late 1990's, are now suffering from the overcapacity that has struck the technology sector worldwide.
New Jersey did not have a big bubble of dot-com business, but it did provide the research and manufacturing for much of the equipment used to build the Internet and wireless communication systems. In the past year, the work force at Lucent Technologies, which develops and manufactures telecommunications equipment, has been scaled back to 11,000 from 17,000. Of those workers, 2,500 took voluntary severance packages.
William Price, a spokesman for Lucent, said that most of the staff cuts in New Jersey were over, and that the company was now closing smaller offices around the state to consolidate at its four main locations in Whippany, Holmdel, Warren and its corporate headquarters in Murray Hill.
"The thing with the Lucent situation is that those are management jobs, engineering jobs, relatively high-paid people," said Gus Faucher, a senior economist at Economy.com a forecasting firm in West Chester, Pa., that specializes in regional economics. "We see the slowdown is now having an impact on manufacturing workers, and also higher-paid professionals."
Another key sector, finance, was also showing signs of distress even before Sept. 11.
"Whether it's back offices, bonuses or stock options, these are things that affect residents as well as companies in New Jersey, and it's spread pretty far," said Mr. Naroff of Commerce Bank.
While the financial industry overall was stagnant before the attacks, a migration of jobs from New York to offices on the riverfront and in Newark was taking place.
Since the devastation of the World Trade Center -- in which 10 million square feet of office space was wiped out -- the trickle has turned into a land rush. On the waterfront, particularly, companies have lined up for large properties.
Thomas Reilly, vice president of the CB Richard Ellis agency, said a recent report by his firm calculated northern New Jersey's office vacancy rate at 13.8 percent, and 2.6 percent for the waterfront. Much has changed.
"Property available for sublease that we had a tough time even giving away two weeks ago is gone now," Mr. Reilly said more than a week ago.
He added, "The vacancy rate in Jersey City will be zero."
Since the trade center attack, Lehman Brothers has subleased space at the Colgate Center building in Jersey City. In addition, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey subleased 180,000 square feet at Gateway Center in Newark. Also in Newark, a dinosaur known as the Tin Can, which has been all but vacant since 1986, was leased to a dislocated government office the day after the disaster.
Dudley Ryan, a broker for CB Richard Ellis, said that all the available space his company had listed in Newark could have been "leased 10 times over."
Even before the trade center disaster, J. P. Morgan Chase & Company had plans to move 2,500 employees to a new office tower in Jersey City. And Goldman Sachs & Company, which was forced to relocate some employees from Lower Manhattan to its existing space in Jersey City, is currently building a 1.4-million-square-foot office tower on the waterfront there that would house more than 6,000 employees.
Life was fat in New Jersey during the 1990's, Mr. Naroff said, also because of an increase in global trade stimulated by the growth of the Internet and because of liberalized trade rules around the world.
Foreign exports from New Jersey rose 35 percent, to $30.6 billion from the second quarter of 1999 to the same period in 2000. Nationally, exports grew, on average, only 12.6 percent, in the same period. This year, the rate of increase in New Jersey has been only 5.79 percent. Chemicals, including pharmaceuticals, and computers and electronics make up half of New Jersey's exports, according to the Rutgers economic overview.
The burst of activity in 1999 and 2000, Mr. Seneca, was due in large part to capital spending by businesses as well as spending in preparation for 2000 that has now dropped off sharply.
Through it all, New Jersey remained rich.
Indeed, New Jersey ranks first among the states in household income and third in per capita income, behind Connecticut and Massachusetts. New Jersey's per capita income was $36,983, compared with $37,992 in Massachusetts and $40,640 in Connecticut.
State officials have tried to measure how big a role the stock market's fluctuations play in New Jersey, mainly for calculating expected capital gains taxes, but have yet to find a way to break it out reliably. The state Treasury Department does project an increase in personal income tax to $7.97 billion for the fiscal year ending in June 2001 from $7.2 billion the previous year.
Mr. Naroff and Mr. Faucher said that wealthier people tend to be more heavily invested in equities, making individual net worth in New Jersey more likely to swing with the stock market than in other states.
With businesses still working off an inventory and investment glut, economists continue to look to the consumer to keep a recession at bay.
So far, the consumer has spent heroically, especially in New Jersey.
Retail sales in the state are expected to grow 4.2 percent this year, to $106.2 billion, according to the Council of Economic Advisors. While that is down from an increase of 8.9 percent in 2000 and 9.3 percent in 1999, it is comparable to increases of 4.3 percent in 1997 and 1998.
There are worrisome signs as well. Another leading indicator of consumer sentiment in New Jersey, new vehicle registrations, is down. Last year they were up 8.1 percent. But for 2001, the Council of Economic Advisors estimates new vehicle registrations will decline 5.2 percent.
In addition, Mr. Seneca said that after several years of frenzied construction of what he called starter castles, building permits in the state were expected to drop 25 percent this year, to 25,661.
In recent years, residential construction was limited by the availability of open land. There had been constraints on the supply side, he said, though with a slowing economy there will also be some constraints on the demand side.
When the Rutgers study was compiled, there was no way to anticipate the seismic events to come, of course. With the scope of the military response unknown, consumers and manufacturers alike will be constrained.
"We haven't invented what's going to happen on the global scene," Mr. Hughes said. "If it causes major shocks to the system, then all bets are off."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In the short term, at least, business could increase at an unemployment office in Jersey City. For now, the state's economy is as fragile as at any time since the Gulf War. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Economists say events of Sept. 11 will make consumers, like those at the Menlo Park Shopping Center, think twice before buying. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 7) Chart: "Economic Growth in New Jersey" shows montly unemployment rates and personal income from 1/96 to 8/01 (pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); HISTORY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); ZONING (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); RELOCATIONS (77%); RECESSION (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); TERRORISM (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); RETAILERS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (78%) NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



925 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: RESTAURANTS; 
Bistro Basics

BYLINE:  By DAVID CORCORAN

DATELINE: BERGENFIELD 

 BODY:
ONE thing you will never do is stumble across Chez Dominique by accident. It sits on a sad-eyed side street in this blue-collar borough in Bergen County's midsection, in a faded downtown dreaming of urban renewal. Its next-door neighbor is a pool hall.
 But for some reason this forlorn address has been home to fine French bistros for more than a decade. First there was Chez Madeleine, which built a faithful base of customers on a dependable menu of well-turned standards. When its owners, Gaspard and Madeleine Caloz, decamped last year for grander quarters up the road in Northvale, Dominique Peyraudeau moved right in. 
 Mr. Peyraudeau, 49, grew up near Limoges, in central France, and learned the trade at Maxim's of Paris. He spent 11 years at the three-star La Reserve, in Midtown Manhattan, rising to executive chef. But he lives in Ramsey, and he wanted his own place in Bergen County. With minimal changes in name, decor and menu, he has managed to make 4 Bedford Avenue very much his own address.
The ambience will not dazzle you. Chez Dominique doesn't have checked tablecloths, but it has the look and feel of heavy-beamed, timeworn French bistros everywhere from the French countryside to the theater district. The room is tiny and crowded, with 12 tables in a space the size of a studio apartment. Squeeze-box music from the Moulin Rouge era deedle-deedles through the sound system. The staff is an eclectic mix of seasoned, charming veterans and jittery, overeager newcomers. The menu is a chalkboard, propped on an empty chair. 
Places like this -- there are not many in New Jersey anymore -- can get stuck in their own time warp, with retro recipes made from second-rate ingredients mired in gloopy sauces. Fortunately, this fate does not befall the cooking at Chez Dominique. Mr. Peyraudeau (pronounced pay-roe-DOE) works in the mold of chefs who came of age in the 1960's and 70's, like Jacques Pepin and Julia Child. Like them, he respects his ingredients and is comfortably grounded in classic technique; like them, he has the energy and skill to break out of the mold, to simplify and improvise when the mood takes him. This adds up to solid, crowd-pleasing cooking with just enough surprises to keep things interesting.
One recent Saturday night, for instance, we ordered an entree of skate. This is a fish that seldom swims through New Jersey restaurant waters; I can't recall seeing it on a menu in years. If I do, I'll order it again, but I'll be amazed if I like it as much as Chez Dominique's version, a flat, sprawling beauty that covered most of its large plate. It was flaky and not at all rubbery, its faintly nutty flavor enlivened but not drowned out by browned butter redolent of capers.
Another night, grilled jumbo shrimp in an appetizer were a bit overdone but drew great vivid flavor from their marinade of herbs and garlic and their basil-lemon infusion. On the side, for contrast, was a delicious little heap of eggplant caviar.
Salmon is my nominee for fish most in need of a vacation. For some reason, many chefs insist on preparing it in ways that overemphasize its natural fattiness -- with maple-syrup glaze, for example. Mr. Peyraudeau's salmon entree won me over. He served it in a bowl, in a fish broth with Mediterranean scents of cumin, coriander and anise. His smoked salmon appetizer, with creme fraiche and capers, was pleasingly mild.
Terrine of foie gras is worth its $15.50 price tag, about double that of the other appetizers -- a sensationally buttery slab of liver, generous enough to be shared by two. "I hope you have a healthy heart," our waiter remarked with a wicked grin.
Easy for him to say. Your cardiologist would probably advise you to go for the vegetable terrine, with layers of eggplant, fennel, carrots and red peppers bound by just enough goat cheese and given a sharp, welcome flavor jolt by whole cumin seeds. 
Mr. Peyraudeau does classic, too. Those blackboard menus change regularly, but they offer a representative selection of appetizers and entrees that could have appeared in any French bistro from the time Snoopy was shot down by the Red Baron. There's not much to say about them other than that they deliver good value. Prices are fairly high: you'll spend at least $50 a person for three courses, tax and tip, plus whatever wine you carry in. But appetizers like snails in a fragrant garlic butter or a rich crab tart bound with Gruyere cheese, and main courses like sole amandine and duck a l'orange, are about as good as those dishes get.
I was more taken with a Provencal seafood pasta -- scallops, shrimp and chunks of lobster over linguine in a tomato sauce scented with saffron and Pernod. Veal chop forestiere was terrific, meaty and tender, with generous side offerings of portobello mushroom and a shoestring-potato galette. Lamb shank, the quintessential autumn dish, drew abundant flavor from a spice chest of ingredients and from long cooking in a deep, rich broth with a mirepoix of vegetables. Another fall dish, rabbit, was dry in spots, but its accompaniments of gratin potatoes, spinach crepe and a bacon-endive compote made it a fine four-course meal in itself.
Not surprisingly, Mr. Peyraudeau has a way with comfort-food desserts like chocolate souffle (it does not need to be ordered hours in advance) and a rich, eggy, almost cheeselike clafoutis with fresh berries. But his fresh sorbets and pear glace parfait -- authentically grainy pear sorbet with a deep purple layer of black-currant sorbet -- make anapt, light ending to a rich and satisfying meal. Chez Dominique may be a hard place to find, but it's even harder to leave.

Chez Dominique
4 Bedford Avenue, Bergenfield
(201) 384-7637

VERY GOOD

ATMOSPHERE Tiny, convivial, slightly faded storefront bistro.
SERVICE Mainly calm and professional.
SMOKING None.
WINE LIST B.Y.O.
RECOMMENDED DISHES Grilled shrimp, crab tart, foie gras terrine, vegetable terrine, smoked salmon; lamb shank, veal chop forestiere, sauteed skate, salmon, rabbit, seafood pasta; berry clafoutis, chocolate souffle, pear glace parfait, sorbets.
PRICE RANGE Lunch: appetizers, $4.50; entrees, $9.50 to $12.50. Dinner: appetizers, $5 to $15.50; entrees, $22.50 to $32.50; desserts, $6.50 to $7.
HOURS Closed Sundays and Mondays. Lunch: Wednesday through Fridays, noon to 2:30 p.m. Dinner: Tuesdays through Thursdays, 6 to 10 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 6 to 10:30 p.m.
CREDIT CARDS MasterCard, Visa.
RESERVATIONS Recommended.
WHEELCHAIR ACCESS Restrooms are not accessible.
RATINGS Poor, Fair, Satisfactory, Good, Very Good, Excellent,
Extraordinary.

Ratings reflect the reviewer's reaction to food, ambience and service, with price taken into consideration. Menu listings and prices are subject to change.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (91%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (57%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); LIMOUSIN, FRANCE (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



926 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Atlantic City's Striving Airport Is a Victim 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT STRAUSS

 BODY:
Things had been ramping up nicely at Atlantic City Airport. Plans were afoot for more than $20 million in improvements.
 Spirit had begun flights to Chicago, Los Angeles and Florida. Continental Airlines had established a route to Cleveland. A new parking garage was being designed. 
 Then planes slammed into the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, delivering their own kind of sucker punch to Atlantic City Airport. Continental, threatened with deep financial losses even before the terrorist attacks, pulled out of Atlantic City altogether, discontinuing its flights and furloughing its staff. Spirit halted its daily excursions to Los Angeles by way of Chicago and cut back on its Florida flights. And US Airways Express, the third commercial airline at the airport, cut back -- perhaps temporarily -- on flights to Baltimore and Philadelphia.
"It wasn't good news," said James A. Crawford, executive director of the South Jersey Transportation Authority, which runs the airport. "It's not going to be great for the airline industry for at least three months. But we have to move forward and we will."
To that end, the authority recently approved $9.7 million to put up a maintenance building, primarily to house snow-clearing and sweeping equipment, as well as to install a new lighting system for runways and taxiways. Even before the attacks, the authority had planned to spend $1.6 million to upgrade security with new fencing, camera equipment and gates.
"Altogether this year, we will have spent or planned to spend $20 million in improvements," said Mr. Crawford. "Obviously, one of the big issues for us is restoring confidence in air travel. It is particularly important in a tourism-based economy that people feel comfortable to travel."
All along it has been an uphill task trying to get major airlines to come to Atlantic City Airport, which is actually in Pomona, about nine miles inland from the city. Major airlines have tended to steer Atlantic City-bound passengers to Philadelphia or Newark, where they can feed into hubs that the airlines have already established.
The arrival of Spirit, especially with its flights to Los Angeles by way of Chicago this summer, seemed to indicate a resurgence of interest in Atlantic City as a destination. But with the demise of the Continental flights and layoffs and cutbacks at US Airways, prospects for that resurgence have considerably dimmed.
Nonetheless, Mr. Crawford said that the authority was committed to bringing another commercial carrier into the airport. Earlier this year the State Legislature had appropriated $2 million for the authority to market air travel. As a result, the authority had earmarked some of those funds to help Continental Airlines establish itself in Atlantic City.
Continental officials declined to say if they would try to use some of the $2 million to defray the costs of its Cleveland flights. If not, Mr. Crawford said, he would try to use the money to attract new commercial business.
In any case, by November there will be plenty of parking space for customers to take advantage of whatever flights there may be. A 1,700-car surface parking lot will be completed by then; there had been about 1,000 spaces, some of which were on grass lots near the terminal.
Although the big commercial business was falling off significantly, Mr. Crawford said, other types of flights were on the rise.
For instance, he said that shared charter jets had become popular. Raytheon Corporation, which has a complex nearby, sells fractional ownership in its jet to other companies that may need it from time to time. In addition, charters operated by the casino hotels were thriving despite the terrorist attacks, he said.
"In each case, if you are sending four people, say, first-class on a commercial jet to Newark, you might feel better off leasing or buying a fractional share on a private jet," Mr. Crawford said. "Right now, with security slowing down flights and more flights being canceled in major airports, you can be assured at least of getting here."
Moreover, Atlantic City Airport serves as a base for the Air National Guard, the Coast Guard and the Federal Aviation Administration, all of which have been active during the current crisis.
"We've even had extra landings from McGuire and Dover Air Force bases," said Mr. Crawford. "All of these people have been extremely organized, with a lot of touch-and-go landings."
But, ultimately, Mr. Crawford said, he wanted to see Atlantic City become a thriving commercial airport.
"We're not necessarily a rival to Philadelphia and Newark, but more like an alternative," he said. "To the extent that, in the future, people will have problems with the delays caused by extra security and crowding there, we hope to build on being a lesser-hassle place.
"Give this crisis three months and have patience," he said, "and we think we'll be back."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Despite cutbacks by the airlines, Atlantic City Airport will make costly improvements. (Chris Polk for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (93%); AIRLINES (92%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (90%); AIRPORT OPERATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TERRORISM (71%); APPROPRIATIONS (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); APPROVALS (68%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (92%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (84%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (92%); LCC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (76%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



927 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1326 words

HEADLINE: Hundreds of Keys To Nowhere 

BYLINE:  By GEORGE JAMES

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY 

 BODY:
KELLY BADILLO has nightmares.
 Mr. Badillowho was operating an elevator just before the first plane hit the north tower of the World Trade Center -- had made his last run. He was not scheduled to relieve another operator until 9:45 a.m., and was about to go upstairs to talk to a man about a used car when he heard "all these noises" and the building shook. 
 Then he heard the sound of something falling -- elevators.
"You could hear them: ssshhhhhhh-BOOM -- as they fell," he said. "The fire and all melted the weights or something and they came flying down." 
The elevator doors blew out and flames licked out into the lobby.
"The lights flickered first," he said. "And then rmmm-BOOM, all hell broke loose. Glass started breaking, the glass on the mezzanine. And the marble and all that started coming off from the vibration. 'Evacuate the building!' " a voice on his two-way radio squawked.
People ran toward the escalator to get to the doors leading to the plaza, where they saw charred bodies amid falling debris. Desperately, he and many others fled through a side door.
On a rainy morning last week, a jumble of keys took up most of Mr. Badillo's hand as he relived the scene. There were maybe a hundred keys in all -- to supply rooms, slop sinks, bathrooms and other places in the World Trade Center where for nearly 20 years he made his living.
The keys, covered with a fine layer of dust, represented a job he no longer had in a place that no longer existed, and they sat heavy in his hand and his heart.
"The worst part is not seeing the World Trade Center anymore every morning," said Mr. Badillo, a stocky man of 40. "And you know, I guess just losing the people. A lot of people. And losing the job."
Twenty-six service employees are among the missing. About 1,200 like him -- amid the brokers, traders and lawyers in the towers -- had the less glamorous occupations of cleaners, elevator operators, porters, security guards, food service workers and tour guides. They, along with about 600 workers in buildings in downtown Manhattan that have been destroyed or closed, are out of work.
"Our members don't have the same kind of money and assets and benefits that the higher-paid people who worked there have," said Mike Fishman, president of Local 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union, who supplied those figures. "But I would add they all have the same thing in common. Those that didn't make it out no longer have their lives. And all those who did are suffering -- whether they were cleaners or investment bankers."
Mr. Badillo, like many who survived the trauma of death and collapse around him, suffers recurring nightmares. Added to that is the economic suffering for workers like him whose savings, if any, tend to be minimal, and whose job opportunities are uncertain since their counterparts in hotels and restaurants are being laid off as the tourism and entertainment industries constrict in the aftermath of the attacks.
Members of Local 32BJ include immigrants from 60 countries, primarily Central and South Americans and Eastern Europeans. "Unfortunately for our people, most live from paycheck to paycheck," said Mr. Fishman. "So while they had to live with the terror of the attack, they also have to worry where the next paycheck is coming from."
Mr. Badillo, who was born in New York City and made $17 an hour -- taking home $474 a week -- for a 40-hour week at the twin towers, said his wife, Debra, 42, an administrative assistant at the American National Standards Institute in Midtown Manhattan. They have two grown daughters, one of whom is a pre-med student at Rutgers, and they live in a three-bedroom apartment in a two-family house they bought in downtown Jersey City four years ago. 
"I had just paid my mortgage for the month," Mr. Badillo said as he sipped iced tea and smoked cigarettes at the dining room table. "That's really my concern. "Then, once I pay the mortgage, you know, a little food on the table."
His longer-range concern is getting a job.
His and his colleagues' immediate plight, however, has been eased by an industrywide agreement reached recently between Local 32BJ and the Realty Advisory Board, an association of owners, operators and employers in the real estate field, to provide health and supplemental unemployment benefits -- in addition to government unemployment compensation payments -- to members for six months and to put displaced workers on a preferential hiring list for jobs as they become available.
"The supplemental benefit will bring take-home pay closer to what they were taking home prior to the attack," said Mr. Fishman.
In addition, workers close to retiring will have five years added to their years of service and age, he said.
"The union, they're doing a good job," said Mr. Badillo. "And I believe the companies have been pretty good with us."
Yet for all of this, the sense of displacement goes beyond the loss of a job to something less tangible, Mr. Fishman said.
"For our workers, the buildings had a special significance," he said. "Many worked in the World Trade Center for years. Their lives and benefits are tied with that building, so this is quite shattering. To people who worked there, it was their whole community."
He told the story of a woman who each night cleaned the offices of a major company after all the employees had gone home. The company lost a great number of employees in the attack, and although she never met any of them, she felt she knew them from the pictures of their families on their desks.
"That kind of connection has made their loss almost as devastating to her as if she had known them personally," Mr. Fishman said.
So too for Mr. Badillo. Long before he worked there, he knew the place through his father, Henry, who emigrated from Puerto Rico and began work as a porter on the observation deck on the 107th floor of the south tower. Twenty-five years later, he retired as an elevator starter in the lobby of the north tower.
"Even when I was in high school," Mr. Badillo recalled, "I used to go there on weekends and help him out."
He began as a porter on the observation deck and worked on the concourse. For the last five years he has been an elevator operator. For five years, he and his father worked overlapping shifts.
"Every time I would go out, I would bring back coffee for him and hang out for a while," he said.
His brother, Henry Jr., 43, also worked at the World Trade Center as a manager in the aviation department of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey on the 65th floor of the north tower. He arrived for work just as the first plane sliced into the tower and never went upstairs. 
Mr. Badillo, who had been trapped in an elevator in the 1993 bombing -- but managed to free himself and lead others to safety -- was one of 350 service employees at work at the time of the Sept. 11 attack. He had arrived at 6 a.m. and had been operating an elevator to the 108th floor of the north tower until his break came.
It was a break that would never end.
Today, Kelly Badillo is haunted by the missing, his friends and the friends of his father, Sonia Ortiz among them. Miss Ortiz -- a 58-year old woman who had come from Colombia and bought a house in Queens and raised two children -- was the operator of Car 99. He was to relieve her later that morning.
He dreams about them when sleep finally comes. He dreams of the buildings falling down and that he is running again for his life. And he dreams he meets them and they say to each other, "Oh where have you been? We've been looking for you."
Mr. Badillo, who has been meeting with fellow workers "just to comfort each other," walked out onto his front porch. The rain had stopped. He looked out at the gloomy sky and beyond the turnpike overpass to where he used to be able to see the twin towers. The heavy key ring on the dining room table, his two-way radio and his dusty work boots were all that was left.
"It was home," he said. "It was a home. It was another home."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kelly Badillo had been operating an elevator to the 108th floor of the Trade Center's north tower. (Emile Wamsteker for The New York Times)(pg. 1); The remains of Kelly Badillo's job: key, radio and work boots. (Emile Wamsteker for The New York Times)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (61%); INVESTMENT BANKING (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



928 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: ON CAMPUS; 
At a University That's Flush, No One Anted Up

BYLINE:  By ANNE RUDERMAN

DATELINE: PRINCETON 

 BODY:
It isn't often that upperclassmen at Princeton University are at a loss for words. Nor is it any more frequent that alumni are at a loss for money.
 This is an exception. 
 Three years ago, construction was completed on Princeton's new $45 million football stadium -- generally judged to be an uncommonly good piece of campus architecture -- replacing the crumbling Palmer Stadium. When orange and black tarps had to be hung to catch the falling concrete from the 1914 relic, the arrival of yet more construction cranes on this ever-sprawling campus was inevitable.
These days when the leaves turn orange and thoughts turn to cheering the Tiger 11, attention turns to . . . um . . . the stadium. 
"I don't know if the stadium has a name anymore," admitted Jason Houck, a junior from Arizona, who has gone to at least a dozen football games here.
Caitlin Fitz, a senior who is majoring in history, was stumped too.
"I have no idea," said Ms. Fitz. "They were going to say whoever donated enough money to support its cost could name it."
When the 27,000-seat stadium was in the planning stages, the overall cost was put at $45 million. And as always, the opportunity to name the complex after a generous alumnus was there for the taking: just kick in a little over half of the price tag.
In the meantime, the university borrowed money to pay for construction, getting low rates under tax-exempt privileges for university facilities. Then Princeton officials waited for a wealthy alumnus -- about as difficult a task as finding a copy of "This Side of Paradise" in the campus bookstore -- to come forward with check in hand.
They're still waiting.
Richard Spies, vice president for finance and administration, who oversaw the stadium project, thinks he knows why.
Mr. Spies said the fund-raising process usually worked the other way: a donor comes into the picture early on and finances a building or program that otherwise would not be possible.
"Most projects that are not able to attract a donor do not happen," he said. "But here we had an athletic stadium beyond repair and had to replace it."
And so the $25 million question, as the campus newspaper once put it, was born.
Alan S. Blinder, an economics professor here and a former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, who knows his way around a dollar bill, said: "I was amazed that finding a donor was so difficult. At the time, my brother was working in the development office. I told him, 'This is going to be the easiest thing you've ever raised money for.' "
It wasn't.
While Princeton did manage to amass nearly $23 million in smaller gifts, and find a naming donor for the adjacent track, no one wanted to sign on to the biggest one of all.
Jotham Johnson, director of leadership gifts, said the university approached about a half-dozen potential donors over about four years, including at least one former football player.
Some of the alumni who were courted for the stadium project had other campus facilities named after them, Mr. Johnson said,
As Mr. Spies put it, "A lot of it is serendipity in terms of making a connection between the project and the donor, and we just didn't hit it right."
Not that everyone thinks that is a bad thing.
"I really, really do not want somebody's name on that stadium," said Stanislaw Maliszewki, the president of the Princeton Football Association.
Mr. Maliszewki, who was an all-American for Princeton in 1965, said he did not think a naming gift would be appropriate for the football program.
"All of the great stadiums in this country are named after the institutions they represent," he said.
That may be true for great football stadiums, but at Princeton, buildings have families behind them: Firestone Library; the Frist Campus Center; the Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics. The list goes on.
After all, Palmer Memorial Stadium was originally the gift of Edgar Palmer, class of 1903, who commissioned and donated the money for the complex in memory of his father. The Palmer family also donated the money for the Palmer Physics Laboratory, which is now part of the Frist Campus Center, the Cottage Club and later the Palmer House, an off-campus guest house.
According to the university's development office, the last major building not to attract a naming donor was the Computer Science building, completed in 1985.
To hear Van Zandt Williams, the vice president for development, tell it, the stadium did not have a major donor because the university changed its mind.
Mr. Willams explained: "It's like if you bought a Christmas gift for a friend, but decided you liked it so much that you kept it for yourself. Basically we built a stadium, which we were so proud of that we felt we'd like to keep Princeton's name associated with it in perpetuity."
Mr. Williams noted that the university had spent nearly a billion dollars on such renovations as cogeneration plants and parking garages without any donor recognition.
"For a huge amount of what the university does in the way of construction, there's no possible donor interest," he said.
But parking garages are hardly on a par with football stadiums as far as monumentality or pizazz. Princeton's new stadium, designed by Rafael Vinoly, has been warmly praised, as has the architect himself.
Gary Walters, director of athletics, said the stadium had been a boon to the football program and clearly helped recruitment. Not that it has helped the team's record. Last year it went 3-7, and it has not won an Ivy championship since 1995. 
Nonetheless, as one alumnus said, "It's a great place to spend a Saturday afternoon."
The question of the elusive $25 million donation for the stadium, the only major effort to go unnamed under Harold T. Shapiro, the former university president, brings up the larger issue of athletics and alumni giving at elite universities.
"It's an awful lot of money, and it has something to do with the fact that football doesn't really occupy the place in the university's heart that it did 50 or 60 years ago," said Mark F. Bernstein, a Princeton alumnus who recently completed a book on intercollegiate football. 
James L. Shulman, who wrote a book on college athletics, "The Game of Life: College Sports and Educational Values" (Princeton University Press, $27.95) said major contributors who donated an astounding sum of money were not particularly enthusiastic about sports.
Dr. Shulman's book, written with William G. Bowen, a former Princeton president, said that primary donors cared much more about other issues, like academics, residential life and culture on campus.
After the first year, said Mr. Walters, the athletic director, many people thought that Princeton Stadium would be a good name. "I think the name really resonates," he said.
So in 1999, the trustees decided to call it just that -- though neither they nor the development office publicized the fact that the naming was a done deal. That has led many on campus to think that it might not be the last word.
"My perception is that they'll keep looking until they find someone who wants their name on Princeton Stadium," said Harvey S. Rosen, an economics professor here. "They'll find someone sooner or later. It's a matter of being patient. There must be some alum out there who has fond memories of his football days."
For now, according to Mr. Johnson, the development office has moved on to other priorities.
Mr. Williams went so far as to say: "We're not looking."
Even if a donor surfaced, he added, Princeton would not accept the gift now. But with Princeton repaying about $2 million a year on the stadium loan, Mr. Blinder is more than a little skeptical of such bravado.
"I'd be shocked if they wouldn't accept it," he said. "I don't think they ever envisioned not being able to find someone."
Or as one campus, tour guide, tongue firmly in cheek, said: "I always tell my tours that Princeton stadium costs $45 million, but if you have $25 million just lying around in your living room, they'll consider naming it after you."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Three years ago, construction was completed on Princeton's new $45 million football stadium, top, but a major donor proved to be illusive. It replaced Palmer Stadium, which was completed in 1914 and had begun to crumble. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times and, inset, G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



929 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: GOOD EATING; 
In Terror's Aftermath

 BODY:
The economic impact of the World Trade Center attack has been deeply felt in the city's restaurant industry. Tourism is down and many New Yorkers have been too upset to dine out.
 As a result, several restaurants have had to lay off employees. But many other New York restaurants have gone to extraordinary measures to help feed the rescue workers by delivering food to the trade center site, and some have even set up on-site cooking facilities. 
 Here are some restaurants that are offering specials to entice diners back:

AVENUE
(212) 579-3194; 520 Columbus Avenue (85th Street); $$; $25 and Under: 7/29/98.
Avenue offers a French-American hybrid menu and with crisp, efficient service. On Monday nights, Avenue is giving a 50 percent discount on any bottle of wine with dinner.

CAPSOUTO FRERES
(212) 966-4900; 451 Washington Street (Watts Street); $$$; Review: 3/21/97.
Capsouto Freres was a TriBeCa pioneer, moving into a fine old 1891 landmark building long before the area became chic. Capsouto is one of several restaurants offering a special $29.95 "I Love New York" menu. Menu selections include terrine Provencal; roasted duck with cassis and ginger; and banana profiterole with butterscotch sauce.

FLEUR DE SEL **
Rating: two stars
(212) 460-9100; 5 East 20th Street (near Fifth Avenue); $$$$; Review: 12/13/00.
Who doesn't pine for that little neighborhood restaurant, tucked away on a side street, where the lighting is subdued, the chef is French and the food is terrific? Well, here it is. Cyril Renaud, the chef and owner, is offering a special three-course lunch menu for $20.

LENOX ROOM **
Rating: two stars
(212) 772-0404; 1278 Third Avenue (near 73rd Street); $$$; Review: 6/16/95.
On Saturday nights the Lenox Room is offering any two courses for $30, which includes a glass of wine.

MEDI *
Rating: one star
(212) 399-8888; 45 Rockefeller Plaza (50th Street); $$$$; Review: 9/19/01.
Medi, a collaboration between the legendary Roger Verge, the chef and owner of Moulin des Mougins in Provence, and Roberto Ruggeri, the president of the Bice chain, is offering an "I Love New York" dinner menu for $29.95. Among the dishes featured are minestrone, roasted king salmon and caramelized cheesecake with strawberry sauce.

WALLSE **
Rating: two stars
(212) 352-2300; 344 West 11th Street (Washington Street); $$$; Review: 9/6/00.
Kurt Gutenbrunner's appealing little Austrian restaurant, named to honor his hometown, has a relaxed neighborhood feeling and a menu devoted mostly to comfortable favorites like goulash. A four-course dinner menu of some of these favorites is offered for $35.

Summaries taken from reviews use the star ratings. Others are taken from the $25 and Under column (+) and articles (++), and capsule revies from New York Today: www.nytoday.com (+++).

What the Stars Mean

**** -- Extraordinary
*** -- Excellent
** -- Very Good
* -- Good
None Poor to Satisfactory

Price Range
Based on the cost of a three-course dinner, per person, tax, tip and drinks not included.

$ -- $25 and under
$$ -- $25 to $40
$$$ -- $40 to $55
$$$$ -- $55 and over

Past Reviews -- Good Eating columns back to June 1998, along with reviews from The Times and capsule reviews by Times critics of additional restaurants not reviewed in the newspaper, are available on New York Today.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (91%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%); AUSTRIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



930 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1519 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business; 
Traumatized Workers Look for Healing on the Job

BYLINE:  By ABBY ELLIN

 BODY:
SHERYL HICKS was never the sort of person to call a doctor. If she had a major ache, she usually suffered in silence. And she most certainly would never have called her company's employee assistance program, the mechanism for receiving emotional and psychological support in the workplace, even if she did have a worry on her mind.
 "They say it's confidential, but who really knows?" asked Ms. Hicks, 55, an administrative assistant at the Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company, whose offices had been at 130 Broadway and Liberty Street, near the World Trade Center. "I wasn't going to tell them my business." 
 But then, she had never experienced anything like the terror attacks on Sept. 11. "I watched the whole thing from my 33rd-floor office window," Ms. Hicks said. 
She had never seen bodies fall from the 110-story twin towers, or planes slam into the buildings and cause them to crumble. She had never been covered with jet fuel, as she was when she fled the area, or been plagued by what she called "Technicolor flashbacks."
"Every time I talked to people they wanted details, which made it worse for me," said Ms. Hicks, who lives on Staten Island and now commutes to a temporary office in Madison, N.J. "I had so much anger about what had happened to my life and the lives of so many people and the city where I've worked for 36 years."
So when her company's human resources department referred her to Sharon Dougherty, a licensed clinical social worker, Ms. Hicks said, "I went to meet her as soon as I could."
"I was in so much pain," she added, "I'd do anything to get out of it." 
Ms. Dougherty is president of Priority Consulting, a Glen Ridge, N.J., company that helps run employee assistance programs, or E.A.P.'s, for companies. 
Ms. Hicks is one of many people who would have shunned E.A.P.'s in the past but are now taking advantage of them -- and seeing them in a new light. Typically, only 4 percent to 8 percent of eligible workers use them, according to industry data. Employees like Ms. Hicks were not only concerned about confidentiality (conversations between employees and counselors are, in fact, intended to be confidential) but also reluctant to discuss their problems with strangers.
Participation, though, is growing and it is expected to increase in the next few months, and perhaps for years to come. Many employers are depending on E.A.P. counselors to address workplace fears after the attacks, which have hurt morale, and in some cases, productivity. Past studies have also shown that E.A.P.'s have helped contain costs for workers' compensation.
E.A.P.'s were started in the early 1970's to help employees and their families deal with substance abuse and marital, family and workplace issues. The programs are now available to about 62 million Americans, through internal departments or outside consultants on contract. Dr. Richard A. Chaifetz, the chairman and chief executive of the ComPsych Corporation, an employee assistance provider based in Chicago, said that nearly all Fortune 500 companies and more than half of midsize companies had E.A.P.'s.
Within hours of the Sept. 11 attacks, telephones at E.A.P.'s across the country rang nonstop with questions from human resource managers about how to handle employee concerns. Corporate managers began bringing in counselors and organizing staff meetings and counseling sessions. While exact figures were hard to come by, the Society for Human Resource Management said that about half of the members it surveyed last week offered E.A.P. services after the attack and that nearly one in five brought counselors on site.
All employees at ESPN offices in the New York metropolitan area, for example, were given contact numbers for counselors for group or individual sessions two days after the attacks. Within 24 hours, the human resources division of PricewaterhouseCoopers received 17 requests from client companies about what their E.A.P.'s should be doing to help. The Walt Disney Company added crisis counselors to its cruise ship, Disney Magic. At Claremont Partners, a consortium of E.A.P.'s that is based in Alameda, Calif., call volume has risen 40 percent nationwide since the attacks; at ComPsych, which deployed 80 full-time counselors to New York area companies, it is up "1,000 percent," Dr. Chaifetz said.
PROFESSIONAL organizations are also offering help. The American Management Association is holding free workshops for managers and human resources professionals to address emotional reactions. The Association of Flight Attendants has started a hot line on which an E.A.P. representative provides information to members, families and friends about mental health professionals in their areas.
Other examples of assistance abound. Cigna HealthCare is making its E.A.P. services available to anyone, and the Caron Foundation, a drug and alcohol rehabilitation center in Wernersville, Pa., is contacting businesses affected most by the attacks and offering free workshops on grief management and substance abuse.
"Individuals with a history of drug and alcohol abuse are particularly vulnerable during this time, as many suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder, and this will re-stimulate it," said Wendy Caplan, a clinical social worker at the Caron Foundation. "I think we'll see a lot of relapsing; the tendency to self-medicate is strong."
Experts warn that chronic conditions, like sleeplessness, phobias and drug and alcohol addiction, will rear their heads. "People are afraid to get on elevators, go into garages, to enter tall buildings, to get out of bed and go to work," said Dr. Suzanne Gelber, the manager in charge of Claremont Partners. "Children don't want their parents to go to work. Neither do a lot of spouses. Many East Coast transplants to the West Coast feel helpless; they want to be back home.
"If people don't address their anxieties in the immediate wake of the trauma there are long-term repercussions, like loss of concentration or post-traumatic stress disorder," she added. "Companies are realizing this and are really trying to help employees cope. They had no idea the E.A.P. could serve the purpose we do."
In many instances, the programs reassure employees and managers that their feelings of anger, despair, fear and guilt are normal, that they should not feel badly if they are having difficulty functioning.
"Managers need to know what to expect," said Ms. Dougherty, who counseled a number of people in New York and New Jersey. "Many want to know when they can expect things to go back to normal, but we don't have one-size-fits-all grieving.
"People are still grieving," she added. "They're sad, anxious. Managers have to be very steady and compassionate with them, give their people a little bit of room now. You've got to let people grieve and be sad and get over it in their own way."
Joe Cohen knows what Ms. Dougherty is talking about. Mr. Cohen, 24, an account executive at the MWW Group, a public relations firm in East Rutherford, N.J., says he watched the horror unfold from his chief executive's picture window, which had a clear view of the Manhattan skyline.
"Everyone was shellshocked," he said. "When the building went down, people were screaming, crying, hugging, frantically dialing their cellphones, and trying to reach friends." Although he had never been in any kind of therapy -- "I never thought I needed to," he said -- he and 50 colleagues attended grief counseling seminars offered at MWW through Magellan Behavioral Health of Columbia, Md., which runs its E.A.P. 
"I thought I was over it, but then every so often I would hear stories about the event and I would just break down," he said. "As soon as everyone started speaking, I realized I did have issues. I talked, too, and understood the whole thing had more of an impact than I'd thought. It's a big part of my life, and it's going to be, whether I like it or not." 
In addition to offering the crisis counseling, his company has adopted more lenient policies. Donald McIver, vice president for human resources at MWW, said its bereavement policy was changed to include the deaths of friends, as well as those of family members, and the company allowed employees to take take time off to volunteer at relief organizations. They are also allowed to post volunteer information and other resources on the company e-mail system.
"We are here for our employees however they need us to be," Mr. McIver said. 
Ms. Hicks said her sessions with Ms. Dougherty were valuable. "I didn't want someone to tell me it was going to be O.K., because it's not," she said. "People who saw it on TV have a different view; we lived it. Don't tell me you understand. But Sharon listened to me and gave me some helpful pointers, like not to watch TV or listen to the radio. I still get scared when I hear loud noises -- I can't stand the sound of airplanes -- so she suggested I put on headphones and listen to music to block out unpleasant sounds. It's helped.
"I wish everyone would call any hot line," she added. "A lot of people I know are taking pills to help them cope and all they are doing is crying. But the E.A.P. is excellent."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael W. Kempner, chief executive of the MWW Group, a public relations firm, talked to employees about the terrorist attacks. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORKPLACE PROGRAMS (90%); EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS (90%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (77%); TRENDS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); TERRORISM (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); JET FUEL (52%); WORKERS COMPENSATION COSTS (50%) LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: ATLANTIC MUTUAL INSURANCE CO (71%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



931 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
Mourn TheDead, But Not New York

BYLINE:  By TOM REDBURN

 BODY:
FROM headlines long forgotten: "New York's Last Gasp?" "Living Dangerously in New York," "Bankrupt New York: No Funds for Fun City," "Is New York City Worth Saving?"
 New York has been through tough times before. And with the blow that the terrorist attacks have delivered to an already shaky local and national economy, it is about to go through them again. 
 But amid the mourning for the dead at the World Trade Center, elegies for New York as a vital business center -- and for skyscrapers, for dense concentrations of people, for urban life in general -- are no more likely to be right this time than they were in the past. 
The city will never be the same, of course. But nothing is ever the same in a city like New York. Companies, as they have before, will re-examine where they put their headquarters. Many Wall Street offices will continue to spread beyond Lower Manhattan into other parts of the city and the surrounding region.
For the next year or so, too, the local economy is bound to shrink, jobs will be lost and government budgets will be under increasing strain.
Yet none of that should extinguish the aspiration, enterprise and hard work that truly stirs the New York urban economy. Indeed, the disaster has revealed unexpected qualities of grit, sacrifice and cooperation that, even as they fade into memory, will serve as a foundation for the rebuilding and renewal to come.
The new mood is visible everywhere. "In the subways and on streets," Julie Talen, a filmmaker who lives in SoHo, wrote in an e-mail message to friends and family, "strangers, instead of looking away in the millisecond glance that defines the New Yorker -- we hold each other's gazes, and sort of search our faces, for what we have lost, for reassurance, for simple connection."
"On the West Side Highway, spontaneous groups of New Yorkers cheer and clap and wave flags and posters -- cheering the soot-covered weary firefighters and rescuers coming out and the fresh ones going in," she continued. "It's all a new kind of New York; we're all transformed."
New York is not unique in its ability to bounce back. Following the 1992 riots in Los Angeles, which came as Southern California was reeling from an economic malaise tied largely to the shrinkage of its military contractors after the cold war, even many local boosters threw in the towel. Running for mayor, Richard Riordan described Los Angeles as a "dysfunctional city." And a Time magazine cover article asked: "Is the City of Angels Going to Hell?"
But the Northridge earthquake of 1994, instead of knocking the city out for the count, was a catalyst for the broad-based revival that was already under way. Economic growth surged throughout the late 1990's, and the city resumed its traditional role as a magnet for migrants from elsewhere in the United States and abroad.
"Racked by riots and then a devastating earthquake, many predicted that our city would become something of a modern-day Carthage," said Joel Kotkin, a Los Angeles-based author. "Yet in less than five years, we have rebounded from our nadir to a new era of metropolitan growth and self-confidence."
Miami, also torn by racial polarization, was condemned as America's most dangerous city in the 1980's and early 1990's. Yet after being hit by the most costly hurricane in history, it, too, has made a remarkable comeback.
What gives all these urban centers their resilience is their diversity and their openness to strangers. New York, Los Angeles and Miami -- like few other cities in the country -- draw their strength from outsiders. As long as new people, particularly adventurous and ambitious young people, dream of coming to places like New York, their economies will prosper.
That, of course, is what makes the World Trade Center attack such a nightmare. We ache over the absence of the twin towers, not because of the buildings that were destroyed (something much better can be built in their place), but because of the thousands of lives lost. Many of those people were just beginning their careers and their families.
New York's most recent boom would not have been so stunning without the sharp reduction in crime that occurred throughout much of the 1990's. That was true in other big cities as well. Restoring a sense of security -- this time from the threat of further terror attacks -- is therefore essential to maintaining the urban revival of recent years.
Once fear eases, though, the pull that New York has long exerted on newcomers should reassert itself. And with that, the city will rise from the ashes -- again. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); MAYORS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (71%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (67%); TRENDS (67%); LAYOFFS (66%); EMPLOYMENT (66%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (65%); RIOTS (64%); COLD WAR (60%); TERRORISM (57%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (57%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



932 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH; 
Diversify?Yes, It Still Makes Sense

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
AS world economies have become more intertwined in recent years, investors have come to believe that stock markets around the globe move in tandem as well. So many investors have abandoned diversification strategies that involved moving money into foreign markets. Why take the trouble to buy shares in a foreign beverage manufacturer when you can just buy Coca-Cola, which operates around the world? 
 But a look at how different markets behaved in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11 shows that diversification remains a crucial investment strategy that not only outperforms a more concentrated portfolio in periods of extreme stress but that holds its own in good times, too. 
 Perhaps most surprising, stocks in a few emerging markets actually outperformed those in the United States during the recent trauma. That is counter to investors' recent experience in tumultuous times, when emerging markets have underperformed those in more developed nations. 
For the two weeks beginning Sept. 10, the Standard & Poor's 500 index lost 12 percent. On a currency-adjusted basis, Japan was the best performer, losing only one-quarter of that amount. (That's not so surprising; it is tough to collapse when you're already on the floor.) In Poland, though, stocks lost only 8 percent, compared with declines of 15 percent in France and 19 percent in Germany. Korea, no one's idea of an investment haven, was another anomaly; it lost 15 percent, a little more than the S.& P. 
Michael Thompson is global market commentator at RiskMetrics, a software analytics company in New York that specializes in risk assessment. "Some people would consider emerging markets more volatile, but they actually reduced portfolio risks," he said. "The correlation among world markets is less than people think. They are not in lock step."
To illustrate the benefits of diversification, RiskMetrics compiled two portfolios and compared their returns in different periods. One portfolio contained a diverse mix of assets, stocks and bonds of both developed nations and emerging ones. Most of the second portfolio -- 80 percent -- was invested in United States stocks, with the remainder in European shares.
From January 1997 to January 2001, for the most part a roaring bull market, the concentrated portfolio gained 69 percent, versus 38 percent for the collection of diverse assets. But from the beginning of this year through Sept. 21, a bear market, the concentrated collection fell 33 percent, while the diversified portfolio lost only 16 percent. 
Even more intriguing is the similar performance of the two portfolios during a period that includes bull and bear markets. From January 1997 through Sept. 21 this year, the diversified portfolio gained 11 percent, almost matching the 12 percent return of the concentrated portfolio. 
In recent years, investors ignored the fact that the risks were rocketing in their portfolios of United States stocks. At the same time, they shunned foreign stocks, considering them too much of a gamble. For many portfolios recently, that has meant double trouble.
Jorge Mina, senior researcher at RiskMetrics, said investors now must balance their desires for outsized returns with a posture that defends against the possibility of another destabilizing event. That means doing a big rethink on risk, and reallocating assets accordingly. "This event has shown that you can actually lower risk by going into a more risky market," Mr. Mina said, "as long as it is done in a properly diversified portfolio."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Global Reaction' KoreaSTOCK INDEX RETURNS, SEPT. 10-21*: -15% MexicoSTOCK INDEX RETURNS, SEPT. 10-21*: -14 United StatesSTOCK INDEX RETURNS, SEPT. 10-21*: -12 PolandSTOCK INDEX RETURNS, SEPT. 10-21*: -8 JapanSTOCK INDEX RETURNS, SEPT. 10-21*: -3 *Currency adjusted

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); BONDS (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (72%); BEVERAGE MFG (72%); TERRORISM (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (56%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (57%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%)

PERSON: MIKE THOMPSON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (76%); FRANCE (69%); POLAND (69%); CENTRAL EUROPE (69%); GERMANY (54%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



933 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1741 words

HEADLINE: Being Single in New York Is a Little Lonelier Now 

BYLINE:  By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
CLAIRE SMITHERS is a woman considered to be good company, and she usually finds herself in good company. In her late 30's, she has her office friends and old-job friends, her boarding-school friends and church friends, friends made on the charity circuit during her 15 years in New York and those acquired over many more years at her family's summer home on the Connecticut shore. Ms. Smithers is unmarried, though no one who meets her would say her life is an island of one.
 But in the aftermath of Sept. 11, like so many single men and women in New York, she has re-examined the meaning of being uncoupled. "It made me realize, really for the first time in my life, that I was alone," Ms. Smithers, the patient coordinator for a Park Avenue plastic surgeon, said. "I truly felt alone and questioned being alone. We've all had pangs of 'Oh no, what if I never get married? What's wrong with me?' But then you call your friends and you talk and go out and you forget about it." 
 "But this felt different -- and deeper," she continued. "I've always loved being single, but during the crisis I pretty much hated it." 
There are more than three million single men and women in New York City, which in the world's imagination is the capital of a certain kind of unencumbered life. There are the untold numbers of college graduates who flock each year to the city, convinced of its boundless opportunities that have little to do with owning a Diaper Genie by the age of 26. There are the retirees, among them widows and widowers who enjoy easy mobility and would never consider any place far from Lincoln Center.
And if the urban single woman was stigmatized during the 1980's, as documented in Susan Faludi's "Backlash," she found glamorous retribution in the decade that came after, and nowhere more emphatically than in New York. 
The paranoia spread by the movie "Fatal Attraction" and media reports that women over 40 had a better chance of dying in a terrorist attack than of finding husbands (now a chilling thought) was supplanted in the 90's by a popular culture that made singledom seem more enviable than it had since "That Girl." To be 35, well-preserved and in possession of a decent evening purse was not pathetic. It was to be Sarah Jessica Parker and never stay home.
The reality of single life could be vastly different from television's depiction, of course. But among the innumerable ripple effects of the terrorist attacks is a growing reassessment of the social arrangements for which contemporary pop culture has written such a vividly detailed press release.
"I'm the most commitment-phobic person on earth," Lindsey Gates, 25, was explaining last week at Rice on Mott Street, where she is a waitress. "I'm a serial dater, I love dating. I'd go out on maybe three dates a week." 
But in the wake of recent events, Ms. Gates said she's had less interest in sitting at a dinner table with someone she doesn't know, only to discover that his favorite "Godfather" movie was Part III. "I have less time for the superficialities," she said. "This has made me understand the value of belonging to someone. Feeling your own despair was just too much to bear."
Not surprisingly, the immediate aftermath of the disaster left people who live alone uneasy about experiencing it alone. For some, this prompted decampment to a neighbor's for endless hours of CNN. For others, like Ms. Smithers, it meant sleeping at a friend's to ease the panic. Ms. Smithers went home on Sept. 11 with a colleague, Olga Valdes, who is also single and in her late 30's. They made dinner, and Ms. Smithers slept on the couch. 
For some newcomers to the city, the tragedy proved upending enough to make them reconsider Manhattan life. Melissa Roberts, 24, who moved from Athens, Ga., in July, was on her way to a job interview on the morning of Sept. 11. She saw the towers come down, and after a few sleepless nights, left to find peace with her family in Atlanta. 
"I've been through rough things in my life, but something like this is huge," Ms. Roberts said. "It basically made me want to go home and hang out with my mom." She has temporarily lost her appetite, she said, for "drinking up the city for all it is worth." 
The hunger for companionship, reported by almost all single people, has taken varied forms. As a visit to a bar in recent weeks would indicate, many people have exercised the impulse to connect primally.
"I desperately wanted to be with someone" in the days after the attack, said Adam Lichtenstein, 36, a film editor. "I definitely wanted to be cozying with someone. I wanted something physical."
On the day of the disaster he received a call from an ex-girlfriend who had remembered he liked a band that would be performing at a downtown bar a few nights later. There was no rekindling of the relationship, but days later Mr. Lichtenstein found himself at a bar on lower Lexington Avenue, with some friends. 
"I was leaving and saying goodbye to everyone, and I saw this beautiful, beautiful woman come in with a friend," he said. "I said, 'I'm not leaving.' An hour later we were locked in an embrace on Eighth Avenue." 
He had never gone home with someone he met in a bar before, he said. 
"She is someone I very openly refer to as my wartime liaison. The thing that keeps it going is this air of uncertainty. I think we were both a lot more generous with each other that night than we might have been at some other time."
At this juncture, mothers of aging single people are surely wanting to know: Will Mr. Lichtenstein settle down? Will the altered world and the new fears of mortality it brings be a bucket of ice water on the heads of all the 30-ish and 40-ish men and women who have yet to commit? Mr. Lichtenstein demurred. "I don't want a family more or less than I did before," he said. 
For those who did not necessarily seek solace in another's arms, coping meant renewing one's ties to friends, a neighborhood and city life.
Julie Gilhart, the fashion director at Barneys New York, who lives in Chelsea, responded to a sense of isolation by going around her neighborhood and making a list, with names and addresses, of single people in her immediate vicinity. "What if we were all out of water or phone service?" Ms. Gilhart said. "It seemed the community-minded thing to do." 
Countless other single people found a sense of community in the newly expanded universe of volunteering. One early newscast about the relief effort showed a volunteer recruiting others, saying, "Volunteer and meet the love of your life!" 
Other people have taken away from the crisis a revitalized relationship to the city's cultural richness. "How many of us say we're here to do all the stuff we want to do -- go to the theater -- but work 16 hours a day and come home to the same TV show you could be watching in Michigan?" said Richard Nigosian, 55, the president of a travel agency. "As a single person you have the freedom to come and go as you please. Don't let it all pass you by." 
But if there is one broad feature of Manhattan social life that has been most evident during the present upheaval, it is the intensity with which single New Yorkers create surrogate families out of friends. Carol Stacks, a Midtown psychotherapist, said somewhat surprisingly that she had not heard anyone say they wished to be married. 
"What I keep hearing about is the overriding importance of friendships," she said. 
Mark Welsh, a former advertising executive who is in his 40's and gay, said: "My friends have reached out to me more intimately. I've had two friends in the past week who have awkwardly told me, 'I love you.' "
In some sense, Mr. Welsh said, "this makes me feel less like having a relationship; my close-knit friends are providing me with everything but sex."
Not yet three weeks after the attack, its long-term ramifications on mating patterns cannot be determined. It is hard to imagine how the behavior that existed before Sept. 11, and which found such solidifying cultural support, would change quickly. Perhaps, though, it is safe to speculate on the ways in which the dating chess board might be reconfigured. Already, matchmaking services like It's Just Lunch are reporting an upsurge in business. 
"This is a wake-up call, and people are asking themselves, 'Am I where I want to be?' " said Daniel Dolan, chief executive of the company, who added that the dramatic increase began three days after the attack. 
Time, Tim Bogardus, a 35-year-old freelance writer pointed out, is not to be squandered. "I think there's going to be a lot less game-playing. I know I'm not going to have a lot of tolerance for it."
And, Mr. Bogardus predicted, the changed economy will have its impact. "This recession is real, and I really hope it signals a return to people making dinner for each other or going on walks rather than obsessing about which insanely expensive restaurant to take someone to."
Like Mr. Bogardus, others seem to believe that changing values could lead single New Yorkers to reprioritize the rigid criteria they apply to selecting a mate. "Maybe it won't matter to women if they are five pounds overweight," Ms. Smithers said. "Maybe we'll date men who are bald; maybe we'll learn to take each other warts and all."
Her friend Ms. Valdes, who is a facialist, also foresees some spiriting changes attending the new world. "We're all so much more vulnerable now," she said. "Vulnerability can be a negative thing -- it can connote weakness. But the positive side of vulnerability is an open heart."
Or, to take the pessimist's view, might all that vulnerability keep in place the same self-protective rituals of indirection that have plagued post-modern romance for so long?
"There is all this pressure now to live a life of meaning," explained Mike Albo, a performance artist, who is 32, single and gay. "There is this pressure attached to 'We will never be the same,' and 'All of our illusions have been shattered forever.' You hope in the back of your head that things will be more meaningful, but things are just as vague."
"I saw this guy at Beige the other night," Mr. Albo continued, referring to a weekly get-together at the Bowery Bar downtown. "He said, 'Oh yeah, I've been meaning to call you.' Isn't everyone supposed to be shaking each other and saying, 'Oh, now I see it's been you all along?' "
So far in the new world, "there are just as many phone calls and e-mails and hieroglyphics to decipher as there were before," Mr. Albo said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: SECOND SIGHT -- Lindsey Gates, who once loved single life, said, "This has made me understand the value of belonging to someone." (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 1); SINGLES UNITE -- Claire Smithers stayed with Olga Valdes, top, the night of the attack. "During the crisis I pretty much hated" being single, she said. (Kelly Guenther for The New York Times); REALLY LIVING -- Richard Nigosian, 55, said: "As a single person you have the freedom to come and go as you please. Don't let it all pass you by." (Amy Dickerson for The New York Times)(pg. 9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (77%); MARRIAGE (76%); TERRORISM (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: SARAH JESSICA PARKER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



934 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: STRATEGIES; 
At Least OneStock Market Signal Is Flashing Green

BYLINE:  By MARK HULBERT; Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a newsletter based in Annandale, Va. His column on investment strategies appears every other week. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
FINALLY, some solid evidence has emerged that the stock market plunge may have gone too far and that stocks should have average annual returns of about 12 percent over the next four years.
 The data supporting that optimistic assessment is from the Value Line Investment Survey, an advisory service published by Value Line in New York. Value Line is far better known as a stock-picking service: each week since 1965, it has rated 1,700 of this country's most widely held stocks on a scale of 1 to 5, with Group 1 containing the stocks it believes to have the greatest potential over the next 6 to 12 months, and Group 5 having the worst prospects. 
 This stock-rating system has earned Value Line a high performance ranking. In fact, among investment newsletters tracked by The Hulbert Financial Digest, Value Line is in first place for risk-adjusted performance since 1980. Even skeptical academics who have staked their reputations on the idea that the market cannot be beaten concede that Value Line's record in picking stocks is an exception that cannot be dismissed. 
The Value Line statistic that is the basis of the good news is not as well known. though it has also been published each week for several decades. Known by its devotees as the V.L.M.A.P., for Value Line's median appreciation potential, it is the median percentage by which Value Line's analysts project that the 1,700 stocks they follow will grow over the next three to five years. 
While that Value Line measure has been consistently too bullish, it is remarkably correlated with the stock market's level four years hence. Because Value Line's analysts focus on a horizon that is three to five years away, their judgments seem relatively immune to the emotional swings that affect other analysts. Undoubtedly, the others could also immunize themselves if they also focused on the longer term, but very few do so.
V.L.M.A.P. is therefore an anchor against which we can assess the stock market's future course. Historically low levels indicate that the market has gotten ahead of itself, and that investors who enter it are likely to be disappointed. That is precisely the longer-term fate of those who entered the market in 1996 and 1997, when the Value Line barometer dropped to levels not seen since before the 1987 crash. Though the caution signal seemed ill timed as stocks continued to rise throughout 1998 and 1999, the investors having the last laugh are those who took that signal seriously. Indeed, according to Wilshire Associates, the combined value of all publicly traded stocks in the country is no higher now than in October 1997.
In contrast, V.L.M.A.P. flashes an all-clear signal when it rises to historically high levels. That is exactly what it has done since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. In fact, the last time the Value Line measure was as high as it is now was in late January 1991. True to form, the stock market rose smartly over the subsequent four years.
Does V.L.M.A.P.'s current reading, 100 percent, mean that you can expect the average stock to double in four years? Unfortunately not. Value Line's analysts are consistently too bullish, according to studies conducted independently by Daniel A. Seiver, an economics professor at Miami University of Ohio and the editor of the PAD System Report, an investment newsletter, and Peter L. Bernstein, president of a consulting firm for institutional investors. Both studies found that the V.L.M.A.P. had its greatest historical accuracy when 50 percentage points were deducted from it.
That still works out to a four-year price appreciation of 50 percent, however, or 10.7 percent, annualized. Coupled with an average dividend yield of just over 1 percent, that works out to a 12 percent average annual return for the market from now until September 2005. Though not as huge a return as seen in the wild growth years of the late 1990's, it looks awfully attractive right now.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Predicting The Pattern"Each week, Value Line's analysts are asked to forecast the three- to five-year returns of stocks they track. The trend of their median forecast, though generally too optimistic, has paralleled the market's movements. Graph shows the VALUE LINE ANALYSTS' MEDIAN FORECAST FOR STOCK MARKET RETURNS IN THREE TO FIVE YEARS and the ACTUAL RETURN OF STOCK MARKET IN FOUR YEARS* from 1972-1996. *Based on a Value Line index of 1,700 equally weighted, widely held stocks.(Sources: Hulbert Financial Digest; Value Line)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BONDS (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); TRAFFIC SIGNALS (63%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



935 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
A Company Faces a Calamity's Personal Side

BYLINE:  By CONSTANCE L. HAYS

 BODY:
EDMOND ENGLISH, the president and chief executive of the TJX Companies, has just gone through the worst three weeks of his business life. Another difficult period is just beginning.
 TJX, a discount clothing retailer that owns several chains including TJ Maxx and Marshall's, lost seven executives and buyers in the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center. All were women, including four mothers. They were traveling from Boston to Los Angeles on the American Airlines jet that hijackers slammed into the north tower. All were on crucial company business -- buying clothes, setting budgets and expanding the 1,500-store company, which is based in Framingham, Mass. 
 Mr. English, a veteran TJX manager who was promoted to the top position 17 months ago, not only had to deal with what he called "the macro level, in terms of what has happened to the world around us," but also the specific sorrow of losing several friends and colleagues all at once.
And that was before he even began to think about how to overcome the multiple business crises that the disaster posed for his company, which sells brand-name apparel and other goods at discount prices and has been thriving even in the economic downturn. How long its good times will last is now unclear.
Before TJX management could replace the team of hard-working, experienced executives, it had to persuade traumatized employees, many of whom must fly as part of their jobs, that life and work go on. "We'll help them through this period as best we can," Mr. English said in an interview last week. "We are certainly going forward and doing the business that we need to do. And we are addressing the very real residual issues that exist in the minds of our associates around travel. We want to make sure we prepare everyone." 
The company has hired counselors to coach employees about dealing with their newfound fear of flying. Counseling sessions for the roughly 625 employees at headquarters who must travel by plane -- 25 percent of the headquarters staff -- are scheduled to begin in the next several days. 
While the company did not specify whether any TJX employees had balked at flying, outside crisis therapists say it is a common reaction at many companies. Richard A. Chaifetz, who coaches traumatized employees at other companies, said "some people are refusing outright to travel at all."
A glimpse into the professional and personal lives of the women who were on the plane offers some insight into the depth of TJX's loss. The company called them mentors and role models. It plans to fill their positions from within, but has not disclosed when that process will even begin. 
One of the victims was Linda George, 27, a buyer from Westborough, Mass., who was to be married later in the month. She was traveling with Christine Barbuto, 32, another buyer, who lived in Brookline, Mass., and specialized in women's sportswear, and Lisa Fenn Gordenstein, an assistant vice president for merchandising, who was a mother of two from Needham, Mass.
Another group was planning to help open a new store in California. It included Robin Kaplan, 33, from Westborough, who had recently returned to work after a medical leave. (Her mother, Francine, also works at the company but was not on the trip.) Ms. Kaplan was traveling with Neilie Casey, a merchandise planning manager who had a 7-month-old daughter at home, and Tara Creamer, 30, a merchandise planning manager and a mother of two, who was scheduled to visit stores in California. The fourth member of their group was Susan McKay, 44, a merchandise planning executive with two children at home. 
Mr. English, who is known as Ted and has spent 18 years at TJX, made a point of allowing people, including himself, some time to mourn. A series of memorials for the victims were held in their hometowns, culminating in a eulogy at TJX headquarters last Monday, attended by 3,000 people.
Many large companies confronted similar crises on Sept. 11, particularly those in or near the twin towers. With no disaster plans in place and without warning, they spent days trying to track down employees and days more calculating losses. 
Mr. English, whose company has thrived in good times and bad, had just navigated TJX through a year of double-digit sales increases. It still seems well positioned to ride out the economy's weakness. "They have low prices, large assortments of fashionable clothes, and they are the kind of company that department stores simply dread," said Kurt Barnard, president of Barnard Retail Trend report, a newsletter about the industry. 
TJX's niche is called off-price retailing -- selling clothes, jewelry and home furnishings at lower prices than department stores. TJX shoppers tend to have department-store tastes but are value-minded about budgets. 
THE company's earnings have climbed steadily, to $1.66 a share last year from 63 cents in 1997; sales have grown to $8.79 billion from $6.68 billion. "They are the 300-pound gorilla in the world of off-price retailing," said John D. Morris, a retail analyst at Gerard Klauer Mattison. "They are in a very good position to weather the current difficult retail environment." But, he added, "depending on the depth and severity of a downturn, eventually that slowdown can catch up with everybody." 
Signs of that possibility intensified last week: a monthly survey of consumer confidence took its biggest drop since the Persian Gulf war a decade ago, suggesting that consumer spending would shrink. And TJX shares were downgraded by Bank of America to "market perform" from "buy." This year, the shares have risen 20 percent, closing Friday at $32.90. The Standard & Poor's index of retail stocks, by comparison, has fallen 10.5 percent.
On Sept. 11, the company's focus quickly turned to internal sorrow. Once the names of the seven employees had been confirmed with American Airlines, Mr. English called in counselors, who arrived at headquarters by 11 a.m. He announced the news and told employees they could go home if they wanted. Most people stayed at work, he said.
He and others, meanwhile, tried to find employees who had been on other flights, both in the United States and abroad. With planes grounded or turned back over the Atlantic, that took three or four days. The company chartered a plane to bring 38 people, including some spouses and relatives of employees, from Europe to Montreal; a bus then brought them to Framingham. As the bus pulled into the TJX parking lot around midnight on Sept. 15, Mr. English was there to greet it. 
For Mr. English, having employees overcome their fears is the priority, and the right thing to do to keep the business on track. He anticipates plenty of worry, not just from employees but also from their families. At the headquarters memorial last week, he acknowledged how difficult the days since Sept. 11 had been for everyone. "And then we talked a little bit about moving forward," he said, "living our lives the way they wanted us to -- with fun, enthusiasm, zeal and pursuit of life."

GRAPHIC: Photos: After the TJX Companies, a discount retailer, lost seven employees on one of the hijacked planes that crashed into the World Trade Center, Edmond English, above left, the TJX chief executive, joined employees and religious figures at a memorial service at the company's Framingham, Mass., headquarters. Mr. English helped employees of the company, which owns the TJ Maxx and Marshall's chains, by calling in counselors and holding services in victims' hometowns. (Associated Press) Chart: "Ahead of the Pack"The TJX companies, owner of the discount chains T.J. Maxx and Marshall's, has outperformed the overall retail sector lately. Graph shows TJX companies and the S. & P.'s retail stores composite index (set equal to TJX Cos. on Jan. 5) from January-September 2001. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CLOTHING LABELS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); AIRLINES (76%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (72%); TERRORISM (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%) COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: TJX COS INC (94%); T J MAXX (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: TJX COS (TJX) 

TICKER: TJX (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (94%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (94%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%) SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



936 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3128 words

HEADLINE: Urban Pain, From Sea to Sea 

BYLINE:  By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
SEPT. 11, most people agree, changed everything -- including, it now appears, the economic map of the United States. The suicide attacks of 19 terrorists are not only tipping the economy into a recession, they have also scrambled the business landscape in places thousands of miles from the destruction. Many cities and regions that, in America's gathering economic gloom, had strong growth prospects just three weeks ago no longer do.
 "The parts of the country that were holding up well before the attack are going to be nailed by this," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com, a forecasting concern in West Chester, Pa., that analyzed the attacks' implications for Money & Business. Yet the terrorists' punch was so strong that even places reliant on military contracting and telecommunications, which may benefit from the nation's new spending priorities, will be hurt, though to a lesser degree. 
 It is, of course, too soon to know the scale of the economic damage in any particular place with any precision. But it is no secret that, because the attackers used commercial jets as weapons, the most dramatic economic effects are already being felt in cities most heavily dependent on air travel and the lodging industry: tourist sites catering to fly-in visitors, major convention centers and cities whose airports serve as hubs for the big airlines. The damage is compounded in cities that also have important financial activity. 
A few months ago, Las Vegas, Honolulu, Fort Worth, Miami and Orlando, Fla., were enjoying growth, for example. Now, many of their swimming pools shimmer silently and their cavernous convention halls stand empty. 
"Recessions are similar in some ways, but they each have different triggers," said David Orr, chief economist at First Union in Charlotte, N.C. The last one, in the early 1990's, was started by a lending crunch in commercial real estate and struck Eastern cities with office towers, he recalled. The one before that, in the early 1980's, was set off by high interest rates and followed by a downturn, spurred by collapsing oil prices, that ravaged the oil patch. 
This one, economists agree, has a spark no one could have guessed: fear of flying.
"Before the attack, you could draw a line down the map from Detroit to Birmingham, and for 500 miles on either side of that line, you were in a recession," Mr. Zandi said. "Now, the economic problems are going to broaden out and engulf the entire country." 
IN his analysis, Mr. Zandi ranked the nation's metropolitan economies, based on their vulnerability in the coming months. He also ranked the cities best positioned to withstand the shock of the attack. The rankings are to some degree based, he cautioned, on assumptions that may ultimately prove false: that there will be no more terrorist attacks in the United States, that the Federal Reserve will reduce interest rates by an additional half-point, that the government will continue to provide fiscal stimulus and that energy prices will remain relatively high. 
Not a single city of the top 318 metropolitan areas in the ranking will benefit economically from the shock, he added. Every one will be hurt.
But the pain will probably be buffered in communities with colleges -- students tend to stay in school during recessions -- like Waco, Tex., State College, Pa., and Yolo County, Calif. Towns with humble tourist attractions that mainly draw visitors who arrive by car will also be helped, like Panama City, Fla., a beach town in the Panhandle whose relative obscurity may hold new appeal to jittery tourists. Cities with a military presence, like Fort Walton Beach, Fla., which has two Air Force bases, or information-technology businesses of interest to intelligence agencies, may also be cushioned. So will cities with oil activity, like Bakersfield, Calif., according to Mr. Zandi's thinking.
Jersey City, which ranks as the American city most resilient to the downturn, is a special case, Mr. Zandi said. It will reap large gains in economic output from the many displaced workers from Lower Manhattan who cross the Hudson River to work there.
Up and down the rankings, a general pattern emerges: America's larger cities, no matter how diverse their economies, are expected to witness the greatest economic disruption in the months to come. Towns and cities on the roads not taken -- the places one enters and leaves on propeller planes -- will endure much as before.
"Lubbock is at the ends of the earth," said Mr. Zandi, explaining why the remote Texas farm center landed seventh on his list of communities best positioned to weather the coming storm. 
New York, perhaps oddly, does not make the top 10 distressed areas; that is because the rankings are based on projected economic activity in the coming months, not the economic value that was lost when the World Trade Center turned to dust. Not that New York won't suffer -- it ranked 13th on the list of hardest-hit cities, close behind a Connecticut cluster that includes Stamford, Danbury and Bridgeport, and just ahead of Hartford and New London.
New Yorkers alone will file 75,000 unemployment claims as a result of the attacks on the World Trade Center, according to the Labor Department. But Mr. Zandi said their lost jobs were likely to be offset by jobs created by flows of federal and state money for rebuilding.
The more quickly and effectively President Bush's promised reprisals against the terrorist network restore public confidence, he added, the more quickly the rebuilding of Lower Manhattan will begin.
"If there's a quick resolution to the conflict, say, by the end of the year, then the New York City economy may come out of this better than many other parts of the country," Mr. Zandi said. "It will depend on how things unfold militarily."
Las Vegas, by contrast, relies heavily on air travel but has no rebuilding to do. Its economy appears to be the most harshly affected by the devastation 2,200 miles to the east. Before the terrorist attack, it had enjoyed the fastest economic growth of any American city -- more than 5 percent.
The city's booming growth is driven, to a degree that only now seems alarming, by air tourism. On any given day, Las Vegas boasts a quarter of a million visitors, about a tenth of them conventioneers. In normal times, 46 percent of them come through the airport.
"One of every three jobs here is in travel and tourism," said Keith Schwer, director of the Center for Business and Economic Research at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. Even as the city's economy has soared over the last decade, he said, the ratio has remained the same.
In recent days, the tourists who support those jobs have largely stopped coming. Some of those who were in Las Vegas left after the World Trade Center fell, saying they could not imagine rejoicing over a jackpot amid the national shock and grief. Business planners have called to cancel hundreds of conventions; as of last week, the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority counted 249 such cancellations, a loss of 78,000 anticipated visitors who would have spent an estimated $78.7 million, not counting gambling. Even the city's quickie wedding business has tumbled, according to the Clark County Marriage License Bureau.
Immediately after the disaster, the large casino and resort concerns, like the Mandalay Resort Group, Harrah's Entertainment and MGM Mirage, tried to avoid laying people off by juggling part-timers' schedules and asking idle staff members to go home early. When that proved insufficient, they closed off whole floors and wings of their vast properties, and began layoffs.
Jim Gentleman, a vice president of Certified Airline Passenger Services, woke up one morning and found his business, which provided airline check-in services to tourists at their hotels, essentially banned by new federal security rules. 
The company "has no cash flow at this point," he said. 
Mr. Gentleman has laid off his entire field staff of 65 people and set about investigating a new business model: training his employees to operate the costly explosive-detection systems that have been considered for United States airports after previous air disasters, but rejected for cost and space reasons. 
Mr. Gentleman now thinks that their arrival is inevitable -- the only questions being who will run the machines and whether his lenders will tide his company over while he waits to find out.
"Can we reinvent ourselves?" he asked. "We are trying to be creative. But from a financial standpoint, we're in a very difficult position right now. We've been in touch with our banks and many of our suppliers and asked them to be patient, and fortunately, they are being understanding." 
Las Vegas's newest megaresort, a hotel, shopping, gambling and convention complex called the Aladdin Resort and Casino, filed notice with the Securities and Exchange Commission that it might have to cease operations entirely. The Aladdin was already heavily burdened by construction debt before the crisis.
THE troubles of Las Vegas will not be confined to Las Vegas. Nevada gets about three-fourths of its budget from tourism and gambling revenue, and already, the government in Carson City has frozen hiring and postponed several building projects. Henderson, population 150,000, has been warned that it may not get all the money it had counted on for a new state college that was to have opened next year. The Highway Patrol will have to make do with its outmoded headquarters a while longer. 
Reno is also likely to suffer deeply -- the nation's fifth-most-affected city, Mr. Zandi figures. There, casino owners are trying to avoid mass layoffs by cutting back staff hours. 
Chuck Alvey, president of the Economic Development Authority of Western Nevada, put on a brave face and warned against drawing lessons about Reno from the Las Vegas outlook.
"Reno is very much a drive-in market," he said, noting that even amid the flood of the cancellations in Las Vegas, Reno held a motorcycle rally on the weekend of Sept. 22 that drew big crowds.
"People from the Bay Area can get here in a few hours' time by vehicle," Mr. Alvey said. "So we may be a little more insulated than Las Vegas." 
Mr. Zandi thinks otherwise. Much of Reno's drive-in traffic comes from the San Francisco Bay Area, he said. And San Francisco is the seventh-most-affected city on his list, largely because of its ties to United Airlines, and its reliance on financial services and the weakened high-technology sector. He expects even drive-in tourism to Reno to taper off in the coming months, as Bay Area residents trim discretionary spending.
In Honolulu, civic leaders are not playing down the extent of their economic devastation. Honolulu ranks only fourth on Mr. Zandi's list of hard-hit cities, but that is because the list ranks degrees of change, not absolute misery. Yet while Las Vegas is falling back from powerful growth to a crawl, Honolulu had one of the slowest economic growth rates of any American city before the attack. Now it is being knocked flat. 
No biker rallies, no special promotions will buck up Honolulu's economy until the day tourists are willing to fly out over long stretches of water again.
"This set of circumstances has really demonstrated our fragility and our vulnerability," said Gov. Benjamin J. Cayetano of Hawaii.
A recent tally by the University of Hawaii Economic Research Organization of air arrivals for the third week of September found domestic travel down 30 percent from the comparable period last year. International travel was down by 78 percent. During the gulf war, Honolulu suffered when its arrivals declined by just 13 percent. Now all bets are off; no one knows how long the shock will last.
"We are, quite simply, in uncharted territory," the university study concluded.
By the third week of September, Hawaii's Labor and Industrial Relations Department was receiving unemployment claims at more than twice the usual rate, the vast majority from people who had lost tourism income.
Jeremy Harris, Honolulu's mayor, hopes to prime the pump with construction. He has promised to spend more than $200 million on new building over the next four months. He is also lobbying the City Council to extend a seven-year property tax "holiday" on business construction and is considering giving Honolulu home-builders a tax holiday, too.
Governor Cayetano has called the Legislature back into session and is also floating relief packages, including $1 billion in new borrowing to build a prison, a medical school and a biotechnology research center. He, too, is talking about tax cuts, and he thinks the state may delay a scheduled increase in the minimum wage. He has suggested diverting money from Hawaii's hurricane relief fund to shore up an economy flattened by an attack half a world away.
Some business executives are using the down time to catch up on inventorying, repairs and maintenance. Others are preparing a new marketing campaign for the islands, featuring discount coupons and new cultural events. One idea is to promote the islands' "healing" qualities. The executives all want quick action, but they admit that they still do not know when it will be safe to begin the campaign.
In Fort Worth, which ranks third on Mr. Zandi's hardest-hit list, the economic downturn is no less powerful, but it takes a different form -- and its experience is more typical of major American cities. Unlike Honolulu, Fort Worth can be reached by land. Unlike Las Vegas, it has spent the last decade consciously trying to diversify its economy. It was motivated by a round of mass layoffs when the cold war ended and the Navy canceled plans to build the A-12 fighter. Within six months, more than 7,000 General Dynamics employees there were out of work.
As it weaned its economy from military contracting, Fort Worth enjoyed one of the nation's highest job-creation rates in the 1990's. It built a big new freight airport, attracted a cast of big-name companies to an industrial zone that sprouted nearby, and revamped its downtown. It benefited mightily from the presence of the AMR Corporation, the parent company of American Airlines, whose headquarters in the city make it the area's largest employer. American is also the largest tenant at Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport; it runs one of its largest maintenance hangars at the new freight airport. 
So Fort Worth had a sense of deja vu when on Sept. 19 AMR announced that it would lay off 20,000 of its 138,000 employees.
"All of those layoffs won't be here, of course," said Michael Ellis, an associate professor of economics and finance at Texas Wesleyan University. "But the dominoes are beginning to fall."
The Dallas/Fort Worth airport swiftly cut $10 million from its $200 million operating budget, and warned of more large cuts to come. Sabre Holdings, based in Fort Worth, announced that it would miss its earnings projections. Fort Worth hoteliers who cater to American pilot trainees said they feared for their survival. Restaurant owners worried that no one would want to eat out if America went to war. Home sales fell to 56 percent of the normal level, according to Edward L. Wilson Jr., a partner with the market research firm Residential Strategies. 
Then came a blow from the financial-services sector: Ameritrade Holding, an online broker based in Omaha, announced that it was shuttering half of its 140,000-square-foot customer calling center at the Fort Worth freight airport.
Now, Fort Worth is pinning big hopes on military contracting again. It is lobbying hard on behalf of Lockheed Martin, which operates the former General Dynamics plant, and is competing with Boeing to build the Joint Strike Fighter, a successor to the F-16. The contract is expected to be awarded next month.
"We've all got our fingers crossed," said Bill Thornton, president of the Forth Worth Chamber of Commerce. The contract is the largest military procurement ever, worth as much as $200 billion over time.
Fort Worth's young people, meanwhile, seem to think business school is the best place to ride out the new tough times. Almost all of the area's business schools are reporting significant increases in enrollment this fall. 
Mr. Zandi, the economist, said college enrollments were likely to be up all over the country in the coming semesters, particularly at state colleges and universities. Their relative low cost and proximity to home will hold special appeal in today's climate of insecurity and belt-tightening, he said. As enrollments rise, colleges are likely to hire more teachers, and students will spend their money in college towns, buffering those economies. 
Thus State College, Pa., and Yolo County, Calif., home to the University of California at Davis, are on Mr. Zandi's list of least-affected localities. Albuquerque, whose economy is the largest of the "resilient" cities, is home not only to a large campus of the University of New Mexico but also to the Sandia National Laboratory and Kirtland Air Force Base. 
In Albuquerque, business leaders perceive possibilities at Sandia, where the work includes weapons design and energy research. Sandia may one day contribute to the battle against international terrorism, said Webb Johnson, director of business research at the Greater Albuquerque Chamber of Commerce. Before the attack, Sandia had sponsored a business forum that gave rise to a number of spinoff companies, he said, like Micro Optical Devices, which makes tiny solar cells for satellites and was acquired by Emcore of Somerset, N.J.; and MesoSystems Technology, which sells devices that measure airborne contaminants.
Now, America's heightened sense of insecurity may give rise to even more commercial applications. Mr. Johnson spoke of Sandia's work in nanotechnology -- the science of engineering complex machines the size of a pinprick -- and the promise it holds for developing microscopic nerve-gas detection robots or spy satellites the size of grains of pollen. 
BUT all that is in the future, Mr. Johnson added. In the here and now, Albuquerque's tourism sector is about to meet its first big test since the terrorists struck. This week, it is holding its hot-air balloon fiesta, normally the biggest tourist event of the year.
At first, when the Federal Aviation Administration banned all non-instrument-guided flying, city leaders were afraid that they would have to cancel the festival, which has been held for 30 years, Mr. Johnson said. But then the authorities declared that the balloons could ascend. Now the big question around town is how many balloonists will brave the trip to New Mexico. 
Mr. Johnson spotted his first balloon of the season Wednesday morning, he said. He took it as a good sign.
"There seems to be a degree of confidence left," he said. "But it's fragile."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jim Petty, chief executive of Air Vegas Enterprises, with grounded planes at Henderson Executive Airport, where a passenger lounge was deserted. (Photographs by John Gurzinski for The New York Times)(pg. 7); (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. 1) Chart/Map: "Economic Fallout" shows the 12-month economic growth forecasts, in percentage points by REGIONS MOST AFFECTED (Rank) and REGIONS LEAST AFFECTED (Rank). Left halves are forecasts before Sept. 11. Right halves are forecasts after Sept. 11. (Source: Economy.com)(pg. 1) Chart: "Ripples in a Post-Attack Economy"Effects of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks are being felt across the United States. Here are the nation's 40 largest economic areas and how their outlooks have changed. New York CitySIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): $493.1 billionPROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +2.18%PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: -0.70% Los AngelesSIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 345.0PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +2.93PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: +0.34 ChicagoSIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 342.1PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +2.80PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: -0.02 BostonSIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 288.7PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +2.21PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: -0.57 WashingtonSIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 224.1PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +3.31PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: +1.40 HoustonSIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 186.5PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +3.76PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: +2.02 DallasSIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 186.4PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +3.77PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: +1.02 AtlantaSIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 182.3PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +3.98PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: +0.94 PhiladelphiaSIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 181.0PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +2.40PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: +0.39 San Jose, Calif.SIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 172.5PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +0.93PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: -1.89 DetroitSIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 160.3PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +2.70PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: -0.10 San FranciscoSIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 131.3PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +2.72PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: -0.36 Orange County, Calif.SIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 130.9PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +2.97PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: +0.66 Minneapolis-St. PaulSIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 130.2PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +2.85PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: +0.56 SeattleSIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 125.2PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +3.08PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: +0.02 Phoenix-MesaSIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 116.5PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +4.16PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: +1.73 Oakland, Calif.SIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 115.8PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +2.55PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: +0.12 San DiegoSIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 106.5PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +3.09PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: +1.22 DenverSIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 95.9PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +4.09PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: +1.02 Nassau-Suffolk, N.Y.SIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 95.1PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +2.29PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: +0.40 NewarkSIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 93.3PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +2.31PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: +0.90 St. LouisSIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 92.7PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +2.13PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: -0.70 Portland, Ore.SIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 88.6PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +2.94PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: +0.96 BaltimoreSIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 87.5PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +2.37PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: +0.53 New Haven-StamfordSIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 83.5PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +2.12PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: -0.77 ClevelandSIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 80.4PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +2.32PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: +0.11 PittsburghSIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 74.7PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +2.01PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: -0.04 Tampa-St. Petersburg, Fla.SIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 74.2PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +2.15PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: +0.03 Kansas City, Mo.SIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 70.4PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +2.42PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: +0.14 MiamiSIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 68.5PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +2.44PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: -0.65 Charlotte, N.C.SIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 66.4PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +3.01PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: +0.89 Riverside-San Bernardino, Calif.SIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 65.1PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +3.53PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: +1.75 CincinnatiSIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 64.4PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +0.84PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: +2.67 Middlesex-Somerset-Hunterdon, N.J.SIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 62.5PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +3.35PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: +1.15 IndianapolisSIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 61.0PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +2.85PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: +0.80 Austin, Tex.SIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 58.0PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +4.14PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: +1.65 MilwaukeeSIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 57.8PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +2.30PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: +0.35 Columbus, OhioSIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 57.2PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +2.82PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: +1.09 Fort Worth-ArlingtonSIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 56.5PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +3.82PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: +0.71 Bergen-Passaic, N.J.SIZE OF ECONOMY LAST YEAR (1996 dollars): 56.1PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)Before Sept. 11: +2.67PROJECTED GROWTH RATE (2d qtr., 2001-2d qtr. 2002)After Sept. 11: +0.68 (Source: Economy.com)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); RECESSION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (72%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (68%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (68%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (66%); LODGING (66%); HOTELS & MOTELS (66%); AIRLINES (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (65%); OFFICE PROPERTY (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



937 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1644 words

HEADLINE: Oil, Politics and the New Global Fault Lines 

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE

DATELINE: VIENNA 

 BODY:
DESPITE the fresh wounds in America and the nagging memory of a terrorist assault against them in 1975, OPEC ministers put on tight smiles last week and seemingly went about business as usual as they gathered for a quarterly meeting here.
 Like clockwork, the Saudi oil minister, Ali al-Naimi, stepped out of his hotel at 7 each morning for a brisk walk, accompanied by an aide and an Austrian bodyguard whose only visible weapon was his towering bulk. 
 In the afternoons, all the oil ministers from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries shuttled in their black Mercedes-Benzes from one hotel to another, as they always do, to discuss oil prices and supplies before the formal meeting. They eschewed extra guards and metal detectors in hotel lobbies and waded into the surging tide of reporters. 
But by the official meeting on Thursday afternoon, the men who control the flow of much of the world's oil conceded bluntly how shaken they were. "The impact of the disaster upon the international oil industry will be profound," said OPEC's president, Chakib Khelil of Algeria, "particularly in the context of the global economic slowdown and its implications for energy demand. Even before 11 September, there was great concern about the extent and the pace at which this slowdown was occurring in the leading industrialized nations. The situation has now deteriorated." 
Everything now seems to depend on how the American retaliation takes shape. And OPEC will have to decide how to react, its members hemmed in by the desire to help the global economy and by their own tinderbox domestic politics.
The global economic impact could be huge, with Vicente Fox's reform plans in Mexico, the growing Russian economy and Saudi Arabia's vast welfare state all threatened further if oil revenue plunges. If oil prices fall too low, all oil companies, including those in Texas, will take big hits and be forced to eliminate jobs. 
As for consumers, cheap oil usually helps. For every $1 decrease in a barrel of oil, "$5 billion goes into Americans pockets," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com. "But oil could go to zero, and that still won't pull the economy out of recession."
Mehdi Varzi, a senior energy consultant at the investment bank Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein in London, said: "This attack unleashed certain forces, and everything has become very fluid for the OPEC states. Right now, all they are trying to do is to adjust to that fluidity, that uncertainty."
Mindful of the oil embargoes during the the 1970's and the Persian Gulf war, many people fear that any conflict brewing in the Middle East is bound to disrupt oil supplies. But OPEC is a different cartel than it was 30 or even 20 years ago. While some members have political differences with the West, nearly all realize that they share common economic interests that must be protected, especially at such a volatile time.
Last week, oil prices plummeted to as low as $20 a barrel as the global economy was sinking into recession and as demand for oil evaporated. At any other time, OPEC would have reduced output to prop up prices. But on Thursday, the cartel let current production levels stand -- in part, analysts said, because they did not want to worsen the downturn.
"They realize that there's no way you can have an economic recovery with oil at $30 a barrel," said Yasser Elguindi, an OPEC specialist at Medley Global Advisors in New York.
But in helping the West, many oil producers risk domestic instability. Over time, that could hurt supplies. The United States government is widely disliked in the Middle East for policies toward Israel and, to a lesser extent, Iraq. Regimes in oil-producing nations like Saudi Arabia cannot afford to be seen as too ardently supporting the United States. If that happens, the West faces the chance that those states will veer away or that their governments will fall.
"Any public or dramatic cooperation with U.S. policy would only alienate wider sections of the public in Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Yemen, potentially weakening regimes that are currently aligned with the United States," said a report last week from the Petroleum Finance Company, a consulting firm in Washington.
OVER the last three years, the once-fragmented 10-member cartel has found new cohesion and worked to increase and decrease supply -- essentially micromanaging the oil markets -- to keep prices near $25 a barrel. But the attacks shattered an already fragile world economy, and oil prices, which once contributed to the slowdown, have now fallen victim to the recession.
OPEC apparently would like to keep prices between $20 and $25 a barrel, and some economists say that anything much below that would hurt OPEC economies and oil companies without really aiding the global recovery. But the OPEC ministers, powerful men who are used to having their way, seem at a loss as to what to do to buoy prices. Rather than driving world markets, they must now wait to see how consumers and markets respond to the Western campaign against terrorism. And they must take into account what their own people, especially in the Persian Gulf states, make of it.
For all the stoicism of the OPEC delegates at last week's meeting, their anxiety was palpable. "This is probably the gloomiest conference I've attended since February 1999, when oil prices were so low," Mr. Varzi said, echoing the views of traders and other delegates. "People are flabbergasted by the drop in oil prices. The average they follow lost $7 in a week." The basket -- the average price of seven different benchmark grades of crude oil -- "dropped from $27 to $20," he said. 
Despite the sharp fall in prices, it was apparent days before the meeting that OPEC would take no action. Some experts have said the United States government asked OPEC members, particularly Saudi Arabia, the cartel's de facto leader, to hold supplies stable so that oil prices would stay lower during a recession.
But most analysts say OPEC understood even without such an American appeal that for now, it had no room for maneuver. In fact, immediately after the attacks, Saudi Arabia and other Persian Gulf states promised to keep supplies stable. Decreasing output to shore up prices would have made OPEC look greedy. "I don't believe they had to drag anyone into doing this," Mr. Elguindi said. "I don't believe any OPEC member came in wanting to cut production."
Instead, OPEC hopes to end its rampant informal overproduction. It has scaled back output three times this year as global demand has eased and prices have slid. Despite the official quotas members agreed to, nearly all have produced more, especially in the last few months, to cash in on the relatively high price of $25 a barrel or so. Analysts estimate that OPEC is overproducing by 700,000 to 1.3 million barrels a day. 
But if an American-led retaliation leads to the deaths of many Muslim civilians, OPEC may be forced to do more to shore up prices, analysts said. No one expects an embargo, but Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and other allies cannot openly support the United States and, to an extent, may have to be openly defiant if their people clamor for it.
In fact, the oil-producing world could have winners and losers. Saudi Arabia has the most to lose and the least to gain. It is the closest ally of the United States in the Gulf, the world's biggest oil producer and home to 6,000 United States Air Force personnel. But it has become a wellspring of Arab extremism, although the ruling Saud family has kept a lid on it so far. If the United States uses Saudi Arabia as a staging ground for attacks into Afghanistan, it could set off enormous anger. Overthrowing the Saud family has long been a goal of Osama bin Laden.
Among the winners could be Iran, which offered condolences to the United States immediately after the attacks and has been removed from the list of possible American targets. While no one expects an "Oprah"-style reconciliation of the United States and Iran, the antiterror campaign and the two countries' mutual antipathy toward the Taliban could help mend fences, analysts said.
As part of the charm offensive, Iran's oil minister, Bijan Zanganeh, told the Reuters news agency on Thursday that he did not mind lower prices. "Now I am comfortable with $22," he said, "because the OPEC basket price is about $20, and $22 is better than $20 for us."
Economists say oil at around $20 would be a good balance for countries that export it, corporations that produce it and consumers. In 1999, with prices near $10, "they were very happy to have oil at $18 to $20," said one Western analyst in Vienna.
"They've just gotten used to two years of high prices," the analyst added. "Anything less than $18 will be hard for them."
The toll has already been heavy on some American oil companies. The stocks of domestic companies and many that drill and service oil wells have plunged two to three times as much as the Standard & Poor's 500 index since the attack.
SHOULD the economy slow so much that oil prices and forecasts for future prices fall to the mid-teens, that could have a big impact on exploration and capital spending by big oil companies. But by and large, they budget for drilling and exploration in large multiyear programs. Price changes over a few weeks are not likely to affect them.
"We have not heard or seen any evidence of our customers reducing spending" after the attacks, said Michael R. Dawson, a vice president at Global Marine of Houston, an offshore drilling company. Big oil companies, he said, "have consistently told us that their capital programs are based on the assumption of long-term prices of $15 to $19 per barrel."
For now, there is a paralyzing tension until an answer is given or a blow is landed. "It's the uncertainty," Mr. Zandi said. "Until that uncertainty lifts, consumers won't be able to go out and spend."

GRAPHIC: Photo: OPEC ministers, gathered in Vienna last week for a quarterly meeting, could do little about world oil prices. (Associated Press)(pg. 12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CARTELS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); POLITICS (87%); TERRORISM (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); RECESSION (77%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); ENERGY DEMAND (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); METAL DETECTORS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); TRENDS (63%); DESERT STORM (62%); LOBBYING (57%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE 

COMPANY: COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (80%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (80%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (80%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (80%)

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); AUSTRIA (92%); MEXICO (79%); GULF STATES (79%); ALGERIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (59%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



938 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: A Post-Disaster Economy In Need of Repair 

BYLINE:  By Robert E. Rubin; Robert E. Rubin was secretary of the treasury from 1995 to 1999.

 BODY:
I live and work in New York City, and the terrible tragedy on Sept. 11 has had a tremendous impact on the lives of so many people I know. There has been, however, from the very first moment, a remarkable response to the crisis that shows how powerful the American spirit is. 
 In the days after the attacks, it has also become clear that our economic situation has become more complex. For quite some time now, after eight remarkable years, our economy has been experiencing difficulty. Powerful positives, including a series of Federal Reserve rate cuts and the budget surplus, have been competing with powerful negatives, like excessive corporate and consumer debt, overinvestment in some industries and the troubled economic situation in Europe, Japan and the emerging markets. 
 Prior to Sept. 11, I felt that the economic situation could well remain troubled for considerably longer than forecasters generally expected. To this complex picture, the attacks added uncertainty and reduced consumer and investor confidence. But the catastrophe will also add stimulus to the economy in the form of substantial new spending by the federal government for security, defense and rebuilding. 
The likelihood now that economic difficulty will last for a considerable period is increased, but overreaction is a mistake. It is important to make our economic decisions with an awareness that the great underlying strengths and very favorable long-run prospects of the American economy have not been materially altered by what occurred on Sept. 11, even with the cost of permanent changes in transportation and security.
As to economic policy, we must first make estimates about the increase in spending over the shorter term that will occur because of Sept. 11 -- probably a very large number -- which constitutes fiscal stimulus just as surely as any proactive stimulus program. Many estimate that a total stimulus package should amount to $100 billion to $125 billion. Probably $75 billion will be spent directly as a result of the attacks -- leaving a need for another $25 billion to $50 billion in spending, tax cuts or a combination of the two.
Each measure in a stimulus package must have a substantial effect in the short term, the greatest impact for the money spent and no cost in the later years. 
The third criterion is crucial. While our strategy needs to be geared to the changed economic situation at hand, the laws of economics have not changed, and the fiscal discipline that was so enormously important over the last eight years is still extremely important now. Since the short-term fiscal position has changed dramatically, it is all the more important to preserve our already diminished long-term fiscal health. Market interest rates affect business investment and, more important, mortgage rates, which in turn affect housing prices and mortgage refinancing, and hence consumption. And market rates now -- as well as general confidence -- can be significantly influenced by expectations about our longer-term fiscal strength. Despite eight federal rate cuts, longer-term bond market interest rates have come down very little, which many ascribe, in part, to our diminished long-term fiscal condition following the passage of last spring's tax cut.
I believe all these considerations should guide our work going forward on specific stimulus measures. Ever since the softening began, consumption and housing have been the strong point in our economy. Business investment has declined because of great excess production capacity. For most companies, low levels of investment now are not the result of cash positions or financing capacity, but an absence of demand.
To increase demand, the most effective measures would be tax rebates to low- and middle-income working people -- including those who pay Social Security taxes but not income taxes -- who have the highest propensity to spend. The propensity may be even greater in the runup to Christmas. Another option is to extend unemployment insurance payments temporarily. Money put into this program would almost surely be spent immediately. The most effective business components -- though less effective than consumption measures -- would be temporarily allowing purchases of computer hardware and software to be treated as deductible business expenses or allowing some type of accelerated depreciation. 
It is also clear what we should not do. A capital gains tax cut, according to a 1998 Congressional Budget Office study, would have nearly zero effect on the economy in the short term. I think the effect could actually be negative in that a capital gains tax cut could induce increased stock sales. 
Another widely discussed measure, a permanent corporate income tax rate cut, would have exceedingly little short-term stimulus benefit relative to the cost. For example, cutting the corporate income tax rate from 35 percent to 25 percent would cost roughly $850 billion, including debt service, over 10 years. But the short-term stimulus from that cut would be a very small fraction of that cost.
The trouble is that a corporate tax cut would not be targeted to encourage new incremental investment. It would apply to profits from investments made in prior years, from new investments that would have occurred anyway and from profits on all other expenditures. A permanent cut would also carry great costs in the later years and thus exacerbate our fiscal problems, with likely adverse impact on current interest rates.
Any positive effect on the stock market from corporate rate cuts would probably be offset, in some measure, by the negative impact on the stock market from increased interest rates. In any event, the increase in consumption from the wealth effect derived from rising stock prices could be far less expensively obtained by other means. A temporary corporate tax rate cut would be even less effective.
Lawmakers and the public are understandably looking for fiscal ways to address the economic difficulties. But looking more broadly, I believe that what happens domestically and internationally in combating terrorism will have a greater impact on our economy than anything we do now in the economic arena. In this regard, the visibility of our leaders in providing sensible and thoughtful discussion of these issues can contribute significantly to building confidence. The long-term strength of our economy gives us the short-term capacity to respond effectively to the events of Sept. 11.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (DM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); BUDGETS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); MORTGAGE RATES (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); CONSUMER LENDING (74%); HOUSING MARKET (70%); PERSONAL DEBT (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); TAX LAW (61%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (60%); HOME PRICES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



939 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer; 
Cultural Predictions in the Wake of the Terrorist Attack

BYLINE:  By VERLYN KLINKENBORG

 BODY:
Within a few hours of the terrorist attack on New York and Washington, every sector of American society began to reason out what the impact on our national life might be. It was a natural reaction, and it added up to the most astonishing burst of predictive energy most of us have ever witnessed. Scientists have calculated that the collapse of the World Trade Center released a force equivalent to one-twentieth of the atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima. But there is no calculating the energy that has been expended in imagining what the future now might bring. Analysts with suitable tools, like economists and serious historians, tried to use those tools to picture the near- and long-term consequences. Everyone else took a wild guess.
 In the first few days after the attack, cultural prognosticators announced the death of irony and the end of cynicism. The sitcom would be reborn, regaining its rightful dominance over reality TV, whose fortunes would wane in the wake of a televised reality more overpowering than anyone had ever imagined. Disaster movies were over. Hollywood needed the dawn of a new Doris Day. 
 One way to measure the immensity of what had just happened was to consider the immediate irrelevance of the icons of a moment ago, like Britney Spears and Jennifer Lopez, who were trapped in their instant like flies in amber or Mariah Carey in "Glitter." Lucy and Ricky and Little Ricky Ricardo would do well to consider moving for a time from East 68th Street to Connecticut. 
Some of these predictions were based on fact. Cookbook sales seem to have gone up, as did video rentals, and Arnold Schwarzenegger's explosive return to big-screen domination, in the role of a veteran firefighter, was indeed postponed. A sudden sensitivity to the psychic wounds inflicted by that disastrous morning was movingly evident everywhere. Radio stations reconsidered their hard rock playlists, excising a cultural rage that suddenly looked calculated. 
These gestures were made in the spirit of patriotic unity, and they were made as ingenuously as the entertainment industry could make them. For a moment, all the disharmonies, all the inherent dissensions in our culture -- all the things that actually make it a culture -- were stilled in a nearly unanimous expression of grief, respect and outrage.
But America cannot live in the unanimity of that moment, nor should it expect to, no matter how attractive it looks. Everyone craved safety and consolation in strong doses after the attack, and the predictors of our cultural future suggested that in the months ahead we would need as much good-humored, inoffensive escapism as we could find. 
But those predictions are themselves an artifact of the moment, the expression of a desire that is cousin to the fear we all felt and continue to feel. Irony is unchanged by the terrorist attack, for it is still a modality that America barely understands. Cynicism runs exactly skin deep, as always. The only difference in the entertainment offered to America after Sept. 11 will probably be the expectation that it is good for us. 
Behind all these cultural predictions lies the assumption that what we really need to do is avert our eyes from what we have already watched in horror, that we need, somehow, to prevent our innocence from being further impaired by the smoke and ash and death that rained down on this country that day. That is a false, not to say a vain, assumption. The hard work of making cultural sense of those hours still lies ahead of us, for years to come, and it will not be done in a spirit of escapism or unanimity. 
What we need most is the work of artists who do not flinch and who resent, in spirit, the tarps the city has thrown up around the disaster site in Lower Manhattan. That work, whatever form it takes, may not offer the consolation we feel we need now, but then it is not the job of artists to console us. Their job, however unseemly it may feel, will inevitably be to fracture this momentary mood, to lead us beyond what is merely safe and consoling. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (76%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); HISTORY (74%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (72%); FILM (72%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (69%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (69%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (68%); REALITY TELEVISION (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (51%); BRITNEY SPEARS (50%); MARIAH CAREY (50%); JENNIFER LOPEZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



940 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 196 words

HEADLINE: DataBank; 
A Rally Undoes Some of the Damage

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK

 BODY:
The stock market ended a volatile week with a rally, recouping the worst of the punishing declines suffered the week before. But stocks still ended the quarter with double-digit percentage losses. 
 Fears of global recession, war and more terrorism in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks dominated the mood on Wall Street for much of the week. And while investors began showing some confidence in the American economy's long-term health, nobody was predicting that the market's lows would not be retested. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 611.75 points, or 7.43 percent, to 8,847.56, recovering nearly half its 1,369-point drop the week before. But the Dow still finished the quarter with a loss of 15.76 percent.
 The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index rose 75.61 points, or 5.31 percent, to 1,498.80. It lost 30.65 percent for the quarter. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 75.14 points, or 7.78 percent, to 1,040.94. It lost 14.99 percent for the quarter.
 The rally seemed to have been been driven in part by investors' reaction to the declines the week before, which pushed stocks down to what some analysts considered oversold levels. MICHAEL BRICK

GRAPHIC: Chart: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS" ConsecoNYSE: CNCThe insurer chose William J. Shea, who helped orchestrate financial turnarounds at Bank Boston and other companies, as president and chief operating officer.Friday's Close: $7.26Week's Change: +30.81%EST. '01 P/E: 8.95 Delta Air LinesNYSE: DALJoining peers that have taken similar steps, the airline said it would cut 13,000 jobs and reduce its flight schedule by about 20 percent.Friday's Close: $26.33Week's Change: +17.18%EST. '01 P/E: 41.79 Time Warner TelecomNNM: TWTCThe provider of regional broad band networks lowered its third-quarter revenue forecast. It cited poor economic conditions, a drop in business and customer bankruptcies.Friday's Close: $7.25Week's Change: -51.76%EST. '01 P/E: -- Bed, Bathand BeyondNNM: BBBYThe housewares retailer reported second-quarter profits in line with analysts' expectations. It also said earnings for the full year would meet forecasts.Friday's Close: $25.46Week's Change: +22.76%EST. '01 P/E: 35.51 AESNYSE: AESCiting lower energy prices and problems involving currency exchange rates, the energy producer said its profit for the full year would be far below analysts' expectations.Friday's Close: $12.82Week's Change: -47.13%EST. '01 P/E: 9.83 Orion Power HoldingsNYSE: ORNReliant Resources, an energy supplier, agreed to buy the electric power generating company for $2.9 billion in cash and the assumption of $1.8 billion in debt.Friday's Close: $25.50Week's Change: +38.14%EST. '01 P/E: 21.94 SonyNYSE: SNEThe electronics maker slashed its earnings forecast for the year by 89 percent, predicting lower sales of digital cameras and camcorders following the terrorist attacks.Friday's Close: $33.20Week's Change: -9.66%EST. '01 P/E: 207.50 Riverstone NetworksNNM: RSTNA Wall Street analyst lowered its outlook for the maker of computer-networking equipment.Friday's Close: $5.25Week's Change: -32.08%EST. '01 P/E: 125.00 (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); TERRORISM (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); BONDS (76%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (59%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



941 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
Now, Government Is the Solution, Not the Problem

BYLINE:  By ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
SUDDENLY, the political language of a generation looks dated: Nobody wants to get the government off their backs. Nobody really wants to hear that the era of big government is over.
 After 20 years of exulting in the power of the private sector, in deregulation, tax cuts and reining in the Washington bureaucrats, Republicans and Democrats alike are talking about a muscular new role for government in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. They are bailing out the airlines, establishing a new Office of Homeland Security, passing a big new aid package to rebuild the areas devastated by the attacks and pondering an even bigger effort to stimulate an ailing economy. 
 The public, pollsters say, expects nothing less. Americans' attitudes toward government are warming, part of a general rallying around the flag, the president, even institutions like the news media in the past few weeks. "This is the most collective mood we've seen in America for a long time," said Celinda Lake, a Democratic pollster. "And it's coming off one of the most individualistic eras in American history."
Liberals see it as the nation's inevitable turn to government in a time of need. But they hope the crisis also brings a more fundamental recognition of the limits of the old ideology, which scorned public workers and revered the rugged dot-com individualists of the new economy.
"When the chips are down, where do we turn?" wrote Jeff Faux, president of the liberal Economic Policy Institute, in a recent column in The American Prospect. "To the government's firefighters, police officers, rescue teams. To the nonprofit sector's blood banks and shelters. And to big government's Army, Navy and Air Force."
Representative David Obey, the veteran Wisconsin Democrat and senior member of the Appropriations Committee, said he hoped that people "rethink all this rhetoric about the role of government." For example, he said, "To me there's no question that we've had under-investment by the government for a lot of years in everything from airport security to security on the rails and highways."
Some, mindful of the risk of bioterrorism, add the nation's public health system to the list of the under-financed. Still others, looking at the approach of recession, put health insurance and unemployment benefits on the list. Fiscal discipline, in short, is no longer the most transcendent value on Capitol Hill.
Conservatives, some still reeling from the sudden shift in political terrain, see government's resurgence as an aberration -- but one that liberals will try to prolong. 
"If the question is, will the left use this as an excuse to try to go back to the same old agenda of bigger, slower bureaucracies that don't deliver much, yes," said Newt Gingrich, the former speaker of the House.
Clearly, conservatives are alarmed at the implications for spending, which they believed had finally been restrained in a lasting way by President Bush's tax cut on one side, and by the bipartisan pledges to protect the Social Security surplus on the other. 
"Four weeks ago, the next 10 years of spending were known," said Grover G. Norquist, the conservative strategist who heads Americans for Tax Reform. "There was a fixed number in a way there hadn't been for decades." Nothing, he added, looks quite so settled now -- particularly since the pressures to spend are bipartisan.
Nobody knows how long this climate will last. A new Washington Post poll found that 64 percent of Americans now say they trust the federal government to do the right thing "nearly always" or "most of the time" -- the highest level of trust in government since 1966. That confidence level was double what it was a year ago.
But the erosion of trust in government, which laid the groundwork for the Reagan revolution and the Democratic reaction of the Clinton years, is a long-standing trend. Most analysts see its roots in the Vietnam War, Watergate and the upheaval of the 1960's. 
The public's trust in government increased during the war in the Persian Gulf, but those gains quickly dissipated, noted Stanley B. Greenberg, a Democratic pollster. 
The public also rallied around its government after the Oklahoma City bombing in 1995. Bruce Reed, former domestic policy adviser in the Clinton administration, said: "It helped put a stop to the virulent anti-government rhetoric that was popular at the time. And that's never come back in the same way."
MANY analysts say this crisis will have a far more profound effect. Elizabeth Cobbs Hoffman, a history professor at San Diego State University and the author of "All You Need Is Love: The Peace Corps and the Spirit of the 1960's," argued that what was undermined in the 60's was not just public trust but also the public's confidence in "the morality and rightness of America's mission in the world." The events of Sept. 11, and the surge of patriotism that followed, have done much to restore that, she argued.
Moreover, the combination of threats to national security and an imminent recession means "the American public feels it needs the federal government much more than they have in a long time," said Andrew Kohut, the director of the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press.
Alan Brinkley, a history professor at Columbia University and the author of "The End of Reform: New Deal Liberalism in Recession and War," noted, "What sustained the idea of a large and active government for so long was first the Depression, then the war, and then the cold war -- all things that really did require a government response to do things the private sector simply could not do."
Since the end of the cold war, many have argued that the rationale for a strong presidency -- and a strong federal government -- had been diminished. But with Washington back on war footing, Mr. Brinkley said, "that can't help but affect the attitudes toward government.
There is an irony here: That a president who came to office with a promise of huge tax cuts, partial privatization of Social Security and Medicare, and a conservative conviction that "it's not the government's money," will now preside over a major new crisis mobilization. Last week, he was sending National Guardsmen into airports and announcing a substantial new federal role in airport security.
President Bush could well end up signing economic stimulus legislation that includes not just the tax cuts the conservatives envision, but substantial new safety net programs that the Democrats will insist on. And his attorney general has already begun pushing for new anti-terrorism legislation that many conservatives join liberals in asserting is far too great a government intrusion into Americans' privacy.
"There is a little of the Nixon-to-China phenomenon," said Ms. Lake, the pollster. "As long as it's under Republican watch, government can get bigger faster because the natural critics are silent."
Perhaps. But last week, Mr. Norquist was already keeping watch for profligate lawmakers on Capitol Hill. "There's something a little obscene about using this attack on America to get your favorite pork-barrel program through," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); TERRORISM (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); BAILOUTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DEREGULATION (77%); RECESSION (77%); ARMIES (76%); AVIATION SECURITY (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); AIRPORTS (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); NEW ECONOMY (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); HISTORY (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (71%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); AIRLINES (70%); NAVIES (70%); AIR FORCES (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ARMED FORCES (63%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); APPROPRIATIONS (50%); BLOOD BANKS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (57%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (54%)

PERSON: DAVE OBEY (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



942 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends; 
1984 + 17: Crisis Monitoring

BYLINE:  By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
WAR changes everything, both on the battlefield and at home. In the past, when war has been declared, American society has been fundamentally reordered for what the government deems is the common good. Voluntary food rationing in World War I, with "wheatless days" and "meatless days," evolved into the mandatory rationing of food and shoes during World War II. Civil liberties were rationed, as well, with freedom of speech restricted. Slogans filled the air: "Loose Lips Sink Ships."
 But while many World War I efforts were largely voluntary, the Second World War mobilization bore the stamp of government regulation, said Bruce J. Schulman, a professor of American history at Boston University. New Deal bureaucrats had "the expectation that regulating the economy is something that government can do and should do," Professor Schulman said. Along with voluntary scrap metal and rubber drives came mandatory rationing and supervision of prices and labor. Government power and control became an ever bigger part of American life. 
 Whatever the government decides to do in the name of homeland defense during this time of crisis, computers and their networks will give it more power than ever before to carry out those initiatives. Computers can collect more precise data on individuals' online wanderings than ever existed in real-world affairs, and give investigators unprecedented power to analyze that data.
Before now, government could spy on individuals, monitor phone calls and even shadow them on the street. It was arduous, time-consuming work. Today an F.B.I. agent can get court authorization to collect a suspect's e-mail, online shopping records, highway toll booth activity. Or the government can plant a system in the suspect's computer that logs every keystroke, including passwords for encryption. This agglomeration of data points creates a kind of pointillism, where individual facts combine to form a complete picture of every aspect of a suspect's life. Who is sending e-mail messages to Afghanistan? It can be known.
Right now, companies are lining up to help government take on these new challenges. The chief executive of Visionics, which sells facial recognition systems used to spot criminals on the streets of Tampa, says his camera systems could be used at embassies, airports and perhaps even tied into existing networks of cameras at banks' automated teller machines. "You could start putting them anywhere you need them," he said, adding that privacy is protected so long as the system stores only a narrow database of criminals and terrorists, and doesn't track ordinary people.
Then there's Narus Inc. of Palo Alto, Calif., which makes software tools that companies use to analyze their own computer networks. In the days after the terrorist attacks, the company produced a white paper explaining that its products could be used to monitor e-mail and even telephone calls transmitted via Internet technologies, and instantly pass warnings about suspicious patterns of information along to the proper law enforcement authorities.
"Providers and law enforcement agencies will have the most powerful end-to-end Internet and data surveillance solution ever developed," the paper concludes.
Mark R. Stone, chief executive of Narus, said that since many telecommunications companies already use products for billing and spotting fraud, monitoring ability would be "just additional functionality on the existing platform." He said federal officials have asked about the software. But he insisted it could be used so it did not invade privacy. "It's not our technology -- it's how people apply it," he said.
In the same way, information systems used by private industry could greatly extend the reach of government efforts. For example, if a food rationing system is called for, computerized supermarket scanner systems could be used to administer the program; gas rationing could be tied to credit card purchases at the pump.
Marc Rotenberg, who heads the Electronic Privacy Information Center in Washington, said that combining new technologies with only light restrictions on using them "could have almost infinite capacity for monitoring and surveillance" -- and, potentially, abuse. As Mr. Rotenberg asked, "Who watches the watchers?" -- a translation of the Roman satirist Juvenal's "Quis ipsos custodes custodiet?"
For now, the answer is Congress. Mr. Rotenberg said he is heartened by a go-slow attitude that lawmakers showed last week when Attorney General John Ashcroft called for quick passage of a broad bill that would modify laws concerning wiretapping, immigration and money laundering. But the delay might be temporary.
Or it might be evidence of America's historic mistrust of overly powerful government, Mr. Rotenberg suggested. "For people who are looking to the emergence of Big Brother, I think they should look to a country with a different tradition," he said.
Stewart Baker, a former general counsel for the National Security Agency, argues that these early proposals are, in fact, measured, and based on law enforcement wish lists crafted to build broad support among lawmakers. But even then, he said, "What clues did we miss, and is there something that we could have done about it?"
Meanwhile, more government monitoring seems to be in the offing. From the point of view of a criminal investigator, this could be heaven. But for a privacy advocate, it's a picture of hell.
IN an environment in which loose lips can be monitored via phone lines and the Internet, the effect of more pervasive surveillance could be profound. The search for ever greater police power, some say, is a future that looks too much like "1984," George Orwell's literary look at the monitored life -- or the 1985 movie "Brazil," the director Terry Gilliam's phantasmagorical depiction of life in a controlled state, where squads looking for Harry Tuttle, a terrorist, end up arresting the hapless Harry Buttle because of a literal computer bug. The slogan for that dystopia was pernicious: "Suspicion Breeds Confidence."
The slogan for the next war is waiting.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A fallout shelter sign for sale in New York City. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (88%); INTERNET PRIVACY (87%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (86%); WORLD WAR II (79%); WORLD WAR I (79%); HISTORY (79%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (76%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (71%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (71%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (71%); PATTERN RECOGNITION (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (70%); ALARM & DETECTION SYSTEMS MFG (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); INTERNET RETAILING (65%); TERRORISM (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (60%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (50%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (56%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (73%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



943 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 150 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS: DIARY; 
A Crisis Response: Buying American

BYLINE:  Compiled by Vivian Marino

 BODY:
Many people rushed to give blood or to donate money to relief efforts after the terrorist attacks; others proudly flew American flags from their homes, cars and trucks. 
 And the next move? A survey of 1,000 adults last week suggests that many people may be making an effort to "buy American," to show patriotism and to support the economy. 
 About 60 percent of those surveyed by InsightExpress, an online market research firm, said they were more likely to buy products made in the United States in the next six months than they were in the previous six. About 80 percent said their overall household spending levels had not fallen in the last month.
The buying would not be restricted to retail stores. Nearly half the respondents said they also planned to buy some type of financial product to help the American economy -- one in four named stocks or mutual funds and one in five, government bonds.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (88%); PUBLIC DEBT (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (82%); TERRORISM (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (72%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); TRENDS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); RETAILERS (52%); MUTUAL FUNDS (50%); BONDS (50%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



944 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 185 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS: DIARY; 
A Kinder, Safer Workplace

BYLINE:  Compiled by Vivian Marino

 BODY:
What changes are most likely to occur in the workplace because of Sept. 11? The Society for Human Resource Management posed that question to 5,673 human resources professionals a week after the terrorist attacks. 
 Sixty-six percent predicted that employees would be more caring toward one another, and about half said employers would put in place stronger security measures. 
 But just over half also felt that employees would view business travel as less glamorous, while 37 percent said travel would be curtailed. About 35 percent thought workers would be more wary of working in high-rise buildings.
"It's clear that change will come as a result of the atrocities committed against America and the American workplace," said Helen Drinan, president of the trade group. "One of the most important changes that can come is that employers and employees work together to set in place a crisis management plan. As rare as such attacks are, catastrophic events can also come in the form of natural disasters, workplace violence, accidents or other critical emergency situations, and companies should be prepared." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RESOURCES (91%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (90%); TERRORISM (88%); DISASTER PLANNING (88%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (88%); NATURAL DISASTERS (85%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); WORKPLACE VIOLENCE (73%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (73%) LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIETY FOR HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



945 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: China's About-Face: Support for U.S. on Terror 

BYLINE:  By ERIK ECKHOLM

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 29 

 BODY:
Despite a history of condemning American incursions abroad and a chronic fear of encirclement by the West, the Chinese government has expressed strong support for the new American war on terrorism. It even seems to accept the idea of limited American military strikes in China's own neighborhood. 
 Like Russia, which has also performed a stunning about-face, China has practical reasons for supporting a campaign against violent Islamic fundamentalists. Though it has been spared any bloody conflict comparable to that in Chechnya, China fears the emergence of unrest and terrorism at home, most immediately in the largely Muslim frontier province of Xinjiang, where a stewing separatist movement has occasionally set off bombs or attacked the police. 
 But the Chinese leaders also see an opportunity in the current crisis to meet a broader goal: to forge an improvement in overall relations with the United States and other Western countries, according to policy experts and diplomats on both sides of the Pacific.
"The Chinese government understands that if the United States can be attacked like this, so can China," said Lu Gang, professor of Russian studies at East China Normal University in Shanghai. "Beijing is hosting the 2008 Olympics, and if the menace of international terrorism isn't extinguished by then, China could face a direct and serious threat." 
"I'm hopeful that this event will help the United States and China find more common ground and lead to an improvement in relations," Mr. Lu added. "Not just an improvement, but a major improvement." 
Western diplomats here say it is too soon to tell if Chinese-American relations will be transformed, but they do not describe the hope as far-fetched.
China's leaders are watching, warily, to see how the geopolitics of Central Asia will be redrawn as the confrontation with the Taliban plays out. They are deeply worried about the fate of their nuclear-armed ally Pakistan, which could be torn apart. They hope that their fledgling alliance with Russia and nearby Muslim states of the former Soviet Union, largely meant to counter groups like the Taliban, can be strengthened. 
At the same time, Beijing does not relish seeing a new Western military beachhead so near its homeland, and like Moscow it fears that Washington might go overboard in its retribution. 
Still, the Chinese can quietly rejoice in the shift in Washington's priorities toward a shared concern. Many Chinese and Western scholars say that if China can join meaningfully in the antiterror campaign, mutual trust may build and the obsession of Republican hawks with a "China threat" may fade. 
"For China, this is a chance for a fresh start with the Bush administration," said Chas. W. Freeman, a defense consultant and former diplomat in Washington who was in Beijing right after the Sept. 11 events speaking with officials and scholars. 
The smoothing of economic and political ties with the West is a prime goal of the leaders here, who see domestic development and stability as their overriding challenge and who are already bracing for new pressures as the country enters the World Trade Organization.
Beijing officials know that vital differences over Taiwan and human rights will not disappear. But to the extent that China's internal opponents resort to terrorist tactics, officials have indicated, they do expect more sympathy from abroad. "There should be no double standards," a spokesman said last week. 
For now, the Chinese are still hedging their bets about the American-led campaign. Since the day of the hijackings and attacks, the television and press here have had instructions to keep their reporting on a modest keel -- factual, but not nearly as extensive or emotional as coverage in most media worldwide. Diplomats here think this reflects the ruling party's reluctance to stir up public passions too much before it is sure about China's official stance. 
But so far both sides have "sent the right signals," as a European diplomat here put it, with China publicly acknowledging the enormity of the crimes and the need for a robust American response, and the United States, for its part, taking unusual care to gain multilateral support. 
China has said it will not become directly involved in the current military campaign, although in a sign of the cooperative mood a team of Chinese security specialists just visited Washington for rare exchanges that American officials called useful. 
It has left intentionally vague just how much American military action it could countenance, apparently waiting to see what happens first. 
Still, the contrast with China's vitriolic reaction to the Kosovo war is stark. This time, it has simply said that any immediate punitive measures should be justified by evidence, be precise and "consistent with the United Nations Charter and international law," a vague call that American actions will arguably meet in any case. 
But if the United States is to keep China and many other countries on board, it will need to seek a strong United Nations role in the prolonged war against terrorism, diplomats here say.
Even before this month's attacks, China and Russia had forged an unusual form of regional collaboration against unrest, joining with four neighboring Muslim states -- Kazakhstan, Kyrgystan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan -- in the Shanghai Cooperation Organization. Formally started last June, the group is to share intelligence and is establishing a regional antiterrorism center, intended to monitor threats like the Taliban-supported rebels in Uzbekistan. 
China and Russia have also signed a broader friendship agreement; it is a largely symbolic measure intended to offset what both countries have seen as dangerous American dominance in the world.
The new ties that each country has formed with Washington in recent weeks, and the American bows toward multinational cooperation, could have the surprising effect of reducing the drive for China and Russia to build a stronger alliance. 
"If the United States doesn't act too unilaterally in this antiterror campaign -- if China and Russia can feel that they are included -- then they won't have so much incentive to join together in opposition to American hegemony," Mr. Freeman said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chinese border guards return to their post after checking cars from Pakistan at the Khunjerab Pass. Above them loom peaks of the Karakorum Range. China shares a border with Afghanistan and has tightened security on its western side since the terrorist attacks in the United States. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); TALIBAN (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); WAR ON TERROR (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); FUNDAMENTALISM (76%); RELIGION (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); OLYMPICS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); EAST CHINA (92%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); XINJIANG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); PAKISTAN (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



946 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings; 
The Hitchhiker Syndrome

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
They started arriving literally before the dust had settled. The Washington Post dubbed them "hitchhikers" -- people who want to use the patriotic bandwagon as a vehicle for their favorite policy proposals. To its credit, the Bush administration has for the most part been cautious about letting the hitchhikers on board. But will that restraint last?
 The most vocal hitchhikers are conservative pundits, who within a day of the terrorist attack were urging the administration to use the occasion to ram through tax cuts for the wealthy and large corporations, drilling in the Arctic and so on. This drive reached a sort of climax in the already notorious Wall Street Journal editorial of Sept. 19, which added appointments of conservative judges to the list of goodies the administration should grab while the grabbing is good. 
 Some politicians took heed. Representative Bill Thomas, chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, rushed to prepare legislation cutting the capital gains tax; he was ready to put that legislation in play just days after the terrorists struck but was somehow dissuaded. And a good thing, too: that tax cut was a terrible idea, which would have done little to stimulate the economy, would have greatly worsened the long-run budget prospect and would have given the lion's share of its benefits to a tiny, wealthy, minority.
As I said, the Bush administration has been pretty good so far about rejecting the hitchhiker strategy; sadly, the official who was least restrained was the one with the best policy proposal. Robert Zoellick, the United States trade representative, did himself and the nation no favor when he appeared to demand "fast track" negotiating authority on the grounds that it was part of a counteroffensive against terrorism. 
It so happens that free trade is one issue on which the administration is mostly right and many Democrats are wrong. That does not excuse Mr. Zoellick's exploitation of a national crisis. Indeed, he has made it that much harder for well-intentioned free traders to defend their position, now that their cause has been tainted by his opportunism.
The big question -- in its way as big a question as what military action the U.S. will eventually take in Afghanistan or elsewhere -- is whether politicians of both parties (for there are liberal hitchhikers too) will understand that in times like these the national good requires a special effort to avoid not just the reality, but even the appearance of political profiteering.
On economic policy the signals are mixed. Capital gains tax cuts have, it seems, slipped off the agenda. But some administration officials continue to push for a cut in corporate profits taxes, an almost equally bad idea that shares the same defects: it would contribute little to the economy in the short run, would seriously hurt the long-run budget picture (the most widely circulated proposal would, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, cost $900 billion over the next 10 years) and would deliver its benefits mainly to the wealthiest families.
Worse yet, such a tax cut would look remarkably like a political payoff. Last spring the administration urged corporate lobbyists to mute their voices while the original tax cut proposal was forced through Congress; their interests, they were quietly promised, would be attended to later. Then it became clear that the tax cut was every bit as much of a budget-buster as the critics had warned, and the lobbyists found that their moment had passed. To give them what they want now would give every appearance of using a national emergency to reward political allies; that in itself would be a reason not to cut corporate taxes, even if the proposal were not such a bad idea.
Last week the White House spokesman, Ari Fleischer, warned that in times like these people "need to watch what they say, watch what they do." (It did not help Mr. Fleischer's eroding credibility that the official transcript of the briefing mysteriously omitted the ominous first half of his remark.) The comment, aimed at "all Americans," was highly inappropriate.
But a similar comment aimed at his own colleagues would be entirely appropriate. In the aftermath of the outrage of Sept. 11 the administration has extraordinary freedom of action. But freedom, as always, comes with responsibility. Those whom we trust to look after the national interest must watch what they say and do, lest it seem that the nation's trust has been abused. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); TERRORISM (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%)

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); ARCTIC (57%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



947 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 701 words

PERSON: Maleeha Lodhi 

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES; 
A Pakistani Diplomat, Staying Calm in the Storm's Eye

BYLINE:  By PHILIP SHENON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 27 

 BODY:
She made her name as a tough, smart, chain-smoking journalist. She is her nation's most prominent diplomat abroad, caught in the middle of the gravest sort of international crisis. 
 In recent days, Ambassador Maleeha Lodhi of Pakistan has also needed to spend time on the telephone with a Pakistani woman in Dallas whose husband was gunned down, possibly in a hate crime. The killing would be especially perverse since, of all Muslim nations, Pakistan is emerging as the key ally in the hunt for Osama bin Laden, and it has pledged its airspace and intelligence support in tracking him down. 
 The crisis has restored the status of vital American ally to Pakistan, which had gone in Washington's calculations from Cold War friend (because of its help in ending the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan) to post-Cold War pariah (because of its nuclear weapons program and a 1999 coup). And it has thrust Dr. Lodhi into negotiations with the Bush administration. 
Over tea in her embassy office, Dr. Lodhi said it should be no surprise that Pakistan would quickly agree to assist the United States. "We didn't hesitate," she said. "We have shown very firmly, very explicitly and very clearly that we are standing with the international community." She said many in her country wondered, however, if the United States would return the favor should this crisis ease. "There is the view that during the Cold War, Pakistan was the most allied ally," she said. "And then, within the space of just a few months, we became America's most sanctioned friend." 
The process of rewarding Pakistan has already begun. Several days ago, the Bush administration relaxed sanctions imposed on Pakistan as a result of its nuclear tests three years ago, and it is also moving to help Pakistan get relief for billions of dollars in foreign debt.
After Pakistan's military took power in 1999 and announced that it was sending Ambassador Lodhi back to Washington, there was alarm among diplomats of India, who knew that she had been entirely too effective during her first tour as ambassador here in the mid-1990's. An Indian newspaper jokingly suggested that the India counter her appointment by posting a help-wanted sign for its own "smart, resourceful, beguiling, sharp-tongued, quick-witted woman to be New Delhi's ambassador." 
Ambassador Lodhi's father was an oil executive, her mother a journalist. The ambassador, who is 48, did not plan to follow her mother into journalism and went off instead to the London School of Economics, when she earned a Ph.D. While teaching in London, she received a request from a newspaper back home for a 1,000-word article. "And once I had done that piece, it was addictive," she said. "I decided that's what I wanted to do." She returned to Pakistan and became editor first of The Muslim, a leading English-language newspaper. 
In 1993, she accepted an offer from then-Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto to serve as ambassador to Washington. It was an unconventional appointment in every sense. In a conservative Muslim nation in which diplomatic posts are typically handed out to somber, gray-haired married men, Dr. Lodhi was a lively, outspoken divorced woman. She wowed official Washington and was credited with helping convince the United States to relax arms sanctions on Pakistan. Her 22-year-old son graduated from the University of Pennsylvania and is now an investment banker in New York. (It took her hours to track him down in Manhattan on Sept. 11 to make sure he was safe. "I was absolutely frantic," she said.) 
When the military overthrew a chaotic civilian government two years ago, Dr. Lodhi was writing in London. The new leader, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, was quickly on the phone to her, asking that she return to Washington.
The decision, she said, was difficult. "I agonized over it," she said, recalling the conversation with the general. "I did tell him that all my life, I've opposed military rule, and I've done it in print." 
But her friends, she said, agreed "that I should do it, because it's important to have a voice within the system. Finally, I had to ask myself: Do I stay out and watch all of this from the sidelines or do I become part of trying to reform my country?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Maleeha Lodhi (Carol T. Powers for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLD WAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); WRITERS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); SMOKING (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); COUPS (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); SHOOTINGS (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

OSAMA BIN LADEN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (52%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) UNITED STATES (98%); PAKISTAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); INDIA (52%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (Foreign) 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



948 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 979 words

PERSON: Michael L. Katzev 

HEADLINE: Michael L. Katzev, 62, Dies; Underwater Archaeologist 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Michael L. Katzev, an archaeologist who combined luck, scholarship and eight years of meticulous toil to raise, preserve and interpret one of the oldest and most intact seagoing cargo vessels ever discovered, died on Sept. 8 at his home in Southport, Me. He was 62.
 The cause was a stroke, his wife, Susan, said. 
 Mr. Katzev led the team that found the 2,300-year-old ship off the town of Kyrenia on the north coast of Cyprus in 1967 and then worked eight years to delicately recover and reconstruct it. The home port and name of the vessel could never be discerned, so the vessel came to be called the Kyrenia Ship. 
For New Yorkers who saw an exact reproduction of the tubby, 47-foot, single-masted vessel with a rectangular sail glide through the parade of ships honoring the Statue of Liberty's 100th birthday in 1986, the vessel perhaps floats in memory as the smallest in the procession. But for students of the ancient Mediterranean, it looms large.
Though much older seagoing ships have been found since -- including an intact 13th century B.C. vessel off southern Turkey in 1984 -- Mr. Katzev's discovery, at the time, was the best-preserved ship of the late classical period of Greek civilization.
"It told us how the Greeks built their ships," said J. Richard Steffy, an archaeologist at Texas A&M University. "We had suspicions, but this really confirmed it."
The wreck also provided clues to the puzzles archaeologists love to solve, largely because it had been buried in sand, which protected it from oxygen and worms. The main cargo of more than 400 wine jars, mostly made in Rhodes, indicated the ship had stopped at that island. Ten jars in different shapes suggested a different port of call, perhaps Samos to the north.
Markings on millstones indicated that they came from the island of Nisyros, while 10,000 almonds had probably just been collected from Cyprus. The fact that there were four each of plates, bowls, saucers and drinking cups was persuasive evidence that there was a crew of four. 
Most intriguing, the team was able to theorize that the vessel had been attacked and sunk by pirates, which ancient literature says were a scourge in the area. Spearheads were found embedded in the hull, and there is tantalizing evidence that a hole was made to sink the boat. No reefs are nearby.
But what was missing was equally persuasive. There were few coins, and the captain's purse, which would have been expected, could not be found, said Mrs. Katzev, an archaeologist who worked on the project with her husband. She said the absence of bones suggested that the crew had been taken as slaves.
Still, she acknowledged, the vessel might simply have died of old age. Carbon dating indicates that the trees used to build the ship were felled in 389 B.C., while the fresh-harvested almonds in the cargo gave a date of 288 B.C. That would suggest the ship was a century old, she said.
Michael Lazare Katzev, the son of a magazine distribution executive, was born in Los Angeles on July 25, 1939. He studied economics at Stanford University, then earned a master's degree in art history at the University of California at Berkeley. He went to Columbia to study ancient bronze sculpture, but transferred to the University of Pennsylvania after realizing that such sculpture was most often found in shipwrecks.
George F. Bass, considered the father of underwater archaeology, taught at Penn. Mr. Katzev went as a graduate student to work with Dr. Bass on Roman and Byzantine shipwrecks at Yassi Ada, Turkey.
Mrs. Katzev recalled how he arrived on a hot, dusty day in 1964 in his red Mercedes sports car to join the project, where she had worked since 1961. She was covered with an oozing black compound used to make molds of objects.
"I don't know how he could get by that, but he did," she said.
They were married two years later. He is also survived by a brother, Richard, of Portland, Ore.
After they married, Dr. Bass dispatched the couple to visit other Mediterranean countries eager to have their coasts scoured for antiquities. In Cyprus, they learned that a sponge diver had found an intriguing pile of wine jars on the sea bottom. He took the newlyweds, both scuba divers, to have a look.
"It was like the most beautiful thing we had ever seen," Mrs. Katzev said.
Then the work started. Using sophisticated methods of photography and instrumentation, they recorded the position of each object before touching it. Then, they picked everything up by hand, feeding it gently into an underwater vacuum cleaner.
For years, they grappled daily with the painstaking task of reconstructing and stabilizing the artifacts. All that was left of iron objects were the sandy, cementlike incrustations that had enshrouded them. These casings had to be carefully filled with a casting compound to be used as molds to reconstruct the objects.
The wood itself, which at first had the quality of wet bread, was impregnated with a waxlike compound to give it solidity. The process took a few months for the smaller pieces and two years for larger ones.
The vessel, which had been 75 percent intact, was placed on display in the medieval Crusader castle of Ky renia, which is in a part of Cyprus now controlled by Turkey.
Mr. Katzev then directed the reconstruction of the vessel for the government of Greece, which sent it as its representative to New York's tall ships parade and other events. As closely as could be learned or surmised, it was built according to traditional methods.
Scholars had long assumed that ancient mariners had hugged the coasts at a lumbering speed, but the modern vessel, known as Kyrenia II, could travel at 12 knots, or nearly 14 miles an hour, in the open sea.
Mr. Katzev, a connoisseur of horse racing, said, "With a fair wind over her stern, Kyrenia II sails like a filly thoroughbred breaking track speeds, speeding well beyond our highest expectations."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael L. Katzev in 1974, with jars recovered from a 2,300-year-old ship found off the town of Kyrenia on the north coast of Cyprus. (Steven V. Roberts/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHAEOLOGY (92%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); HARBORS & PORTS (77%); PARADES & MARCHES (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) CYPRUS (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); TURKEY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: Science and Technology 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



949 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1375 words

HEADLINE: Economy's Dive Dazes Once Giddy Argentina 

BYLINE:  By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, Sept. 29 

 BODY:
Eduardo S. Elsztain, a prominent real estate investor, got out of his chair and danced a little jig on the Persian rug in his office the other day as he recalled the buoyant business climate here in the early 1990's. 
 "What was the feeling?" he asked as he did a cheerful shuffle. "Greed," he answered with a quick skip. "People didn't look, they bought. Now, they don't look, they sell." 
 These days, Mr. Elsztain, like most Argentines, doesn't have much to dance about. His primary international partner, George Soros -- who sank more than $70 million into the country in the mid-1990's as he played tennis with then President Carlos Saul Menem -- took his profits and bailed out of Argentina in 1998, leaving a small fraction of his investments behind. 
Many international financiers have followed suit over the last three years of a deepening recession, sending the Merval stock index on a steep ride south -- off more than 50 percent in the last eight months alone -- to levels not seen since 1991. 
The dizzying turnaround, which extends well beyond the stock market, has left Argentines to wonder what has happened to the promised benefits of a globalized economy. 
A decade ago, Argentina was the darling of the financial world when it privatized bureaucracies, cut red tape and pegged the value of the peso to the dollar. This country of melancholy tangos and frustrated European pretenses was supposed to have turned a corner on its past days of instability, hyperinflation and uncompetitive industries. 
Today the ebullience that accompanied the burst of glittering shopping malls, modern industrial parks and banks flush with money is gone. Political and social unrest is rising, and perhaps dangerously so. 
The shopping centers are now full of going-out-of-business signs. The banks can barely collect on their loans. Almost one in five workers is out of a job. And money is so hard to find that nearly half a million people buy food and clothes in barter clubs.
Things appear to be only growing worse. The most recent economic data, for August, showed near collapse: construction activity slumped 11 percent from a year before, industrial production nearly 6 percent, and shopping mall sales more than 16 percent. 
People's confidence has eroded further since the terrorist attacks in the United States on Sept. 11, as the prospect of a global recession looms ever larger. The economy minister, Domingo Cavallo, publicly admits that his prescriptions -- assorted tariff hikes, tax reforms and subsidies for exporters -- have so far failed. Opinion polls show approval ratings for President Fernando de la Rua in the single digits. 
The gloom is such that a prominent political talk show recently opened with the question: "Is this a country committing suicide?" 
Some mark the decline from the boom days of the 1990's themselves, when the economy grew by 43 percent but the government ignored economic fundamentals. 
Federal agencies were privatized, but few provisions were made for tens of thousands thrown out of work. Public monopolies were replaced by private ones, leaving high utility and transport costs. Federal spending ballooned more than 90 percent, causing deficits that raised interest rates to exorbitant levels. 
Some economists say that pegging the currency to the dollar gave the country a false sense of stability, ending years of hyperinflation but allowing the government to put off hard decisions about cutting spending, fraud and burdensome taxes. 
A devaluation during the growth years might have boosted exports by making them cheaper, without doing much harm. But having delayed the step for a decade, a devaluation now, in the midst of declining revenues, would only cause more bankruptcies and unemployment. 
Short on credit, the government has finally begun to reduce spending -- slashing salaries and pensions -- but at a time when the economy needs a stimulus. 
Even a new $8 billion bailout announced by the International Monetary Fund in August has not alleviated fears that Argentina might yet default on its $130 billion debt, a concern that has helped send interest rates soaring. 
The unfulfilled dreams are all in evidence in Avellaneda, a gritty working-class port city of 350,000 people next door to Buenos Aires where horse-drawn carts are making a comeback among unemployed garbage-pickers, along with strident murals showing Evita Peron mobilizing the masses.
"We are living day by day," said Higinio Bruno Ridolfi, the chief of Micro, a producer of cylinders and valves for the auto and metallurgy industries. "I have no idea what is going to happen."
Micro, of course, is not alone. Telmec S.A., a family-owned producer of precision pumps for textile mills, invested $3 million in upgraded equipment in the 1990's. Today its domestic market has shrunk to almost nothing as Argentine textile makers lose out to cheaper Brazilian imports, and factories in Europe produce similar equipment more cheaply. 
The company has managed to limit its layoffs, but management has been forced to take deep salary cuts. "Forget vacations, or a new car," said its president, Nilda I. Brovida. "Forget remodeling the house. Forget middle class life as we knew it." 
Such dissatisfaction is fueling the kinds of political and social disturbances to which this country thought it had grown immune. Cycles of instability and military coups between 1930 and 1983 have left Argentines a cautious lot, but unrest continues to brew. 
Labor unions have mounted half a dozen national strikes in the last two years. This week, several people were injured in protests in the poor provinces of Entre Rios and Jujuy, when mobs marched on supermarkets demanding food and the police fired rubber bullets on state workers demanding back pay. 
Candidates on Mr. de la Rua's coalition ticket in the Oct. 14 congressional elections are running against the government's policies. 
One congresswoman from his Radical Party, Elisa Carrio, has broken away and formed a new party for dissidents and disaffected of every political stripe, called Alternative for a Republic of Equals. 
In normal times, Ms. Carrio, 44, would probably be a marginal figure. She wears a giant cross around her neck, tends to finger rosary beads on the campaign stump, and breaks into tears when discussing poverty. She publicly accuses Mr. Cavallo of money laundering and calls Mr. de la Rua a mafia accomplice. 
But polls show her to be the country's fastest rising politician, and she has mustered the beginnings of a presidential campaign, drawing crowds of cheering supporters at political rallies that more resemble revival meetings. 
"The money you don't have in your wallets was robbed by particular Argentines," she told a crowd in the depressed oil town of Cutral-Co, in the poor province of Neuquen. "And that is an injustice that must be corrected to form a new republic." 
A political backlash is gathering with particular intensity in provinces like Neuquen, where the privatizations of the railroads and the national oil company produced large layoffs. 
In early September, thousands of residents of Zapala blockaded several roads cutting through the windy, arid Patagonian steppe for a week until the governor granted them a $2.7 million development fund for small industry. 
Their success led the people of Picun Leufu, a depressed agricultural town nearby, to stage their own blockade on two highways with rusty old cars painted with a slogan coined during the Spanish Civil War -- "No pasaran" -- "They will not pass." The governor has so far refused to negotiate, but more towns are threatening to follow suit and throttle natural gas transport to Chile.
So far, the rebellions are local and lack coherence. Not even their leaders seem to know where they are headed. Eduardo Enrique Rubio, 35, a radio reporter who led the recent Zapala road blockades, said that no new idea had captured the Argentine imagination, at least not yet. 
"Inevitably, something new is going to emerge," he said. He found a metaphor in the Argentine card game trucco, in which players can lie about the cards in their hands. "Argentines need to remix the deck, change the rules and change the seating arrangement of the players," he said. "But first Argentines need to want to play."

GRAPHIC: Photo: As Argentina's slump has worsened, demonstrators against government economic policies have blockaded highways in depressed regions. A painted slogan in Picun Leufu reads "No pasaran" -- "They will not pass." (Horacio Paone for The New York Times) Chart: "TREND -- Declining Economy In Argentina"Annual rate of change in the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures. Note: The GDP values are based on 1993 prices. Graph tracks changes from 1994 through 2001.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); RETAILERS (86%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); PRIVATIZATION (74%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); TAX REFORM (60%); TERRORISM (60%); SUICIDE (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%) ARGENTINA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



950 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: Campus Culture Wars Flare Anew Over Tenor of Debate After the Attacks 

BYLINE:  By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

 BODY:
The terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 and the nation's prospective response have begun to reignite the culture wars that divided university campuses more than a decade ago.
 At a forum at Yale University, Paul Kennedy, a history professor, invited listeners to put themselves in the place of Palestinians celebrating the attacks and consider, "How do we appear to them, and what would it be like were our places in the world reversed?" He went on to say that American military, economic and diplomatic might and offensive cultural messages understandably provoked hatred. 
 Professor Kennedy and the six-member panel were excoriated in The Yale Daily News by Donald Kagan, a Yale classics professor, for the uniformity of their views. "Was it impossible" to find a professor who might think differently, Professor Kagan asked in an article, "or was it thought undesirable?" 
In the days after the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, Brown University issued a curriculum guide on how to discuss the attacks in the classroom, a document that called for understanding why people resent the United States and for a measured military response. It was promptly attacked by Chester E. Finn Jr., a conservative cultural critic, as shortchanging patriotism while subtly blaming the victim.
In the late 1980's and early 1990's, American campuses were bitterly divided over what should be taught in history and literature classes. Some professors, generally political liberals, argued that Western European culture was too central and that the contributions of other societies and races, and of women, were being diminished. Ancient literature, they argued, was not inherently better than modern literature. Others, generally conservatives, argued that universities were championing causes rather than a fuller view of history or artistic achievement. Opposing camps dug in and soured the congeniality at many campuses.
Now, after the terrorist attacks, small shifts have occurred in curriculum and reading lists. At Bard College, Thomas Keenan, a professor of literature, has added articles by Henry A. Kissinger to his reading list, and portrayed the weeping of Euripides' Trojan women in the context of the fliers listing the names of those missing from the twin towers. 
At Notre Dame, Asma Asfaruddin, a professor of Arabic and Islamic studies, has begun giving more prominence to Muslim religious doctrine and how, in her view, the terrorists subverted it. 
At a New York University class on press ethics, Todd Gitlin, a professor of culture, journalism and sociology, talked about the Pentagon Papers, and asked students whether they would publish classified evidence against Osama bin Laden. His colleague Robby Cohen, a social studies professor, predicted a rise in Middle Eastern studies, recalling that Daniel Ellsberg, who made the Pentagon Papers public, doubted that anyone in the administration of President Lyndon B. Johnson could pass a freshman course in Vietnamese culture and politics.
In a kind of point-counterpoint, Professor Cohen said, students at N.Y.U. wrote opposing messages at an impromptu World Trade Center memorial near the campus. "Unfortunately, sometimes war is the only answer," one message said. Another said, "Imagine: I pledge allegiance to the human race and to the love for which it stands."
George Lakoff, a linguistics professor at the University of California at Berkeley, said he "absolutely" saw a culture war brewing on campus and in the nation.
And Diane Ravitch, an education historian at N.Y.U., suggested that support for military action could signal "the end of the 1960's," by which she meant a decline in leftist politics. 
But many other professors said it was too soon to gauge whether campuses will once again become starkly divided into hawks against doves. 
Some compared this period, when the United States has not yet taken any decisive military action, to the years before the 1968 Tet offensive, when the anti-Vietnam War movement had not solidified. They said that Americans always unite in times of crisis, and that beyond condemning the attacks, many thoughtful people were still unsure how to react to the events of Sept. 11.
Mr. Finn, the conservative commentator, characterized the determination to avoid judgment, and to promote tolerance and diversity instead, as morally bankrupt.
A professor at Haverford College, who asked not to be named, described a Quaker meeting on Sept. 14, the national day of mourning and remembrance, that she said was too one-sided to be a culture war. The first speaker, she recalled, was an emeritus professor who agonized over why the United States was the most violent nation on earth and ended by saying, "We are complicit."
When a student asked that they spend the meeting not in political debate but in commemorating the deaths, the professor recalled, another demurred, "No matter how desolate the World Trade Center site was, there was a place even more desolate -- Afghanistan."
In the Yale contretemps, Professor Kennedy said his criticism of "poisonous religious fundamentalism" had been overshadowed by the hypothetical course of events he put forward: "Suppose that there existed today a powerful, unified Arab-Muslim state that stretched from Algeria to Turkey and Arabia." He concluded: "In those conditions, would not many Americans steadily grow to loathe that colossus?"
His antagonist, Professor Kagan, said that to rationalize was to justify. He said a number of students had complained that they did not like the tone of the Yale forum, but that they felt too intimidated to speak out. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); LITERATURE (89%); CURRICULA (89%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); HISTORY (78%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); CLASSICS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); POLITICS (71%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (70%); RELIGION (65%); ETHICS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (93%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



951 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1B; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: REFUGEES; 
Refugees From Afghanistan Flee Out of Fear and Find Despair

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS FRANTZ

DATELINE: QUETTA, Pakistan, Sept. 29 

 BODY:
Refugees arriving here after arduous journeys from Afghanistan are describing scenes of desperation and fear at home as the threat of American-led military attacks turns their long-running misery into a potential catastrophe.
 Cities and towns are emptying as people defy orders from the governing Taliban and try to flee. Those with enough money are paying smugglers to take them to Pakistan. Others are marooned at closed border gates or hiding in the Afghan countryside. 
 United Nations relief officials warned that the precarious situation in Afghanistan and deprivations from a three-year drought threatened to snowball into a major disaster. Officials estimate that 1.5 million Afghans will try to leave the country and that two million to three million more could face starvation inside.
"The worst-case scenario is when nobody can get out and aid cannot get in, because we know the crisis is already serious," Rupert Colville, a spokesman for the United Nations refugee agency here, said in an interview.
The scope of the crisis will depend on many factors, including the extent of military action against Afghanistan. But United Nations officials stressed that they were preparing for the worst as they hoped for less severe problems.
Even before the threat of American retaliation, Afghanistan faced severe food shortages. From three million to four million people rely on aid from the World Food Program, and stocks are within two weeks of running out in some areas, officials said. 
The threat of military strikes forced the removal of international aid workers, crippling assistance programs. The Taliban have restricted communications between outside agencies and Afghan staff members still in the country, the United Nations and other organizations said.
The five countries that border Afghanistan have closed their borders, fearing an influx of terrorists concealed among the refugees and new burdens on their own economies. Tens of thousands are waiting at crossing points on the borders with Pakistan and Iran, aid workers said. 
The United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, is seeking donations of $584 million to try to limit the misery and to prepare for the expected exodus. Mr. Colville said that $30 million in aid was needed for immediate preparations and that $12 million had been pledged, with $4 million from the United States. Angelina Jolie, the actress, a good-will ambassador for the United Nations relief agency, donated $1 million. 
The first aircraft carrying United Nations supplies arrived in Quetta this afternoon. At about the same time, a convoy of trucks from Unicef left the Pakistani border town of Peshawar carrying 20 tons of wheat and other supplies to refugees inside an area of Afghanistan held by military forces opposed to the Taliban.
Those who have managed to escape to this provincial capital in southwestern Pakistan in recent days described harrowing journeys over difficult terrain. They were in constant fear of bandits and bribe seekers. Villages along the way had little drinkable water, and meager supplies of food were often kept under armed guard.
Aid workers said they had no accurate count of how many people had arrived here. Pakistani officials sent back 15,000 refugees this month. The new refugees, afraid of the same fate, vanish into the network of camps inhabited by 100,000 or more of their countrymen who have arrived in waves since the Soviet invasion in 1979.
Homayoun Barak, director of a nonprofit medical service, the Guardians, which runs clinics here and in Kandahar, Afghanistan, said new refugees had health problems that included severe diarrhea, malnutrition and tuberculosis. 
Television is banned in Afghanistan. Word of the attacks on America and the potential reprisal was broadcast on the Voice of America and the BBC World Service. Mr. Barak said that when he left Kandahar a few days ago, stores had sold virtually every radio set to nervous residents.
Rahim Ullah stayed in Afghanistan through the Soviet invasion and the civil war that followed. He said he was too frightened of the prospect of American bombs to keep his family in their town outside Kandahar.
"We don't fear the Taliban," Mr. Ullah said as he stood on the barren, parched ground surrounding the Tokhi-Abad refugee camp, on the outskirts of Quetta. "We came here because war is coming."
Mr. Ullah, 36, paid a smuggler $30 to transport his family across the border. He and his wife huddled with their five young children for three days in a wagon as a tractor pulled them laboriously through the low mountain passes and across the border at a remote point southwest of Quetta, a 150-mile trip.
Their home now is a four-room mud-brick house given to them by a relative. The little food they are able to buy is cooked on a stove fueled with scraps of waste paper and garbage scrounged by the oldest children. The youngest, a 1-month-old girl named Anar Bibi, is pale and sick from hunger.
The rugged terrain along the border in this remote region is laced with hundreds of hidden trails used by drug traffickers and black market smugglers. Muhammad Noor and 14 family members rode a truck along one of those routes to go to Pakistan from Kandahar.
"America will be coming to attack, and it will make things worse for us," Mr. Noor said as he squatted in the small house where he and his family have moved in with his brother. "We came here because of the coming war."
Two women who left Kandahar by taxicab were turned back at the Chaman crossing point, Mr. Colville of the United Nations said. The cab was allowed to cross, and the women found their way over the border on foot and met the driver at an arranged site. 
Several refugees said they had been waylaid by Taliban militia members who took away the young men in their parties at gunpoint, demanding that they stay and fight the American invaders.
"My 21-year-old son was taken," said Zaman Shah, who joined relatives crammed into a small mud-brick house at Tokhi-Abad after fleeing Afghanistan with the rest of his family last week. "I could do nothing to stop them."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rahim Ullah paid a smuggler $30 to transport his family across the border. "We don't fear the Taliban," he said. "We came here because war is coming." (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Refugees from Afghanistan, fearing an American attack, are pouring into camps in Pakistan, where conditions are bleak and food is scarce. At left, Saira Bibi, 8, her sister Zaliakha Bibi on her back, and another child at the Tokhi-Aba camp in Quetta. At lower left, refugees at their makeshift home yesterday in a poor neighborhood of Quetta. At lower right. Abdul Muhammad flying a kite, and above, Kaldara Khan, both at the Punj Puti camp in Quetta. (Photographs by VINCENT LAFORET/The New York Times; Agence France-Presse lower left )(pg. B7) Map of Afghanistan highlighting Quetta: Refugees from Afghanistan who managed to escape to Quetta, a provincial capital in southwestern Pakistan, described harrowing journeys. Aid workers said they did not know how many had arrived. (pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFUGEES (93%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TALIBAN (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); STARVATION (79%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (77%); BORDER CONTROL (76%); TERRORISM (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); SMUGGLING (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES (92%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (54%)

PERSON: ANGELINA JOLIE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



952 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1700 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE CONSUMER; 
Sales Drop and Spending Waits as Uncertainty Grips Economy

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
In the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, sales are falling in nearly every sector of the economy -- from autos and home building to high technology and department stores -- as gloom spreads beyond the airline and travel industries.
 As a result, executives in one industry after another are postponing whatever spending they can until the uncertainty lifts and they have a clearer idea of how consumers are reacting to the crisis. "People are saying things like, 'We have hit the wall and the fourth quarter will be very bad,' " said Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers, describing conversations with chief executives of companies in his organization. 
 The damage is considerable. An economy that was struggling before Sept. 11 has sunk rapidly in the nearly three weeks since the terrorists destroyed the World Trade Center and damaged the Pentagon. Hardly anyone predicts that economic activity increased in the third quarter, which ends today. The attacks guarantee contraction, forecasters say, leading to an outright recession if the downturn continues through Christmas. 
The immediate economic harm from the attacks was stark, but limited. Airlines shut down, and air traffic is still way off. Industries directly linked to airline travel -- hotels, rental cars, aircraft manufacturing, theme parks, airport restaurants -- also suffered. Still, the airlines and their satellites represent less than 4 percent of the nation's $10 trillion economy, according to the Commerce Department's Bureau of Economic Analysis -- hardly enough to sink the economy alone, short of shutting down almost entirely. The operations of the brokerage firms and investment houses in the World Trade Center were barely visible in the national accounts.
But beyond the immediate damage, the terrorism and the reaction to it -- particularly the psychological damage -- appear to be rippling through most of the economy, unchecked so far.
"The problems we have now have the potential to become much bigger," said Peter Temin, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "It is the role of government to make sure they don't. Maybe the economy can save itself and maybe it cannot, but it does not look good right at the moment."
The troubles are big and small. Disney and Warner Brothers delayed the release of two expensive films because they dealt with terrorism and a bomb smuggled aboard an airplane. EMC, the nation's leading vendor of data storage equipment, announced the layoff of 2,000 employees, 10 percent of its work force, because of a "blanket of hesitation" among its customers, said Joseph M. Tucci, the chief executive.
In Jacksonville, Ark., the Hiwasse Manufacturing Company, which makes control panels for stoves and other kitchen appliances, had to slow production because a technician was afraid to fly to Arkansas from Chicago to repair a balky machine. "We found a way to work around the problem, but at greater cost to ourselves," said J. Richard Derickson, chief executive of Hiwasse.
Consumer confidence, the chief gauge for determining how willing people are to spend, has twisted up and then down in the nearly three weeks since the attacks. The consumer confidence index produced by the University of Michigan rose initially, but plunged in the second week, the university said on Friday.
"The public's first reaction was to reassert confidence that the terrorists were not going to win," Richard T. Curtin, director of the surveys, said in summarizing the results of the 500 phone interviews on which the index is based. "And then in the second week, the reaction set in."
Confidence fell more sharply than at any time since the oil embargo in 1973 and the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in 1990. It might revive in October absent another terrorist attack or a military operation that heightens the fear of further retaliation, Mr. Curtin said. "Right now," he said, "people tell us they are unsure about their own personal safety, they are concerned about casualties in a military action abroad, and they have decided that this is the moment to be cautious spenders -- particularly for major items like homes, autos, appliances, furniture, computers."
The fearfulness was reflected in spending patterns last week. Sales fell at Saks Inc., the Gap, Limited, the Gucci Group and other stores whose upscale merchandise is less than essential, said Richard Baum, a retail analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston. At the same time, sales rose for basics -- toothpaste, packaged food, shoes, toilet paper, diapers -- at Wal-Mart, Kmart and other discount stores. Data gathered from supermarket scanners showed big declines in sales of facial cosmetics and nail polish but a sharp increase in spending on candles.
The question in Mr. Curtin's mind is how long the fearfulness and shock will last. That is also the concern of Andrew Kohut, director of the Pew Research Center, who found in a poll of 1,000 people that 70 percent said they were depressed, 50 percent said they could not focus on their jobs and 33 percent said they were having trouble sleeping.
"People are down, and the question is when they will come back," Mr. Kohut said, noting that in previous crises the bounce-back came relatively soon.
Still, companies are sometimes damaged in ways that do not necessarily hurt the economy. Insurance companies, suffering their biggest single loss ever, are paying out more than $40 billion, but those filing the claims and receiving the money will presumably reinvest it in the economy, particularly to rebuild Lower Manhattan.
Merrill Lynch and Lehman Brothers, with offices in the World Trade Center, have been forced to operate at less than full strength since Sept. 11. But their customers are still trading, and brokerage fees that Merrill and Lehman once collected are now going to Credit Suisse First Boston and other firms. 
Many restaurants nationwide report fewer patrons, but fast-food chains say business is up -- not inside the restaurants themselves, but at the take-out windows, perhaps reflecting a reluctance to linger in public places.
Among other businesses that have gained, pharmaceutical companies report that sales have risen for sleeping pills and antidepressants. One antidepressant, Zoloft from Pfizer, has been specifically approved to treat post-traumatic stress disorder.
The nation's automakers are uniformly suffering. With sales falling, Ford Motor, General Motors and DaimlerChrysler have curtailed production and offered zero-interest financing to draw buyers, a tactic that cuts into profits. 
As in many other industries, the savings from strategies that are meant to minimize the expense of keeping inventories have been diluted. Toyota, for example, had maintained enough Canadian parts for only one day's production at its three United States assembly plants. Because of unpredictable border delays, that has been doubled to two days' inventory.
For every tractor-trailer that used to make the border crossing, a second is now bringing a parallel shipment, in case one is delayed at the border. "All this adds to cost," said Dennis C. Cuneo, a senior vice president at Toyota. "And there has been another cost. I don't know how you calculate it, but a lot of management's time has been focused in the last three weeks on keeping our plants running."
Apart from the pullback in consumer spending, nothing is more damaging to the economy than the freeze that many executives say has descended on investment in new equipment, computers, software and other tools of production. Spending on information technology in particular has suffered, according to surveys of Fortune 1000 companies by Howard Rubin at the META Group.
Eight days after the terrorist attacks, 87 percent of the companies said it was too soon to decide whether to cut their investment spending. But by last Wednesday, 53 percent said they would cut their spending, in some cases by as much as 15 to 20 percent.
Home construction had remained strong in a weakening economy, but builders say that in the wake of the attacks, declining home sales have forced them to pull back. Sales are likely to be off by as much as 6 percent by the end of the year, despite 30-year mortgage rates that have dropped below 7 percent, the National Association of Realtors said.
That prediction jibes with the experience of Lee Baum, a home builder in Memphis. When the terrorists struck, his company, Baum & Company, had 18 houses in the $200,000-to-$350,000 range under construction. Only three had buyers, while the other 15 were going up in the previously reliable expectation that they would be sold before their completion.
Now, 3 of the 15 are nearly finished but still for sale. "Normally we don't come to completion without having sold a house," Mr. Baum said. Like many other builders, he has decided to pull back on speculative building, or starting new homes before buyers are found, which represents one-third of the single-family home construction in the United States.
The economic damage since Sept. 11 seems to touch dozens of industries. Movie attendance is down, apparently out of a fear of terrorism in public places, and the recording of new music is likely to suffer, says Richard D. Parsons, co-chief operating officer of AOL Time Warner.
"In things like the record business," he said, "where people just don't want to travel anymore, things will slow down on the production side because just getting the artists there to record or release or promote is difficult."
The airlines are the hardest hit, laying off 100,000 workers already and still not able to cut costs enough, industry executives say, to offset their losses. Passenger traffic last week averaged less than 50 percent of capacity, and even with billions of dollars in emergency support from the federal government, the airlines said they will lose money until the average rises above 50 percent.
The reluctance to board a plane causes Mr. Kohut, the pollster, to wonder when the economic damage from the terrorist attacks will begin to fade. "We have to recognize that this is a mood in America unlike any we have ever seen before," he said. "It could last, or people could snap out of it."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A Sharp Hit"The terrorist attacks on New York and the Pentagon caused commerce around the nation to plunge. While some businesses like fast-food have bounced back, many others, like hotels, have not. U.S. DEBT AND EQUITY ISSUED Chart tracks billions issued weekly for August and September. HOTEL OCCUPANCY Chart tracks occupancy for New York (excluding downtown), Los Angeles, and Chicago from September 1 to September 24. RETAIL STORE SALES Chart tracks weekly changes from last year for discount and department stores for August and September. CHAIN RESTAURANT SALES Chart tracks weekly changes from last year for fast food and casual dining for August and September. FIRST-TIME UNEMPLOYMENT CLAIMS Chart tracks weekly claims for August and September. WEEKEND MOVIE RECEIPTS Chart tracks weekly changes from last year for September including Labor Day. PERSONAL COMPUTER SALES Chart tracks weekly changes from previous week for August and September. MORTGAGE APPLICATIONS Chart tracks weekly changes from last year for August and September including refinancing.(Source: Thomson Financial Securities Data (debt and equity); Bureau of Labor Statistics (unemployment); HotelRevMAX (hotel occupancy); Exhibitor Relations (movies); Instinet Research's Redbook Average (retail store sales); NPD (computer sales, restaurants); Mortgage Bankers Association of America)(pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); AIRCRAFT MFG (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); MOVIE RELEASE DATE CHANGES (71%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (66%); SMUGGLING (65%); DATA STORAGE DEVICES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%)

PERSON: JOSEPH M TUCCI (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



953 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 228 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED; 
Protesters in Washington Urge Peace With Terrorists

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 29 

 BODY:
Thousands of protesters marched in downtown Washington today urging a peaceful end to the conflict between the United States and terrorists based in Afghanistan.
 The police said that 11 people were arrested, but did not specify the reasons. 
The police used pepper spray to control some of the demonstrators. Assistant Police Chief Terrence Gainer was affected by the pepper spray and was taken briefly to a hospital.. 
 Policemen on motorcycles swarmed around protesters in a park a few blocks from the White House, and a helicopter circled overhead.
Many of the protesters had planned to march during a meeting of international financial institutions that was canceled after the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11.
Erik Ohlsen, 22, a teacher from San Francisco, said that the attacks were connected to the questions of globalization that have drawn large protests in recent years at meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. "The countries that the people who attacked may have come from are feeling oppression by the global policies that the I.M.F. and World Bank impose," he said. 
At an appearance in Washington to raise scholarship money for victims of the attacks, former President Bill Clinton said that protesters "are welcome to say what they want to say." But, he added, "The people who did this to America would not permit them the same right." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); TERRORISM (91%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); ARRESTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POLICE FORCES (72%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



954 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Labels of Analyst Varied, But 'Spy' Came as a Surprise 

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 29 

 BODY:
A few days after the Sept. 11 terrorist attack, Ana Belen Montes, a top Defense Department intelligence analyst, sent an e-mail note to an old friend saying she was all right and had not known anyone who died at the Pentagon.
 "I could see the Pentagon burning from my office," she wrote. "Nonetheless, it pales next to the World Trade Center. Dark days ahead. So much hate and self-righteousness." 
 The days darkened quickly for Ms. Montes. A week later, federal agents charged her with spying for Cuba. She is the highest-ranking official ever accused of espionage at the Defense Intelligence Agency, which, as a sister agency to the C.I.A., handles analysis for the Pentagon.
The arrest, on Sept. 21, left her friends and colleagues at a loss to explain what might have motivated her to risk everything, should the charges prove true. Friends described Ms. Montes, who is 44 and single, as a loyal companion, a doting aunt and an avid traveler. She had no evident money problems, and was apparently content dating a man who either was in the military or did business at the Pentagon, they said.
She was warm and funny, friends said, and seemed apolitical, even back in college. 
"I can't picture her being involved in something like this," said Lisa A. Huber of Louisville, Ky., who attended the University of Virginia with Ms. Montes and received the e-mail message. "It goes against everything I know about her. She has a lot of integrity."
Ms. Montes, the D.I.A.'s top intelligence analyst for Cuba since 1992, left a different impression among colleagues. She came off as rather severe, they said; at meetings, she sat rigidly and rarely spoke.
"She was a very strange person, very standoffish, extraordinarily shy," an American diplomat said.
But professionally, Ms. Montes seemed above reproach. She spoke fluent Spanish, and in 1990 she was tapped to brief Nicaragua's new president, Violeta Barrios de Chamorro, about the Cuban-backed Sandinista military. 
In 1992 or 1993, she pulled off what seemed to be an intelligence coup. She traveled to Cuba and interviewed Cuban generals about economic reforms. In 1998, she helped draft a widely cited analysis that found that Cuba's much diminished military posed no strategic threat. Last week, she briefed top Pentagon policy makers on Cuba.
Despite her immersion in Cuba issues, virtually no one in the Cuba policy community -- two dozen officials, academics, nongovernmental advocates and Congressional aides -- recalls her venturing an opinion on American policy toward Havana.
The F.B.I. affidavit said Ms. Montes, who had a high-level security clearance, spied for Cuba for at least five years. She identified at least one American undercover agent to the Cubans, disclosed a top secret intelligence-gathering program and reported on American training in the Caribbean, the F.B.I. said.
Current and former American officials say she was in a position to tell Havana virtually everything the intelligence community knew about Cuba's military and might even have disclosed American contingency plans for taking the island by force.
"I would think, if damage was done, it would be about what she learned about the U.S., how it was militarily prepared vis-a-vis Cuba," said Richard Nuccio, President Bill Clinton's special adviser on Cuba.
Alberto R. Coll, a top Pentagon official in the first Bush administration, said that the damage could be multiplied if Cuba shared stolen intelligence with other governments hostile to the United States. Ms. Montes had access to a daily synopsis of American intelligence worldwide.
If the Havana government "wanted to earn points with the Chinese, maybe Iraq, Iran, Libya, it would not be surprising," said Dr. Coll, now dean of the Naval War College in Rhode Island. "Cuba has political ties with all those countries."
Intelligence officials said they had no evidence of such sharing. But some analysts said the prospect might have compelled the authorities to arrest Ms. Montes within 10 days of the attacks. She had been under F.B.I. surveillance since May.
According to the F.B.I., Ms. Montes received numeric messages from Cuba by shortwave radio, which she decoded on her home computer, and replied in code by telephoning a pager number from pay phones. 
The authorities have declined to say how they came to suspect Ms. Montes. 
Ms. Montes's detention hearing at Federal District Court in Washington is scheduled for Oct. 4. Tony Miles, her public defender, did not respond to requests for an interview. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (89%); TERRORISM (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (69%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NICARAGUA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



955 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Green Belittles Ferrer's View On City's Crisis 

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY and DEXTER FILKINS

 BODY:
Invoking the World Trade Center attack in his campaign for mayor, Mark Green yesterday charged that Fernando Ferrer had been "largely silent" as New York leaders began debating how to rebuild the city and guard against future attacks. Mr. Green mocked the assertion by Mr. Ferrer, the Bronx borough president, that his work rebuilding the Bronx had prepared him to deal with the crisis in downtown Manhattan.
 "The planes that attacked the World Trade Center did not attack the Bronx, with all due respect," Mr. Green said, for the first time directly engaging his rival in the two-way run-off for the Democratic nomination on Oct. 11. 
 Mr. Green, at what had otherwise been a routine news conference announcing endorsements by elected officials, abruptly broke into what was by far the toughest attack he has made against any opponent during this contest. He said that the mayoral candidates "have an obligation to have thoughtful, large plans to respond to this large, unprecedented crisis," and noted that he had proposed the creation of a city-state public authority to oversee reconstruction. 
"The borough president of the Bronx reflected a business-as-usual and politics-as-usual attitude by first comparing the unprecedented criminal attack on the World Trade Center to -- his words -- the rubble he inherited in the Bronx 14 years ago and by being largely silent on how he would respond to the needs of reconstruction, economic development and security," he said.
In an interview later, Mr. Ferrer responded that Mr. Green, the city's public advocate, was going on the attack because "he needs to say these things to win an election." He caustically took note of the fact that Mr. Green -- unlike Mr. Ferrer -- had supported a request by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani to extend his term by perhaps three months.
"It seems to me that just a few days ago, you and I heard Mark pledge that he would not engage in negative campaigning," he said. "And it was just a few days ago that you and I heard Mark Green say that we should follow the rule of law and have an orderly rule of transition on the schedule set by law. So the question is, what caused Mark to abandon his principles and break his word?"
Mr. Ferrer declined to respond in detail to Mr. Green's contentions. But he said again yesterday that he could direct the rebuilding of Lower Manhattan without scaling back any of the proposals he had already put before the voters. "Of course I have a framework for rebuilding our city, while simultaneously protecting our commitment to education, after-school programs, health care and housing," he said.
The remarks by Mr. Green signaled a quick ratcheting up of the contest, and came at a time when the public advocate seemed on the defensive about his decision to support Mr. Giuliani's effort to extend his term as a way of easing the transition during a difficult time. Mr. Ferrer, campaigning in Harlem and the Bronx, suggested that Mr. Green had no business running for the city's highest office if he was not ready to take over on Jan. 1, as proscribed by law. "Why is a candidate wasting the time of the electorate if he is not ready for a crisis?" he said.
Mr. Green raised the subject of the trade center on his own during an awkward moment at his news conference at Brooklyn Borough Hall. About a dozen Democratic officials who were endorsing him were asked by reporters to display, by a show of hands, whether they agreed with Mr. Green that Mr. Giuliani's term should be extended. Only one hand went up. That is when Mr. Green took the microphone and criticized Mr. Ferrer's response to the twin towers attack.
"The Bronx 14 years ago has very little to do with the crisis in downtown Manhattan, New York, and the world now," he said. "The way to respond to this crisis is not with small historical references, but the kind of large plans I've proposed."
All the major mayoral candidates in the primary avoided campaigning for the first week after terrorists crashed two jets into the twin towers, and did not discuss what they would do to deal with the disaster. Since the primary on Tuesday, the World Trade Center has been a regular feature in the campaigns of both Mr. Green and Michael R. Bloomberg, the Republican nominee.
Mr. Green, in a series of news conferences and interviews, has proposed the creation of the city-state public authority to oversee the reconstruction, and endorsed various measures, including increased surveillance in public places and increased security in the city. Mr. Bloomberg included a shot of the World Trade Center site in a new advertisement, and held a news conference with New Yorker's altered downtown skyline behind him last week. He recently rode a ferry around Manhattan to encourage people to use public transit as the trade center cleanup continues to jam the roads.
Mr. Ferrer, by contrast, has only slightly modified the message that has been part of his central appeal; he expresses deep concern about what happened in Lower Manhattan, but at the same time returns to his call for the city to pay attention to improving health care, education and housing.
In the days after the attack, Mr. Ferrer said he believed that the reconstruction should be spread out across New York, and not concentrated in the financial district. He also said that while there had to be some increases in security, the city had to take care to guard against infringements on civil rights.
And Mr. Ferrer has repeatedly argued that his experience in helping to rebuild the Bronx would equip him to guide the redevelopment of downtown. "There is a framework for revival that I am familiar with," Mr. Ferrer said recently.
Mostly though, as he has stepped up his campaign since winning a spot in the run-off in Tuesday, Mr. Ferrer has taken pains to say that the rebuilding effort should not eclipse the need to deal with the issues that he has raised throughout his campaign. "There are other pressing problems facing New York," he told a crowd of supporters at the Puck Building, as they celebrated his first-place finish in Tuesday's Democratic primary. "The towers may have crumbled, but our commitments have not."
Mr. Green called Mr. Ferrer's idea of dispersing construction "a very short-sighted and flawed approach."
"The terrorists presumably attacked downtown Manhattan because it was both the symbol of America and the heart of financial services in the country," he said. "If they attacked downtown Manhattan because it was the heart of financial services, you have to rebuild downtown so it stays the heart of financial services."
Mr. Green also aggressively defended his support of Mr. Giuliani's term extension. "I read that the borough president said, 'What's different about this transition?' " Mr. Green said. 
"What's different is that we lost 100,000 jobs in a month. What's different is that it's going to cost $40 billion and a year to clean up. What's different is 7,000 are perhaps dead under the rubble a few blocks away."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mark Green assailed his rival in Tuesday's Democratic run-off, Fernando Ferrer, as being "largely silent" on the trade center attack. (Kevin P. Coughlin for The New York Times); Fernando Ferrer, with a supporter, the Rev. Al Sharpton. Mr. Ferrer has remained committed to social programs in the wake of the attack. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. A36) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); MAYORS (90%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLITICS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (54%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: AL SHARPTON (59%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



956 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times; 
Should New York Consider the Games?

BYLINE:  By GEORGE VECSEY

 BODY:
UNTIL the morning of Sept. 11, holding the 2012 Summer Games in New York seemed like a monumentally bad idea, at least to me.
 Who needed the cost? Who needed the construction? Who needed the chaos? Did we not have better priorities than providing 17 days of televised sports for the world? 
 In my view, New York was already the greatest city in the world. Let some other burg puff itself up over building pools for synchronized swimmers and arenas for volleyball players. 
Since then, the world has changed. While New York still mourns its losses, people are debating how to rebuild Lower Manhattan. Perhaps it will be an artistic steel skeleton reaching to the heavens, illuminated at night to tell the world, "I want to wake up in a city that doesn't sleep." There must be a memorial. There must be buildings for a world trade center, by its original name or something else. And then there is that plan for 2012. 
With my mind a bit more open, I called Daniel L. Doctoroff, the money manager with Oak Hill Capital Partners and the leader of the NYC2012 bid. The United States Olympic Committee will pick one American candidate by 2002, and the International Olympic Committee will choose the 2012 host in 2005. The mayor of Rome said he would cede to New York as a gesture to the horrible blow it suffered. 
Doctoroff, age 41, has become a success because he is both friendly and persuasive. In the past, when I wrote negative words about New York being the host, he asked if he could explain his side. Two weeks after the terrible attack, I wondered how things were going. Oak Hill's 36th-floor office faces south from Midtown, but as a fact of high-rise life in the city, Doctoroff never had a view of the World Trade Center. He watched on television like most people, spent some frantic time tracking down friends, and did not, he said, think about NYC2012 until many hours later.
"It didn't seem that important," he said Friday. "I was too much in shock."
He is not attempting to make political hay of a ghastly tragedy. It was my call, not his. But he put aside business for an hour, showed me slides and thick brochures (the cover has a swimmer with the twin towers in the background) and gave me his best shot: The revenue from television and tickets and sponsors would pay for building the Games, he insisted. 
The Games would not tie up the city, he contended, because they would rely almost totally on modern ferries and an upgraded east-west train from Queens to New Jersey, and existing subways. And, he added, the Games would leave housing at the Olympic Village in west Queens plus a new stadium, presumably for the Jets, that would tie in with a new economic center around the currently remote Jacob K. Javits Center. 
But that was his pitch before. Has anything changed to make it more appealing to skeptics like me?
"I would argue that it is more important today than ever before," Doctoroff said. "From an emotional perspective, I think the people in the city could use the Olympics as a catalyst."
For a mere 17 days? "If it were just for 17 days, we probably shouldn't be thinking of it," he said, citing the proposed improvements to parks as well as new sports centers in the five boroughs. 
Being host for the Games is not a guaranteed blessing. Montreal is still paying for the 1976 Summer Games. Atlanta has the stigma of the T-shirt Games of 1996. Nagano was left with white-elephant structures from the 1998 Winter Games.
And after Jacques Rogge, the new president of the I.O.C., openly reminded Athens officials that 2004 is not that far away, I am convinced that Rogge could pull the Summer Games by the end of this year and put them in Seoul, for example.
Besides, why should New York persevere at this terrible time?
"They attacked a way of life," Doctoroff said. "They attacked a place where people exist in economic competition, where people learn to live together. If you look at the names of the people who died, you see they came from all around the world to pursue their dreams. The World Trade Center was the Ellis Island for international business. It gave them immediate credibility. I would argue that this is exactly why we should be thinking about the Olympics."
Doctoroff -- who comes from suburban Detroit and admits he felt insignificant during his first visits to New York -- noted that the big city was "the world's biggest stage," able to handle multiple events at the same time. He insists New York could rebuild downtown, revitalize the far West Side and build Olympic sites, in the same generation. 
Meanwhile, the schools are crumbling, and even before the attack there was the sense of struggling to repair bridges and roadways. Now we face years and decades of heightened security and legitimate fears as well as rebuilding costs and possible economic downturn. 
"What do you think?" Doctoroff asked. 
I started to say the Summer Games are still frivolous. Instead, I said, "You can't let thugs push us around." Only I didn't say thugs.
At very least, the Summer Games are a better idea than they were three weeks ago. We should think big and see where we are in a year. If the terrorists think New York is a big deal, perhaps we should live up to their expectations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); WINTER OLYMPICS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (78%); CITY LIFE (76%); SWIMMING (76%); SPORTS (76%); CITIES (76%); MAYORS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: OAK HILL CAPITAL PARTNERS LP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (55%); UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



957 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week In Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends; 
In Every Mind the Memory, In Every Building, a Threat

BYLINE:  By TOM ZELLER

 BODY:
MAJ. MICHAEL GEORGE is an instructor at the United States Military Academy in West Point. On what has become that Tuesday morning, shortly after 9 a.m., a fellow instructor stopped by his classroom to suggest that Major George and his students -- like the rising tide of other Americans who were snapping on televisions to find Manhattan ablaze -- take a look at CNN. 
 "Nobody said a word for the first five minutes," Major George recalled of his dozen or so cadets. "Our reaction was not too different from that of most Americans, I guess. There was a lot of shock, anger, emotions." 
 Unlike most Americans, however, Major George switched off the TV after 10 minutes, and the class returned to the topic it had discussed twice a week since the beginning of the semester: national security. 
 Nearly three weeks after the terrorist attack that took thousands of lives and destroyed an unflagging sense of safeness from such things, most Americans have joined the discussion on national security, or its freshly minted variant, homeland security. From subway platforms to schoolyard parking lots; in building lobbies and on the long, now so obviously suspended spans of bridges; from economy class to the cockpit, the free world is contemplating just where it wants to be on the freedom-fear continuum. The tilt is now toward fear. 
 Consider that although a poll conducted by the Pew Research Center in the days following the attack found that 57 percent of Americans "clearly reject the establishment of internment camps to round up legal immigrants from hostile nations," a full 29 percent said it wasn't such a bad idea. The poll also indicated that 70 percent of Americans wouldn't mind being required to "carry a national identity card at all times to show to a police officer on request."
 Armed marshals are quietly boarding commercial flights, the Professional Gun Retailers Association has reported a jump in handgun sales and government buildings around the nation have thrown up barricades. 
 But how long can such a heightened state of alert be maintained? And how far can it go? 
 "Anything can be done and it can get very, very expensive," said James Russell, a writer and architect specializing in security design. "But in the end, you're always just responding to the last technique, not the next one." So, for instance, the nation's airport security guards became adept at recognizing the shadow of a gun in the geometric thicket of an X-ray screen, but they weren't even looking for box cutters. Knives and other sharp objects are now being filtered out of the air, but what about ?
 "The nation is stunned partly because it's built on the belief that perfectibility is possible -- that with every dollar spent on security, we can get closer to realizing a kind of perfection, Mr. Russell said. But the idea that airplanes could be hijacked and flown into the World Trade Center expands the possibilities to the infinite, and how can we prepare for that?"
 Which may well be the question that, according to the Pew poll, is keeping so many Americans up at night, distracted from their jobs and supportive of the national scramble to keep one step ahead of the next attack -- and the next.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Diagrams: "Finding Insecurity in Every Walk of Life"National ID cards can keep track of your whereabouts. Digital cameras can take a scan of your face and compare it with a database of known troublemakers. Your pilot may be carrying a gun. Some of it is fantasy. Some of it is already real. All of it is being discussed. An overview: PLANESIdeas for making aircraft less vulnerable to hijackers --and less deadly when they crash -- were on the table long before the attacks of Sept. 11. But recent events have given old ideas new life. The Craft ItselfThe terrorist attacks were particularly deadly because of the enormous amount of jet fuel on board the hijacked aircraft. This may call for various levels of redesign for commercial planes. The CockpitMany analysts have suggested sealing the cockpit and arming pilots. Issues of pressure differentials between the cabin and the cockpit will need to be overcome, but some change in cockpit access is likely. AIRPORTSThere may be limited access to curbside check-ins for some time. It remains banned at many airports. National Guard troops are likely to be visible both inside and outside the facility. Some passengers may be profiled based on how they bought their ticket, where they are going and how often they tend to fly. Some have argued for greater consideration of body lift planes, which make use of the craft's body to help generate lift, permitting use of smaller engines and less fuel. The CabinA new generation of well-armed air marshals will be quietly slipping onto flights. And passengers might no longer be permitted to change seats freely, making identification of troublemakers easier. The FuelHigh flashpoint fuels may be explored, because they burn less readily in crashes. SCHOOLS AND HOSPITALSSchools and hospitals may become terrorist targets. Schools may need to develop new drills that will take into consideration the special circumstances of a terrorist attack, and develop tighter access controls with identity cards. Both hospitals and schools may need to consider redesigns that limit the proximity of vehicles to the main buildings. HIGH-SECURITY BUILDINGSEmbassies have long been a favorite target for attack and may need to be further retrofitted for future attacks. SECURE-ACCESSPASSES COULD TRACK EMPLOYEES AND BE LINKED TO SPECIFIC PIECES OF EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES OFFICE BUILDINGSOffice workers are already experiencing a level of security they may not be accustomed to and things may become more restricted as technology improves and the threat of biological and chemical attacks looms. Overhauled systemsAir intakes and exhausts are often accessible from outside and are prone to tampering. Some vents may need to be relocated, and others may need to be fitted with motion detectors to prevent tampering. STADIUMS, LARGE EVENT VENUESPublic entertainment facilities are likely to become heavily restricted. Elimination of bags and backpacks has already been put in place in some stadiums. Police barricades may be used to keep traffic from getting near the facility, and the number of entry points may be reduced. Flyover advertising planes and other aircraft may be permanently restricted, and digital cameras may scan the crowd for faces of known suspects. HIGHWAYS AND ROADSLarge cities have already implemented more restrictive traffic controls. Random searches and police checkpoints may be used not just for special events, but as a means of monitoring vehicle movements in and out of vulnerable areas. SMALL PLANESCrop dusters might be used to spread harmful agents and have been grounded. In the long term, access to small airfields will be more heavily restricted. NUCLEAR FACILITIESWatchdog groups have called for deployment of military troops and antiaircraft defenses to guard the nation's nuclear power plants. PUBLIC TRANSITHigh vulnerability to chemical and biological attack may call for tighter screening of employees, more surveillance cameras and greater police presence. Diagrams of an airplane, airport, school, hospital, embassy building, office building, stadium, nuclear facility and subway entrance. (Sources: Jane's Facility Security Handbook; Flight Safety Foundation; Chevron's Aviation Fuels Technical Review) (Illustrations by Juan Velasco and Gorka Sampedro) Chart: "From the Markets to the Bedside Table"Americans lost sleep, curtailed investments and other spending, and began to study up on terror. FEELING DOWNA poll conducted by the Pew Research Center in the days following the attack found Americans consumed by events. 1. I can't stop watching news about the attacks.STRONGLY AGREE: 24%AGREE: 39DISAGREE: 30STRONGLY DISAGREE: 4DON'T KNOW: 3 2. It tires me out to watch coverage of the terrorist attacks.STRONGLY AGREE: 12%AGREE: 33DISAGREE: 43STRONGLY DISAGREE: 8DON'T KNOW: 4 3. Have you felt depressed by the terrorist attacks?No: 27%Don't know: (2%)Yes: 71% 3. Have you had any trouble sleeping because of the the attacks?Yes: 33%No or don't know: 67% PULLING OUTAlthough the markets were slipping before the attacks, a four-day halt in trading was followed by a gigantic dip. Percentage change over previous day's close for the Dow Jones industrial average, for three national crises: 1941 Graph showing the percentage change over previous day's close for the Dow Jones industrial average. DEC. 8First full trading day after the Japanese attack at Pearl Harbor. 1993 Graph showing the percentage change over previous day's close for the Dow Jones industrial average. MARCH 1First full trading day after bombing of World Trade Center. 2001 Graph showing the percentage change over previous day's close for the Dow Jones industrial average. SEPT. 17First full trading day after the attacks. BRUSHING UPFrom germ warfare to the Taliban, booksellers are filling orders for books that might make sense of the attack. REINING INAmericans, in record numbers, stayed put in the days after the attacks. HOTEL OCCUPANCY Graph showing the hotel occupancy rate in New York, Boston, Washington, and Los Angeles. MALL VISITORS Graph showing the year-over-year change, weekly. RETAIL SALES Graph showing the year-over-year change, weekly. RESTAURANT SALES Graph showing the year-over-year change, weekly. WEEKEND MOVIE RECEIPTS Graph showing the total weekend movie receipts. BACK TO SCHOOLAmazon.com tracks its top-selling books every hour. Of the top 50 titles being purchased early last week, over 30 percent involved... The World Trade CenterTerrorismNostradamusas indicated below. Graph showing the 50 top-selling books. (Sources: RCT's National Retail Traffic Index, HotelRevMAX, Instinet, NPD Group)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); TRENDS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (87%); WORLD WAR II (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); AVIATION SECURITY (73%); TERRORISM (73%); AIRPORTS (68%); NATIONAL IDENTITY CARDS (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (62%); RETAILERS (62%); MARSHALS (62%); LOBBYING (58%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (91%); FLIGHT SAFETY FOUNDATION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



958 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 151 words

HEADLINE: A Monument to the Towers of Pain and Might; 
Low-Income Workers

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In a Sept. 23 editorial, you correctly point out that the terrorist attacks have stolen or threatened the jobs of thousands of low-income workers in New York City and that helping them should be a top priority. 
 A redevelopment strategy should encompass workers' needs and focus on creating a diverse and vibrant local economy, wherein industries provide good jobs that offer living wages and health benefits to every worker. 
Redevelopment should also prioritize access to mass transit and affordable housing for everyone who works in Lower Manhattan.
Your Sept. 24 editorial presented a redevelopment strategy that won't help workers. Giving tax credits and other subsidies to companies without requiring that they create good jobs will only drain precious resources from the city coffers.

HEATHER BOUSHEY
Washington, Sept. 28, 2001

The writer is an economist at the Economic Policy Institute.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOW INCOME PERSONS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LIVING WAGE (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); JOB CREATION (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (85%); TERRORISM (73%); WRITERS (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); ECONOMIC POLICY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



959 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 144 words

HEADLINE: A Monument to the Towers of Pain and Might; 
Rethinking Transit

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 As New York City requires cars to carry more than one passenger (front page, Sept. 26), transportation is becoming more difficult. But there is one solution that will make transportation easier in the city. 
This is to increase the number of cabs. If the city issued more medallions, transportation would be easier, and commuters would be more willing to use mass transit. 
 As many in the city suffer from the tragedy and its aftermath, it is appropriate to ask the owners of taxi medallions to bear their share. The burden of a reduced-value medallion could be lessened if the new medallions were issued to those already owning medallions, but in any event, an increase in the number of medallions could reduce the costs of more difficult transportation.

PAUL H. RUBIN
Atlanta, Sept. 27, 2001

The writer is an economics professor at Emory University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (87%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



960 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1482 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
Forecasters Try to Assess the Terror Factor

BYLINE:  By JOANNE LEGOMSKY

 BODY:
SENDHIL MULLAINATHAN, an economics professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, has spent the last two weeks plugging worst-case possibilities into his economic and market forecasts.
 Even if there are no further terrorist incidents, he is concerned that just a minor change in the outlook of consumers and investors could wreak havoc with the economy and drive down the price of stocks. 
 "Two hundred fifty million people are going through the same grieving process," he said. "How long does it take the human mind to get back to normal?"
Economists, market strategists and money managers are struggling to revise their forecasts of stock market returns in the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks. Most are trying to analyze not only the likelihood of protracted disruptions of financial markets, but also the chance that the trauma has caused huge changes in investor attitudes. As a result, current forecasts are even fuzzier than usual, ranging from a quick return to robust economic and stock market growth to a fundamental scaling back of long-term expectations. At the same time, market analysts are aiming to identify sectors that are likely to prosper despite the turmoil. 
Edward Yardeni, the chief investment strategist at Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown, said that he normally expects the stock market to anticipate economic shifts, but that may not be the case this time. Investors have probably not grasped how badly the attacks will hurt corporate profits, he said. Once companies report earnings for the third quarter, he said, investors may grow more skittish.
Although he expects the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index to end the year at roughly its current level, he said that there was a chance it could fall an additional 15 percent this year if investors were frightened by the coming earnings decline.
He has lowered his 2001 forecast for operating earnings for the S.& P. 500 to $40 a share from $45 before the attack. But he left his 2002 estimate unchanged, at $55. In his view, the market is likely to bottom around March 2002 and then rebound significantly. He expects a 20 percent gain for the S.& P. 500 next year.
Mr. Yardeni is telling clients to put relatively little money into technology shares, believing that businesses will restrict capital spending for technology improvements.
"We're reassessing our outlook, asking ourselves 'What do we know for sure?' " he said. "We know, for example, that aging baby boomers will drive long-term demand for health care services and equipment." So he is emphasizing health care stocks.
Hugh A. Johnson, the chief investment officer at the First Albany Corporation, expects subpar stock returns through 2005. He said he believes that stocks will return an average of 8 percent a year in the period, more than two percentage points above his forecast for 10-year Treasuries. By contrast, Mr. Johnson said, stocks outperformed bonds by an average of 17 percentage points a year from 1995 through 1999.
His outlook reflects his expectation of "uninspiring growth for the economy" in the next several years, he said, adding that all forecasts warrant some skepticism because of the current uncertainties.
After long bull markets in the 1980's and 1990's, Kevin A. Hassett and James K. Glassman, co-authors of "Dow 36,000," argued in 1999 that investors had become so comfortable with owning stocks and so convinced that stocks would outperform bonds that investors would bid up their price. At the time, they expected the Dow to go as high as 36,000.
Mr. Hassett remains bullish on stocks. "When things return to normal," he said, "investors will be rewarded for holding stocks, especially on an after-tax basis." He added that although bonds might outperform stocks in the near term, stocks were likely to more than offset any shortfall in one good year.
Jeremy J. Siegel of the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, who described the superior long-term performance of stocks in "Stocks for the Long Run," says he does not expect stocks to outpace bonds by much in the future. Stocks will return five to seven percentage points a year above inflation over the next 20 to 30 years, versus a spread of two to three percentage points for 10-year Treasuries, he said. 
"Before, people realized that stocks were undervalued assets over long periods of time," he said. "Now they're recognizing that long-term returns may not be as good."
Mr. Siegel expects bond returns over the same period, adjusted for inflation, to be higher than in the past, noting that bondholders were penalized by the unanticipated high inflation of the 1970's.
Some strategists say short-term expectations for stocks are so uncertain that additional investments may not be justified now. "Investors should have lower return objectives for stocks than prevailed in the late 1990's," said Thomas C. Van Leuven, an equity market strategist at J. P. Morgan Chase. 
While he said he still viewed the stock market as a good long-term investment, he urged caution.
Recent history may provide insight into short-term market conditions. Joseph J. Mezrich, quantitative strategist at Morgan Stanley, said that in previous crises -- the onset of World War II, the Cuban missile crisis, the oil shocks of the 1970's and the Persian Gulf war -- the upheaval initially left investors more risk-averse.
Historically, he said, stock valuations rose when the government resolved a problem decisively; they remained low during longer crises, like the Arab oil embargo of 1973-74.
Steve Galbraith, United States equity strategist at Morgan Stanley, saw a bright spot amid the turmoil. He said that in a period of low earnings, companies were more inclined to improve profit margins and capital efficiency, which should eventually bolster returns.
Mr. Galbraith advises investors to emphasize sectors and companies with predictable earnings prospects. He recommends health care stocks like Abbott Laboratories, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Schering-Plough, Merck and Guidant; cable companies like Charter Communications and Cox Communications; regional telephone companies like Verizon Communications and SBC Communications; and financial stocks that are less sensitive to capital markets, like Fannie Mae and Fifth Third Bancorp.
SOME analysts and money managers are wagering that a strong recovery is imminent. "Now is the time to be adding to equity positions," said Thomas M. Galvin, chief investment officer at Credit Suisse First Boston. "It's too late to be bearish."
Mr. Galvin says he thinks that the S.& P. 500 will finish the year 10 to 15 percent higher, at 1,100 to 1,150, and rise to 1,375 in 2002. He recommends that investors gradually put some money into growth areas such as health care; among his favorites are Amgen and King Pharmaceuticals. He particularly favors consumer-oriented companies like Reebok International and Walt Disney and basic materials companies like Nucor, the specialty steel maker. Other choices are Ensco International and Varco International, energy service companies; and Nokia and Veritas Software, in the technology sector.
S. Basu Mullick, manager of the $1.9 billion Neuberger Berman Partners, a value-oriented fund, said he was "very optimistic about the speed and quality of the recovery." He recommended Carnival, the cruise line company, as well as Hilton Hotels and Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide. On a longer-term basis, he likes Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, Merrill Lynch and the Williams Companies, an energy business.
Still, Mr. Mullainathan, of M.I.T., said the market was grossly overvalued before the attacks. A behavioral economist who thinks investors' decisions reflect emotional factors as well as rational ones, he said investors had propped up share prices with their optimism. Based on corporate profits, he said, stocks should have been much lower.
Robert J. Shiller, a Yale behavioral economist argued in his bleak, admonitory book, "Irrational Exuberance," that the 1990's stock market boom was a bubble that would inevitably burst. The collapse of stocks last year, combined with the recent attacks, may be enough, in his view, to change investor attitudes for a generation.
"It could be the beginning of a downward spiral or a negative bubble," he said. By way of perspective, Mr. Shiller said that the price-to-earnings ratio of the S.& P. 500, now 28, is roughly double its historical average. If it reverted to traditional levels, prices would be cut in half.
One thing seems clear. The chaos has had a humbling effect on many market prognosticators.
Richard H. Thaler, a professor of economics and behavioral science at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business, said he had no clue what consumers would do in the current environment. "It's certainly possible, however, that the market will go into a prolonged funk," he said. "The biggest thing is not to overstate the importance of what happened."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Steve Galbraith says health care stocks are among the best bets now.; Edward Yardeni says the market will probably bottom out around March.; Lingering fear could keep driving stocks lower, Sendhil Mullainathan of M.I.T. says. (Rick Friedman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); TRENDS (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); HEALTH CARE (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: GLEACHER & CO INC (60%); DEUTSCHE BANC ALEX BROWN INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%)

TICKER: GLCH (NASDAQ) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (60%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (60%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



961 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
Focused on Basics, Dollar Stores May Show Strength

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH KELLEHER

 BODY:
MOST retailers fear that consumers are now unwilling to spend freely, but dollar stores, which sell household staples like toothpaste and laundry detergent, appear well positioned for a difficult economy.
 Usually found in small towns and urban neighborhoods, dollar stores cater to low-income consumers. Some chains put the same price on all products -- $1 or 99 cents -- while others use varying, though still low, prices throughout the store. They stock products that need frequent replenishment. 
 "There's a change in consumers' attitudes," said Mark Miller, an analyst at William Blair & Company, an investment firm in Chicago. "They're saying, 'Maybe I'll focus on necessities, buy the basics.' " 
Michael Niemira, an economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Ltd. in New York, said, "Cheap stuff is where the demand is now."
The major publicly traded companies -- Family Dollar Stores, Dollar General, Dollar Tree Stores, Fred's Inc. and 99 Cents Only Stores -- have built small stores close to lower-income neighborhoods in rural areas and small cities far from New York and Washington. 
By relying on manufacturers' close outs, dollar stores can offer prices that are competitive with those of big chains. A survey last year by Blair shows prices at Dollar General and Family Dollar hovering just below Wal-Mart's and significantly below those of grocery stores and drugstores. A 175-count box of Kleenex tissues cost $1 at Dollar General and Family Dollar, $1.16 at Wal-Mart, $1.25 at Jewel-Osco and $1.49 at Walgreens, the survey said.
"When you've got small-store convenience combined with sharp pricing, you've got an attractive position," Mr. Miller said.
Dan Barry, an analyst at Merrill Lynch, said the 20 percent growth pace of 99 Cents Only Stores, based in Commerce, Calif., made it a good bet. The chain is starting from a small base -- 114 stores in California, Arizona and Nevada.
Other chains in the sector are also growing at double-digit rates, Mr. Barry said. "They're growing like an ink spot, opening stores in nearby markets," he added.
For 1999 and 2000, Family Dollar Stores, based in Charlotte, N.C., and Dollar General, in Goodlettsville, Tenn., each had an average return on capital of 15.4 percent, with Fred's Inc., of Memphis, at 9.3 percent, Mr. Miller said. In that period, a dozen major department stores averaged 7.5 percent. 
The combination of that high return on capital and earnings growth of 10 percent in the last 12 months makes Family Dollar's stock attractive, Mr. Miller said. It now trades at $27.52.
Dollar General's stock is a story of high risk and potential high return. After the company announced accounting irregularities in April, the shares plunged to $17 from $23. On Sept. 21, the firm announced that it was firing its auditor, Deloitte & Touche, and the stock plunged again, to $11.25 from $14.77. It closed on Friday at $11.70.
But Mark Mandel, an analyst at SunTrust Robinson Humphrey in New York, said the business is sound. Same-store sales, those for stores open at least a year, rose 8.4 percent in June, 6.6 percent in July and 6.7 percent in August. Mr. Mandel recommended buying Dollar General shares in stages.
"If it jumps, you bought some, and if it takes a hit, you didn't put all your money into it," he said.
Dollar Tree, based in Chesapeake, Va., has 1,900 stores, blanketing the coasts, and sells all products for $1. Because 20 percent of its stores are in malls, where sales have been sluggish, and because it stocks nonessential products, like party goods, Dollar Tree's sales have been weak, analysts say. 
Erica Robb, a spokeswoman for the company, says it is shifting its focus to consumer staples and leaving malls as leases come up for renewal.
Mr. Barry said that when the economy rebounds, Dollar Tree may well have large increases in sales and a substantial increase in its stock value. 
Fred's, with about 400 stores in the Southeast, offers full-service pharmacies. It earned 98 cents a share in the year ended Jan. 29; the forecast for this fiscal year is $1.15 a share. The stock now trades at $26.20.
Jerry Shore, the chief financial officer of Fred's, declined to comment on the company's stock, but said, "We are very confident on the future of our industry."
As Eric Schiffer, president of 99 Cents Only, put it, "If there's any store format that is recession-resistant, ours is."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Markups?"Some analysts say stocks in dollar stores, like Dollar Tree, Dollar General and Fred's, may beat other retail stocks and the overall market. Graph shows FRED'S INC., DOLLAR TREE STORES, and the S.&P. 500 INDEX* from 1999-2001. *Set equal to $20 on Dec. 28, 1998(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); TRENDS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); BONDS (70%); ACCOUNTING (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: DOLLAR GENERAL CORP (92%); DOLLAR TREE INC (90%); WILLIAM BLAIR & CO LLC (71%); FRED'S INC (70%); BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (70%); 99 CENTS ONLY STORES (70%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); FAMILY DOLLAR STORES INC (56%); WAL-MART STORES INC (54%); JEWEL-OSCO (54%)

TICKER: DG (NYSE) (92%); DLTR (NASDAQ) (90%); FRED (NASDAQ) (70%); FDO (NYSE) (56%); WMT (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (92%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (92%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (71%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (71%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (71%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (71%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (70%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (70%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (70%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (54%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (54%); SIC5541 GASOLINE SERVICE STATIONS (54%) SIC5331 VARIETY STORES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



962 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE STREETS; 
Streets of Huge Pakistan City Seethe With Hatred of U.S.

BYLINE:  By RICK BRAGG

DATELINE: KARACHI, Pakistan, Sept. 29 

 BODY:
In a giant city of whirling contradictions, of donkey carts that share choking traffic with gleaming S.U.V.'s, of emaciated one-legged beggars and billboards for running shoes, a three-story banner fluttered from a building in the Azizabad neighborhood, calling for peace, for an end to terrorism, for calm. It is the government's position, the moderate one, and it vanishes from Karachi almost around the corner. 
 In every direction in this city of 12 million people, the largest city in a nation that has become a crucial but brittle ally in the United States' war on terrorism, there are cries and signs for Osama bin Laden, for the Taliban, for holy war. 
 In the downtown, not far from a KFC restaurant, a young man stood in traffic to sell color copies of Mr. bin Laden's picture. Near the teeming port on the Arabian Sea, someone had used a paintbrush to crudely spell out "CRUSH AMERICA" in foot-high black letters. 
Outside the largest Islamic seminary in Pakistan, Jamiat-tul-Islamia, boys shouted "Death to America" and laughed, as though it were a game, and mechanics warned that they would put down their wrenches and hammers and answer their mullahs' calls for jihad when the first American bomb hits the first grain of Afghan sand.
This is one of the world's largest cities, but the language people use to discuss the current confrontation is as old as the desert. "Fourteen hundred years ago, infidels threw stones and garbage on our prophet," said Mustafa Kamal Uddin, 32, a body-and-fender man. Yet Allah, he said, was merciful and did not strike at those who offended him. Holy wars, he said, come about only when Allah has no other way to maintain justice, times like now. "That is why Allah took out his sword."
Karachi, with a history of political turmoil and corruption that goes back to the founding of modern Pakistan in 1947, has long been considered one of the world's most dangerous cities, before most people had ever heard of Osama bin Laden. Now, there is a feeling of dread in some and seething anger in others. In Karachi, the economic heart of Pakistan, with its many, many Dunkin' Donuts and McDonald's, religion may rule the future.
There are many wealthy and middle-class Pakistanis here, people who support the alliance with the United States, who fear a rise in fundamentalist religion that, they say, could transform their country.
But there seem to be many more in Karachi who would welcome it, who in choosing sides would choose Mr. bin Laden in a heartbeat, because they see him as a hero of Islam.
"We don't want to become Afghanistan, and we think Pakistan will become like Afghanistan," said Nasreen Jalil, a former senator who lives in Karachi and is a member of the powerful Muttahida Qaumi Movement. 
Politics here has been an often bloody process. But the standoff between the United States and the Taliban could have a far more drastic influence than any assassination or bombing in the past.
Even Ms. Jalil opposes American military action because of what could happen here if it is bungled. 
"From the mosques, they are saying that this is a war on Islam," she said. "They think bin Laden is a symbol of Islam. It's mostly just talk, but peoples' emotions are heightened, and it could take a different turn. The people are not thinking. In the name of religion, they become oblivious to everything else." 
With many high-ranking officers in the military aligned with the fundamentalists in this city -- and in the country that stretches northward from its port -- there seems little doubt who would win if a majority of the population adopts the fundamentalists' argument that this is a war between Islam and Christianity. "I don't know who would be able to control it," Ms. Jalil said. "We mustn't go back to the Stone Age."
Newspapers in Karachi have promised yet more "Death to America," and warned that the attacks in New York and Washington were a trick by the Jews to plunge the United States and Islam into war.
Some on the streets said they were sorry for the Americans, but said the United States would only cause more tragedy by killing or arresting Mr. bin Laden without proof. Few people here believe that the United States has any proof and few would believe any proof submitted, anyway.
Mention dead firemen, and they counter with dead teenagers shot to death in Palestine. Mention dead civilians in the World Trade Center, and they speak of children killed by American bombs in air strikes on Afghanistan and Iraq. 
"They are terrified, and we are also terrified," said Dr. Abdurrazzak Sikander, principal of the Jamiat-tul-Islamia seminary in the Binori Town section, which draws students from many Islamic countries but especially from Pakistan and Afghanistan. 
The United States has demonized Islam, Dr. Sikander said. "We give respect to Jesus, to Moses -- we even name our daughters after Mary," he said. But after the World Trade Center disaster, the United States has persecuted many followers of Islam, for no other reason than their facial hair, he said. "Everyone with a beard is called a terrorist," he said.
Like others here, he believes that the United States has not produced proof of guilt in the attacks. 
If the mastermind behind the attacks is Mr. bin Laden, the United States must share the blame, people here said. It was the United States' presence in Saudi Arabia, they argue, that created Mr. bin Laden.
"But he didn't do anything," said Muhammad Khalid, who was praying at the seminary. Like many here, he reduces the confrontation to a political move by the United States to justify attacking Islam. "Bin Laden is Islam," said Mr. Khalid. "He represents Islam. Muslims are not in fear. They are all over the world."
Inside the quiet grounds of the seminary, Mufti Imdad Ullah said there were only two ways to deal with an enemy.
"Dialogue, or eliminate your opponent," he said. But even if you kill your enemy, he warned, "his race will remain, his people will remain."
At the headquarters of the Muttahida Qaumi Movement, Ms. Jalil, the former senator, contemplated a Karachi under a Taliban-like rule, where women have no rights.
She carefully covered her head before she was photographed. "Or they will say I am not a good Muslim," she said.
Everyone here seems to have a strong opinion about the United States, Pakistan, Afghanistan, the Taliban, Mr. bin Laden, all of it -- all, it seems, except a young man named Shahid who is selling color copies of Mr. bin Laden's photograph. He is asked if he is a follower of the man. 
"No," he said, "I'm just selling him."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Demonstrators chanted anti-American slogans at a rally yesterday in Karachi, Pakistan. (Reuters)(pg. A1); Anti-American and anti-Israel graffiti on Friday in Karachi, Pakistan, a giant city of whirling contradictions.; Mustafa Kamal Uddin, an auto repairman in Karachi, says holy wars are Allah's final means to ensure justice.; (Photographs by Lynsey Addario/Saba, for The New York Times); In Karachi, Pakistan, a vendor this weekend sold posters of America's prime terror suspect, Osama bin Laden. (pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); RELIGION (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (88%); FAST FOOD (88%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); TALIBAN (77%); WAR ON TERROR (77%); FUNDAMENTALISM (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (62%)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (62%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (62%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (97%) INDIAN OCEAN (71%) PAKISTAN (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



963 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1466 words

HEADLINE: The 90's Wars 

BYLINE:  By Jane Perlez; Jane Perlez is the chief diplomatic correspondent of The Times.

 BODY:
 WAR IN A TIME OF PEACE
Bush, Clinton, and the Generals.
By David Halberstam.
543 pp. New York:
Scribner. $28.
 In "War in a Time of Peace," David Halberstam carves out an ambitious agenda: to describe how former President Bill Clinton and, to a lesser extent, the first President George Bush dealt with the foreign policy challenges of the 1990's. Halberstam's central thesis is damning. In an era when Americans were feeling fat and happy at home, he says, the United States at the zenith of its power was reluctant to commit itself abroad. Halberstam shrewdly writes that for Clinton, the brilliant politician with his finger always on the people's pulse, foreign policy was "an inconvenience, something that might pull him away from his primary job at hand -- domestic issues, above all the economy."
It is almost 30 years since Halberstam demystified another foreign policy establishment in "The Best and the Brightest," explaining how the hubris of those men got the United States into the Vietnam War, the most bitter of conflicts. His latest work, a sprawling tapestry of exquisite bottom-up reporting and powerful vignettes, is conceived as a bookend to that earlier volume. Many of the people at the White House, State Department and Pentagon who dealt with Bosnia, Somalia, Rwanda, Haiti and finally Kosovo were personally touched one way or another by the Vietnam War, Halberstam explains. Some, like Clinton, avoided the draft. Others, like two of his major foreign policy spokesmen, Anthony Lake and Richard C. Holbrooke, were young diplomats in Saigon. Still others, like Colin L. Powell and Wesley K. Clark, served in the military. By the 1990's these were the people on top of the heap, conducting policy and mindful always of that earlier disaster. Still, Halberstam is smart enough to avoid concluding that the memory of Vietnam drove the major military decisions of the Clinton administration or, as it turned out in some cases, the nondecisions.
Halberstam's narrative opens with what many Americans considered the successful outcome of the Persian Gulf war. He points out that President Bush got little electoral bounce from that first high-tech, low-casualty victory, and that this was a lesson Clinton never forgot. Halberstam quickly moves on to Bosnia, a different kind of conflict. That war, he says, tested the United States' commitment to moral goals in its foreign policy rather than simply to considerations of national security. Bosnia, Halberstam writes, created a new political constituency in America, one "driven by a memory that connected these events to the atrocities of the Nazis and therefore demanded that other nations ask themselves what their larger purpose was."
Halberstam then proceeds to show that Washington preferred not to think about larger purposes, and that the new political constituency he describes lacked clout. In one chilling example, he recounts how Richard Johnson, the State Department desk officer for the Balkans in the spring of 1992, went to a special interagency briefing where he saw satellite pictures of Serbian artillery and antiaircraft emplacements above Sarajevo. The briefing officer, who had been through the gulf war, expressed surprise at how brazen the gun positions were. When Johnson asked how difficult it would be to take them out, the answer was simple: a day and a half of American air attacks. Johnson, Halberstam reports, dutifully wrote a one-page memo to a superior two ranks above him. He heard nothing. And when he finally did get a response, he was rapped on the knuckles for daring to send the memo on high, and for venturing into territory that belonged to the military. 
Similarly, Halberstam says, the senior echelons of the State Department did not want to know about Serbian atrocities: the systematic execution of Muslim leaders, the detention of Muslim men in concentration camps, the wholesale rape of Muslim women. As Washington dithered over the definition of genocide, Slobodan Milosevic, the Serbian president, was allowed to proceed apace in a war that killed more than 200,000 people. 
And it was not just the American government that didn't want to know. In a fitting digression on a subject he well understands from writing "The Powers That Be," his book on the media barons, Halberstam illustrates how the Clinton administration was abetted by the television networks in its hear-no-evil, see-no-evil foreign policy. Just as newspapers were exposing the Serbian atrocities, and an upstart (but not widely watched) television outfit, CNN, was covering them, experienced network war correspondents languished in their expensive European bureaus, unable to get pocket change from their superiors to travel to Bosnia. All this was of a piece with Clinton's recognition that the American people were not eager to know about the persecution of minorities abroad. 
While the main foreign policy event of the book is the violent disintegration of the former Yugoslavia, Halberstam also covers Somalia, Rwanda and Haiti. Of these three, he is best on Somalia, appreciating that the idea of turning a swath of desert inhabited by proud warrior nomads into an emerging democracy with the help of American troops was a lost cause from the start. Ambassador Robert Oakley, dispatched to Somalia as a sort of proconsul by Bush during the famine and then on hand later for a clean-up operation under Clinton, knew from his Vietnam experience that "nation-building imposed in the third world at gunpoint" made no sense. Halberstam agrees. The main proponent for the democracy project in Somalia was Madeleine K. Albright, then the United States representative at the United Nations and one of the senior officials without Vietnam experience. 
In his final chapters Halberstam turns to Kosovo, the immaculate air war conducted from altitudes of 15,000 feet. Here, he expands on one of his important themes: the military's aversion to intervening in smaller wars and ethnic conflicts that posed little threat to American power. Compounding the difficulties presented by the Pentagon was the fact that Clinton was ill at ease with his senior military officers, and they with him. Halberstam notes that Powell, who was chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff for the first nine months of Clinton's tenure and the most resistant of military interventionists, intimidated the new president. (Did Powell play a subtle game with Clinton? Halberstam reports that it was Powell who gave Clinton "Balkan Ghosts," by Robert Kaplan, the book that Clinton often cited as a persuasive reason for not intervening in Bosnia.) 
Halberstam skillfully covers the already well-reported clashes between Secretary of Defense William Cohen and the commander of NATO forces, General Clark, over the use of ground troops in Kosovo. But he underplays a result of not using those troops: that Milosevic was emboldened to send some 40,000 Serbian forces into Kosovo for ethnic cleansing, leading to the expulsion of nearly a million Albanians. 
Halberstam is never a strident writer, but he does tend to overwrite, sometimes to the point of repetition. And the purr of his narrative while describing bureaucratic disputes in Washington sometimes masks the devastating effects of those squabbles in the field. The insider gossip, obviously garnered from gold-plated sources (but not from Clinton, who even out of office declined to see him), is always entertaining. Picture Vernon Jordan, brought in by President-elect Clinton to sharpen up the 1992 transition, using locker room language to tell the ineffably polite Warren Christopher, who wants to be secretary of state but is too timid to ask, that he has one last chance to put his name forward. At the same time, Halberstam can be maddeningly generous. He tends to balance the motives and actions of people in power rather than daring to hold them accountable. He agrees, for example, with Albright's contention that she was never fully accepted by her peers in the Clinton administration because she was a woman. Who knows the truth, but surely there were other factors as well. And he tosses a big bouquet to Holbrooke (with whom he acknowledges in his notes a "warm friendship"), saying that after Holbrooke's stint as United Nations representative he "emerged as something of a star, and the role was becoming to him."
In a way, "War in a Time of Peace" will be an interesting test case for Americans. Over the past decade Americans were absorbed in themselves. Now that foreign affairs have come home to the United States in the most crushing of ways, are they ready to read an account of foreign policy and its makers by one of the most astute writers in the trade? If they want to learn from the past decade, they should. If they want to think seriously about the future, they must.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Boris Kulikov) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VIETNAM WAR (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); DESERT STORM (79%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (74%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); VIET NAM (87%); KOSOVO (79%); VIETNAM (79%); RWANDA (79%); HAITI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



964 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Style Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: OFF OFF FIFTH; 
Nothing Chapeau Is Alien to Her

BYLINE:  By RUTH LA FERLA

 BODY:
FUR trappers, tulle-swathed toques, floppy J-Lo fedoras -- hats of every ilk and shape beguile Eugenia Kim. On Wednesday afternoon Ms. Kim, a hat designer, prowled Archangel Antiques, a purveyor of vintage clothing and accessories at 334 East Ninth Street in Manhattan, poking into nooks and alcoves in search of the whimsical shapes that inspire her designs.
 Like a toddler in a candy shop, Ms. Kim, who makes and sells hats at her store on East Fourth Street, careered from shelf to shelf, sampling and slipping on her own eccentric favorites. Within minutes, she had tried and discarded a brocade turban, a rabbit felt tricorn, a straw sailor hat and a taupe felt beret, finally settling on a black lacquered straw cocktail hat of 1940's provenance, to which she attached a Bakelite cherry brooch. 
 "So much black, you need a little touch of color," Ms. Kim said, alluding less to the hat than to the fall fashion collections, which she found somber and badly in need of the whimsy that only a hat can provide.
It's a hat year, as Ms. Kim well knows. There's no better time to scour New York's vintage stores for ideas and inspiration, and she is not the first to have done so. Style-setting celebrities like Jennifer Lopez and Nicole Kidman have been quick to make hats a raffish fashion insignia, wearing them everywhere and feeding a frenzy for floppy fedoras, uptight pillboxes and insouciant Dorothy Parker cloches, a favorite also of Ms. Kim. 
Variations on vintage themes proliferate these days on runways, in fashion ads and on store counters. Come next month, they will also be showcased in a raft of glossy magazines, like Vibe and Vogue, arriving not a moment to soon, as far as Ms. Kim is concerned.
"I was thinking that hats used to be an extraneous part of fashion," she said. No longer. "With fashion changing so little from season to season, kind of moving along on a continuum," hats, she noted, inject a welcome dose of novelty.
"In a recession," she added, "you could say hats are essential. You might not buy a lot of clothes, so a hat or two makes an instant and affordable wardrobe pick-me-up." 
"They can also be a political statement," she said, only half in jest, fingering a daisy trim from the 60's embroidered in red, white and blue. "You could use this as a headband," Ms. Kim suggested, promptly winding a length around her crown. "To me this says peace, love and patriotism." 
Moreover, hats can be infinitely flattering. "They're like shoes," she said. "You might not be able to fit into Kate Moss's dresses, but you can fit into her hats."
Ms. Kim, whose personal signature lately is a pink leather newsboy cap she wears six days a week, thinks of hats as a cosmetic. 
"I have no cheekbones, and I never learned to use eyeliner," she said. "A hat accents things that I don't have."
To make her point she put on a feathered cocktail hat -- the sort Grace Kelly might have worn -- and voila, instant contours. Next she slid on a fedora, tilted at a rakish angle. "I like showcasing one eye, like a monocle," Ms. Kim said with a laugh. 
Exhausting Archangel's quirky stock, she moved on to Anna, another vintage fashion and accessories shop, at 150 East Third. Her mission was to find designs she considers almost universally flattering. She was instantly smitten by a patchwork rabbit fur hat, a 60's relic that brought Julie Christie to mind. 
"This hat is really gorgeous," Ms. Kim exclaimed. "It has a little bit of height, it brings your face upward and makes almost everyone look like Audrey Hepburn." 
Fur hats, the romantic Zhivago types prevalent on the runways last spring, are staples in Ms. Kim's winter line. But other looks attract her, too. No hat, in fact, is too outrageous or perverse to escape her radar. Updating vintage style is mostly a matter of details, she said, emphasizing the point by placing a prim pillbox on her head. It was just the sort of thing she renders witty in her collection by adding feline features to the crown.
When wearing a hat, Ms. Kim advised, always consider the context. Never be literal, as in accenting a cocktail dress with a Schiaparelli toque. Wear the hat instead, she suggested, with a rock concert T-shirt, a pair of jeans and high-heeled boots. "You'll be the downtown version of a lady."
Articles in the Off Off Fifth series focus on stores and shopping expeditions that are out of the ordinary.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Eugenia Kim, hat designer and hat fanatic, slips on a brocade turban and a rakish fedora a la George Raft at Archangel Antiques, a vintage clothing boutique. At Anna, another vintage emporium, she tries a patchwork rabbit fur hat.; Ms. Kim admires the sculptured form of a 1940's straw cocktail hat, which might have stepped down from the screen in "Laura." (Photographs by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (90%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (78%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (77%); FASHION DESIGN (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: JENNIFER LOPEZ (78%); KATE MOSS (57%); NICOLE KIDMAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



965 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: FIVE QUESTIONS for MARILYN CARLSON NELSON; 
Now Make the Traveler Want to Travel

BYLINE:  By JULIE FLAHERTY

 BODY:
MARILYN CARLSON NELSON, the chairwoman and chief executive of the Carlson Companies, parent of the Radisson hotel chain and the Carlson Wagonlit travel agency chain, was among a group of travel executives who met last week with Donald L. Evans, the commerce secretary, to seek relief from the travel crisis caused by the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
 Though the airline industry has won a multibillion-dollar rescue package from Congress, the travel and tourism industry has its own relief request that includes tax incentives for travelers and expanded loans for small businesses like travel agencies. Mrs. Nelson spoke in a telephone interview on Thursday. JULIE FLAHERTY 

Q. How will financial inducements help if people fear terrorism?

A. The federal government is moving very quickly on safety and security issues. The very fact that the government will give incentives to people to travel has the next step of assuring them that it is O.K. to travel. We have Transportation Secretary Norman Y. Mineta and others traveling on commercial airlines to demonstrate their confidence in the safety of air travel. Then we need the shot, the boost, the short-term, one-time incentive that says Americans can take a trip and save a job. We have two wars going on, a war on terrorism and an economic war.

Q. Was the decision to provide emergency aid to the airlines a dangerous precedent?

A. It was a legitimate move to save an absolutely essential industry that was on the brink of bankruptcy. We just believe that it was a short-term fix. With the package we are proposing, it is also clearly short term. We're asking for the federal government to jump-start consumer demand. The industry will compete for those dollars. The industry will start advertising again. No one is talking to the traveler about traveling. Instead, people are looking at how to reduce their costs. We've got to stop that before we have all those people on unemployment.

Q. If the government doesn't provide the kind of help you seek, what will the travel industry do on its own to survive?

A. You can still do promotions, but it doesn't give you the stimulus you need to get back at full force. There isn't any question that all of us will do what we can to create pricing that provides incentives. It could put a few heads in beds, which is great, but it really isn't enough and it's not soon enough. But if we were to do this tax incentive, it allows corporations to use some of the money they might use to create cash flow, to create advertising, to do the packaging and to keep the employees on the payroll.

Q. How long do you think it will take the travel industry to recover from this crisis?

A. If we could get the stimulus so that by Thanksgiving we have Americans getting back together for family reunions, certainly we could be back pretty close to normal by the end of 2002. If we could get the stimulus soon so that people can see that they should be investing their money in advertising and incentives, it could be back as early as the first or second quarter of next year. If there is military reaction or some further retaliation, that could dramatically impact things. But we cannot afford to sit back and wait. If we do, the fundamental fabric of our society will be put at risk. So many people in this industry will lose their jobs.

Q. The travel industry has survived for decades despite wars and other disasters. What's different now?

A. The industry has survived, but the industry has never been as significant a part of the global economy as it is now. Travel and tourism on a global basis generated $3.5 trillion in activity in 2000. That represented 12 percent of the global economic activity of the world. In the United States, we used to be an agrarian economy and then we were an industrial economy, and of course people traveled, but they didn't travel far; we didn't have the investment in infrastructure for travel. Travel and tourism has emerged as America's third-largest retail sales industry. Never in history has travel, tourism, hospitality or lodging accounted for such an enormous impact.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marilyn Carlson Nelson 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AGENTS (91%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (90%); TERRORISM (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LODGING (78%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (77%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (76%); AIRLINES (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); TAX LAW (76%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (70%); TAX INCENTIVES (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); THANKSGIVING (60%); TOURISM (56%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (55%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

COMPANY: CARLSON COS INC (96%); CARLSON WAGONLIT TRAVEL INC (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (96%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (96%)

PERSON: MARILYN CARLSON NELSON (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



966 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2437 words

HEADLINE: After the Fall, A Tech Star Stays Scrappy 

BYLINE:  By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
SCOTT G. McNEALY came to New York last week for a product announcement, not a memorial service. 
 Yet before the audience of customers, industry analysts and journalists was told of Sun Microsystems' new computers on Tuesday, Mr. McNealy -- Sun's chairman and chief executive -- spoke briefly of Philip Rosenzweig. A software senior engineer and manager, Mr. Rosenzweig, 47, had worked for Sun for more than a decade. His only mistake, Mr. McNealy said, was that "he got on the wrong airplane," American Airlines Flight 11 from Boston on the morning of Sept. 11. As Mr. McNealy mentioned Mr. Rosenzweig's surviving wife and two children by name, his voice broke and he turned aside and sobbed. "I know thousands of people are lost," he said, "but it's so personal." 
 Mr. McNealy recovered quickly, and after a moment's silence in honor of Mr. Rosenzweig, he returned to computers once more. As Sun's president, Edward J. Zander, who next took the stage, explained, "We need to get back to business." 
For Sun and companies across the nation, that promises to be a struggle economically as well as emotionally. In the vast, diverse $10 trillion economy of the United States, there is no such thing as a truly representative company. But Sun, an innovative stalwart of the computer industry, was one of the companies that fueled the technology-led economic boom of the 1990's, and this year Sun has been leading the way again -- downward, as its business eroded abruptly and alarmingly while the economy veered toward recession, even before Sept. 11.
Sun's experience in the last few weeks, and the challenges it is now facing, are shared by much of corporate America. The landscape of business has been shaken, as if by an earthquake, though one of uncertain force. Consumer confidence and business investment have fallen sharply, but the outlook depends much on what political and military -- and possibly terrorist -- actions lie ahead. The virtual halt of business activity in the week immediately after the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon has passed, and companies and workers are indeed getting back to business. Still, it is by no means business as usual.
Like many companies, Sun has been hurt, even touched, by the tragedy, but not devastated. Its New York offices, far from the corporate headquarters in Silicon Valley, occupied the 25th and 26th floors of the south tower of the World Trade Center, and all of its 346 New York employees got out safely. Sun is also a major supplier of technology to the financial industry, including firms like Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch and Citigroup's Salomon Smith Barney, all of whom had offices that were destroyed or damaged.
So Sun's suddenly displaced workers dusted themselves off, then scrambled to get Wall Street up and trading again. At times, the company's sales and technical managers even drove trucks filled with replacement computers to clients trying to relocate and revive their operations. In the immediate aftermath of Sept. 11, the New York product introduction -- eventually held last week at the Hudson Theater in Midtown Manhattan -- had been scrapped. Sun had arranged to move the event to San Francisco. But after reflection, and prodded by Mr. Zander, a Brooklyn native, the Sun marketing team was persuaded to go to New York after all -- partly by leasing three private jets so that the staff, fearful for its security, would not have to fly on commercial airlines.
NOW, as the business climate worsens, Sun's executives must rethink their plans and probably retool the company, yet still try to maintain the loyalty and enthusiasm of the work force. Leadership, more than ever, is a delicate balancing act -- attending to the new worries of traumatized employees but also preparing them for the harsh business realities ahead.
Mr. McNealy did both in an afternoon meeting last Tuesday with Sun's work force in New York. At 46, he is known as a combative, outspoken executive given to glib insults aimed at rivals and their products (he calls Microsoft's Windows a "hairball" of software) and spirited declarations of his libertarian conservative views that extol the virtues of Darwinian capitalism. Friends and colleagues say that to understand Mr. McNealy's personality, it helps to note that his preferred recreation is hockey and, they add, to watch the way he plays. He just keeps shooting at the goal, always on the attack. He's tough, relentless and single-minded.
It was a different Mr. McNealy, though, who began the employees' gathering by observing that some of them had seen and lived through things that no one should have to experience. "Don't be hard on yourselves," he told them. "Give yourself time to heal, and understand that some these wounds may never heal.
"Remember, there are 40,000 people around the company who are dying to help in some way." Mr. McNealy continued. "Send an e-mail, reach out for help either professionally or personally. And include Eddie and me," he said, referring to Mr. Zander.
Mr. McNealy, who in 1982 helped to found Sun, spoke of the company as a "family" in a way that seemed heartfelt. "You're all my heroes," he told them. "I'm so relieved that you're all here and safe."
"This all makes an economic recession not so much to deal with," he said. "It sort of puts everything in perspective, huh?"
Later, Mr. McNealy shifted gears, addressing the effect of Sept. 11 on Sun's business. Things were bad before, and they were now certain to become worse.
Sun has weathered downturns in the past without shedding workers. Throughout this year, as one technology company after another announced layoffs and downsizing programs, Sun resisted. It held on to its 43,000 employees worldwide and maintained its research and development spending, the corporate seed corn for the future. Instead, Sun cut down on travel, off-site meetings and eliminated the free bagels and doughnuts on Wednesday mornings, a company tradition. It has pared its real estate expenses by consolidating offices and setting up thousands of employees to work mainly from home. It urged Sun workers to take extra, unpaid vacation.
Previously, Sun executives thought the steep fall in the business had bottomed out. Those hopes have been dashed. "That's one of the reasons I'm so mad about what's happened," Mr. McNealy told the employees.
"My last resort is taking people out of their jobs," he said. "It's not about the stock options anymore. It's about the medical coverage, the dental coverage, the salary, the self-respect and knowing that you're contributing."
After the quarter ends today, Mr. McNealy, Mr. Zander and Sun's other top executives will go over the financial results -- numbers that will certainly make grim reading. The executive team, Mr. McNealy explained, will then try to assess the outlook for the next three to six months. And, he said, they will make some "very, very tough calls."
"There is no policy at Sun that says no layoffs," Mr. McNealy said. "So go work hard. There are still a few days left in the quarter. Make some sales and ship it."
YET a flurry of orders in the last few days of the current quarter will not help Sun, or other companies, very much. The day after Mr. McNealy spoke, Laura Conigliaro of Goldman, Sachs sharply scaled back her estimates of Sun's financial results for the July-September quarter to levels that "even in my wildest nightmare I never would have imagined" a short time ago.
In the last few months, Ms. Conigliaro, a leading computer analyst who has followed Sun for years, had reduced her estimates of the company's sales for the quarter to less than $3.3 billion from $3.7 billion. Last Wednesday, she reduced her sales figure to $2.8 billion, and she now estimates that Sun will lose $210 million in the quarter. For comparison, Sun reported profits of $510 million on sales of more than $5 billion in the same quarter a year ago. On Sept. 28, 2000, Sun's stock closed at $61.81 a share. On Friday, a year later to the day, it closed at $8.27.
Layoffs, Ms. Conigliaro said, now appear inevitable. She does not expect Sun to return to profitability until the first quarter of 2002. Still, she sounds optimistic about Sun's long-term prospects. The company, she noted, supplies the computers and software that help power corporate computer networks and the Internet. Sun has emerged from recessions in the past, typically stronger than ever. Sun, she said, is a sound company, strategically, managerially and technologically. "This is an important company," she said, "and it will come back."
In the last few weeks, business all but came to a halt for Sun, as it did for so many companies.
Mr. Zander is the president, but also one of the company's most effective salesmen. In a sense, Mr. Zander and Mr. McNealy personify the aggressive sales culture at Sun, while Bill Joy, a founder and the chief scientist, represents the research culture at the company, which has delivered a steady stream of innovations, including Java, the Internet programming language.
Never in his career, the 53-year-old Mr. Zander recalled, had he experienced anything quite like the week after Sept. 11. "It was scary," he said. He returned from work one day and told his wife, Mona, "I don't think anybody on the planet is buying a computer." His calendar was totally clean, all executive-level appointments canceled by mutual consent. "It would have been bad taste to knock on doors and ask if they wanted to buy computers," he said.
In the last 10 days, however, Mr. Zander began making sales calls again, on the West Coast and in New York. In the first 15 to 30 minutes of each meeting, he said, each side would tell its story, how the business and its people had been affected by Sept. 11. But then, Mr. Zander said, the talks turned to how the big retailer, manufacturer, media company or government agency planned to deploy information technology in the future and what role Sun might play.
The days are gone when established companies invested in technology at a furious, if not thoughtless, pace out of fear that some Internet start-up might soon put them out of business. "People thought the Internet was a business, but it's not -- it's a technology," said Mr. Zander, whose company benefited enormously from the misconception. These days, the conversations with corporate executives are about how to use computing to streamline supply channels, tighten relationships with customers, cut costs and improve productivity.
In a recession, Mr. Zander said, companies will stretch out their spending plans. "But I am encouraged because what I don't hear is companies saying they are going to turn away from information technology and computers as a crucial tool of business," he said.
There will be a few difficult quarters ahead, he said, and perhaps it will be a year before strong growth returns. "But I still think this is a great industry that is going to grow faster than others," Mr. Zander said. "Nothing that has happened, not even this disaster, has changed that."
The one place where there was a sudden surge of business after Sept. 11 was on Wall Street. Sun's computers and software animate the stock and bond trading desks of many of the big brokerage houses and investment banks. Sun and its employees played a big role in getting Wall Street up and trading again within days of the attacks, from alternate sites after operations in Lower Manhattan were destroyed.
Merrill Lynch, a big Sun customer, had to have its replacement trading floor in Jersey City ready by Sunday morning, Sept. 16 -- for scheduled testing to ensure that trading on the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq could resume the next morning. The Sun account team scrambled to arrange for $15 million of equipment to be shipped in from around the country. To speed the deliveries from the West Coast, Sun put two drivers in each tractor-trailer, so that they could drive without stopping.
Some 40 desktop computers were pulled out of a Sun sales and engineering office in Burlington, Mass. With drivers in short supply and time running out, two people in the New York office, Leslie Maher, a sales manager, and Michael Yenke, a technical specialist, went to Massachusetts and drove the computer-filled truck to New Jersey themselves. They arrived in Jersey City at 5:30 a.m. Saturday.
Another Sun customer, Lehman Brothers, had its offices in the World Trade Center and its data center nearby. Lehman also had to set up a new data center in Jersey City, and Chris Wojie, a Sun manager, led a team of 15 people that, working with a reseller, delivered and installed $14 million worth of equipment -- more than 130 data-serving computers. At Salomon Smith Barney, a Sun team of 25, led by Irwin Morrisey and Steve Nichols, arranged for more than 100 Sun server computers to be shipped in and installed.
"There were no purchase orders or anything for those shipments," said Raymond Tellalian, a vice president in New York who is in charge of Sun's financial services unit. "Our people just went out and got it done. The billing and the paperwork could wait."
IN a crisis, the Sun employees were practicing an often-repeated credo at Sun: Better to ask forgiveness than seek denial. Occasionally, Mr. McNealy, a Harvard graduate with a Stanford M.B.A., has denied saying it. Yet anyone who has been at Sun a while regards it as an implicit tenet of its irreverent, entrepreneurial culture -- one nurtured by and reflected in Mr. McNealy, who, incidentally, named his son Maverick.
Last Thursday, Mr. McNealy ventured to the tip of Manhattan to call on a few customers. Mostly, he heard words of appreciation. "I can't say enough about what your people did," Don Alecci, a managing director of Citigroup's technology group, told him, "when you consider that they narrowly escaped a collapsing building themselves, and then worked around the clock to get our trading operations up and running again."
While walking through the financial district, Mr. McNealy offered his thoughts on what lies ahead. "It's going to be tough, personally, for a lot of people," he said. "And we're facing a tough couple of quarters, our company and the economy. But you've got to keep the faith. This economy is going to come back, and so is Sun. And every day that something bad doesn't happen, people are getting back to business -- dealing with life."
Later, Mr. McNealy went up to the barricades a short distance from the ruins of the trade center. The site was still smoldering, and an acrid smell hung in the air. Gazing at the devastation, he said: "Geez, that used to be our offices. Unbelievable. Makes you mad, doesn't it?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Scott G. McNealy, chief executive of Sun, faces decisions that could include layoffs. (Associated Press)(pg. 1); Scott G. McNealy near the trade center's ruins. Sun workers escaped from the center, but one died in a hijacked plane. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg. 12) Chart: "Sun at a Glance" CHIEF EXECUTIVE -- Scott G. McNealyHEADQUARTERS -- Palo Alto, Calif.EMPLOYEES -- 43,300. Of the total, 346 worked in offices on the 25th and 26th floors of the World Trade Center's south tower.2000 SALES -- $15.8 billion2000 NET INCOME -- $1.9 billionMAJOR WALL STREET CUSTOMERS -- Citigroup (Salomon Smith Barney), Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch Graphs shows STOCK PRICES, WEEKLY SALES, and NET INCOME figures from April 2000-Sept. 2001. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LAYOFFS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RECESSION (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (70%); TERRORISM (70%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); AIRLINES (55%) COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: ORACLE AMERICA INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (55%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%); CITIGROUP INC (53%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC (SUNW) 

TICKER: C (NYSE) (53%); C (BMV) (53%); 8710 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (58%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%) SIC7378 COMPUTER MAINTENANCE & REPAIR; SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: EDWARD J ZANDER (79%) MCNEALY, SCOTT G 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (86%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



967 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1562 words

HEADLINE: An Act Of Terror Reshapes The Globe 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL WINES

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
EN route to Spain to marry Prince Pedro of Castille in 1348, England's Princess Joan foolishly paused in plague-ridden Bordeaux, fell ill and died, dooming an English-Spanish alliance that could have remade Europe. A Serbian madman murdered an Austrian archduke in 1914, and the echoes of that deed -- World War I, an imperial carving-up of the Middle East, totalitarianism's rise -- still resound nine decades later.
 Tragedy is history's pivot. The question now, as a single breathtaking act of horror cracks old alliances and snaps together unlikely new ones in their place, is whether a modern madman has swung history onto a new axis, with ramifications far from his own intentions. 
 Underscore "whether," for this is, literally, history in the making. 
But to grasp how profound these tectonics are -- and how unpredictable -- look first at Moscow. It is no exaggeration to say that the events of Sept. 11 may be delivering what Peter the Great, the empress Catherine and President Boris N. Yeltsin could not: a Russian state anchored solidly in the West, for the first time in a millennium. By shattering the notion of a sole American superpower that could single-handedly build global stability and prosperity, those events may have removed the biggest obstacle to Russia's final integration with the West.
President Vladimir V. Putin, until now everyone's friend and no one's ally, jumped decisively off the fence last week with a string of offers to assist the Western-led campaign against terrorism. Most striking, he dropped Russian objections to the deployment of American and other NATO counterterrorism forces in Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and elsewhere in Russia's Central Asian sphere of influence.
A month ago, the notion of allowing American troops on former Soviet soil would have been politically suicidal; even after the Sept. 11 attacks, Mr. Putin's own defense minister declared it unthinkable.
Mr. Putin not only did it, but hinted that Russians might eventually join the battle, depending on how relations with the West develop. "Nobody has asked us," he told German journalists. "We can't be more Catholic than the Pope."
Mr. Putin, of course, was not being munificent. His commitments sprang from a calculation that suppressing terrorism furthers Russia's own interests -- particularly in Chechnya, where Islamic extremists lead a guerrilla revolt, but also along the nation's Muslim southern border, where extremism threatens to take root.
But that is exactly the point. Students of history who call themselves realists say that commitments based on vital interests, despite differences about ideals, can be the most profound.
And the Sept. 11 attack opened opportunities for Mr. Bush too. He and his advisers have long derided nation-building and the advancement of human rights abroad. Under President Clinton, those goals hurt relations with Russia, China and other less than democratic countries whose support the Bush administration now wants. Since Sept. 11, the logic of war has freed Mr. Bush to make those missions expendable as he pursues something the Russians can truly understand: a no-holds-barred fight against enemies.
Indeed, President Putin extracted a fee for Russia's support. Within days, the United States and Germany lined up behind a Kremlin demand that rebels in Chechnya lay down their arms, pointedly omitting the West's standard criticism of human-rights abuses there by Russian troops. The United States also hopes to accelerate Russia's admission to the World Trade Organization, the American trade representative, Robert O. Zoellick, said here on Friday.
Most of all, Mr. Putin himself has begun pushing publicly for a Western unthinkable: Russian admission to NATO. And while that seems unlikely any time soon, some other formal security arrangement between the West and Moscow seems likely -- and given the developing campaign against terrorism, desirable.
"I don't want to overstate it, to make it too poetic," Robert Legvold, a Columbia University historian and Russia scholar, said. "But this is the first time since Dec. 7, 1941, in which the United States and Russia have in fact had potentially a common enemy, which allows us to band together and overlook those things that divide us. In those days, very fundamental things divided us, and in the end we couldn't sustain the relationship. This may be the first case in which we have what might be called a transcendent common enemy." 
And, he might have added, no deep ideological fight over how to organize the human race.
The enemy has opened the way for reassessments in other alliances and rivalries around the world. Consider Pakistan, the American ally that essentially engineered the Taliban's rise to power in Afghanistan and now finds itself in an excruciating bind. Before Sept. 11, American policy there focused on one goal: averting nuclear war between India and Pakistan.
Since Sept. 11, nothing has been the same. India has come out forcefully against terrorism in Afghanistan. Pakistan, its military and intelligence ranks riddled with Taliban sympathizers, struggles to maintain its American alliance without triggering a coup or popular revolt. In Washington, economic sanctions stemming from the nuclear competition have been lifted, and even part of Pakistan's foreign debt burden eased. But how the new partnerships with Washington will complicate -- or perhaps clarify -- the long-range goal of pacifying the subcontinent is anybody's guess.
Or consider Iran. Long branded by Washington as the world's leading state sponsor of terrorism, Tehran turns out to have a redeeming quality: it despises Osama bin Laden and the Taliban's extreme fundamentalism almost as much as the United States does.
NOW, American policy makers have been debating whether to try once more to thaw relations with Iran. And Iran's theocratic rulers, for all their stinging words about America, have not ruled out joining an antiterrorist coalition, provided the United States does not lead it.
Or consider the former Soviet states that border Afghanistan -- Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and others -- many of which are racked by their own pro-Taliban insurgencies. Last July, a State Department official warned that their aid could be in jeopardy because many are led by autocrats. Since Sept. 11, Turkmenistan has opened its airspace to American humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan, and Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan have agreed to open airfields to Western military forces. 
Finally, consider the common element in these equations, the United States. Before Sept. 11, the White House had unilaterally abandoned or rejected a string of international accords and placed dues payment to the United Nations on a back burner.
Since Sept. 11, Congress has suddenly ratified the long-delayed nominee for ambassador to the United Nations and moved to pay arrears to the United Nations. Secretary of State Colin Powell, who stands out in this administration as a multilateralist, has swept past go-it-aloners to the forefront of American foreign policy. Missile defense seems to have lost its center-stage position at the White House.
In one way or another, the depth and permanence of these changes depend to a large extent on the United States and Russia. Mr. Putin appears to see Europe as Russia's eventual home, but Europe looks to the United States for guidance.
American-Russian relations have been adrift for at least eight years, plagued by Washington's deep mistrust of the Russian commitment to democracy and Moscow's bottomless suspicion that America seeks, in its heart, to rule the world.
That suspicion still runs deep in the Kremlin and in Russian society at large, and there is no guarantee that Mr. Putin can tame it. And Russia's alliance with the West could yet prove a feint.
On Washington's part, there is no guarantee that the White House can navigate a foreign-policy minefield in which too much prudence renders its war on terrorism impotent, and too little unleashes a backlash from Moscow and others against American hegemony.
Still, it is a moment to stand in awe before the potential for change. It is possible that a shared commitment to eradicating terrorism could override mistrusts and salve a host of other irritants -- including with China, which has its own problems with Islamic separatists and is a potential ally in any international campaign against terror.
Dmitri Trenin, a Carnegie Endowment scholar whose recent book, "The End of Eurasia," examines Russia's prospects for a westward turn, likens Russia's position now to Britain's after World War II.
The British came late to the realization that they were no longer an empire and could not conduct a global policy without American help. The events of Sept. 11, Mr. Trenin said, give Russia a unique opportunity to gracefully put aside its own superpower legacy and assume its new logical role: as an important, if junior, partner in a Western alliance stretching from Vancouver to Vladivostok.
"It's really a godsend situation, in which the Russians could turn to the West on an issue on which the West, Russia and China basically have the same position," he said. "This was a tragedy out of all proportion imaginable in the post-cold-war era. But if it leads us to take a more realistic view of ourselves and the world around us, then it would be truly historic." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRITISH ROYALTY (90%); TERRORISM (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (86%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (86%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); WORLD WAR I (77%); HISTORY (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WAR ON TERROR (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%); ARMED FORCES (63%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); RELIGION (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (79%); BILL CLINTON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (92%); ENGLAND (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EUROPE (91%); ASIA (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); GERMANY (78%); AUSTRIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



968 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Under Siege, Chirac Gets Political Lift From Crisis 

BYLINE:  By SUZANNE DALEY

DATELINE: PARIS, Sept. 29 

 BODY:
Just weeks ago, President Jacques Chirac was looking beleaguered, heading into a re-election campaign with a pack of corruption-busting judges nipping at his heels.
 But all that seems like history, at least for now. The terror attacks in the United States have swiftly altered the political landscape here, sweeping scandal stories off the front pages and giving Mr. Chirac a political lift. 
 Rushing to Washington to meet with President Bush and then to New York to grieve with Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mr. Chirac has been able to reinvigorate his presidential image and drive home his experience as an international player.
One national poll last week found that his popularity ratings had soared 17 points. Nearly 75 percent of those surveyed said they had confidence in his ability to handle the problems France might face. And political strategists say that the outcome of elections next March may be profoundly changed by the events of Sept. 11.
Members of Mr. Chirac's conservative Rally for the Republic party who have struggled in recent months to defend their leader in the face of mounting evidence of corruption when he was mayor of Paris were virtually gloating this week, saying that voters would be sure to notice that Mr. Chirac's likely opponent, the Socialist prime minister Lionel Jospin, has had little experience on the world stage.
"The game has completely changed," said Jean-Louis Debre , the leader of the R.P.R. in the National Assembly. "The French are going to be looking for a head of state now, not just a gang leader." 
Several newspapers here even carried articles saying that members of Mr. Chirac's entourage were now so sure of a big victory next year that they even had begun squabbling over which posts they wanted in the new government. "On the question of morale," one party official told the daily Liberation, "we no longer need to pump it up. "
The Socialists, on the other hand, are muttering to columnists that there is not much they can do right now. Criticizing the president in a time of crisis is unlikely to score them points in the eyes of the electorate. "It is just not our week," one of Mr. Jospin's advisers told Le Monde.
France holds presidential elections in March and parliamentary elections later in the year. If the same party is in charge of the presidency and Parliament, the president is a powerful figure. But if, as now, they are controlled by different parties, the prime minister has considerable sway, for instance over the economy. So Mr. Chirac and Mr. Jospin would aim to win the presidency and carry their party to control of Parliament. 
Mr. Chirac is not the only European leader to appear to be benefiting from the crisis. Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain and Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany have both improved their political standing in recent weeks. 
But Mr. Chirac may be in the best position to benefit. Mr. Jospin has other problems, too, including an ever-worsening economic outlook, a messy internal fight in the French Green Party and what looks like the unraveling of his efforts to bring peace to Corsica. 
Mr. Chirac could still face new trouble on the scandal front. Investigators would like to question him about illicit party financing schemes, fake jobs for party officials and how he got some $400,000 in cash to pay for luxury trips for himself and his entourage in the early 1990's. A court is supposed to rule on his immunity from questioning next week. 
Mr. Jospin remains popular, though he now trails the president in most polls by 5 to 10 points. But the road ahead looks harder and harder for Mr. Jospin, who six months ago looked as if he might roll to victory on the strength of the government's successful management of the economy since 1997.
Since then, unemployment has started to rise again, and prospects of rosy economic growth have been clouded by a global economic slowdown.
The Green Party, a member of Mr. Jospin's governing coalition, is in turmoil, having chosen a presidential candidate, Alain Lipietz, who sinks further in the polls by the day. 
This week, party officials made it clear that they were trying to figure out a way to get rid of Mr. Lipietz, a former Maoist, but it was unclear who might replace him. The most likely candidate, Noel Mamere, who had hoped to be chosen as the candidate but lost to Mr. Lipietz, has said he is no longer interested.
Mr. Jospin's bold effort to 25 years of violence in Corsica began to look like it was falling apart this week. The nationalist parties, to protest recent arrests of militants, withdrew support for a plan that would have given the island limited autonomy in return for peace. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); WRITERS (76%); TERRORISM (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (70%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (58%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); GERHARD SCHRODER (50%); TONY BLAIR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



969 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: ALLIES; 
Worldwide Antiterror Coalition Will Be Shifting, Loose and Anything but Grand

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS JEHL

DATELINE: CAIRO, Sept. 29 

 BODY:
Asked by President Bush to choose sides in the war on terrorism, most of the world has chosen to side with the West, but not without adding the kind of caveats bound to create fault lines in an American-led coalition.
 The demand by Mr. Bush in his address to Congress nine days ago could not have been more clear. "Every nation in every region now has a decision to make," he said. "Either you are with us or you are with the terrorists." 
 But as countries have stepped forward, their responses have left somewhat murky just what that coalition might look like, something that the Bush administration itself has acknowledged in recent days as it seemed to scale back its vision of just what an antiterror grouping might be. 
Instead of "a grand alliance," Donald H. Rumsfeld, the defense secretary, wrote in an Op-Ed article in The New York Times on Thursday, "it will involve floating coalitions of countries, which may change and evolve."
Coupled with early responses from around the world, the administration's statements indicate that the emerging alliance may be much more pragmatic than perhaps the one first envisioned. 
Of course, in response to Mr. Bush's demand for a decision, no state -- not even Afghanistan -- has dared to raise a pro-terrorism banner. With a swift unanimity that would have been hard to imagine even a decade ago, the world's other big powers -- Europe, Russia, China and Japan -- have all voiced support for the fight.
But some countries that could play important roles, like Iran and Syria, have rebelled against an American-led campaign. 
For now, diplomats say, the United States appears well on the way to winning what may be most urgent: the support of neighboring countries like Pakistan and Uzbekistan for military operations in Afghanistan, a safe haven for Osama bin Laden. 
Just as important, the Americans have also gained crucial help, particularly in Europe but also from some unexpected places, like Sudan, in efforts to track down suspects in the Sept. 11 attacks on the Pentagon and the World Trade Center.
But other backing has remained qualified by misgivings. In India and Pakistan, nuclear-armed foes, neither side is comfortable with being the other's bedfellow. In the Arab world, including Egypt, there is broad concern that a campaign on terrorism will win precedence over resolving what many see as its root, the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians.
If the Bush administration recognized how complicated this picture might be overseas, it did not spell it out at the time of Mr. Bush's address. But it has sought since to scale back expectations. 
At the same time, the White House has said that it has promised nothing in exchange for information or military help. But already, countries from Pakistan to Russia have benefited, and more rewards are expected, whether financial or political.
For Russia, that reward appeared to have come already in the form of much toned down criticism from Western countries of its war against Chechen separatists, whom Moscow has long characterized as terrorists. 
Pakistan, which has agreed to let the United States at least use its airspace, has already seen a lifting of the American economic sanctions imposed in 1998 because of its nuclear tests, along with a $135 million loan granted by the International Monetary Fund on Wednesday.
At the same time, the United States, Britain and Europe spent much of last week trying to assuage the concerns of Middle Eastern countries that an antiterrorist campaign would unfairly punish Muslims, and by week's end had won a strong pledge of support from King Abdullah of Jordan, who met with President Bush in the Oval Office.
For its part, Saudi Arabia has severed its diplomatic ties to the Taliban and "will not avoid its duty," according to the foreign minister, Prince Saud al-Faisal, suggesting that the kingdom would allow the United States to use an air base and command center there in military operations.
Another key country, Uzbekistan, which borders Afghanistan to the north, is expected to allow the United States to use its airfields for possible military action.
But the idea of American strikes on Afghanistan still stirs deep misgivings in the Muslim world. This is particularly so against the backdrop of the current conflict between Israel and the Palestinians, in which the Bush administration is widely perceived as having stood callously by as hundreds of Palestinians have been killed by Israeli troops.
In his meeting on Friday with King Abdullah, Mr. Bush made clear that he was aware of such concerns. But Arab officials have suggested that a breakdown of the shaky cease-fire between the two sides would make it more difficult for their countries to show support for antiterrorism actions, particularly if Israel were allowed to play any role.
"Obviously, these killings put us all in a very awkward position to say the least," said Sheik Abdullah bin Zaid al-Nahayan, the information minister of the United Arab Emirates. "Israel can't be a member of the coalition while they behave as terrorists against Palestinians."
Still, the Emirates was among many countries around the world that moved swiftly to freeze the bank accounts this week of the 27 people and organizations singled out by the United States for potential ties to Mr. bin Laden and his Al Qaeda network.
Outside the Middle East, Indonesia, the most populous Muslim nation with 210 million people, faces pehaps the most potential domestic complications. On a visit to President Bush, President Megawati Sukarnoputri pledged solidarity, but made no specific promises.
Among the surprises was support from Sudan, the site of a cruise missile attack after the 1998 United States Embassy bombings in Kenya and Tanzania. In a statement, the foreign minister, Mustafa Osman Ismail, said the country had "responded positively" to all American requests for information and assistance. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); TERRORISM (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (77%) UNITED STATES (96%); PAKISTAN (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); EUROPE (92%); EGYPT (79%); SYRIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CHINA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



970 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Democrats' Wish Lists Relegated to Back Burner 

BYLINE:  By ADAM CLYMER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 29 

 BODY:
From the long list of Democratic initiatives that Congress was considering before the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the majority leader, says he is confident now of passing only two measures -- and one is in trouble.
 While Mr. Daschle had strong hopes for legislation on education and mental health insurance, he consigned bills on patients' rights, larger farm subsidies and prescription drugs for the elderly to a "maybe" category or worse. 
 Mr. Daschle said in an interview that a bill to expand federal school aid in exchange for standards of achievement was likely to be passed. 
"There is a real chance we'll be able to finish," he said.
The bill is in a House-Senate conference, and leaders from both chambers plan to meet next week to deal with important differences.
This bill, Mr. Daschle said, is the only legislation unrelated to the terrorist attacks that President Bush has talked to him about since Sept. 11.
Mr. Daschle also said a bill might be enacted to require businesses that have 51 or more employees and offered mental health benefits to make them as generous as their medical and surgical benefits. Although the bill has 64 co-sponsors, enough to shut off a filibuster, Republicans objected when Mr. Daschle tried to schedule it for consideration on Monday.
Mr. Daschle's judgment about the legislative agenda is crucial. Legislation that the majority leader does not want considered does not come up, while bills that he wants badly enough can usually be brought to a vote -- or at least to a challenge by filibuster, something neither party wants as lawmakers seek to project an image of unity and bipartisanship.
Of the Democratic agenda in general, Mr. Daschle said, "I think our chances of getting a lot of it are greatly diminished" because of the need to focus on measures that respond to the terrorist attacks, including those on airport security and broadening law enforcement powers.
One key to the chances of bills on some Democrats' wish lists is Mr. Bush, who talks frequently with Mr. Daschle and has made clear to aides that he wants the views of Democrats considered.
The question of increasing the minimum wage is an example of Mr. Bush's potential role. Democrats have sought to raise the current $5.15 an hour wage since 1998, but have no intention of bringing a bill forward this year as a freestanding initiative. But Mr. Daschle said he thought there was at least a "possibility we could address minimum wage as part of an economic incentive package." If Mr. Bush proposes a package, as now seems likely, Democrats in both houses will push hard to include a wage increase, though what they might have to give up in return is uncertain.
Another area where the president would probably need to persuade House Republicans to give ground before anything happens is in the effort to create federal rights for patients in managed care, including the right to sue.
Mr. Daschle described the prospects for that bill, which both houses have passed but have not sent to a House-Senate conference, as "uphill." 
"Both sides have dug in," he said. "It's very hard to see how it can be reconciled."
He predicted that the remaining appropriations bills would proceed relatively easily because they did not involve many policy issues, just disputes over money. And with a spending ceiling almost settled with the administration at $686 billion, the Appropriations Committees can get down to dividing it up.
But whether Mr. Bush's education bill goes forward may depend on what spending level is set for elementary and secondary schools. In passing a measure setting up the program, the Senate called for a $16 billion increase in education spending, and the House sought $5 billion. Now the Appropriations Committees are talking about $3 billion to $4 billion, and some education conferees, notably Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, insist that is not enough and may hold the Bush bill for ransom.
The mental health parity bill, a seemingly uncontroversial measure that emerged from Mr. Kennedy's Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee without opposition, suddenly drew fire on Wednesday when Democrats sought to schedule it, using the need for mental health counseling arising from the Sept. 11 attacks as a springboard.
Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire, the senior Republican on the committee, said he feared the bill would add 1.5 percent to the cost of everyone's health insurance, and he won a delay. Mr. Daschle could try to run over opponents by forcing them to filibuster and then trying to cut off debate, but that has not been his style even in calmer times.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Daschle, the Senate majority leader, said the focus on terrorism had put Democratic bills on hold. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TERRORISM (90%); FILIBUSTER (89%); POLITICS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (87%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); AVIATION SECURITY (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (61%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (56%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (56%); AIRPORTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



971 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
A War Without D-Days Or 4-F's or Riveters

BYLINE:  By R. W. APPLE Jr.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
WORLD War III?
 Not really. World War I was essentially a struggle for Western Europe, fought primarily by massed infantry formations, in France and northern Italy and at Gallipoli on the Dardanelles. World War II covered the whole world, involving enormous fleets of ships and armadas of warplanes, with airborne drops and tank battles and amphibious landings on or near four continents. 
 President Bush's campaign against terrorism will be nothing at all like that. Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld was busy all week trying to banish any such images from the minds of the American people. "There's not going to be any D-Day as such," he said on Tuesday. The American response would develop in a "measured" way, he said on Thursday. 
This war will be more ambiguous, more shadowy. In at least one respect, it will resemble the French and Indian War of the 18th century, fought in the wilderness by small, mobile forces. It will be more like the war on drugs or the war on poverty or the ongoing war against crime, in that it is unlikely ever to be won decisively. Unconditional surrender by the terrorists is an unreasonable expectation, and the defeat of "every terrorist group of global reach," as promised by President Bush, is a hugely ambitious goal. 
In fact this is going to be a new kind of war against a new kind of enemy, and Washington unsurprisingly is still pondering how to fight it. Western European policy makers were similarly stymied for a time in 1938 and 1939. Janet Flanner, the great New Yorker foreign correspondent, wrote at the time that Hitler's "unpredictable mental processes and moves, being unlike anything that the chancelleries have for centuries considered part of the game, have left diplomats foolishly standing ready with bats and no ball." 
This time the diplomats must figure out how to forge new alliances (with Pakistan, most importantly, but perhaps later on with Iran) and how to maintain old ones (with Egypt and Saudi Arabia, for example, where most of the suspected terrorists grew up). Placating Montgomery and de Gaulle during World War II was as nothing compared with the complications that might well arise in the Middle East if Mr. Bush decides to pursue terrorists beyond Afghanistan into other Muslim nations, as at least some of his aides have been advising.
World War II finally lifted the United States out of the Depression. But this time there is every possibility that in the short term, at least, the country is heading in the opposite direction, into a recession. Some defense contractors will flourish by making helicopters, Kevlar and ammo, but American industry will not be reorganized to turn out thousands of new planes and ships and tanks. They will not be needed; Rosie will not be asked to rivet.
Nor will a draft reach into the ranks of civilians to send hundreds of thousands to war. The war will be fought mainly by professionals, which is to say volunteers, although as in the Persian Gulf, their ranks will be swollen by handfuls of skilled reservists and National Guard members.
THE public, every bit of evidence suggests, stands squarely behind Mr. Bush and his pledge to strike back at the terrorists. But so far at least, it's not clear to most people what they can do to help. By January 1942, as a kid of 7, I was collecting tin cans and scrap paper. My father, classified 4-F in the draft, was running the local rationing board and patrolling our neighborhood at night with an impressive-looking "CD" brassard (for Civil Defense) on his arm. My mother was learning to do without butter and sugar and meat some days. None of us thought we were playing any big part, of course; the point was that we were all doing our little bits, which bound us to the war effort. Not quite the same as standing 30 minutes longer in security lines at airports.
We were unified, too, by the broadcasts of Edward R. Murrow from London and the dispatches of Ernie Pyle from foxholes everywhere. We cheered when the tide turned in Africa at El Alamein and in Russia at Stalingrad and in the Pacific at Midway. We could see progress on the maps where we moved the pins each night.
But this time, the prize will not be territory or enemy capitals, and it will be hard to tell who's winning. We may hear about an assassination here, a terror attack there, a special forces operation that succeeds, a bombing mission that doesn't, but it will not be easy to tell what it all adds up to.
The government will tell us, of course, but those with long memories will recall the notoriously unreliable government accounts of progress in Vietnam and wonder. There the body count or the number of pacified hamlets was said to hold the answer, but it didn't. What will the new measure be? Bank accounts closed? Terrorist cells smashed?
There are other potentially troubling parallels with Vietnam. There, too, it was often all but impossible to tell which little man wearing flip-flops was a peasant and which was a Viet Cong. There, too, American policy makers labored under the handicap of inadequate knowledge of the historical and cultural and linguistic context. There, too, Washington's first instinct when things went badly was to reach for weapons better suited to another sort of conflict altogether, like the gigantic B-52 bombers; having flown from Guam to carpet-bomb Vietnamese jungles to little effect, they may now be used, as a veteran of several administrations said, to "rearrange rocks in Afghanistan."
Most important, will the American people stay the course, or will they grow weary when tales of collateral damage and civilian casualties (to say nothing of American K.I.A., M.I.A. and W.I.A.) begin to come in? World War II was seen as a battle for national survival -- indeed, a battle for the survival of Western civilization. The same cannot yet be said of the current fight. A fight for national honor or freedom from fear, maybe, but not survival.
SO keeping the country united will be one of the biggest challenges for President Bush, especially if he can supply no dramatic and credible evidence of success. Especially if the struggle drags on. And especially in the unlikely event that there are no further attacks on the United States in the next few years, allowing Sept. 11, 2001, to recede in memory. 
For Lyndon B. Johnson, maintaining public singlemindedness about a difficult war proved impossible. Jack Valenti, one of his aides, recalled recently that he had cited a passage from de Tocqueville while working with the president on a big speech. "The line was, 'The people grow tired of a confusion whose end is not in sight,' " Mr. Valenti said. "Johnson buried his head in his hands and said, 'That's sure as hell right.' Could be right again, unfortunately."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Afghanistan, where Americans may fight, is rough terrain. Here Soviet troops headed for combat in 1987. (Mikhail Evstafiev/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (90%); WORLD WAR I (90%); TERRORISM (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (79%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); WAR ON TERROR (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); DRUG POLICY (67%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (61%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (52%); HELICOPTERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (91%); EGYPT (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



972 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: THE AD CAMPAIGN; 
Showing the Candidate, the Flag and the Rescuers

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

 BODY:
 A 30-second television commercial titled "Leader" was released Friday by Bret D. Schundler, the Republican candidate for governor of New Jersey and former mayor of Jersey City, in his contest with James E. McGreevey, the Democratic mayor of Woodbridge. It is running at a cost of $200,000 per week, an amount so small as to suggest that few New Jerseyans will see it more than once.

PRODUCER: Alfano Communications

ON THE SCREEN: Slow-motion images from the World Trade Center alternate with Mr. Schundler speaking to someone off camera; an American flag can be seen waving through a window behind him. The word "courage" rolls slowly onto the screen over images of rescue workers: a police officer holding an air mask over his face as he directs traffic near the burning trade center site; three weary firefighters emerging from a blizzard of debris; a firefighter, wearing a ventilator, pulling a woman to safety from a dark hallway. President Bush is shown speaking through a bullhorn to rescue workers. The closing image is of a lone firefighter walking away from the camera back into the smoldering trade center wreckage as a giant, billowing American flag can be seen through a haze. Throughout the commercial, a "bug" in the lower right-hand corner of the screen shows the words "America United" and an American flag.

THE SCRIPT: Mr. Schundler: "Courage, to me, is embodied by those police officers, those firefighters, those heroes who ran into the World Trade Center, and gave their lives trying to save others. All we in public life are asked is to maybe take some political risk to make a difference.
"Now is the time to put politics aside and do what's right for the people, like President Bush. To have the courage to lead. To be strong. To keep our people safe, to cut taxes and help our economy rebound. When so many have done so much, how can we do less?"

ACCURACY: The ad makes no verifiable claims.

SCORECARD: Mr. McGreevey has already begun running an ad that praises rescue workers, and now Mr. Schundler goes a step further, by including pictures taken at ground zero itself, set to uplifting music. This may tug at heartstrings and generate good will for Mr. Schundler, or it may strike some as a cynical exploitation of human tragedy. At the very least, it is difficult to take at its word Mr. Schundler's call "to put politics aside," since he is making that call in a campaign commercial. Finally, his use of what many have called one of President Bush's finest moments enables Mr. Schundler to associate himself with the president, whose approval ratings in New Jersey have skyrocketed since Sept. 11. DAVID M. HALBFINGER

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MAYORS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); POLITICS (89%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (85%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



973 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: A Nation Challenged 

 BODY:
 Behind the Scenes

COVERT TRIPS TO AFGHANISTAN -- The Central Intelligence Agency secretly sent teams of American officers to northern Afghanistan, starting about three years ago, to try to persuade a leading opponent of the country's Taliban government to capture and perhaps kill Osama bin Laden, American intelligence officials say. The efforts to reach that leader, Ahmed Shah Massoud, were among the most classified elements of a campaign continuing through this year. A1

GIRDING FOR BIOLOGICAL ATTACKS -- Experts say the United States is poorly prepared to battle biological threats by terrorists. New vaccines and treatments are needed, but more important, the public health system -- whose job would be to detect and contain such an attack -- must be fortified, these experts say. A1

BUILDING A CASE FOR EXTRADITION -- Lofti Raissi, an Algerian-born pilot who lived in Britain, may prove to be a link in the chain of command that investigators believe extends from the hijackers to Osama bin Laden, a British prosecutor says. B2

Less Spending, Lost Jobs

ECONOMY IN PERIL -- Sales are falling in nearly every sector of the economy -- from autos and home building to high technology and department stores -- as gloom spreads beyond the airline and travel industries. As a result, executives are postponing spending and an economy that was barely afloat before Sept. 11 has sunk since. A1

The Making of Networks

DIFFICULT TASK FOR SAUDI -- Saudi Arabia's ambassador to Washington, Prince Bandar bin Sultan, is making a series of public appearances intended to bolster the image of Arab support for President Bush's coalition against terrorism. It is not going to be easy, the prince concedes. A1

A COALITION WITH CAVEATS -- Most of the world, asked by President Bush to take sides in the war on terrorism, has chosen to side with the West, but not without adding the kind of caveats bound to create fault lines in an American-led coalition. B4

A LIFE OF TWISTS -- The story of Osama bin Laden is one of strange contradictions and turns that took him from a childhood of lofty privilege in Saudi Arabia, to youthful carousing in the bars of Beirut, then back to Islamic fervor under a charismatic Palestinian university teacher. B5

Up Close and Up High

THE UNIVERSE OF GROUND ZERO -- Thousands of people converged at ground zero in the hours after the World Trade Center came down, from firefighters to thieves. To spend 12 days among them was to be privy to a universe more bizarre and more ordinary than the vignettes that found their way out. A1

THE MISSING PIECE -- The observatory at the Empire State Building, now New York's tallest building, reopened, and visitors say the new gap in the skyline tore a hole in their hearts. B9

Troops and Angry Crowds

SUPPORT FOR BIN LADEN -- Almost everywhere in Karachi, a city of 12 million that is Pakistan's largest, are cries and signs in support of Osama bin Laden. For most residents of Karachi, an attack on Mr. bin Laden is an attack on Islam. A1

IMPERFECT OPTIONS -- The United States has amassed a military force of 28,000 troops, more than 300 warplanes and two dozen warships in the region surrounding Iraq and Afghanistan, enough firepower to give President Bush the ability to strike at any moment should he so decide. But senior Pentagon officials acknowledge that his options are in many ways both imperfect and risky. B1

EXPLAINING ISLAM -- Evidence that Muslim militants were responsible for the Sept. 11 attacks is prompting Islamic scholars in the West to stand up and explain their religion. They say unequivocally that nothing in Islam countenances such action. B6

Hardship and Fear

A RUSH TO ESCAPE -- Refugees arriving in Quetta, Pakistan, after arduous journeys from Afghanistan are describing scenes of desperation and fear at home as the threat of American-led military attacks turns their long-running misery into a potential catastrophe. Cities are emptying as people defy orders from the governing Taliban and try to flee. B1

Politics and Precautions

CAMPAIGNS IN FLUX -- The sense of crisis brought on by terrorist attacks has spoiled the carefully laid plans of candidates around the United States, both for elections this fall and for those next year, leading them to rethink their basic strategies or reconsider whether to run at all. B1

ON ALERT IN BOSTON -- A terminal at Logan International Airport was abruptly closed for arriving and departing flights after two passengers entered through an emergency door, bypassing a checkpoint, an airport official said. The two passengers were questioned and released, but the incident delayed passengers throughout the nation. B2

Staging Area for Fighters

A LOOSE NETWORK -- The elimination of Osama bin Laden and his closest deputies may not end the threat posed by Mr. bin Laden's organization, Al Qaeda. Like the suspected hijackers who attacked New York and the Pentagon, the militants of Al Qaeda may remain invisible for years, a sprawling network of terrorists-in-waiting, experts say. B4

A PAKISTAN ROLE? -- Pakistan denied that any American troops were in the country, but its statement appeared to leave open the possibility that it had been used as a staging area for special forces operations inside Afghanistan. B5

Nightmares and Memories

FROM TEARS TO STOICISM -- Those who escaped from the World Trade Center on Sept. 11 will never get that day entirely out of their heads. But there is little uniformity in the ways they are coping. B1

A REGION OF FUNERALS -- No corner of New York City or its suburbs was spared the rituals of grief as dozens of wakes, funerals and memorial services were held. B10

Portraits of Grief -- B11

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TALIBAN (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); HIJACKING (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); RETAILERS (67%); VACCINES (56%); EXTRADITION (54%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); RELIGION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (84%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 



974 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2099 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: INTELLIGENCE; 
U.S. Pursued Secret Efforts To Catch or Kill bin Laden

BYLINE:  By JAMES RISEN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 29 

 BODY:
The Central Intelligence Agency secretly began to send teams of American officers to northern Afghanistan about three years ago in an attempt to persuade the leader of the anti-Taliban Afghan opposition to capture and perhaps kill Osama bin Laden, according to American intelligence officials.
 The covert effort, which has not been previously disclosed, was based on an attempt to work with Ahmed Shah Massoud, who was then the military leader of the largest anti-Taliban group in the northern mountains of Afghanistan, and to have his forces go after Mr. bin Laden. Mr. Massoud was himself fatally wounded only two days before the attacks on the Pentagon and the World Trade Center, and the C.I.A. believes that he was assassinated by members of Mr. bin Laden's organization. 
 The C.I.A.'s clandestine efforts to deal with Mr. Massoud were among the most sensitive and highly classified elements of a broader long-term campaign, continuing unsuccessfully through the end of the Clinton administration and into the Bush administration, to destroy Mr. bin Laden's terrorist network. The American campaign against Mr. bin Laden intensified after the August 1998 bombings of two United States Embassies in East Africa, which transformed the Saudi-born exile into America's most wanted terrorist. 
Today, the hunt for Osama bin Laden and his lieutenants in Al Qaeda, the terrorist network he leads from his sanctuary in Afghanistan, has escalated to wartime levels. The Bush administration is considering a full range of overt and covert military and intelligence proposals that Washington policy makers would have considered too risky or unworkable before the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. 
But according to current and former intelligence officials and other policy makers, the United States has been trying to kill bin Laden and destroy Al Qaeda for years, as the terrorist organization has become more ruthless and ambitious in its efforts to attack American interests around the world.
Clinton administration lawyers determined that the United States could legitimately seek to kill Mr. bin Laden and his lieutenants despite the presidential ban on assassinations, according to current and former American officials. The lawyers concluded that efforts to hunt and kill Mr. bin Laden were defensible either as acts of war or as national self defense, legitimate under both American and international law. As a result, President Clinton did not waive the executive order banning assassinations.
There have been an array of unsuccessful attempts to target Mr. bin Laden and disrupt or destroy Al Qaeda, American officials say. The Clinton administration even considered mounting a secret effort to steal millions of dollars from the bin Laden terrorist network by siphoning it out of the international financial system, but discarded the scheme because of objections from the United States Treasury about the implications for world finance. 
The United States launched cruise missiles against a meeting Mr. bin Laden was believed to be attending, encouraged Mr. Massoud and other Afghan leaders to try to capture him, and received a secret report from one Afghan group last year about its failed attempt to assassinate Mr. bin Laden.
The United States also led an international effort to shut down Afghanistan's airline, which American intelligence officials believed was being used by Al Qaeda to ship money and personnel around the world, while also pressuring other nations to arrest and disrupt Al Qaeda cells. 
"This was a top priority for us over the past several years, and not a day went by when we didn't press as hard as we could," said Samuel R. Berger, national security adviser in the Clinton administration. "But this is a tough, tough problem. I think we were pushing it as hard as we could. And I think the Bush administration is handling it in a smart way."
But until the devastating attacks on New York and Washington, the American-led efforts to hunt Mr. bin Laden lacked the sense of urgency that prevails today. American intelligence and law enforcement officials grew complacent about the threat of a domestic attack by Al Qaeda, failed by their own admission to share information adequately or coordinate their efforts, and were caught by surprise on Sept. 11.
Washington did not build a strong international coalition to focus on defeating Al Qaeda, which was seen by other nations largely as an American problem. Banks in Europe and the Middle East repeatedly balked at American pressure to cut off Al Qaeda financing, while wealthy individuals in Persian Gulf states -- sometimes in the guise of donating to Islamic charities -- continued to provide financial support to Al Qaeda. 
At the same time, Al Qaeda was rapidly evolving into a larger and more complex terrorist threat, making it difficult for the United States to keep up with its scope and abilities. Mr. bin Laden's great achievement within the terrorist world has been to forge alliances with other Islamic extremist groups under the umbrella of Al Qaeda, providing them financing, training and a sanctuary in Afghanistan, while encouraging coordinated action. 
The United States had only a hazy understanding of Mr. bin Laden's growing significance before 1996, when an Al Qaeda insider, Jamal Ahmed Al-Fadl, defected to the United States and began to describe the extent of Mr. bin Laden's plans and objectives. Based largely on Mr. al-Fadl's information, a federal grand jury indicted Mr. bin Laden on terrorist conspiracy charges in June 1998, just two months before the twin bombings of the American Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania. 
The embassy bombings forced Washington to recognize that Mr. bin Laden had become a major national security threat. Sometime after the bombings, the C.I.A. began its efforts to work with Mr. Massoud against Mr. bin Laden, American officials said. 
The officials declined to provide many details of the effort. But officials say that C.I.A. officers secretly traveled to Mr. Massoud's mountain stronghold in northern Afghanistan and opened talks in an effort to fashion an anti-bin Laden alliance.
Current and former officials said that Mr. Massoud was promised large sums of money if he and his rebel fighters could find a way to get to Mr. bin Laden. Short of capturing the terrorist leader, Mr. Massoud was asked by the C.I.A. to provide intelligence from inside Afghanistan about Mr. bin Laden and his organization, officials said. 
It remains unclear even today whether Mr. Massoud -- more interested in toppling the Taliban -- ever made a serious effort to go after Mr. bin Laden. He would have faced enormous obstacles in doing so, considering that Mr. bin Laden was based in territory controlled by the Taliban and its military forces.
The effort to work with Mr. Massoud followed the most direct and open American effort to kill Mr. bin Laden. It came on Aug. 20, 1998, two weeks after the embassy attacks in East Africa. President Clinton ordered cruise missile strikes on a complex near Khost, Afghanistan, where the C.I.A. had learned that Mr. bin Laden was scheduled to be meeting with 200 to 300 other members of Al Qaeda. 
The sea-launched cruise missiles slammed into the camp only about an hour or so after Mr. bin Laden left the conference, American officials believe. According to former senior Clinton administration officials, some 20 to 30 Al Qaeda members were killed, temporarily disrupting the organization. 
But the attack failed in its unstated but clear objective, which was to kill Mr. bin Laden. 
One consequence was that Mr. bin Laden drastically improved his own security measures. Realizing that the United States had collected solid intelligence about his physical movements, he cut back on his use of electronic communications. American officials say he now tends to talk to subordinates only in person, and they then pass on his messages to others in the organization. 
"He has become more sophisticated by becoming less sophisticated," said one former senior American official. 
In addition, he moves frequently, traveling between Kandahar, the Taliban stronghold in southern Afghanistan, and the rugged Afghan countryside farther north, American officials say. "He became much more secure in his communications, and the only way to track him was to have people on the ground," said one former senior American official.
The Clinton administration has been criticized for not following up on its first missile attack with an all-out effort to get Mr. bin Laden. But former officials said that they lacked the "actionable intelligence," or precise information about Mr. bin Laden's whereabouts, to launch another attack. 
"The main focus was location, location, location," said one former administration official. "We had intensive intelligence gathering efforts to track him." 
In addition, the logistics of launching an attack by special forces in one of the most remote regions of the world also presented formidable obstacles. "We had a number of contingency plans, but logistically it was a nightmare," said a former senior Clinton administration official.
Still, another Afghan group, not connected with Mr. Massoud, did report to the C.I.A. last year that it had attempted to assassinate Mr. bin Laden, American officials said. The group, which the officials declined to identify, reported that it had attempted to kill Mr. bin Laden by assaulting a convoy in which he was thought to be traveling. They reported that it turned out that Mr. bin Laden was not in the convoy.
The reported assassination attempt was not approved or planned with C.I.A. assistance, American officials said. But the officials did say that the group had carried out the attack knowing that Washington had a great interest in either capturing Mr. bin Laden or having him killed. 
Washington has also attempted to target Mr. bin Laden's finances. One idea briefly considered by the Clinton administration called for a clandestine effort to drain money out of bank accounts that could be tied to Al Qaeda. But former Clinton administration officials said that Treasury Department officials opposed the idea, fearing that it might damage the integrity of the financial system.
"Treasury was not enamored of the idea," noted one former Clinton administration official. Another former administration official said that the idea was flawed because stealing money from a bank account would in most instances leave the bank liable to make up the loss to the individual, thus hurting the bank rather than depriving Al Qaeda of money.
But the United States did mount an international effort to curb Mr. bin Laden's access to the financial system. In 1998, President Clinton invoked emergency economic powers against Mr. bin Laden and Al Qaeda, giving the United States the power to freeze assets of any individuals or institutions working with or assisting the terrorist group. In 1999, the Taliban was added to the list, and American officials were surprised to find that the Taliban had actually left large sums of money in banks in the United States, mostly in older Afghan government accounts. Eventually, American and international pressure led to United Nations sanctions, and effectively shut down international flights by Ariana Airlines, the Afghan government's air carrier, which American intelligence had concluded was being used by Al Qaeda as its conduit to the Persian Gulf and the rest of the world. 
In 1999, officials from the White House and the Treasury Department traveled to the Persian Gulf to try to pressure governments to shut down Al Qaeda's banking relationships. But they achieved only mixed results.
"Where we didn't have success was when other countries delayed or denied that there was a problem," said one former official. "Sometimes it was because of a lack of political will, sometimes because those countries didn't have the legal or regulatory frameworks they needed to really know what was going on in their financial institutions." 
Former Clinton administration officials say they sympathize with their successors in the Bush administration who now confront Mr. bin Laden, and defend their own efforts as the best possible in a world that lacked the current sense of urgency about Al Qaeda.
"It was something that we focused on on a daily basis, and pursued with vigor, and I think we accomplished quite a lot," said former Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright. "I think we took it as far as was possible to go at the time, and I think what we did has provided the basis for things the Bush administration is trying to do now."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Taliban members at the scene of a United States attack near Khost, Afghanistan, in 1998. The assault followed the bombing of embassies in East Africa. The opposition leader Ahmed Shah Massoud, left, in Afghanistan last year. He is reported to have died on Sept. 15 of wounds after an assassination attempt. (Associated Press); (Agence France-Presse)(pg. B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); TERRORISM (91%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TALIBAN (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ASSASSINATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); MOUNTAINS (70%); LEGISLATION (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (66%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (93%); AL-QAEDA (82%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (95%); BILL CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KHOST, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); AFRICA (92%); EASTERN AFRICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001 

 
