

401 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 8; Page 11; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: BACKTALK;
Three Questions Too Heavy to Carry for Another Year

BYLINE: By ROBERT LIPSYTE 

 BODY:
My mentor, Scribe, is hereby dumping his three most burdensome unanswered questions. He tells me he doesn't want to lug them for another year, much less into the next millennium. If you want to respond to Scribe you can use thelipsite@aol.com, but don't expect me to get involved. He's just an old coot.
One: Would the Mets have won the World Series if Mike Piazza had acted more like Roger Clemens? 
 This is a troubling issue that the more enlightened counselors to youth have been avoiding. Meet fire with water, they teach. Don't engage with rage. The consensus is that Piazza is among the most decent and thoughtful of superstars and that Clemens is a surly intimidator. Early in Game 2 of the Series, when Clemens (who, Scribe insists on reminding, hit Piazza in the head with a pitch during the regular season) fired a piece of Piazza's broken bat back at him, the pitcher was offering a challenge.
Piazza responded by pawing the ground with a wishy-washy "What's your problem?" look.
"At that moment," says Scribe, "the Fall Classic was writ. Achilles whipped Hector and the Mets lost heart. It's the umps' fault for copping out of their responsibility to punish Clemens. They were intimidated by him and the Yankee aura."
Scribe wonders if Piazza had fired the bat right back at Clemens, announcing that he would not be bullied, maybe even starting a bench-clearing brawl, would the Mets have lost their awe of the Yanks? Scribe drank with Billy Martin and Ty Cobb, so what does he know about the need of modern youngsters to be offered role models, whatever the cost?
"So Clemens ends up the role model," growls Scribe. "You'll see the fruits of this next season in the Little Leagues."
Two: Should Bob Knight have fired the president of Indiana University while he had the chance?
Scribe tells me that after Knight was fired by Indiana's president, Myles Brand, he went hunting with George Bush (the former president) and the King of Spain. Knight is not going to be unemployed any longer than he wants to be. He is the Roger Clemens of coaches.
A few years ago, before he started losing games and national luster, Knight could have gotten rid of just about anyone in the state of Indiana except Larry Bird. He abused players and authority figures, acted out his rages. No one dared throw the bat back.
But now, the university presidents who bought the big-time sports package as an institutional steroid boost want to regain control from their athletic departments. A third force, small but growing, is those professors with any memory of higher education's mission. They want to reclaim the integrity of the classroom. If they ever got together (if you've ever sat in on a departmental meeting, you won't hold your breath), their power would be formidable.
Meanwhile, the million-dollar coaches whose dicey tenure depends on increasingly sophisticated 17-year-olds, their mothers and "advisers," are on the verge of blowing themselves up. Scribe predicts that the next major scandal will involve their perversion of the Americans With Disabilities Act; by getting illiterate blue-chippers declared learning disabled, the coaches can keep them eligible to play.
"I like this N.B.A. developmental league," Scribe says. "Not everyone needs to go to college. I'd send my kids only to 'low-binge' universities, the ones where the president doesn't keep a keg in every dorm so the kids forget there are 150 in a class, where the jocks don't have tutors to write their papers.
"Too bad about Knight. A head case, but he was on the level."
Three: What did Marion Jones know and when did she know it?
I don't want to touch this one. When Jones appeared on the covers of Time and Newsweek before the 2000 Olympic Games, in which she was hyped to win five gold medals, Scribe told me, "She is unbreakable."
"Whatever it is her hippo hubby is taking, or even sharing," he said, "she is too important to be implicated."
Her husband, the 300-pound former Olympic shot-putter C. J. Hunter, did not pass several pre-Olympic drug tests, and did not compete in Sydney. I chastised Scribe for guilting Marion by association. He replied that an athlete as attractive and as talented as Marion, especially an athlete from the Olympics' main money country, would have to be caught wearing her human growth hormone IV before officials noticed officially.
I told Scribe that was the same kind of innuendo that the news media helped losers spread about FloJo, and if he kept it up he could end up my ex-mentor.
He shrugged and said it might not matter. Since Marion won only three golds, she might be out of hype. If she didn't have some hot new commercials, she could be archives.
"Some of the same kids who don't read me," said Scribe, "probably wonder which group Marion and C. J. sing with."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Umpires (and Mike Piazza) were overpowered by Roger Clemens, above, in Game 2 of the World Series, Bob Knight, left, was overpowered by the president of Indiana University, and Marion Jones (with her husband, C. J. Hunter) overpowered the Olympic Games. (Photographs by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times top , Associated Press center and Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (79%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK METS; NEW YORK YANKEES; INDIANA UNIVERSITY NEW YORK METS (84%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (84%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS; NEW YORK YANKEES; INDIANA UNIVERSITY NEW YORK METS (84%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (84%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (79%); INDIANA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; BASEBALL; WORLD SERIES; COACHES AND MANAGERS; OLYMPIC GAMES; TRACK AND FIELD; STEROIDS; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION (88%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (85%); CELEBRITIES (76%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); YOUTH SPORTS (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); STEROIDS (64%); OLYMPICS (60%); TRACK & FIELD (60%); 

PERSON: LIPSYTE, ROBERT; PIAZZA, MIKE; CLEMENS, ROGER; KNIGHT, BOB; JONES, MARION; HUNTER, C J GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



402 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING;
The Mass Marketing of Venture Capital

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING 

 BODY:
MARTIN N. GRANT could have bought more shares in America Online. But that would have been Old School. What Mr. Grant, a marketing executive, really wanted was a taste of new-economy high finance. So ignoring the dot-com carnage and general stock market gloom, Mr. Grant put $25,000 into a venture capital fund run by EarlyBirdCapital, a Web-based investment bank. The fund has invested $40 million in some 30 technology start-ups, and hopes to rake in big profits when those companies go public or are sold.
"I'm taking advantage of something I was locked out of before," said Mr. Grant, 42, president of the CTN Media Group, an advertising and publishing company in Atlanta. "This could be a home run down the line." 
 In one of the latest forms of investment democratization, newfangled venture capital opportunities are opening a risky but exclusive club to a broader public. Even Fidelity Investments, the mutual fund giant, is in discussions to offer such high-stakes opportunities to ordinary investors through its 401(k) retirement plans.
Until recently, venture capital was open only to institutions, like pension funds, and to the very rich. For such private equity investments, which also include hedge and buyout funds, the Securities and Exchange Commission requires that individual investors have a net worth of at least $1 million, or as much as $5 million in some cases, and annual income of at least $200,000 over the last two years. But top venture capital funds require minimum investments of $5 million or more.
Now, sometimes for as little as $5,000, investors who meet the S.E.C. requirements, as Mr. Grant does, can play. The new opportunities come from dozens of banks, brokers and private equity firms, and from new Internet investing sites. They include upstart venture capital funds with lower minimums, upscale "funds of funds" that pool investors' money across venture capital and buyout funds, and specialized mutual funds that invest in start-ups. According to the Spectrem Group, a consulting firm, the opportunities are within reach of what it says are the 7.2 million American households with a net worth of at least $1 million.
Never mind that venture-backed dot-coms are collapsing. Or that initial public offerings have dwindled. And never mind that the industry has Himalayan peaks and troughs -- the average venture capital fund gained 3.4 percent in the second quarter of this year, after 20.6 percent in the first quarter and 57.6 percent in the last quarter of 1999, according to Venture Economics. Or that funds of funds, often with two layers of fees, might offer slimmer returns.
"This is fun," said James Santerre, 62, a retired executive. He recently plowed $100,000 into Envisionet, an Internet technical support firm, through StoneGate Partners, a Boston investment boutique.
The Glenmede Trust Company, a financial advisory firm in Philadelphia, requires a minimum of $500,000 for a pool invested in top venture capital funds run by, among others, TA Associates and New Enterprise Associates. Glenmede charges annual fees of 1 percent and gets 5 percent of profits if an investor doubles his money. The charges come on top of the fees collected by the venture capital funds themselves, typically 2 to 3 percent annually from investors and 20 to 25 percent of the funds' profits.
At W.R. Hambrecht, a San Francisco investment bank, $5,000 buys a stake in investment vehicles that each back a single start-up. Investors, who receive twice-yearly updates, pay a 2 percent fee, and Hambrecht takes 20 percent of any profits.
Financial advisers recommend that investors put no more than 5 to 10 percent of their total portfolios into private equity investments, including venture capital. Small wonder: only 4 in 10 companies that venture capitalists back will ever make any money.
Unlike a venture capital fund, StoneGate Partners lets investors choose companies in which to invest. The minimum for any single bet is $25,000. Since June 1997, StoneGate has raised $70 million from 400 people to back 14 companies. "This is a chance for investors who would not have gotten into the top-tier venture capital funds" said StoneGate's co-founder, Kenneth L. Wolfe.
But StoneGate has yet to produce meaningful returns. None of its companies have gone public.
An even more mass-market venture capital product, the meVC Draper Fisher Jurvetson Fund I, is already in a slump. Started through the Silicon Valley venture capital firm Draper Fisher Jurvetson, the fund, which works like a closed-end mutual fund, raised $330 million from some 20,000 investors to back information-technology start-ups. MeVC shares, which began trading at $20 in June on the New York Stock Exchange, have since declined by half. They closed at $10.19 on Friday.
A possible reason for the slump is that so far, meVC has put to work only $118 million in 18 companies. While the fund plans to invest over two years, in the meantime it is tying up investors' cash. By contrast, a venture capital fund asks for cash only when it invests in a company. MeVC charges annual fees of 2.5 percent, on all fund assets, and will take 20 percent of any profits. "The fund is tracking the Nasdaq pretty closely," said Cindi Perez, the fund's chief marketing officer.
BUT while anyone can buy meVC shares, without meeting the S.E.C. standards, ordinary investors may not have the stomach for start-up financing, which typically takes at least four years to show returns. "The fund has been promoted as a long-term investment, but that's just not how average retail investors tend to think," said David M. Toll, senior editor of The Private Equity Analyst, a newsletter.
Many people, Mr. Toll included, instead view funds of funds, requiring minimum investments of $100,000 or more, as the most promising option for a broader public. Such funds raised $11 billion in the first 11 months this year, down from $15 billion last year, according to his newsletter. But individuals appear to be accounting for a greater share, according to Andrew Craighead, co-manager of the private investments group at J. P. Morgan's private bank.
Aiming to bring Silicon Valley-style investing to Main Street, Fidelity, which runs one in four employee 401(k) plans, is in discussions with the Carlyle Group, a private equity firm in Washington, about putting Carlyle venture capital and buyout funds on Fidelity's 401(k) menus. But according to executives close to the discussions and to David Snow, editor in chief of PrivateEquityCentral.net, a Web-based newsletter that recently reported the talks, the two firms face high legal hurdles.
But as David M. Rubinstein, a Carlyle Group managing director, put it, "It's a great untapped market -- if there's a mechanism that can be developed with the S.E.C."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: James Santerre, a retired executive shown at his home in Vermont with his horse, said of his venture capital investment, "This is fun." (George Ruhe for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Unsteady Returns"
Venture capital fund returns peaked at the end of last year, then fell this year as the window closed on intial public offerings.
 
Chart shows Venture capital fund returns since 1996.
(Source: Venture Economics/National Venture Capital Association)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (60%); SIC6091 NONDEPOSIT TRUST FACILITIES (60%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); HIMALAYAS (51%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FMR CORP (90%); GLENMEDE TRUST CO (60%); AOL INC (58%); EARLYBIRDCAPITAL INC (57%); CTN MEDIA GROUP INC (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); HIMALAYAS (51%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; VENTURE CAPITAL; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET VENTURE CAPITAL (93%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (89%); NEW ECONOMY (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); FUNDS OF FUNDS (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (87%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ONLINE TRADING (78%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (76%); US 401K PLANS (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (72%); BONDS (71%); PUBLISHING (69%); TECHNICAL SUPPORT (60%); 

PERSON: BROWNING, LYNNLEY ANN LIVERMORE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



403 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1970 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS;
Armed to Send Chads Into Voting Oblivion

BYLINE: By JOHN HENDREN 

DATELINE: ROSEMONT, Pa.

 BODY:
BY the time Samual R. Shoup finished tinkering with the voting machine he began assembling in a Philadelphia basement in 1895, he had built a family business that endured nearly a century.
Then, in 1992, financial troubles forced Ransom F. Shoup II, the founder's grandson, to stop making a new generation of computerized voting machines and to turn the business into a parts and service shop. His predicament lay largely in the 100,000 lever-operated machines that the company had sold from the turn of the century to the Carter administration: They still worked. Half were in use this Nov. 7, and local governments were happy to have them. 
 A revitalizing jolt from Florida changed that. The 2000 presidential election left voting equipment makers with a black eye visible from Tallahassee to Tibet. And now, as Congress, state legislatures and chagrined election officials consider updating the geriatric machinery of democracy, an unprecedented opportunity awaits Shoup Voting Solutions and other voting-equipment makers.
Local governments had little incentive to replace their antiquated machines for decades, until the disputed ballots of Florida exposed their weaknesses.
"I guess our timing is just right," said Mr. Shoup, who as the company's director of government relations has started demonstrating a new Shoup touch-screen machine to municipal governments in North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee and Virginia. "Our phones have been ringing off the hook."
It is too early to tally sales, but the handful of small and mostly private manufacturers that dominate the industry report a surge of inquiries. Many are from local election officers who oversee punch-card and lever machines and from state lawmakers who want to replace a patchwork of county-selected voting devices with a uniform system.
"Normally counties don't call a vendor. It's the other way around," said Larry Ensminger, a vice president for corporate development at Global Election Systems, based in McKinney, Tex. He said his company had heard from election officials in Florida, Texas, Washington and elsewhere. "This is kind of a unique situation."
Last year Diversified Dynamics was looking for a company to make its computerized voting machine. Now the company, based in Richmond, Va., is fielding cold calls from would-be partners, said Thomas G. Davis, the founder. More than 50 local governments have asked about the system since the election. The product manager, William Akers, has logged thousands of miles over the last month, showing a prototype to local election officials along the mid-Atlantic coast.
"It's an industry that nobody cares about -- until something happens," Mr. Akers said. "My biggest concern is we won't be able to get enough" machines to meet demand.
Voting-machine makers are receiving unsolicited help from the federal, state and local officials whose careers are decided on the Republic's creaking gears and levers. Among the states considering new laws governing voting machines are California, Connecticut, Illinois, Maine, Michigan, New Jersey, New York and Washington.
Wisconsin banned punch-card voting systems on Nov. 29, and the Speaker of the California Assembly, Robert Hertzberg, wants to spend $300 million to upgrade voting machines in his state, the nation's most populous. In Michigan, Secretary of State Candice Miller wants the same machine in every voting booth.
LOCAL county commissioners are calling experts like Kimball Brace, a consultant at Election Data Services, based in Washington. A task force of the National Association of State Election Directors met in early December to consider what advice to give local governments.
"Nobody wants to be the next Palm Beach," said Mr. Brace, who testified in Florida's Leon County Circuit Court in Vice President Al Gore's challenge of the election results.
Americans have quibbled over voting methods since landowners in the 13 colonies first spoke their candidates' names to an election officer. By 1888, voters were marking their first secret ballots. Like voice votes, the paper ballots still used by 1 percent of voters are vulnerable to misreadings or mischief.
The modern voting machine industry was born in 1869, when Thomas A. Edison patented a mechanical device intended for members of Congress. In 1892, Lockport, N.Y., held the first public election using a lever-operated machine, made by a Rochester safemaker, Jacob H. Myers, according to Sequoia Pacific Voting Equipment. Sequoia inherited the company that Myers created in 1895 to "protect mechanically the voter from rascaldom."
A CENTURY later, the rascaldom and error-prone systems persist. The counties and municipalities that oversee elections in the United States have patched together a quilt of varied voting systems. Each has problems. The most-often reviled culprit in the 2000 election was the punch-card ballot used by one in three voters. Voters pick candidates by poking out pencil-point sized holes -- or chads, in election parlance -- in the ballot.
Any system can fail, but experts say the relatively cheap punch-card systems tend to render more votes uncountable. "It took me twice to make sure I got through the chad completely," said Deborah Director, 28, a speech pathologist in Boca Raton, Fla. "I heard lots of people complaining that they didn't know if they voted for the right person."
Twenty-seven percent of voters fill in the dots on ballot cards that are counted by an optical scanning machine, the way high school multiple-choice tests are scored. But these can also cause voters to unwittingly nullify their ballots. An errant pen stroke picked up by the scanner makes it appear the voter chose too many candidates, called overvoting. In some cases, pen marks fail to show up on the scanner.
The lever-operated machines once made by companies like Shoup and Sequoia Pacific are still used by 18 percent of American voters. Voters pull a lever next to the candidate's name and the machine counts how many times each lever is pushed. The machine bars overvoting, but if the levers break, replacement parts are often unavailable. And the machine leaves no audit trail.
Voting-machine makers are just beginning to sell 21st-century touch-screen and automated teller-style machines they consider "Floridaproof." Their challenge is to persuade the nation's 10,000 local election jurisdictions to buy the latest -- and priciest -- machines.
Shoup plans to start selling the Cadillac of voting machines next year. The touch-screen SVS system, which costs $4,000 to $5,000 each, fits into a suitcase, prevents overvoting and confirms votes with an X next to the candidate's name on a large color screen. A final page lets voters confirm or change the slate of candidates they have selected.
Blind voters use the Shoup system by listening to verbal prompts through headphones and touching a corner of the screen to choose candidates. The cost, however, could give some county officials sticker shock. The company recommends one machine for 500 to 700 voters. For Palm Beach County, where 462,644 citizens cast ballots this year, the machines would cost $2.6 million to $4.6 million.
"If you're a county commissioner and the choice is to pave the streets or put a new wing on the public hospital or buy a new voting system, most of the time the new voting system loses," said Doug Lewis, head of the Election Center, a nonprofit training and research group based in Houston.
With that in mind, Shoup will lease the machines and may offer up to $1,000 for trade-ins of the company's circa 1982 electronic machines.
Diversified Dynamics, meanwhile, is preparing to sell the Chevrolet of computer voting systems. The A.T.M.-style device weighs 10 1/2 pounds, uses soft buttons to the side of the monochrome screen, fits in a metal briefcase and sells for $1,500.
"This machine is ugly," the company's Mr. Akers acknowleged, "but economical. Bridges and roads buy votes. Voting machines don't."
To use this machine, a voter first receives a credit card-sized smart card from the polling place and slides it into a reader. The card, which carries a magnetic strip with data, tells the machine which ballot to pull up. If the voter overvotes, a warning pops up saying, "You are trying to enter more votes than this contest allows." The brains of the computer lie in the removable programming card that the manufacturer can update via e-mail messages. The machine also has a politically connected pitchman: its chairman, L. Douglas Wilder, is a former governor of Virginia.
Of course, electronic systems have critics, too. Some fear clever programming could alter outcomes. Manufacturers say trial runs and limiting access to programming prevent that. Like lever machines, there are no ballots for an audit trail, although the machines can print out each voter's electronic ballot.
Some lawmakers appear willing to make the leap. In Connecticut, Susan Bysiewicz, the secretary of state, has said her office had considered replacing Roosevelt-era lever machines with optical scan technology, but now leans toward touch-screens after Florida's problems.
Either way, Global Election Systems may gain. The company is hedging its bets. It sells a touch-screen system, already in limited use in seven states, for $3,200 to $3,600, and a decade-old optical scanning system for $5,700. Counties need only one optical scanner for each precinct, compared with several computerized systems.
OTHER manufacturers, including the MicroVote Corporation of Indianapolis and Election Systems and Software of Omaha, have developed competing computerized systems.
"The fight out there is between the A.T.M. machines, and the optical scans," said Christopher Thomas, director of elections in Michigan, where 3,000 out of 5,500 precincts use optical scan systems. "All these cities and townships are going, 'Jeez, $5,000 versus $20,000 per precinct?' If we did nothing we would probably be at 85 percent optical scan within the next two to four years."
The District of Columbia Board of Elections plans a $1 million upgrade of its punch card system by putting a Sequoia Pacific optical scanner in all 160 precincts.
The Connecticut legislature's nonpartisan research office found that optical scan systems were no cheaper than touch-screens over time, when paper ballots and other costs were considered. That offers little allure to Michigan, where local municipalities buy the machines and counties buy the ballots. Even optical scans would be a modernization in states like Washington, where 16 of 39 counties still use punch cards.
Whether rising interest in the products of an industry that usually draws about as much attention as attic insulation will translate into an explosion of new orders remains to be seen. Sluggish growth has been part of the reason the industry has been dominated by comparatively small private companies. Even the industry's only major public company, Global Election Systems, had sales of only $20.2 million last year. Major makers like General Dynamics and Rockwell International have entered and left the market.
Florida's experience has taught election directors caution. They often take three to five years to consider new systems, and even then see little reward in taking risks.
While many have been impressed by the Diversified Dynamics machine, which has been approved by an independent testing regimen created by the Federal Election Commission, "nobody wants to be the first," Mr. Akers said.
To governments that are sanguine about their aging systems or plan a partial upgrade, Richard Caruso, Shoup's chief executive, invokes Florida in a warning likely to be repeated in sales pitches in coming months: "That could have happened in any state in the country."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ransom F. Shoup II, of Shoup Voting Solutions, with a new touch-screen machine that he said reduces balloting mistakes. Below are Shoup voting machines from the last century, many still used around the nation. (Timothy M. Shaffer for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); TIBET (79%); CHINA (58%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (56%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: ATLANTIC COAST CARTON (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; FLORIDA; UNITED STATES (94%); TIBET (79%); CHINA (58%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (56%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; VOTING MACHINES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 VOTERS & VOTING (93%); ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTRONIC VOTING MACHINES (90%); FAMILY COMPANIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); OFFICE EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); SALES & SELLING (75%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (64%); 

PERSON: HENDREN, JOHN SAMUAL R SHOUP (78%); JACOB H MYERS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



404 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS;
The High Price of Estate-Tax Cheating

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
CHEATING on estate taxes, which are paid by some of the wealthiest Americans -- roughly 2 percent of the population -- has become even more common than cheating on individual income taxes, according to a new study by the Internal Revenue Service.
And the biggest offenders are those with the most to lose -- some heirs of the very rich, who leave estates of at least $20 million, the I.R.S. has found. 
 How much potential tax revenue is lost to cheating? Brian Erard, an economics and tax consultant in Reston, Va., who conducted the study for the I.R.S., said the actual value of the taxable estates he reviewed, from 1992 audits, was 13 percent higher than what was listed on the tax returns. As a result, the government was shorted an estimated $1.5 billion in taxes. If extrapolated to this fiscal year, the total would be $4.2 billion.
The I.R.S. estimates that 13 percent of incomes are not reported on income tax returns, the same shortfall as for estate returns. But Mr. Erard said the income tax figures took into account the underground economy, where people deal in cash, while his estimate did not include unreported estates. If it had, he said, the estate tax shortfall would be higher.
Mr. Erard examined 4,417 estate tax returns that were audited in 1992. An estimated 59,176 estate tax returns were filed that year, and 10,200 were audited.
(Ten percent of the audited returns were accepted as filed and 24 percent received a reduction in their tax bill; the remaining 66 percent received an additional tax bill.)
In 1992, a tax return was required for all estates of $600,000 or more, a figure that Congress raised to $675,000 for this year. President-elect George W. Bush has said that he will seek repeal of the estate tax next year.
Mr. Erard's study, released this month, followed an analysis of 1995 estate tax returns earlier this year by Mr. Erard and the agency. It found that estates were more likely to be reported at less than their full value if a lawyer prepared the estate tax return. That could result more from client pressure to underreport than from aggressive action by lawyers, the report said. It also found rampant undervaluing of art, especially in the largest estates.
Last April, the I.R.S. released a report that found rampant cheating on gift taxes, especially on gifts of $1 million or more. Audits of 1,651 gifts to relatives and friends found that more than 80 percent understated the value. The average understatement was $303,000. Individuals are permitted to give as many gifts as they want, up to $10,000 each, but gifts above that amount are taxed.
Charles Davenport, a Rutgers University law professor who has written extensively in support of the estate tax, said he was not surprised by the findings.
"Executors tend to value very low, with the notion that if they have to bargain, they can come up," he said. "The courts have encouraged this by almost always striking a compromise. That encourages people to go low, and if you don't get an audit, then you get a very low value and pay much less tax."
Mr. Erard's study is the latest indication that Charles O. Rossotti, the I.R.S. commissioner, is investing in research to find ways for the agency to make more effective use of its enforcement resources.
To identify income tax cheats, the I.R.S. analyzes all income tax returns using a statistical technique known as the discriminate function, or "dif score." Individual income tax returns with the highest scores are then audited.
The dif score criteria are secret, but frequent audit targets are individuals with unusually large deductions for, say, medical expenses, and sole proprietorships that report large losses that offset wage income.
Estates tend to be audited when appraisals are skimpy or absent, when big discounts are proposed for closely held property like a family business, and when documents are messy.
MR. ERARD says that the agency lacks a statistical technique to select estate and gift taxes for audit, but that one could be readily developed.
So is the agency planning to adopt this recommendation? "We have no plans to create such a statistical tool," said Ken Hubenak, an I.R.S. spokesman. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INHERITANCE AND ESTATE TAXES; TAX EVASION ESTATE TAX (95%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX FRAUD (92%); INCOME TAX (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); AUDITS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); ESTATE PLANNING (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); SCHOOL CHEATING (79%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); GIFT TAX (78%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (65%); LAWYERS (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY GEORGE W BUSH (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



405 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 3084 words

HEADLINE: Perelman's Endless (and Costly) Love

BYLINE: By RIVA D. ATLAS 

 BODY:
RONALD O. PERELMAN declared to the world last week that a love affair he began 15 years ago is still going strong.
Mr. Perelmen, the 57-year-old financier, has had no shortage of romances, all chronicled breathlessly on the gossip pages. In June, he wed for the fourth time, to the sultry actress Ellen Barkin. He is still battling his wife before that, the Democratic party fund-raiser Patricia Duff, whom he divorced in 1998, over custody of their 6-year-old daughter, Caleigh. His previous marriages were to Claudia Cohen, the gossip columnist, and Faith Golding, a bank heiress. 
 When not married, he has had well-publicized flings -- with Eleanor Mondale, daughter of the former vice president, and others.
But the news last week concerned a much older mistress, one who is looking a little dowdy and is, in fact, in need of a makeover.
That mistress is Revlon, the $1.9 billion cosmetics company that has been the object of Mr. Perelman's fascination, except for one brief unfaithful period last year, since 1985. He bought the company for $1.8 billion after a long, hostile takeover battle that put him on corporate America's map as a tenacious investor to be feared; he was backed at the time by Michael R. Milken's seemingly bottomless supply of junk bonds.
On Friday, Revlon's stock closed at just $6.07 a share, down a staggering 89 percent from its recent peak in April 1998; as a result, the value of Mr. Perelman's 42 million shares has plunged from $2.4 billion to just $255 million. Mr. Perelman hired a new chief executive a year ago, and he has narrowed the company's losses. But Revlon still lost 25 cents a share last quarter, and a turnaround is by no means certain.
Still, Mr. Perelman remains infatuated by Revlon. "It's one of the great consumer brand names in the world," he said in a rare interview last week. "It produces a product that makes people happy, and it's got the guts to be a great operating company."
Mr. Perelman proved his love on Thursday: he disclosed in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission that MacAndrews & Forbes, his holding company, has spent a large amount -- perhaps as much as $250 million -- to buy back zero-coupon junk bonds that he had issued in 1997 to try to extract some cash from Revlon without selling any of his shares.
The bonds, which were trading below 50 cents on the dollar as recently as September, were secured by nearly half of Mr. Perelman's stake in the company and were due to mature next March.
But there was no reason for him to act. He could have simply turned over his Revlon shares to bondholders and walked away. Instead, he went to great personal expense to hold on to a lackluster stock with unclear prospects.
In fact, his actions may dispel some of the lingering suspicions that Mr. Perelman was out to make a quick buck at the expense of other shareholders -- an accusation that he has denied. If Revlon's stock price is any guide, he may not have won many fans among the company's shareholders, but for now at least, he has cast his lot further with them.
Mr. Perelman's latest investment in Revlon, while indirect, is also notable because it is his first sizable transaction involving a public company in more than two years. While other financiers rushed headlong into technology stocks, Mr. Perelman stayed on the sidelines, betting just $100 million -- a pittance for a man worth at least perhaps $4 billion -- on a few Internet start-ups.
His Revlon move is also mystifying because he has so many other more tempting opportunities these days. By temperament, Mr. Perelman is a value investor, and the stock market finally appears to have shifted in his favor.
Yet he has instigated no splashy new deals, even while his contemporary and sometime sparring partner, Carl C. Icahn, has gleefully made a bundle on investments in Nabisco Group Holdings and General Motors.
MR. PERELMAN'S lack of action -- until Thursday -- even caused some people on Wall Street to wonder if he had been overwhelmed by losses suffered by several companies in his portfolio, and whether he had refrained from doing deals because he was short on cash. He does, after all, have an expensive lifestyle to support: several homes, including a 40-acre estate in East Hampton, N.Y., two Manhattan town houses and a place in Palm Beach he uses on many weekends.
Mr. Perelman and his consigliere, Howard Gittis, who has been with him since shortly before he bought Revlon, fervently deny any cash crunch. "Our debt is the lowest it's been in 15 years," Mr. Gittis said. They are simply waiting for the right opportunity, he said, and a credit market in which they can leverage their investments.
Arguably, putting more money into a poorly performing investment -- Revlon has lost money for eight consecutive quarters -- is a contrarian value bet. That seems especially true considering that, at least on paper, Revlon is far from Mr. Perelman's only money-losing investment.
Mr. Perelman's investing streak began to falter four years ago, when Marvel Entertainment, the comic book company he controls, filed for bankruptcy. He was forced to abandon the investment, at one point worth as much as $1.2 billion, after engaging in a highly public duel with Mr. Icahn for control of the company. (Mr. Icahn, who had bought Marvel's bonds at a discount, lost some $70 million for his trouble.)
Then came Mr. Perelman's misadventure in Sunbeam, the household appliance company in which he acquired a 14 percent stake in exchange for shares he owned in the Coleman Company, the camping gear maker, in 1998. The value of his Sunbeam stock has fallen from $425 million two years ago to a recent $9.7 million.
His investments in two other small companies, M&F Worldwide and Panavision, are also down sharply.
All told, Mr. Perelman's public holdings are worth $1.5 billion, down more than 60 percent from their peak in 1998. These losses do not even take into account his passive investment in the News Corporation, in which he owns 23 million American depository receipts after an asset sale four years ago. They have fallen 14 percent this year.
CONSIDERING that he has perhaps $2 billion more in assets -- cash, real estate, art and other private holdings -- it is hard to feel too sorry for him. Yet it is also surprising to see him take a gamble on a company when he has already lost so much.
So why would Mr. Perelman throw good money after bad?
One investment banker who has worked with Mr. Perelman for years is not surprised that he remains devoted to Revlon. "This is his most visible investment," he said. "It's much more important to him than Marvel ever was."
It must be -- and more than his other investments, too. Much of the amount that Mr. Perelman spent buying back the Revlon bonds was effectively financed by an estimated $300 million he has received from stock sales and other proceeds from his one thriving investment: the Golden State Bancorp, based in San Francisco.
His stock sales took advantage of the 58 percent increase in Golden State's stock this year, thanks to astute management and an expectation that interest rates are heading down.
Mr. Perelman is also hoping to raise at least $190 million more through a controversial deal he is arranging between two of his smaller holdings. Last month, he proposed selling his 83 percent stake in Panavision, a money-losing movie camera company, to M&F Worldwide, which sells licorice extract to the tobacco and confectionary industries.
If, as planned, M&F buys Mr. Perelman's Panavision stake at $26 a share, the price he paid for his shares plus "an appropriate premium to be negotiated," that would be more than six times greater than Panavision's current stock price. The deal, which is being reviewed by a special committee of M&F directors, has already inspired two lawsuits by M&F shareholders.
SITTING in their expensively furnished offices in the MacAndrews & Forbes headquarters -- a town house on the Upper East Side -- Mr. Perelman and Mr. Gittis profess surprise at the controversy. "It was an astounding thing to me," Mr. Perelman said; he contended that Panavision was sorely undervalued by the stock market, thanks in part to the small number of shares -- just 735,000 -- that trade publicly. He said Panavision, the dominant renter of movie cameras to filmmakers, was uniquely poised to take advantage of the growth in digital film.
"This is a company on the verge of being one of the only suppliers to the digital revolution," Mr. Perelman said enthusiastically.
He has held on to M&F, despite its own lagging stock price of just over $4 a share, because it has a large net operating loss that can be used to shelter the losses of future acquisitions. Its executives, he said, had searched fruitlessly for an acquisition for most of the last two years. . "We finally realized we had the perfect transaction right here," he said.
When Mr. Perelman is in doubt, his investment credo seems to be this: invest in what you know.
Mr. Gittis denied that either the Golden State stock sales or the proposed M&F-Panavision deal were motivated by any desire of Mr. Perelman to raise cash, to fund the Revlon bond purchases or otherwise. "Money is fungible," he said. "This is all part of a general bit of tidying-up activity. With the problems in the credit markets, the prudent thing to do is to clean up our obligations and keep liquid.
"That way," he added, "when opportunities present themselves, we can take advantage of them."
That sentiment, however, jibes much more with the old Ron Perelman, the one who built his reputation in the 1980's as a hard-nosed deal maker, than it does with the man who just plowed more money into Revlon. Whatever his other reasons for hanging on to Revlon, Mr. Perelman has clearly relished the social aspects of owning a cosmetics company whose public image has been intimately entwined with supermodels like Cindy Crawford.
How else to explain why Mr. Perelman has clung to Revlon through a booming market in which he could have sold the entire company for a huge profit?
But cling Mr. Perelman has. He did take the company public in March 1996 -- but he sold off just 17 percent of the stock, raising $188 million. That amount did little to reduce Revlon's hefty debt load -- now $1.6 billion, the enduring legacy of his buyout.
Not that he was immune to temptation. In February 1997, he managed to raise more than $500 million issue those zero-coupon junk bonds, which were secured by one of his most precious possessions: 20 million shares of Revlon stock. That represented nearly half of his own 83.5 percent holdings.
The bonds were structured so that if Mr. Perelman could not pay them off when they came due, bondholders would get the shares. (Still, even if that happened, he would not lose control of Revlon. Because his remaining shares have supervoting provisions, he would maintain a voting, if not economic, majority.)
WITH a glut of inventory and an uninspiring product lineup, Revlon saw its stock sink into the single digits last year, and it looked as if the bondholders would get only a small fraction of their money back -- perhaps as little as 10 percent -- next March, when the debt was to come due. Investors dumped the bonds, depressing their price to as low as 15 cents on the dollar in January, according to Merrill Lynch.
This year, as the market for new issues of high-yield debt turned increasingly bearish, Mr. Perelman's ability to refinance the bonds before the due date looked dim. The easiest way around that appeared to be to let the unfortunate bondholders have his 20 million shares come March.
But even with Revlon in such sad shape, Mr. Perelman was loath to give up so many shares. So he quietly began buying bonds last spring, causing the bonds to rise to a high of 70 cents on the dollar, according to Merrill Lynch data. He eventually acquired control of $630 million in face amount of the bond issue.
Mr. Perelman would not say how much he had spent to buy the bonds. But assuming a price in the middle of the bonds' trading range, he could have invested as much as $250 million. He hopes to exchange the remaining $140 million face amount for new bonds, and in return will pledge just 7.3 million shares, less than half of what he would have given up otherwise.
The stock market clearly took his gamble as a positive sign: Revlon's shares traded up $1.20 each, to $6.15 a share, after the news was disclosed on Thursday.
Still, there are good reasons for the low price of Revlon's shares. Profits at Revlon began to falter two years ago, as the company failed to develop hot products. Its most recent big hit was ColorStay, a lipstick introduced in 1994 and made famous by Ms. Crawford; it was guaranteed to withstand kissing, eating and drinking. Soon, the product was widely imitated by competitors whose products took away market share.
As its sales slumped, Revlon was saddled with excess product volume at retailers just as many drugstore chains were consolidating and closing stores. As a result, Revlon lost $2.80 a share in 1998, compared with a profit of 85 cents a share the previous year.
Since then, Revlon's share of the cosmetics market has continued to erode. For the 52 weeks ending Nov. 5, Revlon products accounted for 23 percent of cosmetic sales at mass merchants like drugstores, supermarkets and discount retailers, according to Information Resources, which tracks consumer product sales. That was down from 27 percent in 1998. And Revlon's sales were down 19 percent for the first nine months of this year.
Revlon's troubles come as some mass merchants have lost cosmetic sales to trendier specialty retailers, like Sephora and Bath and & Body Works. "There has been a migrational shift among consumers from traditional retailers like drugstores," said Allan Mottus, a cosmetics consultant. "Revlon has to figure out how to excite the next generation of consumers."
Mr. Perelman's first reaction to Revlon's slump was to try to cast his beloved company aside and sell it. In April 1999, he hired investment bankers Lazard Freres and Goldman, Sachs to shop the business, but nobody bit. Though Revlon was bloated with debt, he insisted that it was worth more than $50 a share. Nobody wanted to pay more than $35.
Determined to make over the company, Mr. Perelman pulled Revlon off the block and installed a new chief executive, Jeffrey Nugent, the former worldwide president of Neutrogena, a unit of Johnson & Johnson, which had lately become one of Revlon's fiercest competitors.
Mr. Nugent has sold assets and slashed costs. In the first nine months of this year, Revlon's general and administrative expenses were down 26 percent from the same period in 1999. Much of the savings came from reduced trade promotions; Mr. Nugent is gambling that he can better sell Revlon's products by giving retailers fewer up-front incentives to sell the cosmetics, rewarding instead those merchants who have lower-than-expected product returns with a share of the savings.
REVLON also appears to have slashed marketing expenses. At the current pace, Revlon's total spending on global advertising and marketing could fall as much as 25 percent this year, estimated Heather Hay Murren, an equity analyst at Merrill Lynch.
The cost-cutting has led to improved results at Revlon, but the company is still losing money: $12.6 million, or 25 cents a share, , in the third quarter. That was better than what analysts expected -- a loss of 32 cents a share -- and a considerable improvement over a loss of $3.13 a share in the same period in 1999.
But analysts are still undecided about Revlon's prospects under Mr. Nugent.
"They have some great brands, but there are still execution risks," said Ms. Murren of Merrill Lynch.
Revlon is poised to introduce several new products next year, including Skinlights Face Illuminators, which are supposed to brighten the wearer's skin and serve as a new alternative to foundation.
At least one savvy investor is betting that Mr. Perelman can rejuvenate Revlon. Over the last few months, his old rival, Mr. Icahn, has bought some of Revlon's bonds -- although he avoided the zero-coupon debt recently repurchased by Mr. Perelman in favor of other bonds secured by Revlon's businesses.
Mr. Icahn said in an interview that this time he would stay behind the scenes. "I just think the bonds are cheap," he shrugged. So far, Mr. Icahn has been true to his word. Mr. Perelman said he did not know whether Mr. Icahn had an investment.
Still, Mr. Perelman's plans for Revlon will require money, and the company has precious little to spare. Some analysts worry that it will not be enough to finance the ambitious turnaround plan started by Mr. Nugent. At the end of the third quarter, Revlon had around $105 million in cash and available bank loans.
Revlon anticipates that it would need as much as $35 million to continue its cost-cutting efforts over the next year.
While Revlon should still have enough money to keep running its business, its efforts to restructure and introduce new products may be a little too ambitious, given the amount of cash it has on its books, said George Chalhoub, a junk bond analyst at Merrill Lynch.
Revlon has been spending its cash at an alarming pace, he said, eating through $105 million in the last two quarters alone. If Revlon continues to spend at that rate, the company will run out of money by the end of March.
"In my opinion, Mr. Nugent will have to be content with a significantly slower rate of improvement," Mr. Chalhoub said. "They cannot continue at the same cash burn rate, unless they slow down the implementation of their business plan." Otherwise, the company will have to seek out an outside investor or sell assets.
MR. NUGENT replies that he may not need to spend at the same rate in the coming months. "This was a transitional year," he said. "Our advertising spending should be up significantly in 2001."
But even if Mr. Nugent's turnaround plans proceed as scheduled, it will take some time before Mr. Perelman can judge whether his faith in Revlon has paid off.
Whatever Revlon's fate, Mr. Perelman and Mr. Gittis say they have the interest, and the means, to do other deals when the right opportunities come along.
For now, though, Mr. Perelman's reputation and an increasingly large share of his fortune hinge on what happens in what remains his longest-standing love affair -- with Revlon.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ronald O. Perelman with the models Vendela, left, Cindy Crawford and Claudia Schiffer during 1994, the year of Revlon's most recent big hits, ColorStay lipstick. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. 1); Ronald O. Perelman in 1997 with Patricia Duff, his wife at the time, and their daughter, Caleigh. (Marina Garnier for The New York Times); Ronald O. Perelman with a former wife, Claudia Cohen, and current wife, Ellen Barkin, the actress, last year. (Photograph by Bill Cunningham/The New York Times)(pg. 15)
 
Charts: "While Revlon's Stock Falls..."
Chart shows stock price the trading day of each month since December 1999.
(Source: Merill Lynch Bloomberg Finacial Markets)(pg. 15)
 
"...Bonds Backed by Those Shares Rise"
Chart shows quotes for REV Holdings' zero coupon bonds since December 1999.
(Source: Merill Lynch Bloomberg Finacial Markets)(pg. 15)
 
"Still Rich, but Once Much Richer"
The value of Ronald O. Perelman's holdings in public companies he controls has fallen by $2.3 billion in two years.
 
Golden State Bancorp
Stake (millions of shares)
'98*: 41.0
'00: 42.9
Stock price per share
'98*: $18.69
'00: 27.31
Value (millions)
'98*: $766
'00: 1,172
 
M & F Worldwide
Stake (millions of shares)
'98*: 8.7
'00: 6.6
Stock price per share
'98*: 9.44
'00: 4.37
Value (millions)
'98*: 82
'00: 29
 
Panavision
Stake (millions of shares)
'98*: 5.7
'00: 7.5
Stock price per share
'98*: 26.80
'00: 4.31
Value (millions)
'98*: 153
'00: 33
 
Revlon
Stake (millions of shares)
'98*: 42.5
'00: 42.5
Stock price per share
'98*: 56.06
'00: 6.15
Value (millions)
'98*: 2,380
'00: 261
 
Sunbeam
Stake (millions of shares)
'98*: 14.1
'00: 14.1
Stock price per share
'98*: 30.13
'00: 0.69
Value (millions)
'98*: 425
'00: 10
 
*As of April 21.
**As of Dec. 14.
As of Sept. 11, when merger between Golden State and Mr. Perelman's First Nationwide Holdings took effect.
As of June 4, when Mr. Perelman gained control of the company.
(Source: S.E.C. filings; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. 15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: REV (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, AND OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: REVLON INC; MACANDREWS & FORBES REVLON INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: REVLON INC; MACANDREWS & FORBES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); BONDS (89%); MARRIAGE (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); TAKEOVERS (72%); FUNDRAISING (71%); SECURITIES LAW (70%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (70%); COSMETICS (68%); TOILETRIES MFG (68%); ZERO COUPON SECURITIES (65%); POLITICAL PARTIES (56%); 

PERSON: ATLAS, RIVA D; PERELMAN, RONALD O RONALD PERELMAN (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



406 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
Easy Money, Harder Times And the Road In Between

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
THE record-setting economic boom of the last decade has had an almost magical quality. Each time it has flirted with ending, a savior has stepped in.
In the mid-1990's, with growth slowing, American companies plowed billions of dollars into computers, improving productivity and, with it, the economy. In 1998, as Asia's economies were collapsing, American consumers stepped up their spending on big-ticket items like cars and appliances. 
 Around the same time, as corporate spending on software was slowing, executives began investing heavily in the Internet.
The dust behind this magic has been debt. Because of banks' willingness to take risks they once would not have taken, consumers and businesses alike have been able to spend money that they did not yet have. Thousands of people bought houses for the first time, and companies were able to keep pace with the rapid technological changes. Consumer debt now stands at $7.5 trillion, more than twice what it was in 1990, while corporate debt has reached $10.6 trillion.
For the magic to continue -- that is, for the economy to avoid a nasty recession in the next few years -- the borrowers must remain prosperous enough to pay off their bonds, credit cards and mortgages.
With the economy now slowing sharply, that prospect looks less certain than it did just a month or so ago. In fact, the unprecedented level of private debt could well be the biggest single threat to the soft landing that Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, has been seeking. "This could be the economy's Achilles' heel," said Mark Zandi, the chief economist of Economy.com, a research firm in West Chester, Pa.
Already this year, the number of personal bankruptcies has risen steadily, even as the unemployment rate has remained at its lowest level in 30 years. Four times as many companies have had their credit ratings downgraded as have had them improved, the worst such ratio since 1990, according to Moody's Investor Services. The nation's second-largest bank, Bank of America, said this month that its fourth-quarter profits would suffer because it had to write off $1 billion in bad loans.
Some of this is normal. Debt usually rises during an expansion, because people see tantalizing opportunities to spend money. In retrospect, anyone would have happily paid interest on borrowed money during the late 1990's to have earned a 20 percent annual return in the stock market.
But what could set the recent boom apart from others is the sheer scale of the borrowing, fueled by optimism and banks' aggressive marketing. During the good times of the 1960's, the ratio of household debt, including mortgages, to disposable income rose less than 10 percent, according to Economy.com. In the last decade, it has jumped almost 25 percent. The average American family now owes more money than it makes, after tax, in one year.
"We've had such unusual prosperity," said David Levy, vice chairman of the Levy Institute Forecasting Center in Mount Kisco, N.Y. "It's not surprising that people don't worry about catastrophic problems with credit."
Indeed, the debt presented little trouble initially because wages, hours worked and stock values have all risen smartly since the mid-90's. Now, however, some companies are starting to cut back on overtime and even regular hours. Many of the first to suffer are the same lower-income people whose debt payments have surged in recent years.
If they can no longer make the payments, bankruptcy filings will rise even further, and consumer spending will slow. Banks, stung by loans they cannot recover, will pull back, making it more difficult for some consumers to obtain mortgages or credit cards. Spending will fall again. Corporate profits will suffer, hampering the stock market. Investors will rein in buying for themselves and their families, just as hourly wage earners are doing likewise.
At the same time, companies' credit ratings have fallen, because capital investments are not yielding enough of a return to pay off corporate debt, said John Lonski, the chief economist at Moody's. With money now harder to get because of the lower credit ratings -- and overproduction hampering some key industries -- businesses, like consumers, may also reduce spending.
"It's a very fragile period, and it's very easy to see a scenario where things get out of hand," Mr. Zandi said.
None of this is preordained. The federal government has reduced its debt in recent years and has more flexibility than in the past to jump-start the economy with tax cuts or new programs. The Fed can also lower interest rates to lessen debt payments, thereby encouraging more spending and investment. At some point, though, America may have to overcome its debt problems the old-fashioned way: by spending no more than it makes.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart shows ratio of household liabilities to disposable income since 1960.
(Source: Economy.com)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT PERSONAL DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); FAMILY (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); RECESSION (77%); CORPORATE BONDS (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (76%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (75%); BONDS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); CREDIT BUREAUS (71%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (71%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (60%); COMPANY PROFITS (60%); 

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



407 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: The Election;
For the President, a Perfect Time for a Recession

BYLINE: By ALEX BERENSON 

 BODY:
IT looks like George W. Bush is going to get lucky again.
The amazing United States economy no longer looks so amazing. Economic growth has plummeted, from 5.6 percent in the second quarter to 2.7 percent in the third, and companies from Microsoft to U.P.S. have warned that the slowdown is likely to lower their profits. 
 With energy prices high, stocks weak and a sudden slowdown in demand for personal computers, some analysts predict that the economy could enter a recession as early as the first quarter of next year, shrinking for the first time in a decade.
"We're slowing down, and we're slowing really hard," said Doug Cliggott, American equity strategist for J. P. Morgan.
It's all just perfect -- if you're the president-elect. First off, if a recession hits just as he takes office, he can blame it on President Clinton. And the earlier in Mr. Bush's term that a recession strikes, the better the odds that the economy will be growing by the 2002 and 2004 elections.
In addition, the slowdown increases the odds that Mr. Bush will be able to push through Congress the giant tax cut that was at the core of his campaign.
That proposed $1.3 trillion cut, whose benefits would go mainly to the wealthiest taxpayers, faces opposition from Democrats and some moderate Republicans. Just last Thursday, House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert said he thought Congress should cut taxes more narrowly than Mr. Bush proposes.
But the economy's sudden chill gives Mr. Bush new ammunition for his plans. By giving people more money to spend, government tax cuts (and new spending programs) stimulate the economy, at least for short periods of time.
Last fall, when Mr. Bush first offered his tax cut proposal, the economy needed more stimulus about as much as a drunk needs another double. The Federal Reserve raised short-term interest rates six times between June 1999 and May of this year to slow growth and keep inflation down.
Under those circumstances, most economists felt that Mr. Bush's proposed tax cuts -- or Vice President Al Gore's spending hikes -- would be counterproductive. Now, with the economy souring, a dose of stimulation looks like a much better idea.
"The worse the economy looks, the greater the chances of bipartisan support for fiscal stimulus," said Stephen Roach, chief economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
That is true even though the cuts Mr. Bush has proposed would provide a smaller boost than similar reductions aimed mainly at the poor or middle class, Mr. Roach said. A person who receives a $20,000 tax cut is likely to put some of that money in the bank or the stock market, where it does not immediately help the economy; one who gets a $200 tax cut will probably spend it.
Stuart Rothenberg, a nonpartisan political analyst, said the economic slowdown will allow Mr. Bush to make a case for tax cuts that resonates beyond his core supporters.
Until now, Mr. Bush's argument has been "more ideological -- that you can't trust Washington," Mr. Rothenberg said. "The rationale for a tax cut is really that you don't have enough money in your pocket."
 MR. BUSH is lucky in yet another crucial way, Mr. Roach noted. If the federal government were already in deficit, Mr. Bush's flexibility to cut taxes would be limited, because tax cuts reduce government revenues.
In that case, the only way the government could make up the difference would be by borrowing more money. In the long run, that borrowing would suck up private capital and cause long-term interest rates to rise.
But under President Clinton, the federal government's deficits have turned into surpluses. So Mr. Bush has a cushion to cut taxes.
"The surplus, the large surplus, certainly gives the authorities more leeway to act should they want to do so," Mr. Roach said.
Thomas E. Mann, senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington, said the Congressional Budget Office was likely to increase its estimates for the federal budget surplus early next year. "That, combined with the economic slowdown, will increase the market for a tax cut," Mr. Mann said. Even so, Mr. Mann does not expect Congress to pass Mr. Bush's plan in its entirety, especially since the cuts are heavily loaded toward the second half of this decade, while the need for stimulus is immediate.
Still, Mr. Bush should be careful what he wishes for. If he cuts taxes too far without cutting spending, the surplus will eventually evaporate, deficits will swell and higher interest rates will choke the economy.
If he reaches that point, he may find that luck has its limits.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tree ornaments from Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway Corp. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); MS (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; TAXATION TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (71%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (56%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BERENSON, ALEX GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (78%); WARREN BUFFETT (59%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



408 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
It's the Iron Horse That Rules the Frustrating Skies

BYLINE: By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
THREE of the country's top four airlines have canceled hundreds of flights recently and plan to reduce their schedules because, they claim (and three federal judges have agreed), that their workers are slowing down or refusing to work overtime in order to pressure management at the bargaining table.
The cuts will add to the chaos of a holiday travel season already made trying by overcrowding, a creaky air traffic control system and winter storms. As travelers wait in airport lounges or in morose runway conga lines, they may want to use the time to consider the relative merits of the Railway Labor Act, the 74-year-old law that governs labor relations in the airline industry. 
 Unlike the National Labor Relations Act, the country's primary labor law, the Railway Labor Act does not allow workers to strike when their contracts expire. Workers continue under their existing agreement until a new one is negotiated, or the three-member National Mediation Board, which administers the Railway Labor Act, permits workers to walk out.
As a result, contract negotiations can drag on for years after the previous agreement has expired. Frustrated airline workers have increasingly engaged in stealth job actions that cripple an airline's operations -- and inconvenience passengers -- but appear to live within the letter of the law. Pilots decline to fly overtime; mechanics find more reasons to take jets out of service.
Paradoxically, the Railway Labor Act, the country's oldest law governing collective bargaining, was created to limit such disruptions. Its origins reach back more than a century, to when railroads were the driving force behind the new industrial economy. The total miles of track in the country soared from a mere 23 in 1830 to 35,000 by the end of the Civil War to a peak of 254,000 in 1916. And by the eve of World War I, railroads employed 1 in 25 workers.
The industry's tremendous growth was also marked by outsized corruption and brutal labor disputes. Some of the country's most famous strikes, like the Great Upheaval of 1877 and the Pullman Strike of 1894, involved the railroads. The labor battles led to frustrating disruptions; even a small union at a critical junction could tie up the commerce of the entire country.
Congress, trying to avert such disruptions, passed a series of laws, beginning with the Arbitration Act of 1888. But none worked very well. Finally, in 1924, President Calvin Coolidge asked the railroads and the unions to come up with a recipe for labor peace.
Remarkably, they did.
THE rail unions came to the talks from a position of strength. They had made great strides during World War I, when President Woodrow Wilson nationalized the railroads, placing William G. McAdoo, his son-in-law, in charge. Between 1917 and 1920, the average railroad worker's annual salary rose more than 80 percent to $1,820. After the war, the unions had begun lobbying Congress to take over the railroads.
When the two sides met to fashion a new labor law, the owners agreed to recognize the rights of unions to organize if labor would drop the idea of a government takeover.
The Railway Labor Act was adopted by Congress in 1926 with few alterations. It cemented the rights of unions, but also restricted their ability to interrupt service. Ten years later, the Air Line Pilots Association, which was having difficulty getting management to abide by other labor laws, successfully lobbied to have the fledgling airline industry covered by the Railway Labor Act as well.
The act the railroads and the unions came up with, and which governs the airline industry today, commits management and labor to the process of collective bargaining to settle their disputes. If talks founder, the two must to continue bargaining with the aid of a federal mediator. A strike or the hiring of replacement workers can only take place after the National Mediation Board declares an impasse, triggering a 30-day "cooling off" period that is usually taken up with intense bargaining right up to a strike deadline. Even then, the law allows the president to end any walkout by creating an emergency board to fashion a settlement.
The Railway Labor Act has never been seen as perfect. Both management and labor have criticized it. Lately, the biggest objection is that negotiations do not get serious until the mediation board starts the 30-day countdown.
But the odds of changing the act are slim. A joint committee of labor and management reviewed it five years ago and decided to keep it intact. That is partly because it would take an act of Congress, whose involvement is not something either side is willing to invite. And the fact is that the act, for all its shortcomings, still offers benefits to unions, management and consumers.
Organizing under the Railway Labor Act has proved to be easier and more lasting than under the National Labor Relations Act. Seventy-five percent of airline workers and 80 percent of railroad workers are unionized today, while in other areas union membership has eroded dramatically.
And if unions could strike when their contracts expired, airlines would be under constant threat of walkouts, making life even more unpredictable for passengers.
"If we didn't have the Railway Labor Act, the airline industry in the United States would be like an Italian railroad," said Richard B. Hirst, formerly chief labor negotiator at Northwest Airlines. "They have 39 unions and one of them is always on strike." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: IRON HORSE (73%); NATIONAL MEDIATION BOARD (56%); NATIONAL MEDIATION BOARD (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL MEDIATION BOARD (56%); NATIONAL MEDIATION BOARD (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; RAILROADS; STRIKES; CONTRACTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; OVERTIME; DELAYS (TRANSPORTATION); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY AIRLINES (92%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION REGULATION & POLICY (91%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (90%); OVERTIME (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY LAW (90%); STRIKES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (89%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (88%); WORLD WAR I (85%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); JUDGES (72%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (71%); CORRUPTION (61%); 

PERSON: ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



409 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
European Ties Bind and Form Knots

BYLINE: By SUZANNE DALEY 

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
MONTHS before the summit meeting held last week in Nice, European leaders began to lay out their long-range visions for the European Union: Some advocated a sort of United States of Europe, others a far looser association.
But the debate was put aside as the summit approached. Many believed that focusing on such big issues could undermine efforts to resolve the "technical matters" at hand, which added up to reshaping decision-making structures so that the enlargement of the bloc could go forward. Getting into heated polemics over the future would only get in the way, they argued. 
 But were those big-picture issues really put aside?
In the aftermath of the union's longest and, some say, least successful summit, many experts are saying those competing visions for the future were in fact behind some of the head-on collisions that made it so difficult to reach agreement on small matters in Nice. The Nordic countries and Britain tend to steer clear of steps they think could lead to Europe as a superstate, while France and Germany have traditionally favored the closest ties, warming to the notion of a power that would offer a counterweight to America.
So the European Union remains very much a work in progress, leaving unresolved the fundamental questions about what exactly it aims to be. It had its beginnings in the 1950's, fueled by the idea that former World War II foes could be stronger and more secure if they banded together for trade and, perhaps, for political integration as time went on. So far, it is clear that the union has built unparalleled European prosperity and achieved a degree of financial integration. But the basic question that was there from the start remains: Must deeper political integration follow? And what sort?
Talk of a United States of Europe goes back a half-century, to the time of war-weary visionaries like the French economist Jean Monnet. But can anyone yet see the way to a central government that collects taxes and oversees a uniform tax code in all of its member states? When might citizens from Greece to Sweden be drafted into a European Army? Could a bedrock bill of rights ever be drawn up that applies to all of Europe's citizens? Clearly, not soon.
During the five days of negotiations at Nice such radical possibilities were never openly discussed But experts say the potential for discord over them haunted any number of decisions, from the refusal of many nations to move to majority voting on such key issues as tax and social policy to the decision to adopt a charter of human rights that did not have the force of law.
"In a way, it was absolute hypocrisy to say that the debate on the future of the union could be postponed," said Daniel Cohn-Bendit, the leader of the 1968 French student movement who is now a member of the European Parliament. "Each country came to the meeting with a model in mind. If they saw a United States model they were willing to give up their vetoes; if they saw a financial agreement where the individual nations remained strong, then they had to keep those vetoes."
And for those who wanted to see a deeper union, the results were very disappointing.
Romano Prodi, the president of the European Union, said it was clear that many countries saw Europe simply "as a clearing house" that they could "move away from when you can't get anything or when you've already got enough."
The visions for the future that have been proposed lately vary widely. Last May, Joschka Fischer, the German foreign minister, proposed a European federation with a directly elected president and parliament sharing real executive and legislative powers.
In June, France's President, Jacques Chirac, proposed a looser arrangement -- more of a "united Europe of states rather than a United States of Europe." But, he suggested, if a core group of European Union countries wanted to move faster toward union, they should be allowed to do so.
In October, Britain's Prime Minister, Tony Blair, laid out another view in which institutional changes would give the European Union greater political coherence and perhaps greater democratic legitimacy. He is attracted to the idea of a charter of responsibilities that would better define the roles of the union and national governments. He also suggested a second chamber or senate for the European Parliament.
To some degree, the visions each reflect the union's popularity with voters back home, which varies. This year, for instance, Denmark's prime minister failed when he tried to get support, in a referendum, for joining the euro. In Britain too the union has always been an object more of grudging acceptance than of real enthusiasm.
Across Europe, there are even differing degrees of interest in sorting out the larger questions. Experts say that for years the union could take steps forward without dealing with the issue of where the finish line was going to be. Now, some experts say, this will only make decision making more and more difficult.
"The Nice summit showed the growing divides that are opening up," said Graham Mather, the president of the European Policy Forum in Brussels and London. "You can see the divide between some of the original countries and the Nordic countries, for instance. Where some really want to press on, others have a far looser vision and these are really two irreconcilable visions that make it hard to agree on details."
Mr. Mather and others believe that as the union expands eastward to include nearly a dozen countries formerly Communist countries, the clash of visions will only become more complicated.
"In the past it didn't matter so much," said Mr. Mather. "But now things are speeding up and the disparity of views has become rather important."
But some union members, at least, are pressing for an action plan. Prompted by Germany's desire to get a few more details hammered out, the European Union did commit itself to holding another reform conference in 2004 on the division of powers between Brussels and member states.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Euro art at the European Central Bank in Frankfurt. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (79%); SWEDEN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GREECE (73%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (58%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (59%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (59%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; GREAT BRITAIN; FRANCE; GERMANY; EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (79%); SWEDEN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GREECE (73%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (58%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TRENDS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); TAX LAW (66%); WORLD WAR II (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); 

PERSON: DALEY, SUZANNE

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



410 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: The Election;
Democrats Seek a Silver Lining

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
FOR a party that controls neither the White House, the Senate, the House nor a majority of the nation's governorships for the first time since 1954, the Democrats are remarkably cheerful.
One key reason is that Democrats think they won the election for the presidency on Nov. 7 and thus were not repudiated by voters. "All of us know Al Gore won this election and we're sad," said Representative Louise Slaughter of New York. And Gov. Gray Davis of California, where Democrats won Congressional and legislative seats, said that although the presidential race was "heartbreakingly close, by any other measure, election night was a good night for Democrats." 
 Looking ahead, their electoral expectations are sunny. They expect to win the Senate in the next election; it is now split 50-50, but with 20 Republicans and only 14 Democratic seats up in 2002. They also think they could overturn the nine-seat Republican majority in the House in 2002, having gained seats in three consecutive elections. But Republican control of redistricting machinery in big states like Florida, Michigan, New Jersey, Ohio and Pennsylvania makes that goal difficult.
Of course, since these are the Democrats, they don't all agree. Al From, president of the centrist Democratic Legislative Council, contends that Democrats failed to win the House or take the presidency because they failed to brag sufficiently about the economy and were playing populist themes of "class warfare" when they should have been humming dot-com melodies. Even so, the council's tone was much milder than after Democratic defeats of earlier years.
Stan Greenberg, who emerged as Mr. Gore's pollster in early summer, disagreed sharply. He said, "Gore's overall populist theme -- centered on using our prosperity to enrich all families, not just a few -- enabled him to consolidate his own vote, attract Nader voters at the end and reach out to independent and Bush voters. If the election were run on message alone, Al Gore would be president with a considerable majority of the popular vote."
Instead, he said, Mr. Gore won only a plurality because Mr. Bush held an advantage on "trust" and skillfully blurred issues, voters who supported H. Ross Perot in 1996 moved to Mr. Bush and the public was tired of President Clinton.
But, as Mr. Gore said Wednesday night, it was time for him to go, and the Democratic stage is now peopled by the winners. And those Democrats who did get elected seem remarkably united, in part by Mr. Gore's determined fight. Even Democrats who did not particularly like Mr. Gore or thought he had run a poor campaign rallied behind him against what they felt was an unfair process or a phony count.
A factor even more important to the Democrats' mood is the sense that their issue agenda dominated the 2000 election. "We were on the same page as the American people," said Representative George Miller of California. "Our agenda is the one that the American people want," said Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Senate leader. "The Republicans were campaigning on our issues," said Representative Bobby Scott of Virginia.
The Democrats' lack of rancor over Republicans' using education and health care as effective election issues stands in stark contrast to Republican complaints when President Clinton seized their ideological high ground on welfare and a balanced budget. Democrats almost sound admiring when they say, as did Representative David Bonior of Michigan, the minority whip, "They did a good job of fuzzing up the differences." But the different view of issue piracy reflects a fundamental difference between the parties, or at least their self-perceptions.
Democrats think of themselves as the party that wants to pass laws and establish programs. So on even an issue like prescription drug coverage for the elderly -- where their approach is at almost complete variance from the Republicans' -- Democrats are optimists who see Republican campaigning on the issue as an opportunity to get a discussion going and search for a distant compromise whose details they cannot yet imagine.
Listen to Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts: "The powerful lesson of this election is to try to find real solutions to the problems the vice president and Governor Bush talked about. People want us to roll up our sleeves and go to work on prescription drugs and a patients' bill of rights."
For experienced legislators like him, a compromise, even for less than half a loaf, is progress, and there is always enough credit to go around. There are Republicans who think along those lines too. But the party's leadership in Congress -- for example Representative Tom Delay of Texas or Senator Larry Craig of Idaho -- discuss "compromise" and "bipartisanship" as perilous concepts, Trojan horses by which the Democrats mean to subvert G.O.P. principles. Democrats, of course, are not so optimistic that they think they are better off than if they still had the White House. While they sometimes rebelled at having their destiny affected by Bill Clinton, he was a Democrat; now they must contend with George W. Bush, a Republican.
And they say they know better than to start a war with him. Bill Carrick, a Los Angeles consultant, said "we have to do some business," saying "Not since Nixon have we had a Republican president who seems to be as committed to doing things as Governor Bush is."
Still, many Democrats see a possibility of fights, being skeptical of Mr. Bush's seriousness on bipartisanship and his willingness to tangle with his party's right wing. Representative David Obey of Wisconsin said, "In Texas he was used to dealing with people who had his mindset even if they had a different party label." Senator Barbara Mikulski of Maryland said, "Democrats want to be cooperative, but they don't want to be co-opted." She said Mr. Bush should be invited "to live up to his campaign promise to try to bring people together." But, she warned, "If they're declaring war, we're ready."
In other words, the unusually cheerful Democrats think they win if Mr. Bush works with them, by enacting their program. And they win if he works against them, by showing him to be an extremist in moderate clothing when the nation is tired of extremes.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Daschle, the Senate Minority Leader, and the margin Nov. 8. (Justin Lane for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTIONS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); REDISTRICTING (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); CLYMER, ADAM AL GORE (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); LOUISE MCINTOSH SLAUGHTER (58%); TOM DASCHLE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



411 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 21; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 181 words

HEADLINE: DATABANK DECEMBER 11-15;
As Stocks Sink, Investors Flee to Safety

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
Stock prices resumed their slide last week as Microsoft, Compaq Computer and the merger partners Chase Manhattan and J. P. Morgan joined the long list of companies warning of profit shortfalls. That overshadowed investor relief that the presidential election stalemate had finally ended and news that in -flation remained tame.
 The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index was again the biggest casualty, battered for four con- secutive sessions after an advance on Monday moved it briefly back above 3,000. By Friday, the Nasdaq had shed 264.16 points, or 9.1 percent, to 2,653.27, its fifth decline in six weeks. 
 The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index followed the same daily pattern, falling 57.74 points for the week, or 4.2 percent, to 1,312.15, a new low for the year.
 The Dow Jones industrial average ended with a loss of 277.95 points, or 2.6 percent, at 10,434.96.
 All the turmoil drove some investors to the bond market, which expects the Federal Reserve to abandon its rate-tightening bias at its policy meeting on Tuesday. ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS"
 
General Motors
NYSE: GM
The automaker said it would shut down its Oldmobile division over the next several years. It also announced plans to cut its salaried North American work force by 10 percent.
Friday's Close: $53.81
Week's Change: +5.51%
EST. '00 P/E: 6.34
 
Shire Pharmaceuticals
NNM: SHPGY
In one of the largest takeovers of a biotechnology company, Shire of Britain agreed to pay $4 billion to buy BioChem Pharma, the maker of the AIDS drug 3TC.
Friday's Close: $42.69
Week's Change: -17.21%
EST. '00 P/E: 40.97
 
Lucent Technologies
NYSE: LU
Industry analysts speculated that the phone-equipment maker might be a target for a buyout by Nokia, the Finnish wireless company.
Friday's Close: $17.81
Week's Change: +15.38%
EST. '00 P/E: 46.27
 
Glaxo Wellcome
NYSE: GLX
United States regulators tentatively approved Glaxo Wellcome's $68 billion merger with SmithKline Beecham and allowed the British companies to keep three antismoking treatments.
Friday's Close: $57.13
Week's Change: +4.58%
EST. '00 P/E: 29.09
 
Whirlpool
NYSE: WHR
The appliance maker said it would cut as much as 10 percent of its global work force of about 63,000 as part of a restructuring.
Friday's Close: $40.06
Week's Change: -7.50%
EST. '00 P/E: 7.76
 
Intel
NNM: INTC
The chip maker said it would cut its capital spending by as much as 38 percent next year as weak personal computer demand forced it to delay plans for new plants.
Friday's Close: $32.44
Week's Change: -4.60%
EST. '00 P/E: 19.83
 
DuPont
NYSE: DD
The company said it planned to split off its drug unit and might sell shares in the business. Investors had complained that DuPont was not competitive with larger drug makers.
Friday's Close: $43.75
Week's Change: +0.87%
EST. '00 P/E: 15.67
 
Microsoft
NNM: MSFT
The company, a Dow component and Nasdaq heavyweight, warned that a global slowdown, lower computer sales and less corporate spending would hurt its financial results.
Friday's Close: $49.19
Week's Change: -9.64%
EST. '00 P/E: 25.77
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES STOCK INDEXES (95%); MERGERS (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); BOND MARKETS (65%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



412 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: Winning;
Now He Must Persuade the Voters

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex.

 BODY:
BACK in 1998, when he was still ambivalent about his party's entreaties that he seek the White House, Gov. George W. Bush described himself as a "cork on a raging river." But he has never seen the sort of roiling political currents, chutes and rapids that he is about to ride.
Mr. Bush, soon to become the nation's 43rd president, enters office with history against him. Only three presidents before him assumed office after losing the popular vote, and all governed a century or more ago before the pressures of the 24-hour media age. Not one of them went on to a second term. 
 Indeed, so certain are many in Washington that Mr. Bush, in finally prevailing in this disputed election, has seized a poisoned chalice that Democrats are already looking toward retaking Congress in the midterm election of 2002.
Mr. Bush is an optimist by nature, however, and he is assuming an office that offers a leader more levers of power, more opportunities to shape his own destiny, than any other. Comparing the presidency to a Superball, Fred I. Greenstein, a Princeton scholar of the presidential leadership, said: "It's a kind of resilient institution. You drop it and it's capable of bouncing very high and unexpectedly."
For proof of how a president can prevail even in the most perilous political circumstances, look no further than Bill Clinton. When the Republican ascension in Congress stymied him, he learned how to use the regulatory powers of his office and how to appeal directly to the American people. Through the turmoil of the impeachment drama and right up to the present day, his job approval ratings have remained confoundingly high.
Mr. Bush, too, has shown his own kind of resilience, whether in his 1994 race for governor against Ann Richards, his Republican primary comeback after his New Hampshire drubbing by Senator John McCain or his success in the fall's presidential debates. And he certainly never shied away from a fight during the campaign. Just ask Mr. McCain and Vice President Al Gore.
But those battles were fought in large part by surrogates. Less clear is whether Mr. Bush, wielding the visibility and authority of the presidency, can himself convince the American people that his policies are correct, that he is a leader worthy of enough respect that, four years hence, they should vote him in for a second term.
"First thing he's got to do is be the president," said one Republican official. "Dick Cheney's not the president. He's the president. He's got to start putting himself forward responding and meeting with the news media and the public and start selling his agenda."
John F. Kennedy showed just how powerful perception is. He won office by a razor-thin margin that the Republicans contested in the courts for several weeks. But he quickly captivated the nation with his wit, his beautiful wife and children, and his approval ratings rose dramatically even before he took office.
Gerald R. Ford, the only inhabitant of the Oval Office never to be elected president or vice president, reassured the nation after the searing Watergate scandal with a magnificent speech promising that "our long national nightmare is over." And he employed touches of modesty, like doing away with the playing of "Hail to the Chief."
But Mr. Ford also stands as a warning that presidents who come to power in disputed circumstances have little margin for error. His popularity plummeted when he pardoned Richard M. Nixon without first preparing the public.
"When their legitimacy is in doubt," said Richard Shenkman, a presidential historian, "when they make unpopular choices, there's thunderous reaction in the country. We're not willing to give them the benefit of the doubt."
Mr. Bush dearly needs some legislative successes early next year to show that he can be the "uniter" he promised to be and break the gridlock in Congress. But he will be aided, according to several students of the presidency, by the fact that public expectations are so low, given the near-perfect division of Congressional power, that even a series of small accomplishments might raise Mr. Bush's standing enormously.
"Never has the bar been set lower," said Stephen J. Wayne, a professor at Georgetown University, who studies the relationship between the president and Congress. "I don't think the American people really expect him to do that much that quickly."
But over time, they do expect results. And some of what Mr. Bush may accomplish later will be determined by the agenda he sets now.
Like President Ronald Reagan, he could introduce his administration to Capitol Hill by going for one sweeping agenda item. Reagan's overwhelming priority in his first year in office was his tax cut, and he pushed it through.
Or, like Bill Clinton in 1992, Mr. Bush could start with small steps. Mr. Clinton quickly signed into law bills like the Family and Medical Leave Act and a voter registration measure that had been vetoed by President Bush. If Mr. Bush wanted to follow the same path, he could sign an abolition of the estate tax, a tax reduction for some married couples and a ban on certain late-term abortions. All three measures passed Congress with some Democratic support, only to be vetoed by President Clinton.
But this piecemeal approach carries some risk. Conservatives could become restive if Mr. Bush appears irresolute on issues like abortion or tax cuts or Supreme Court appointments. And those conservative Democrats who ally with him on some issues will come under increasing pressure from their party to return to the fold.
If Mr. Bush decides to try for something bigger, the question is what issue best serves his needs. His aides say one of his first efforts will be to push through an array of education measures he campaigned on, including new funds for literacy. But Mr. Bush's centerpiece proposal for school accountability would shift federal funds into vouchers for poorer parents if schools in poor areas fail to improve. Most Democrats adamantly oppose vouchers, however, and if he failed to persuade them, his very public efforts at bipartisanship could come to a screeching and acrimonious halt.
Mr. Bush's call for a $1.3 trillion, 10-year tax cut is also perilous. Even so, all signs are that he plans to move ahead with a broad cut, perhaps even accelerating income tax reductions in response to the slowing economy.
MORE intriguing, there is just a possibility that Mr. Bush will stun everybody -- handlers, pundits and opponents alike. Imagine that he spurns the conservatives who put him in office and are demanding their due. Imagine an extraordinary step, like naming a major Democrat to head a commission on voting reform, or skipping over Antonin Scalia and naming a more moderate chief justice when William H. Rehnquist retires. And imagine him doing it all with a smile.
"He could emerge like Harry Truman," said John Weaver, the political director of the McCain campaign. "President Truman was always underestimated by his opponents. People made fun of President Truman's intellectual heft and ability. History has afforded him justice. But Harry Truman was willing to take on tough issues."
Mr. Bush, it must be remembered, campaigned for the presidency on his character. The next four years, and especially his first 100 days in office, will surely test that quality as it has never been tested before. Can he rise to the occasion and inhabit Oval Office in such a way as to earn the mandate that eluded him in the election?
Very soon, Mr. Bush will have to plunge into that whirlpool. He's lost valuable transition time and the clock is ticking. "Every day is precious to him," said one Republican. "He really doesn't have a honeymoon, he has a first date. That first date will be important as to whether he ends up in a marriage or divorce four years later."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Framed by a sign of support, George W. Bush boarded his campaign plane last month after a rally in Minneapolis. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US) ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICS (77%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); SALES & SELLING (66%); NEWS BRIEFS (62%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); MITCHELL, ALISON GEORGE W BUSH (93%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); DICK CHENEY (58%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



413 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 2273 words

HEADLINE: Can Bush Mend His Party's Rift With Black America?

 BODY:
As president, George W. Bush will have to mend many rifts, but none, perhaps, as wide as the divide between the Republican Party and African-Americans. Nine out of 10 black voters cast ballots for Al Gore. Many living in Florida felt their votes didn't count. The United States Commission on Civil Rights plans to investigate complaints about voting irregularities there, and perhaps in other states, to determine whether rights were violated on Election Day.
Last July, in a campaign speech before the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, Mr. Bush said, "The party of Lincoln has not always carried the mantle of Lincoln" and pledged, "Strong civil rights enforcement will be a cornerstone of my administration." 
 With those words in mind, we asked for suggestions about how President-elect Bush can bridge the gap between African-Americans and his party.
 
Jesse Jackson, president, Rainbow/PUSH Coalition.
President-elect Bush has promised to be president of all the people -- a welcome sentiment, especially to African-Americans, who in past Republican administrations have experienced a closed White House. Having lost the national popular vote -- and the black vote by nine to one -- he must recognize that the gap between African-Americans and his party is grounded not in malice but in historical neglect and oppression. I believe that the way to inclusion is not through symbolism, but by expanding opportunities through expanded civil rights.
Mr. Bush must address poverty. This issue goes beyond race, since most poor people are white, female and young, and addressing it can help all of America see that aiding one group doesn't necessarily hurt the other.
He must also address racial profiling, the inequities of capital punishment and the need for effective hate-crime laws. And he must support affirmative action. Colin Powell would not have been considered for secretary of state if affirmative action had not allowed us to experience his leadership skills. We shouldn't burn the bridge that brought him over.
Finally, this election has generated deep emotions, even alienation, as a result of what may be the denial of voting rights, not just in Florida, but throughout the nation. Mr. Bush should support the United States Commission on Civil Rights in its hearings across Florida; this is a credible, bipartisan commission that can find out what went wrong there, and the findings could have broad national applications. Mr. Bush must acknowledge that the Voting Rights Act needs to be renewed and expanded.
In sum, George Bush must help rekindle the flame of hope -- flickering weakly at this moment -- in democracy for all, so that his own dream of binding the wounds of the nation may be achieved.
 
Floyd H. Flake, pastor, Allen A.M.E. Church, Queens.
To heal the breach, Mr. Bush must address the basic concerns that average African-American voters have for their communities and children. What resonates? Basic issues like equal access to home ownership, public-school improvement, safety in the inner cities through a balance of prevention and punishment and a continuation of the unprecedented wealth created in the New Economy.
Almost more than anything else, President-elect Bush must dig deep into his own party and convince more conservative factions to open their minds to policies that had African Americans and Hispanics reaching across the aisle to vote for him in two Texas gubernatorial elections.
 
Ward Connerly, chairman, American Civil Rights Institute.
Having become president by the narrowest of margins, President-elect Bush will be tempted to govern cautiously, for fear of aggravating our divisions. He should be sensitive to these divisions but not let them stop him from providing bold leadership. It is essential that he tell us what he believes we ought to hear, not what he thinks we want to hear. We will respect him in the end for doing so.
As a people, we must reaffirm our dedication to certain fundamental principles: respect for the rule of law, treating others as we want to be treated and equal treatment under the law. If Mr. Bush can get the American people to rededicate themselves to these basic principles, then he will have laid a solid foundation upon which we can build a more unified America.
 
John Ridley, screenwriter.
After an election like this one, what Mr. Bush needs in the black community is what we in Hollywood call a comeback role: Like John Travolta in "Pulp Fiction," he needs to do something so monumental it forces us to forget about all the other earlier awful stuff. Might I suggest he try playing the part of the strong but silent type? Deeds, not words, will rehabilitate the man. Get Jesse Helms to quit blocking the appointment of a black federal judge in the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals. Back the University of Michigan's support of affirmative action. Then he should be quiet and not jump up and down all happy with himself. Do the right thing. We'll notice on our own.
 
Robert L. Johnson, chairman, Black Entertainment Television.
Here are three things President-elect Bush should undertake in the first 100 days:
* He should encourage his new attorney general to investigate charges of voting irregularities in Florida and set up a blue-ribbon commission to investigate racial profiling by local and state police.
* He should invite black leaders to the White House to hear their concerns about his administration's commitment to issues affecting their communities.
* He should hold a 90-minute televised town hall meeting to take questions about race relations from journalists and viewers.
 
Michelle Alexander, director, Racial Justice Project of the American Civil Liberties Union of Northern California.
Mr. Bush must decide if he was telling the truth to the N.A.A.C.P. when he condemned racial profiling, calling it the new "Jim Crow," and said that "strong civil rights enforcement will be a cornerstone" of his administration, or whether he was being more candid when he told law enforcement groups that the Justice Department should not function "as a review of police operations."
Mr. Bush should suspend federal executions until decisions about who lives and who dies cannot be predicted based on the color of one's skin and access to a well-paid lawyer. Show us, Mr. Bush, that you are more interested in educating our youth than in executing and incarcerating them.
 
J. C. Watts Jr., chairman, House Republican Conference.
The simple truth is that the views of African-Americans and the Republican Party are much closer than most might think. African-Americans are not Democrats because they believe in the party's liberal-leaning values, and the party has forgotten its most loyal constituents in the black community.
If we Republicans continue to communicate our common-sense principles throughout black America, we may eventually gain a whole new generation of young black voters who vote Republican. The principles Republicans stand for -- morality, integrity, and personal responsibility -- are universal.
 
David A. Bositis, senior analyst, Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies.
In the short term, there is nothing George W. Bush can do to reconcile with African-Americans. They rejected the Bush candidacy in a resounding manner, and the events in Florida since Nov. 7 have convinced them that the election was won because black votes were not counted.
Were I to propose a first step to the president-elect, it would be to use the bully pulpit to get those states, including Florida, that permanently disenfranchise ex-felons to ease their laws. He should do this for two reasons. First, it would represent a reproach to his white Southern conservative brethren. Second, since African-Americans believe he diminished their vote, he can start to atone by actively working to restore the voting rights of those who have none -- many of whom are African-Americans.
 
Faye M. Anderson, former vice chairman, Republican National Committee's New Majority Council.
What must Mr. Bush do to bridge the racial divide? At the very least, he must resist the temptation to attribute his dismal showing among black voters to alleged Democratic "race-baiting."
Mr. Bush should not think that appointing black cabinet members, regardless of their beliefs, will help. A position that is anathema to blacks will be no less so if articulated by Colin Powell or Condoleezza Rice.
So it is Bush himself who must do the heavy lifting. A meaningful first step would be to reach out to the established black leadership.
Since the Reagan administration, Republicans have bypassed black leaders in favor of their handpicked "independent thinkers," who are distrusted by black voters. Like it or not, the Congressional Black Caucus and heads of civil rights and labor groups are trusted by black voters. Republicans should try talking to them.
 
Julian Bond, chairman, N.A.A.C.P.
In his speech to the nation Wednesday night, George W. Bush spoke of the "details" in the differences between the two parties. In fact, there were huge differences during the campaign -- and in its aftermath, there is a chad-chasm.
To bridge this chasm, the new administration must immediately acknowledge the well-documented charges of minority voter suppression in Florida and elsewhere, investigate them, and pursue civil or criminal action where appropriate.
Mr. Bush should name a commission, with a membership that includes some of those who have worked for decades to ensure that every citizen's vote can be cast and counted, to recommend ways to end suppression of votes and intimidation and exclusion of voters
His highest-ranking Justice Department appointees must have demonstrated a commitment to fairness.
Thirty-five years after passage of the Voting Rights Act, securing the right to vote for all seems little to ask from a president who preaches compassion.
 
Shelby Steele, research fellow, Hoover Institution.
 How can President-elect Bush heal the rift with blacks? That this question must be asked makes a point in itself. Shouldn't black leaders have bargained with Mr. Bush throughout his campaign so that today they would have standing with this new president? After all, Mr. Bush reached out to blacks more than any Republican in memory. Yet blacks rallied against him as if he were George Wallace in 1968.
Black leaders keep making Democratic party affiliation a test of the black identity itself. This may get out the vote, but it makes blacks the easiest group in American life for both parties to take for granted. As Mr. Gore made clear by separating himself from Jesse Jackson's claim of racial injustice in Florida voting, black Democrats are an afterthought even to Democrats.
The moral authority of Mr. Bush's presidency will turn on the way he applies a conservatism of individual responsibility to the problems of poverty and inequality. Welfare reform, which recognized personal responsibility, has become the most successful social program in four decades. Mr. Bush's test-and-teach education policies in Texas have made responsibility the key to learning. All Mr. Bush can do is tirelessly make the case that personal responsibility is the new frontier of social reform.
 
Donna L. Franklin, author of "What's Love Got To Do with It?: Understanding and Healing the Rift Between Black Men and Women."
Photo opportunities with African-Americans are simply not enough. So how to start? Under Mr. Bush's leadership, Texas has led this country in executions -- and a disproportionate number of those executed were African-Americans. The capital punishment system in states throughout the country is plagued with legal incompetence, unscrupulous trial tactics and faulty evidence. And in the federal criminal-justice system, racial and geographic differences have been found to play a role in sentencing. Mr. Bush should impose a moratorium on the death penalty pending a thorough review of the system.
Welfare needs rethinking, too. Since Congress passed the landmark welfare reform law in 1996, the number of people on public assistance is half of what it was in 1994. But we now know that the reduction in the welfare rolls was created in part by a strong economy. With the economy showing signs of slowing, potential recipients -- many of them single mothers and their children -- need a president who will make sure that all the states are in compliance with the federal welfare guidelines.
 
Coretta Scott King, founder, Martin Luther King Jr. Center for Nonviolent Social Change.
Mr. Bush should hold regular meetings with the Congressional Black Caucus, the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, the Black Leadership Forum and other important groups. This would go a long way to building needed bridges of trust and understanding.
And he should set a goal of making his administration the most racially inclusive in history. He should be able to verify at the end of his term that he has appointed more people from minority groups to policymaking positions and federal judgeships than any other president in history, as did Presidents Carter and Clinton in their tenures.
The president-elect should strive to rise above the narrow confines of party ideology and work for a genuine bipartisan consensus on issues like affirmative action, federal aid to education, raising the minimum wage, criminal justice reform and job training in depressed communities.
If he meets these challenges with sincerity and courage, he can truly become "a uniter, not a divider," to the benefit of all Americans.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: George W. Bush saluted during the national anthem at a high school in Rock Hill, S.C., on Feb. 10. (Mike Segar/Liaison Agency)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMISSION ON CIVIL RIGHTS (58%); COMMISSION ON CIVIL RIGHTS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMISSION ON CIVIL RIGHTS (58%); COMMISSION ON CIVIL RIGHTS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. AFRICAN AMERICANS (94%); VOTERS & VOTING (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTION LAW (77%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (77%); HATE CRIME (73%); RACIAL PROFILING (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (66%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (63%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); AL GORE (58%); JESSE JACKSON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



414 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1830 words

HEADLINE: The Legal Spectacle;
Divining the Consequences of a Court Divided

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
SIXTY years ago, Robert H. Jackson, President Franklin D. Roosevelt's attorney general, published a reflection on F.D.R.'s titanic battle with the Supreme Court that had reached its climax in the failed court-packing plan. In 1937, the president, enraged by the court's striking down of the New Deal's economic cornerstones, had proposed to expand its membership to as many as 15 justices by adding a new seat for each member who refused to retire at 70. Born in political desperation, the plan came under withering attack as a threat to the separation of powers and died after the court began to uphold some New Deal programs.
The smoke had cleared by 1940, and Mr. Jackson, on the threshold of his own distinguished Supreme Court career, sought to extract some deeper meaning from the events. "So now, as always before, the struggle against judicial excess has ended by leaving it to the justices themselves to correct the errors of the court," he wrote in "The Struggle for Judicial Supremacy." 
 And then he added: "Another generation may find itself fighting what is essentially the same conflict that we, under Roosevelt, and our fathers under Theodore Roosevelt and Wilson, and our grandfathers under Lincoln, and our great-grandfathers under Jackson, and our great-great-grandfathers under Jefferson fought before them. The truce between judicial authority and popular will may, or may not, ripen into a permanent peace."
Given the current court's activism on a variety of fronts -- its attack on Congressional authority and its tilting of the federal-state balance toward the states -- those long-ago words had acquired a strong resonance even before the justices' plunge into presidential politics last week. Now, in their invocation of profound political struggle over the appropriate boundaries of judicial power, Robert Jackson's words sound eerily prescient for a time when the dividing line between law and politics, however clear in theory, has been blurred in practice.
The same five justices who, in effect, decided the outcome of a presidential election Tuesday night -- Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Associate Justices Sandra Day O'Connor, Antonin Scalia, Anthony M. Kennedy, and Clarence Thomas -- have been allies in a series of decisions that have placed the court at the center of a fundamental, if until now largely unobserved, debate over the exercise of political power in America.
For the first time since the New Deal, the court has curbed the use of what Congress assumed to be its authority over interstate commerce; in two recent cases, the court found that neither a federal gun control law nor the Violence Against Women Act had a sufficient connection to interstate commerce to come under Congressional jurisdiction.
The 5-to-4 majority has endorsed sweeping new theories of sovereign immunity for the states against the reach of federal law, while at the same time overturning state legislatures' own political judgments on whether and how to take race into account in drawing lines for Congressional and legislative districts.
While on the surface, not all these rulings seem consistent, what unifies them is a kind of judicial triumphalism -- an overriding of judgments made elsewhere in the political system, an insistence on having the last word -- that is, in many respects, the opposite of what conservative politicians and judges said they wanted most as the Supreme Court emerged from the activist turmoil of midcentury.
I'LL use the adjective 'untethered,' " William E. Leuchtenburg, a leading historian of the New Deal period at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and a longtime student of the court, said in an interview last week. "These decisions are not tethered to any text. It's precisely the conservative objection to the Warren court, or to Roe v. Wade."
But until now, Professor Leuchtenburg said, the court's recent decisions have provoked nowhere near the public scrutiny or unease engendered by the court's rulings of the mid-1930's.
That was because while the New Deal decisions were direct obstacles to Roosevelt's economic recovery plans, grabbing the public's attention by threatening its welfare, the federalism revolution of the Rehnquist court has played out in highly technical decisions involving obscure, even elusive doctrinal areas like the 10th and 11th Amendments.
"There's not one person in 10,000 who ever heard of Alden v. Maine," Professor Leuchtenberg said, referring to a 1999 decision that went far beyond the court's precedents to immunize states from suits in their own courts under federal labor law.
One effect of last week's events, he predicted, could be to bring about renewed, sustained scrutiny of the court's role in the country's political life.
While the court's intervention in the presidential election was unprecedented, the justices do, in fact, venture regularly into the thicket of electoral politics and are likely to do so more often as cases reach the court from the round of redistricting certain to follow the imminent release of population figures from the 2000 census.
As a taste of the cases to come, the court heard arguments several weeks ago on the validity of a North Carolina Congressional district that an earlier decision had found to be an unconstitutional race-based gerrymander. Following the court's opinion, the district has been redrawn and is no longer majority black. But the question remains whether the legislature drew the lines with race too much in mind, with the further question being, how much is too much?
During the argument last month in Hunt v. Cromartie, the lawyer for the plaintiffs accused the North Carolina legislature of hiding its racial motive by claiming as a "nice dodge" that it drew the lines simply to protect incumbents. Suddenly a voice from the bench interrupted. "Well, it isn't usually a dodge," Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, former majority leader of the Arizona State Senate, said firmly. "Legislators constantly are faced with drawing legislative districts, and my own experience is that the motive in most cases is political in drawing those boundaries."
It was surprising to see a justice stepping outside the judicial role to summon so overtly the directly relevant experience of an earlier, far different life.
 SEEN from the current context, that moment is a concrete reminder that for all the television-camera-free, cloistered atmosphere of the Supreme Court building, the justices are very much of the world. While Justice O'Connor is the only one of the current justices to have held elective office, David H. Souter was a state attorney general, Anthony M. Kennedy a lawyer-lobbyist in Sacramento, Stephen G. Breyer a senior Senate committee aide, Chief Justice Rehnquist a Republican poll-watcher in Phoenix and later a Justice Department official in the Nixon administration. Without political sophistication and sponsorship, no one is considered for a federal district judgeship, let alone the Supreme Court.
That justices embrace particular ideologies is neither surprising nor in any way illegitimate; it is part of how they came to be selected. In a culture where political differences are so often packaged as lawsuits, political sophistication is an asset to any judge.
But what has troubled many critics of the court's actions first to stop the Florida recount and then to prevent it from resuming is that the pair of 5-to-4 decisions appeared driven not by the high politics of judicial philosophy but by naked partisanship. In fact, the majority's ideology, which includes deference to the states and a high threshold for getting into federal court with untested constitutional theories, would have predicted an opposite result.
One Republican law professor, a supporter of Gov. George W. Bush with ties to several justices, said the perception of rank politics was inaccurate but at the same time understandable. "I would have hoped they would have found a way not to be perceived as acting on their own political preferences," Professor Richard J. Pierce Jr. of George Washington University Law School said in an interview. "When very sophisticated, knowledgeable people, not rabid people, believe that's what happened, it's tragic. I am very, very concerned for the court."
Professor Pierce said he did not believe the members of the majority were motivated by a desire to install Mr. Bush as president. The dynamic was more nuanced.
"I assume every judge always tries to do the right thing, to act in a judgelike manner, to be fair and impartial," he said. "They struggle within themselves, with recognizing the political implications of cases but doing their best to put that knowledge aside. But the justices are human beings, and this case offered the worst environment to place a human being trying not to be a politician in robes."
First, he said, was the context; those who defend the court's ruling see it as a necessary corrective to a liberal, if not lawless, state court that twisted state law in an effort to change the election's outcome. "The perception of everything that happened is tremendously colored by individual preference," he said. "Every Republican I know was screaming bloody murder about the Florida Supreme Court, that it was engaged in an outrageous robbery and that its decision could not stand. It was not so much 'get my man in office' as 'keep the evil people from stealing the office from my man.' "
The final factor was speed. "It takes a while for the good part of a judge to conquer the powerful human instinct to make a decision in accord with his or her political preferences," he said. Once the justices decided to hear the Bush appeal, he added, "time became the enemy."
Given the mood with which the week ended, Robert Jackson's 60-year-old inquiry about whether there might ever be "permanent peace" between judicial authority and popular will sounds almost quaint. The question is whether there can be anything that might resemble peace, even fleetingly. When the court reopens for business three weeks from tomorrow , nothing will appear to have changed, and yet nothing will be quite the same.
 THE debate over whether the justices acted out of partisanship or necessity will continue. But the possibility, however remote, that a Supreme Court decision can determine the presidency has now entered the public consciousness. The chance that a nominee as ideologically combative as Justice Scalia, whose confirmation vote 13 years ago was 98-0, would be confirmed today, at least without a major battle in a closely divided Senate, appears almost impossible.
Accountability is elusive for life-tenured judges, so it is their successors who may well be called, prospectively, to account. One result of the justices' remarkable exercise of power last week could be to raise the court's own political profile so high that any future vacancy might well produce a rancorous political struggle.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Supreme Court, as reflected last week in the glasses of a Bush supporter, Scott LoBaido of Staten Island. (Associated Press); (Photos by The New York Times, Associated Press, Agence France-Presse and Reuters)
 
Chart: "While the Carnival Was In Town"
Some 720 hours of electoral hijinks culminated last Wednesday in the christening of George W. Bush as president-elect, but this wasn't the only show in town. With little fanfare, celebrity babies were born, condemned men were executed and India gave us yet another Miss World. For those who never managed to look away from the chads, the dimples, the ballots and pimples (sorry: boils) here is a selection of events that unfolded in the shadow of this longest election day.
 
Nov. 7 (Election Day):
A top Gore strategist loses suitcase containing good luck "grounding stones."
20-inch, 7-lb. Seinfeld progeny delivered in New York City hospital.
 
Nov. 8 (First tally):
Ballot blamed in errant chad plucking.
Bush leads in Florida by 1,800 votes
 
Nov. 9:
Foreign leaders offer to help oversee U.S. election.
 
Nov. 10:
Bush develops an "infected boil" on cheek.
Democrats request that dimples be counted by hand.
Bush camp goes to court to stop hand counts.
 
Nov. 11 (New total after partial machine recount):
Bush leads in Florida by 900 votes
 
Nov. 14 (Full machine recount complete):
Ricky Martin releases "Loaded Rhythm" album.
Bush leads in Florida by 200 votes
 
Nov. 15:
Texas executes 37th inmate this year.
Rajkumar, an Indian film star, is released by kidnappers after three months.
 
Nov. 16:
Clinton becomes first U.S. president to visit Vietnam since war.
 
Nov. 17:
Florida theater troupe proclaims the election isn't the only funny thing in town.
 
Nov. 18 (Florida adds overseas absentee ballots):
Bush leads in Florida by 1,000 votes
 
Nov. 21:
Florida Supreme Court extends certification deadline to Nov. 26.
The Backstreet Boys' new album, Black & Blue, debuts.
United Farm Workers union ends its 16-year boycott of California table grapes.
 
Nov. 22:
Clinton ends his silence and pardons a Thanksgiving turkey.
 
Nov. 23:
Mickey Mouse returns to Thanksgiving Day Parade after 18-year hiatus.
 
Nov. 25:
Gore eats ice cream.
Roberty Downey Jr., actor and perennial Hollywood bad boy, is arrested for drug possession again.
 
Nov. 26:
Florida Secretary of State Katherine Harris declares Bush winner in sunshine state.
Bush leads in Florida by 600 votes
 
Nov. 27:
Cheney sets record for flag-photo-op backdrop with 14 flags; suffers minor heart attack two days later.
 
Nov. 28:
Questionable ballots shipped to Tallahassee courtroom. Ryder trucks overcome association with Oklahoma City bombing.
 
Nov. 29:
Rat Summit, "War on Rats," held at Columbia University in New York City.
David Blaine, magician, emerges from three days in an ice chamber in Times Square.
Questionable ballots shipped to Tallahassee courtroom. Ryder trucks overcome association with Oklahoma City bombing.
 
Nov. 30:
Priyanka Chopra of India (center) is crowned the new Miss World.
 
Dec. 1 (Bette Midler's Birthday)
 
Dec. 3:
Astronauts aboard the space shuttle Endeavor successfully install giant solar panels on the International Space Station.
 
Dec. 4:
Judge Sauls rejects Gore's contest of count.
Judicial tennis match ensues between Florida Supreme Court, which rules in favor of Gore, and U.S. Supreme Court, which agrees to hear Bush argument against recounts.
 
Dec. 7 (Pearl Harbor Day)
 
Dec. 8 (Florida Supreme Court orders hand recount):
20th anniversary of John Lennon's shooting death is observed in Central Park.
Judicial tennis match ensues between Florida Supreme Court, which rules in favor of Gore, and U.S. Supreme Court, which agrees to hear Bush argument against recounts.
Bush leads in Florida by 200 votes
 
Dec. 9 (U.S. Supreme Court halts hand recounts):
Israeli Prime Minister Barak resigns in order to force new elections.
Judicial tennis match ensues between Florida Supreme Court, which rules in favor of Gore, and U.S. Supreme Court, which agrees to hear Bush argument against recounts.
 
Dec. 12 (U.S. Supreme Court overturns Florida court):
Equivocal Supreme Court ruling evenually yeilds that Bush wins.
Bush leads in Florida by 600 votes
 
Dec. 13:
Gore concedes election, but notes displeasure with Supreme Court decision.
Bush puts transition effort into full gear.
 
Roughly 300,000 new citizens are born during the 35-day election fracas.
(Sources: Various press reports; the U.S. Census Bureau.)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); ISRAEL (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US) SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (99%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (99%); FLORIDA SUPREME COURT (94%); FLORIDA SUPREME COURT (94%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); UNITED FARM WORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); UNITED FARM WORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US) SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (99%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (99%); FLORIDA SUPREME COURT (94%); FLORIDA SUPREME COURT (94%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); UNITED FARM WORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); UNITED FARM WORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA; UNITED STATES (97%); ISRAEL (79%); FLORIDA, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT SUPREME COURTS (96%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); POLITICS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); SOVEREIGN IMMUNITY (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); IMMUNITY (72%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (71%); GUN CONTROL (61%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); GREENHOUSE, LINDA; REHNQUIST, WILLIAM H (CHIEF JUSTICE); O'CONNOR, SANDRA DAY (ASSOC JUSTICE); SCALIA, ANTONIN (ASSOC JUSTICE); KENNEDY, ANTHONY M (ASSOC JUSTICE); THOMAS, CLARENCE (ASSOC JUSTICE) ANTONIN SCALIA (89%); AL GORE (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); EHUD BARAK (59%); CLARENCE THOMAS (57%); ANTHONY KENNEDY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



415 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 190 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS: DIARY;
Boom Times for Office Parties

BYLINE: By Aaron Donovan 

 BODY:
The stock market has stumbled and the economy is slowing, but the holiday party is alive and well.
Vault.com, a Web site about the workplace and careers, reports that 64 percent of employers it surveyed planned to increase or maintain their spending on parties this year, compared with 1999. Xylo, a research firm in Bellevue, Wash., says 52 percent of employees work at companies that hold office holiday parties. 
 Far from an excuse to get drunk or rowdy, the office party often has become an extension of work itself. Some consultants even recommend that the party-goers rehearse.
"You're giving people a chance to see the richness of you as a person," beyond the narrow role they see each day, said Frank Carillo, president of the Executive Communications Group in Englewood, N.J., which coaches executives on effective presentations.
Mr. Carillo recommended arriving at the party with a mental list of conversation topics that go beyond work-related matters, speaking crisply and in complete sentences, asking open-ended questions and avoiding discussions about religion or, God help you, politics.
 Aaron Donovan
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); WASHINGTON, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS; LABOR; OFFICES; PARTIES (SOCIAL) HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); CHRISTMAS (73%); RELIGION (64%); 

PERSON: DONOVAN, AARON FRANK CARILLO (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



416 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: In a First for Swiss, Women in Geneva Gain Maternity Benefits

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON 

DATELINE: GENEVA, Dec. 16

 BODY:
Working women in Geneva canton will be the first in Switzerland to receive mandatory maternity benefits, raising hopes among advocates that Switzerland will not be the only country in Western Europe without such paid leave for much longer.
Cantonal lawmakers approved the legislation this week; it is to take effect in July. The move was considered significant because last year, Swiss voters nationally strongly rejected paid maternity leave. 
 While the United States has never mandated paid leave, it is routinely provided in much of Europe. Swiss law, on the other hand, requires that a woman take eight weeks off work after childbirth, but it does not guarantee a salary during that period. Britain gives a new mother up to 18 weeks' leave at 90 percent of her salary, and the Netherlands and Scandinavian countries typically pay 100 percent.
Even though more women are working throughout their childbearing years, the question of guaranteeing rights to new mothers is not universally supported. The United Nations International Labor Organization has been struggling to convince countries to sign a global accord setting out maternity benefits.
A key sticking point has been whether time off after childbirth should be compulsory. Last June a handful of countries, including the United States, voted against a provision to guarantee 14 weeks' maternity leave.
Maternity benefits were included in Switzerland's constitution more than a half-century ago, but the Swiss have voted four times -- in 1971, 1984, 1987 and last year -- against enforcing that provision. A legal loophole dating back to the last century, when an eight-week ban on work after childbirth was introduced to "protect" young mothers, requires the government to act separately to set up maternity insurance.
Last year's electoral rebuff left many women determined to fight for a mandatory benefit. They include the country's former president, Ruth Dreifuss, who said last year that 54 years of waiting since the constitution was passed was enough.
Currently many women receive some money from their employers, but unless the company has a policy, maternity benefits must be negotiated individually. As a result, it is estimated that about 200,000 women in Switzerland receive no benefits.
In fact, the federal Parliament in Bern has quietly been moving to institute compulsory insurance. Last week the Senate passed a motion calling for 14 weeks' paid maternity leave. The House had already approved the measure.
The Geneva canton's new law is subject to federal approval, but authorities have indicated they will not stand in its way. "We hope it creates a domino effect," said a spokesman for the federal social security office.
A prominent argument against the measure was that women already receive generous social benefits and that any new right would drain state funds, which were needed to offset above-average unemployment.
But in the past year, the economy has come roaring back, and this has lessened concern about financing. In addition, the considerable shortage of skilled workers in the country has drawn proposals that Swiss companies -- which often pay women as little as 70 percent of what men earn in comparable jobs -- learn to be more flexible to mothers.
The cantonal plan would pay 80 percent of a woman's salary for 16 weeks. The rejected federal planwould have offered 14 weeks. The plan is to cost $29 million a year, split by companies and workers. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (98%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); NETHERLANDS (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (71%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (94%); 

CITY: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (94%); BERN, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (72%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SWITZERLAND; GENEVA (SWITZERLAND); SWITZERLAND (98%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); NETHERLANDS (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (71%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (94%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (94%); BERN, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; FAMILY LEAVES; CHILD CARE; LAW AND LEGISLATION PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (91%); MATERNITY LEAVE (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (90%); WOMEN (90%); APPROVALS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); SOCIAL SECURITY (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%); CHILD CARE (59%); 

PERSON: OLSON, ELIZABETH

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



417 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 60; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2776 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases;
For Hunger's Victims, Sustenance to Bolster Embattled Spirits

BYLINE: By AARON DONOVAN 

 BODY:
Louis Bratcher, a homeless man wearing old, tattered clothes, was walking through the main concourse at Pennsylvania Station when he heard a familiar voice over the noise of hundreds of commuters rushing to board trains bound for the New Jersey suburbs.
"Louis!" 
 It was his daughter Dena, whom he had not seen in a half-dozen years. She was working as an Amtrak ticket agent.
They talked briefly. Mr. Bratcher, now 66, was ashamed that he was living at the station.
"I was homeless," he recalled. "I met my daughter where she worked. I was so embarrassed for her to see me."
That evening, four or five years ago, was the last time he saw any of his children.
"I don't like to put my burdens on my kids," said Mr. Bratcher, who has three other children: Jackie, Calvin and Denise. "My problems are not their problems."
Mr. Bratcher spends most nights trying to sleep on a wooden bench in a walkway underneath the platforms that serve the Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 9 subway lines at Penn Station. He worked for 40 years as a truck driver, at different times delivering food and stationery and driving a moving truck. But he was paid under the table, he said.
"That was where I messed up," he said. "When I went to get benefits after the work, I couldn't get them because I was off the books."
So now that he is retired, he has no pension to draw from -- only minimal help from Social Security -- and for 10 years has had no place to call home.
During the winter, his nights are often sleepless. "It's terrible," he said. "When you hear a sound and it doesn't sound like a friendly sound, you wake up and you want to know what's going on. You sleep like an animal."
In the mornings, when Mr. Bratcher goes to a center for the elderly in Midtown that feeds the homeless and provides them a place to spend time, he ends up falling asleep in his chair, just like the other men without homes who go there for food and warmth.
Finding shelter is a struggle for Mr. Bratcher and the others who arrive each morning at the center, run by a nonprofit organization called Project FIND (for Friendless, Isolated, Needy and Disabled), which has organized several daytime centers and homeless shelters for the elderly in Midtown and on the Upper West Side.
But finding food is often even more difficult.
Project FIND is a member of the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, one of the seven local charities supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The project was recently awarded $10,000 from the fund to help provide food for the homeless. It will use the grant for its free dinners for the elderly homeless people who use the center, on Ninth Avenue opposite the Port Authority Bus Terminal.
The meal will most likely be served in a brown paper bag and include a sandwich, fruit and milk. The agency hopes to give out 33 meals a day, or 10,000 for nearly a year, that would be covered by the grant.
"Getting the homeless to accept services is a very difficult task," said Cynthia Dial, the executive director of Project FIND. "One of the things we're trying to do with this program, by handing out a meal at the end of the day, is to try to get them to come back to us, and to try to earn their trust."
Six days a week, elderly people from the neighborhood, many of them homeless, go to the center for inexpensive warm meals and for recreation, like pool, cards, tai chi and television.
About noon at the coffeehouse, as the center is called, the staff receives meals from the Woodstock Hotel on West 43rd Street, which Project FIND runs.
Out on the street, finding food is hard even for someone like Mr. Bratcher, who knows shop owners who will give him a leftover sandwich or a cup of coffee when business is slow.
Sometimes agencies distribute food and clothes to the homeless at night. But Mr. Bratcher said that it was difficult for him to find out when and where the trucks arrived, and that the elderly were often overlooked. "The younger people, they will climb over you and push you out of the way, and they take all the best stuff," he said.
Mr. Bratcher said that he received little more than $200 a month in Supplemental Security Income. It does not last more than a week, he said, because he often has to pay people who gave him food the month before. So he gets free meals from churches and social service agencies.
"Quite a few times I've wondered how I'm going to eat," Mr. Bratcher said. "It's the worst feeling in the world to know a person is hungry because they don't have the necessary funds to get a meal."
 
The Elderly and Children
 Hunger in the city can take many forms. It does not just strike people who are homeless. Though people of all ages are hungry, experts say the elderly and children are the hardest hit.
When Virginia Leslie's children are hungry, they know better than to start rifling through her kitchen cabinets. Because food is scarce, Cherrie, 13, Christopher, 11, and Sabrina, 9, are sure to ask first before they eat.
"The rent is not a problem," Ms. Leslie said. "Feeding them is a problem, and clothes."
Ms. Leslie is one of the many New Yorkers who during these times of economic prosperity have struggled to keep food on the table.
But she, like thousands of others, has received aid from an agency supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. Every month, Ms. Leslie, 50, goes to the Pelham Fritz Apartments, a housing shelter on West 118th Street, where she is given a big black plastic bag full of food. The shelter and the small pantry it operates are run by the Children's Aid Society, one of the seven local charities supported by the fund.
The pantry, a small basement storage room at the end of a maze-like cinder block corridor underneath the shelter, is kept locked to protect its contents: can after can of sliced apples, evaporated milk, apricot halves, corn and carrots. It also has a large cylindrical crate full of rice, and boxes of jumbo pasta shells. Over a typical two-month period, it serves about 3,000 people, more than half of them children.
The item that vanishes first is baby formula. "The last one went yesterday," said Sixto Melendez, who oversees the pantry, as he looked at the empty spot on the metal shelf where it had been stored.
Ms. Leslie, like the other struggling parents who use the pantry, has no other way to feed her children. She suffers from depression, high blood pressure, a pinched nerve in her spine and arthritis that makes it difficult to walk outside when the temperature drops below 40 degrees.
She had been a home health aide for 15 years. But because the painkillers she takes for her arthritis and the pinched nerve cause drowsiness, she lost her job nine years ago and has not been able to regain her home health aide certification.
She now has a home health aide of her own, Martha Simmons, who has been with the family about two months.
But she does not go outside much, and after dark, neither do her children. They live in the Martin Luther King Jr. Houses on Lenox Avenue in Harlem. At 6 p.m., the three-block stretch occupied by the King projects is virtually devoid of activity.
"I never really cared for the projects," Ms. Leslie said. She has lived there nine years. "But I had no choice." Before she moved into her apartment in the King houses, she lived in a homeless shelter with her three children.
The Children's Aid Society also paid for a bunk bed and wooden dressers for the children's bedroom. And after a few phone calls from Vivian Silverio, the social worker from the society who works with the family, the New York City Housing Authority painted the apartment walls and fixed broken windows and doors.
 
Soup Kitchen Lines Grow
According to a study released two months ago by Food for Survival, the city's largest food bank, in 1998 615,000 people sought help each month from city soup kitchens and food pantries, up from 309,000 people who sought such assistance each month in 1995.
Lucy Cabrera, the president of the food bank, attributed the increase to government initiatives that reduced the number of people who receive food stamps and welfare benefits. "You have now those people who might have one worker in the family who is underemployed, making wages but not enough to afford to live in the City of New York," she said. "And you still have the homeless and those who live way below the poverty line."
Food for Survival estimates that of the people who use the food programs, 35 percent are children.
Philip Coltoff, executive director of the Children's Aid Society, called the problem of child hunger in America "a clear and present danger."
"If a child goes hungry for a period of time, depending on the age of the child, we can have serious health problems," he said. "If they're not getting the necessary nutrients for normal growth and development, there can be significant delays to their social, emotional and cognitive development."
Gertrude T., 38, wants her children to do well in school but has trouble putting food on the table. She knows that the key to her children's success is learning English and getting good grades. She fears that she may not be able to provide them the best possible environment for doing their homework.
After she makes an after-school meal for her two boys, Fredy, 9, and David, 6, they sit down at the family table to do their homework. But not always for a long time.
"My little one says 'My brother is bothering me,' " she said in Spanish. "And my big one says 'My brother is bothering me.' "
So she separates them by asking David to go into the bathroom. It's the only other room the family has.
Gertrude, her husband, Fred, 45, and Fredy sleep in a full-size bed in their Lower East Side studio apartment. David sleeps on a couch just a few feet away in what for nearly eight years has been the living room, dining room, kitchen and bedroom.
The children finish their homework by 6:30, when their father comes home. He earns $140 a week as a butcher at a nearby meat market.
Gertrude worked at a Broadway garment factory for 11 years before Fredy was born, but now that she has two children she said she did not have the time to work. "If I worked, I would have to have someone look after my children," she said. "And that would take away whatever I made at the factory."
The family receives $325 a month in food stamps. Fred, a legal resident but not yet a citizen, is ineligible for them and so does not count toward the family's allotment. So they go to Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York for food. Catholic Charities operates a food pantry out of the Cardinal Francis Spellman building on East Second Street, where Gertrude has gotten canned fruit and vegetables, rice and powdered milk about once a month during the past year.
The food assistance programs at the center are supported by money from the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and from various private donations, including money from the Neediest Cases Fund.
"We don't say, 'Come once a month' ," said Sister Lucita Cangemi, who works with the family. "We say, 'Come when you need it.' "
The Protestant federation this year received 20 applications from member agencies for grants to help them combat hunger or homelessness. At its office on Park Avenue South on a frigid morning this month, the federation awarded nine of their agencies grants worth $10,000 each from the Neediest Cases Fund, the majority of which went to support hunger relief efforts, including Project FIND.
Megan E. McLaughlin, executive director of the federation, says there is a paradox in her agency's role fighting hunger. "We have to provide these services, but we need to seek to end these services," she said at the ceremony at which the grants were awarded.
While the agency seeks to find the roots of the problem, donors to the Neediest Cases fund make the lives of those who are hungry a little easier. "The Neediest Cases money can't be used for research or training or anything like that," said Judith Milone, director of client services for the federation. "It has to be used for direct service."
The federation gave one of the grants to the Lenox Hill Neighborhood House, which helps the homeless of the Upper East Side find housing, for outreach efforts to encourage more elderly adults to use the house's lunch programs.
"We saw a large number of older adults show up for food," said Martha Dorn, the house's associate executive director. "Many of them do not have family they can rely on."
 
Coping, With Help
From the Upper East Side to a solidly middle class neighborhood like Forest Hills, Queens, some elderly are quietly going hungry. One of them is Roza Vladescu, 89, a Holocaust survivor who lives in Forest Hills.
She does not have enough money to pay for extravagant meals. She spends $1 a day on a service that provides her with a modest warm lunch six days a week.
"For me, it's enough," she said. "I need to have a little force, otherwise I fall down on the street."
She found the program with the help of Selfhelp Community Services, a beneficiary agency of UJA-Federation of New York, one of the charities supported by the Neediest Cases Fund.
Mrs. Vladescu depends on $618 a month in her late husband's Social Security benefits. She had been eating lunches at a nearby senior center run by Selfhelp, but after an operation on her foot to remove cancer, she said, walking to the center every day was too painful.
So she walked into a nearby Selfhelp office that specializes in helping Holocaust survivors. There Mrs. Vladescu met with a social worker, Susan Morgan, who told her that she could apply for a meal delivery program offered by the local community group, the Forest Hills Community House.
Though getting food was the most pressing issue for Mrs. Vladescu, Ms. Morgan is continuing to work with her, helping her to organize her bills. Over the summer, the agency also gave Mrs. Vladescu a new air-conditioner to prevent straining her heart.
"I was suffocated here," Mrs. Vladescu said.
 While hunger is an ever-present concern in the lives of many New Yorkers, there are a few times when getting the next meal is temporarily forgotten.
On a recent afternoon, a worker at the Project FIND coffeehouse called out for the people holding Nos. 11 to 20. Mr. Bratcher picked up his number, 19, but didn't go to eat the meal that had been prepared: chicken with barbecue sauce, broccoli, corn, milk and orange juice. He said he was too distraught to eat because he was thinking about his grown children.
He does not know where they live. He said he had gone to places where he thought he might find them, but had not had any luck. As he remembered his daughter Dena he thought about how he could find enough money to get to Corona, Queens, the neighborhood where they used to live, to see if he could find her.
"I haven't seen her in quite some time," Mr. Bratcher said, as the corners of his bloodshot eyes dampened. "But I sure would like to see her."
 
HOW TO HELP
 
Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to P.O. Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087, or any of these
organizations:
 
BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.
 
CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.
 
CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.
 
CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station, P.O. Box 4100, New York, N.Y. 10261-4100
 
No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
 
The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.
 
Donations may be made with a credit card online, courtesy of the Qpass digital commerce service, at www.nytimes.com/neediest. Online donors receive a free trial subscription to the crossword puzzle of The New York Times on the Web.
 
Contributions to the fund are deductible on Federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.
 
To delay may mean to forget.
 
Previously recorded: $3,339,918.83
Recorded Friday: $49,610.00
 
Total: $3,389,528.83
Last year to date: $2,669,524.51
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lois Bratcher, 66, spends winter nights on a bench at Pennsylvania Station. (Don Hogan Charles/The new York Times); Virginia Leslie, second from right, with her children, Cherrie, 13, left, Sabrina, 9, and Christopher, 11. "The rent is not a problem," Ms. Leslie said. "Feeding them is a problem." She gets food at a pantry run by the Children's Aid Society. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times); Gertrude T., 38, and her older son, Fredy, 9. Because her husband is not yet a citizen, he is ineligible for food stamps, setting the family's monthly allotment at $325. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times); Roza Vladescu, 89, gets meals delivered because a foot operation hindered her. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (57%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (57%); PROJECT FIND (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: PROJECT FIND (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND; FOOD HOMELESSNESS (89%); CHILDREN (88%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (78%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (77%); CHARITIES (77%); TRUCK DRIVERS (74%); TRAVEL TICKETS (72%); AGING (69%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (66%); GRANTS & GIFTS (61%); 

PERSON: DONOVAN, AARON LOUIS BRATCHER (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



418 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 8; Page 10; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1472 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
The Genesis of a Huge Contract

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
Sometime after George W. Bush and his partners sold the Texas Rangers to Tom Hicks, Bush, then the governor and now the president-elect, attended a game at the Ballpark in Arlington.
"I bumped into him," Doug Melvin, the Rangers general manager, said, "and he said: 'Doug, you need to get some pitching. You know you can spend as much money as you want now.' " 
 Bush was joking, Melvin added, but last week, with the blessing -- no, the encouragement -- of Hicks, Melvin signed Alex Rodriguez to the biggest player contract in sports history.
"I didn't know back then about being a general manager," Melvin said, recalling the years (1979-84) he worked for the Yankees, at one point making $12,000 a year pitching batting practice. Nor did he know about $252 million contracts.
Free agency was still in its infancy when Melvin ended his minor league pitching career and began working for a living. The historic Rodriguez signing came just 12 days before the 25th anniversary of the arbitration decision by Peter Seitz that created free agency.
A quarter of a century later, with the economic pendulum having swung 180 degrees to their side, players are earning more money than their predecessors could have imagined.
But with each major contract -- Rodriguez, Manny Ramirez, Mike Hampton, Mike Mussina have signed this off-season's biggest contracts for a total of $621.5 million -- owners of some lower- or middle-revenue clubs become more militant in their resolve to grab back control of salaries when the current collective bargaining agreement expires at the end of next season.
On the other hand, others involved in baseball ask why the union should be willing to make major concessions when clubs continue spending as they are. "There won't be a negotiation," one person said. "They'll just re-sign. There's not a chance."
Commissioner Bud Selig will answer the question by saying he understands that thinking but the players have to do their share to restore payroll parity. He will have a difficult job, however, selling that view, and the militant owners will perhaps push for a freeze on signings after next season.
Melvin fully understands his position in the developing situation.
"I'm sure there are some people in the industry who wish I was still throwing batting practice," he said. "I'm taking a lot of heat from the industry on this. I'm really a low-keyed guy, but it's pretty stressful. I'm trying to balance the excitement of having a guy like that on your club with some of the anguish you have with the deal."
The total of the 10-year package could have been less than $252 million, Melvin said, if the Rangers had been willing to include clauses allowing Rodriguez to be a free agent after three years and after six years.
"They wanted outs at three years and at six years," Melvin said. "Tom said he wasn't interested in that. He said, 'If I'm going to sign this player, I want to do it for a long time.' That's why the salary is high the last few years."
The contract has an escape clause after seven years, which Melvin said the Rangers did not mind. "At that point," he said, "he has to take a look at the salaries."
The Rangers have been criticized most for their willingness to make the contract so huge without having any ostensible competition.
The Seattle Mariners, Rodriguez's former team, offered a rate of $18 million a year for five years, only three of them guaranteed. "They just weren't in the competition," said Scott Boras, Rodriguez's agent.
He said the Atlanta Braves offered 10 years, but a person involved in the Braves ownership said they were talking five years at perhaps $25 million a year. The Braves also were not willing to include a no-trade clause, ending their chances at any price.
"Alex wasn't interested in that," Boras said. "We definitely wanted to stay in one place."
Melvin dismissed the no-competition complaint. "The old thing is no one else was competing against you," he said. "You hear that after the fact, but you don't hear that when you're in negotiations."
For Hicks, an experienced entrepreneur, it was love at first sight, and that quick development was the key to the deal. From his first meeting with Rodriguez, Hicks knew he wanted this player on his team. Rodriguez has that effect on people. Besides being a terrific shortstop, he is a remarkably impressive young man. The combination was irresistible for Hicks.
Of course, he would like to have signed Rodriguez for less, but Boras would not let it happen. He told Hicks what it would cost, and they negotiated from there.
"It wasn't going to be a clear-cut 7-year, $20 million-a-year deal," Melvin said. "We found out that wasn't going to work."
Melvin spoke with Boras the first night of the winter meetings in Dallas. Hicks had gone to New York for a bar mitzvah.
"I met with Scott just to try to find out if there was still the sincere interest we had heard from him," Melvin related.
They did not meet Saturday while Melvin conducted business with other free agents and Boras met with other teams. They resumed their talks Sunday at 1 p.m. But two hours earlier Hicks and Melvin met to formulate a proposal.
The two sides talked for four hours, going back and forth on years and money and opt-out and salary-escalator clauses. Boras sensed that the Rangers would not be flexible and considered the possibility that he would have to look elsewhere.
They recessed for an hour at about 5 p.m. so that the Rangers could announce the signing of Ken Caminiti, a free-agent third baseman. They returned to their meeting room at the Wyndham Anatole Hotel and negotiated for another hour, breaking at 7 p.m.
Hicks went to have dinner with his family; Melvin and Boras remained at the hotel working separately on other matters. At 8:30 they reconvened and continued exchanging ideas. Several times Boras left the room to make telephone calls. Hicks and Melvin did not know if he was talking to other teams about Rodriguez or other teams about another client, Darren Dreifort.
One of the calls was to Rodriguez, who was in Las Vegas. The client instructed the agent to close the deal if he could.
Now agent and club officials moved toward an agreement, throwing out the early opt-out clauses, adding more money to the later years of a 10-year contract. Somewhere around 1:30 a.m., they were confident they had a deal. Boras had already called Rodriguez and told him it was basically done.
A few small issues remained, but nothing that would intrude on completion of the historic contract.
Melvin slept for about three hours that night. "It was a little bit tough," he said. "I was somewhat excited, but I also knew there'd be some kind of an impact from the industry."
Hicks flew to New Orleans on business Monday morning and Melvin attended the minor league draft and a general managers' meeting.
At 3 p.m. Boras handed Melvin a document to review. Hicks arrived shortly before 5, and Rodriguez officially joined the Rangers.
More than three months from the start of next season, the Rangers are given little chance of winning the American League West championship because they lack starting pitching and a closing relief pitcher.
"They may write on my grave 'Doug Melvin never won because he didn't believe in pitching,' " the former minor league pitcher said. "It's not that I don't believe in it. Our system, a 162-game schedule and expansion, has thinned out our pitching. I'm not trying to justify the money we spent. It's philosophical. I've changed my philosophy over time.
"This is not a knock against Mike Hampton, but if you take a pitcher like Hampton and the games he'll play through the term of his contract, Alex will readily play that number in a year and a half. There's a chance to come out and see Alex Rodriguez for 150 games a season. You see those pitchers a lot less times."
Contrary to a popular view of the Rodriguez contract, Melvin said it did not include a provision that said Rodriguez had to be baseball's highest-paid shortstop.
"Scott asked about that kind of thing early on, but we said we can't do that," Melvin said, referring to Boras. "What if Derek Jeter had that in his deal? It would go to infinity. A-Rod gets bumped, and the next day Jeter has to get bumped because A-Rod got bumped. Then A-Rod would have to get bumped again and on and on and on."
The contract does include a clause that is intended, after the eighth and ninth years, to maintain Rodriguez's status as the highest-paid player in the game. That status is to be determined based on March 31 salaries. After each of those seasons, the Rangers are to give him a $5 million raise in his $27 million salary or make his salary $1 million more than the highest-paid player, whichever is greater. If the Rangers decline, they must make him a free agent.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Doug Melvin, far left, and Tom Hicks were willing to pay what was needed to sign Alex Rodriguez, above. At the end of the day that was $252 million over 10 years, a sum so high that some owners have become more militant about trying to regain control of salary levels when the union contract comes due next year. (Photographs by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RANGERS TEXAS RANGERS (91%); NEW YORK RANGERS (84%); NEW YORK RANGERS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK RANGERS TEXAS RANGERS (91%); NEW YORK RANGERS (84%); NEW YORK RANGERS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (75%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (71%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (71%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); ANNIVERSARIES (52%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; RODRIGUEZ, ALEX; BORAS, SCOTT GEORGE W BUSH (90%); ALEX RODRIGUEZ (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



419 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 8; Page 7; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times;
He Wasn't Moving; He Wasn't Breathing

BYLINE: By DAVE ANDERSON 

 BODY:
THREE years later, Reggie Brown is working as an auto-dealership trainee in Austin, Tex., and playing pickup basketball to keep his weight down. His wife, Kerrie, is expecting their first child, a boy, in May.
"I'm as healthy as I'm going to get," he said with a soft laugh from his Round Rock, Tex., home. "I'm limited a little in turning my neck, but it's not a problem. I do a good job of fooling people, I guess." 
But on Dec. 21, 1997, as a second-year linebacker with the Detroit Lions, this 6-foot-2-inch first-round draft choice out of Texas A&M suddenly couldn't turn his neck at all. Early in the fourth quarter of a 13-10 victory over the Jets in that season's finale, he and another Lions linebacker, Antonio London, had tackled running back Adrian Murrell after a 2-yard gain.
The other players got up, but Brown didn't. He was not only not moving, but he was also not breathing and he was unconscious. Doctors and trainers hurried to him.
"It was a routine play, but somebody fell backwards on me," he said. "I was in the wrong position, I guess. I just remember the few seconds before I went out."
Unconscious and unable to breathe or move, his face was turning blue. Moments earlier, the 77,624 spectators in the Pontiac Silverdome had been roaring, but now, as they and all the television viewers stared silently at what is football's scariest scene, you could hear a tear drop.
"I stopped breathing for a minute and a half, they told me later," Brown said.
Out there near the Jets' 30-yard line, Dr. Terry Locke, then the Lions' orthopedist, and Kent Falb, then their trainer, saved Brown's life with mouth-to-mouth resuscitation that got him breathing. After an ambulance rolled onto the field, its red lights flashing, he was rushed to a Pontiac hospital.
"I was unconscious for 30 or 40 minutes," he said. "I didn't come to until I was in the hospital."
Unable to move his arms and legs, Brown feared that he might never walk again. He had sustained a bruised spinal cord that, according to Dr. Russell Nockels, created a "complete collapse in terms" of Brown's being able to breathe and move his limbs. But his paralysis turned out to be temporary.
The next morning, Brown had surgery at Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit to fuse the first and second vertebrae in his neck.
"Two days later, I took my first steps," he said. "That's when I knew that I would be able to walk without any problems."
Kerrie Patterson, now his wife, had flown into Detroit that afternoon. Their plan was if the Jets won, thereby knocking the Lions out of the playoffs, they both would return to Texas where she was playing basketball at Texas A&M. If the Lions won to qualify for the playoffs, she would stay for a week.
"I was supposed to pick her up after the game," Brown said. "Instead, she came to the hospital and stayed a couple of weeks."
Nearly three weeks later, Brown, wearing a halo-style neck brace, walked to a podium and held a news conference. Several days later, on a private jet chartered by the Lions, he and his parents returned to Texas. He spent a week at a Houston hospital in physical therapy. Two months later, he discarded the neck brace. He graduated from Texas A&M with a degree in agriculture economics in 1999.
"I'm not required to do any rehab now," he said. "I just have to see a local doctor once a year."
In addition to the insurance coverage of his past and future medical bills relating to his injury, Brown received a $200,000 injury-protection payment as well as $200,000 from the players' disability plan. William Clay Ford, the Lions' owner, arranged for Brown to enter the Ford Motor Company's dealership trainee program at Pavilion Lincoln Mercury in Austin.
"It's a two-year program where someday you can own your own dealership," Brown said. "I started a month and a half ago. I'm working in the parts department right now but you go through every department -- parts, service, new car sales, used car sales, accounting. The business courses I took at A&M in my agriculture economics major have helped me."
The day he was hurt, two of his Texas Aggie teammates, Aaron Glenn and Ray Mickens, were among the Jets staring from their sideline.
"I see them around in the off-season," Brown said. "I know Marcus Coleman and Chris Hayes too. We discuss what happened that day."
Reggie Brown, now 26, has DirecTV that enables him, as he said, "to watch every game," including today's Jets-Lions game at Giants Stadium, their first meeting since the game when he got hurt. But he has blended into a new life. Asked if he would mind being photographed at the dealership, he answered gently.
"I would rather not," he said. "I try to keep myself out of the scene. I don't like to bring attention to myself. I try to fit in as much as I can."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Reggie Brown, a second-year linebacker with the Detroit Lions, sustained a career-ending injury against the Jets on Dec. 21, 1997.; Reggie Brown, wearing a halo-style neck brace, did physical therapy and regained the use of his arms and legs. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (56%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (91%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: DETROIT LIONS; NEW YORK JETS TEXAS A&M (65%); DETROIT LIONS (92%); NEW YORK JETS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT LIONS; NEW YORK JETS DETROIT LIONS (92%); NEW YORK JETS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (56%); DETROIT, MI, USA (91%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY ATHLETES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); BASKETBALL (78%); SPORTS INJURIES (78%); PARALYSIS (76%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (75%); SPORTS (75%); ORTHOPEDICS (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); CONTUSIONS (60%); SPINAL CORD INJURIES (60%); 

PERSON: ANDERSON, DAVE; BROWN, REGGIE REGGIE BROWN (98%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



420 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 62; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Urban Projects Tough Sell in Greenmarket

BYLINE: By BARBARA STEWART 

 BODY:
These are edgy days at the Union Square Greenmarket, where more than 100 farmers come in from the countryside, four days a week, to sell their produce, cheese and baked goods. Since a petition objecting to looming construction projects on the square was circulated on Dec. 9, worrisome rumors have been flying. The specifics vary, but they boil down to the same fear: that some farmers will probably be bumped out of their spots in the market during the construction.
"I just can't take a hiatus for six or seven or eight months," said Ken Barber, of Stone Arch Farm in Valois, N.Y., who has been selling his summer fruits and homemade cakes since the market started about 27 years ago. "If I lose that time, I'm done. I'm done. 
 "I don't know what's going on," he added, "and it's frustrating."
Two construction projects, both long planned and well publicized, are scheduled to begin on Jan. 2. A century-old water main on the west edge of the park that burst last winter is to be repaired, a job that city officials estimate will take six months. And a long-awaited $5 million renovation of the park will extend its green space into the southwest corner, where there is now a slab of asphalt, and add shrubs, rows of trees and benches. Officials estimate that construction will take at least a year.
"Everybody's going to be inconvenienced," said Lys McLaughlin, executive director of the Council on the Environment of New York City, a nonprofit group that runs the city's 29 Greenmarkets. "There may be some farmers that lose their space" while construction is under way.
That prospect frightens the 50-odd farmers with stands along the park's west side. They are not comforted by reassurances that the dislocation will be temporary, or that in the end they will be selling their fruits and vegetables, their cheeses and breads, in a sleeker, greener park.
"If I'm not able to sell for three months, I honestly don't know," said Stewart Borowsky, who sells wheatgrass that he grows at his home in Monticello, N.Y. "I guess I'll have to go out of business. And the customers -- what about them?"
New York's Greenmarkets were founded in the mid-70's, and many city dwellers say they can barely imagine life without them. On busy Saturdays, 100,000 shoppers crowd the Union Square market, the biggest and most varied of the 29 markets. In the summers, it is regularly visited by busloads of foreign tourists and seems almost as firmly planted as the Empire State Building.
"This market is really critical, not just for the farmers but for New York City," said Frances Stone, a freelance photographer who was shopping recently. "Where else can you find 20 different kinds of apples? Gristedes?"
Alfred Milanese, who sells homemade pretzels and is a spokesman for the farmers, worries that months of disruption, noise and chaos caused by construction could have long-term effects on the market and on individual farmers who could be forced out during this coming winter and spring.
"This whole community that is formed here is very fragile," he said. "People think it can't topple. But it can."
Parks Commissioner Henry J. Stern said he did not know precisely how much space would be needed for the projects, "but we love the Greenmarket," he said. "We are trying to keep the disruption to a minimum, and do what we can to accommodate the market."
Community Board 5 is planning a meeting soon to discuss the construction plans.
"This is not insurmountable," Mr. Barber, the farmer, said. "I understand they have to remodel. Hopefully, we can talk this out. This place is a treasure, and if farmers are pushed out, they probably won't come back. Hopefully, we can find room for everybody." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE BUILDING CO (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; UNION SQUARE GREENMARKET; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; WATER; GREENMARKETS (NYC) CONSTRUCTION (91%); CHEESE (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); PETITIONS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (64%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%); 

PERSON: STEWART, BARBARA FRANCES STONE (59%); KEN BARBER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



421 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 61; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: Fitness Clubs Will Be Sold So a Chain Can Expand

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN 

 BODY:
In an effort to pay for a nationwide expansion, the upscale Manhattan gym chain Equinox Fitness Clubs has agreed to be acquired by two private investing firms, according to Equinox's chief executive.
After more than six months of negotiations, Equinox, which is privately held, agreed to be sold late Friday to North Castle Partners, L.L.C., a private equity company in Greenwich, Conn., and J.W. Childs Associates in Boston, for "significantly north of $100 million," said Harvey Spevak, Equinox's chief executive. The companies plan to announce the deal tomorrow, he added. 
 Mr. Spevak said the deal will give Equinox enough cash to fund a capital-intensive national rollout with the goal of dotting major cities in the United States with versions of its Manhattan clubs, which fill loft-like spaces with the latest in gym equipment and seek to attract young, affluent customers. The company hopes to add four to six clubs a year for the next five years, he added.
Equinox began in 1991 as a family-owned club on the Upper West Side, and will continue to be run by the its current management, including Danny Errico, a member of the founding family, Mr. Spevak said. There are now 11 Equinox gyms, mostly in Manhattan. While Equinox membership fees vary, they average about $115 per month. Other health club chains charge roughly $75 a month.
Fitness clubs like Equinox often cost more than $10 million each to build, according to industry analysts. Mr. Spevak said he was not worried about such ambitious expansion plans at a time when the economy appears to be weakening. "We don't attract people on the bubble," he said, describing his clients as financially able to withstand a slowing economy. Gym fees, he added, are "a small percentage of their overall discretionary spending."
Nonetheless, he said Equinox's expansion plans would include only cities where there is a significant percentage of wealthy residents, like Los Angeles and San Francisco. "We're not going to be building in Albuquerque," he said.
He would not say exactly where the national rollout will begin, citing competitive concerns.
The fitness club industry is rife with failed businesses that were ruined by highly leveraged expansion, a point Mr. Spevak said has not been lost on him. "The industry had a black eye because of bad debt in the 80's," he said. He said his plans were based on "good strong fundamentals.' "' 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (72%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (72%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH CASTLE PARTNERS; CHILDS, J W, ASSOCIATES; EQUINOX FITNESS CLUBS NORTH CASTLE PARTNERS LLC (72%); J W CHILDS ASSOCIATES LP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH CASTLE PARTNERS; CHILDS, J W, ASSOCIATES; EQUINOX FITNESS CLUBS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EXERCISE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; HEALTH CLUBS; HEALTH CLUBS EXERCISE & FITNESS (91%); FITNESS CENTERS (90%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BUSINESS EXPANSION (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); FAMILY (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (60%); 

PERSON: SORKIN, ANDREW ROSS HARVEY SPEVAK (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



422 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 55; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1852 words

HEADLINE: A Stadium, Shops, Condos And Calamari;
Development Fantasies For Hell's Kitchen South

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS 

 BODY:
Acres of open rail yards. Block after block of gridlocked New Jersey-bound traffic. Vast truck depots wrapped in razor wire. Taxi repair shops. Horse stables. Abandoned and crumbling elevated train lines.
Sound like a stinking urban hell? 
 Actually, it's heaven on the Hudson, at least in the eyes of real estate executives, would-be Olympic hosts and city officials, all of whom have thrust their sporting dreams and development schemes on the forlorn blocks of Midtown Manhattan lying west of Ninth Avenue.
How about some real turf to lure the Jets out of the Meadowlands? A showpiece for the 2012 Summer Games? An expanded Jacob K. Javits Convention Center? Why not erect something to make everyone happy, which is what officials for the Jets and NYC2012, the nonprofit group leading the city's efforts to play host to the 2012 Olympics, suggested last week. (Sorry, George Steinbrenner, you and yours will be staying in the Bronx.)
While the industrialized and largely underutilized blocks from 30th to 42nd Street have long been subjected to development fantasies, never before have so many power brokers been eyeing the area west of Midtown West, which is also known as Hell's Kitchen South or WOPA (West of the Port Authority).
Community-minded doctrinaires, high-brow architects and hungry real-estate magnates all agree on one thing: the area's days as an affordable haven for parked cars and hardy streetwalkers are quickly coming to an end.
"They're already calling this Upper Chelsea," said Maryalyce Evans, the manager of Lulu's Cafe, a newly opened high-end restaurant on 10th Avenue and 38th Street that spends much of the day concealed behind Lincoln Tunnel traffic. Of course, Ms. Evans thinks the proposed stadium will help sell more cornmeal-crusted calamari and roasted pear and endive salad. "Pretty soon there won't be any more bad neighborhoods in New York," she said hopefully.
Not surprisingly, many people have conflicting ideas about what should become of the area and its local landmarks, among them the Michael J. Quill Transit Authority bus depot, a half-dozen gas stations and Edelweiss, a transsexual hustler bar. Retail executives envision a shopping nirvana, open space advocates see the greatest greensward since Central Park and those still stung by the cross-Hudson defection of the Jets are craving revenge.
Then there are longtime residents like Joe Allen, who would be happy to see nothing happen, at least nothing as Olympian as a domed sports arena and parking for thousands of cars. "How about land for grazing, or a giant tai chi academy?" asked Mr. Allen, whose eponymously named restaurant has been a fixture on West 46th Street, between Eighth and Ninth Avenues, since 1965. As it is, he said, the deluge of cars has made it impossible to maintain the flow of diners, who increasingly complain of being hijacked by traffic. "We know it when they've lit the Christmas tree at Rockefeller Center because Midtown is clogged and everyone is late for their reservation," he said. "Let me tell you, a 75,000-seat stadium is not going to help."
There seems to be little doubt that change is in the wind. With Times Square busting a gut and commercial rents continuing their skyward march, this sparsely settled low-rise landscape would seem the perfect place for more development. Need proof that people are willing to live in a treeless no-man's land? Half the apartments in a 40-story tower on 42nd Street and 12th Avenue are rented and occupied, even though construction workers have yet to finish the upper floors. (A few $2,100-a-month studios are still available).
For the first time since 1999, when Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's dream of a West Side Yankee stadium died at the feet of Gov. George E. Pataki, the prospects for a sports arena built over the rail yards appear better than ever. This time, the governor has voiced support for a Jets stadium that would serve as an Olympics site and, more important to him, double as an annex to the space-starved convention center.
While the dual images of rowdy football fans and staid corporate headquarters terrify Hell's Kitchen locals, urban planners, elected officials and many residents agree that development does not have to bring disaster. They say that a civic-minded vision, clear-headed planning and modest transit improvements could help transform the area into the greatest, most generous work of urban design since Battery Park City.
"This is a place for big thinking and big things," said Ralph Lerner, the dean of Princeton University's School of Architecture, who directed a design competition last year focusing on the area's open rail yards. "Every city in the world is making grand improvements except New York. It's our turn."
Kent Barwick, president of the Municipal Art Society, sees a series of residential and commercial precincts that would be spawned by a reconfigured Pennsylvania Station, which will moved to the James A. Farley General Post Office, between Eighth and Ninth Avenues. These neighborhoods, built along the city's existing grid, would be enhanced by the waterfront park under construction along the Hudson River. The No. 7 train, which now goes no farther west than Times Square, would be extended, perhaps all the way to New Jersey, linking the area to the city's subway system. A light rail line using Amtrak's 10th Avenue tunnel and extending to Donald J. Trump's Riverside South buildings would provide a north-south route. Ferries could dock up and down the river.
"This is one of the few parts of the world that could be developed with virtually no losers," Mr. Barwick said. "It's ours to blow."
Although residents of Hell's Kitchen worry about a spillover effect, only 150 households west of 10th Avenue would be directly affected by large-scale development, according to the Department of City Planning, which is working on a comprehensive rezoning of the area. Joseph Rose, the chairman, said limited displacement made the area's redevelopment more feasible and less painful. "The logic is so compelling," he said.
Logic, of course, is a theoretical concept in New York, where grandiose plans tend to sink beneath the weight of Nimbyism, economic downturns, and the clashing egos of powerful politicians. Mario M. Cuomo, the former governor, recalls what happened to the Yankee Stadium plan he championed for the rail yards several years ago. "I told George Steinbrenner that we must answer every intelligent question the public will ask before we go public, otherwise it'll be killed," he recalled. "Well, it got out too soon and polls showed that people were against it. Steinbrenner got excoriated, the mayor was beaten up, and before long, it was dead."
Douglas Durst, the developer whose prodigious investment in Times Square helped tame that bawdy part of town, laughed when asked whether he thought the far West Side was on its way to becoming a glorious adjunct of Midtown. "Right now, it's everything for everybody," he said. "I don't think you can please all the people. If it does work, we'll all be elderly by then."
Mr. Durst, whose firm owns land at 43rd Street and Ninth Avenue, thinks a nonpartisan authority should be created to set development guidelines, orchestrate transit improvements and streamline approvals, all of which might cut through the morass of city and state agencies that control much of the land.
Some people have already been thinking about such matters. For three years, a coalition of architects, landowners and local residents has been studying the blocks between 31st and 43rd Streets. Last month, the group, the Hell's Kitchen Neighborhood Association, issued a draft report that seeks to encourage reasonably scaled development without erasing the neighborhood's concrete charms. (Among other things, the report lauded the Port Authority's spiraling bus ramps, saying that future development must not obstruct the neighborhood's views of them.)
Meta Brunzema, an architect and urban design professor at Pratt Institute, said participants recognized that change is on the way; they just want to make sure it does not happen willy-nilly. "Development will happen," she said, looking over a seven-foot-long scale model of the neighborhood that sits in her 35th Street office. "We just want to shape it and make sure it's intelligent, integrated and urbanistically rich. This is not a blank slate."
While the group opposes an Olympic stadium, it would support an expanded convention center, she said, but one built over the rail yards. "The neighborhood does not get anything out of a stadium," she said. "Olympics officials are not urban planners."
In the coming months and years, the battle will be over whether the area belongs to those who live along its fringe, or to New York and the world. Liam Gallagher, a carriage driver who boards his Clydesdale, Belle, at the Bicentennial Stables on West 37th Street, was not optimistic. No matter what happens, he said, small businesses will probably be swept away by the forces of renewal. Rising property values and police crackdowns have already driven out the prostitutes, crack dens and strip joints. "This used to be the Wild West around here," he said as he led Belle into the frigid night air and headed toward Central Park. "Not anymore."
Pat Tomasso, who has run a sign-making business on West 36th Street for 16 years, said he could see the future when he looked out the window of his neon-packed studio. "You see that building," he said, pointing to a brightly lighted basement space that is on the market for $80,000 a month. "The rents around here will triple if that deal goes through, and a lot of small business people like me won't be able to afford to stay here."
Robert A.M. Stern, the architect and dean of the Yale School of Architecture, accepts the inevitable. From his 19th-floor offices on 34th Street and 10th Avenue, he savors what he calls "the Saul Steinberg view of America," the spires of Midtown, the Statue of Liberty, the rail yards, and of course, New Jersey and beyond. The bleakness and wide-open vistas, he said, are the primary reason he moved his practice there five years ago. Despite his attachment to the status quo, he is not a no-growth crusader. "This is one of the last great sites in Manhattan, and I know change is on the way," he said. "I guess I wish it wasn't in my front yard."
He draws a parallel between the area and the tenement-filled blocks that gave way to Rockefeller Center 70 years ago. In that case, a new home for the Metropolitan Opera was the impetus for the entire project, although in the end, Radio City Music Hall was built, not an opera house. He sees the stadium as a similar force here. His dreams for the area include turning the rusting elevated freight lines into a pedestrian promenade. He and others would love to see Metro-North trains brought to the new Pennsylvania Station and a cross-town park connecting the waterfront to Midtown.
"This is a great opportunity for this century," he said. "Things should happen, but they should happen wonderfully."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The West Side rail yards, looking east to the Empire State Building. A Jets stadium is one proposal for the site. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. 55); Lulu's Cafe, a new high-end restaurant on 10th Avenue and 38th Street, is often hidden behind Lincoln Tunnel traffic. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 61)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK JETS RED HAT INC (58%); NEW YORK JETS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS NEW YORK JETS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; FOOTBALL; OLYMPIC GAMES (2012); OLYMPIC GAMES REAL ESTATE (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (77%); SPORTS (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (73%); CITIES (72%); GAS STATIONS (72%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (71%); MARTIAL ARTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PORT AUTHORITIES (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (63%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (60%); 

PERSON: JACOBS, ANDREW GEORGE STEINBRENNER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



423 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1708 words

HEADLINE: Power Shortage Sends Ripples Across West

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: SEDRO WOOLLEY, Wash., Dec. 14

 BODY:
Power flows south in the summer and north in the winter. For years, that has been a cardinal rule in the vast interlocking grid that distributes electricity across the Western United States.
The rule makes perfect sense: the peak demand season for power in California and the Southwest comes in summer, while demand hits a high point in winter here in the Northwest, where nearly half of all homes are heated with electricity. 
 But as California searches desperately outside the state for electricity, one half of that basic rule has been abruptly rewritten. This week, federal energy officials took the unusual step of ordering suppliers in the Northwest to send emergency electricity to California, where regulators say the state is at the brink of a breakdown in its power system.
And because California's demands are likely to continue in coming weeks, there are strong signs that power problems are spreading across the West. Elected officials and energy executives are worrying aloud about possible electricity shortages and skyrocketing rates for consumers, as well as the environmental problems that could arise from the intense pressure to change the normal schedules for drawing down the water behind the huge network of hydroelectric dams in the Pacific Northwest.
Those problems are already compounded by abnormally low rainfall this autumn: here along the icy Skagit River, for instance, low water levels in the Skagit and two dam reservoirs recently left thousands of salmon eggs exposed and many more threatened, precisely at the time the region is facing increasingly stringent mandates under the Endangered Species Act to protect the fish.
In addition to those immediate concerns, the relatively good relations among Western states on power issues could also become a casualty of the emergency. Up until now, those states have shared supplies of electricity with few problems, as evidenced by the two-way transmission cycle that has routinely occurred in the past. But some finger-pointing has already begun.
"We are really at risk of having the state of California and its energy problems drag the rest of us down with it," Gov. John Kitzhaber of Oregon said today in calling for an energy summit meeting to work out the problems.
The governor, a Democrat, blamed California's "failed deregulation experiment" for the shortages.
"Events are happening so fast they're running over us," Mr. Kitzhaber said. "We're really in a reactive mode, and obviously the big dog on the block is California."
After decades of state-governed pricing, California decided to deregulate its power industry four years ago in a bold step that advocates said would soon deliver cheaper, cleaner and more efficient power across the state by allowing the marketplace to set rates. At the time, reserves were often as high as 30 percent.
But while proponents of deregulation still say it will work in the long run, the state is by all accounts in a crunch these days, with shortages, soaring rates and widespread concerns that the crisis has been manufactured in some way to drive up the profits in selling electricity.
About one-fourth of California's generating capacity has been offline at times in recent weeks, prompting criticisms and calls for an investigation by consumer advocates. Industry officials say that many of the plants are in dire need of repair or regular maintenance after going full tilt to meet the record demands of last summer.
Whatever the reasons, the result has been pressure on other states, especially those in the Northwest, to deliver power south at precisely the time they would normally be looking to buy extra supplies to meet higher demand here.
It is not yet officially winter, but officials warn that a prolonged period of frigid temperatures could push supplies to a danger point. California has hovered at the edge of a genuine crisis in recent days, a so-called Stage 3 alert, in which electricity reserves fall to less than 1.5 percent of total supply and the authorities can order rolling blackouts to cope with the problem.
At a minimum, the problems in California have frayed relations among power suppliers in the West.
"I'd liken it to strains on a pretty good marriage," explained Bob Royer, director of communications for Seattle City Light, the public utility serving that city. "The power system has been mutually beneficial in a big way. But it's no longer mutually beneficial."
The problems could worsen on several fronts.
One is the straightforward issue of meeting demand, though some here in the Northwest find it a bit perplexing that questions about how to do so are even being asked. The network of hydroelectric dams long gave the region a cheap and seemingly inexhaustible supply of power.
But population growth and the out-of-state demands have caught up with the network. And those who operate the dams must also maintain a keen awareness of environmental considerations, especially the best flow rates in the rivers for salmon. Many species of salmon are now listed under the Endangered Species Act because of the very existence of the dams.
"When you drop more water than usual out of those reservoirs now, you have to hope you'll have sufficient rainfall and snowfall to meet your flow requirements next spring and summer," said John Harrison, a spokesman for the Northwest Power Planning Council, which represents the governors of Washington, Oregon, Idaho and Montana and seeks to balance energy planning with environmental concerns. "That's simply the $64,000 question. You don't know with sufficient precision what the weather will do."
In any event, he said: "The system remains stressed. There's no question about that."
Even in the best of times, the procedures for allocating power out of the Northwest dam system are complex. Under normal regulations, which take into account the average precipitation figures for past years, the reservoirs must be drawn down in such a way that there is at least an 85 percent probability that there will be enough water the following spring to meet the optimum flow requirements for salmon to spawn and for their eggs to yield fish.
"So when you have to run the system a little harder than you'd planned, which is what we've been asked to do, you may lower that probability," said Mike Hansen, a communications official with the Bonneville Power Administration, which sells power from more than two dozen dams in the region and was among those suppliers ordered by the federal energy secretary, Bill Richardson, to sell power to California this week.
"And if we have to do that too much," Mr. Hansen said, "you could have real consequences in the future, in terms of our ability to produce power later in the winter or meet the fish flows in the spring."
Under this week's arrangement, Bonneville arranged to ship 1,750 megawatts of power, about enough to meet the demands of a city one-and-a-half times the size of Seattle, at peak demand hours in California. Officials there said the power was critical to help them avoid a Stage 3 emergency, and have pledged to return power during off-peak periods.
Secretary Richardson said his order was necessary. "We must act," he said in a statement, "to ensure there will be a sufficient supply of electricity to keep the power flowing to homes and businesses in California."
But by any measure, the exchange is unusual, and if a prolonged cold snap hits here, Northwest energy officials say it may be extremely difficult to replicate the aid.
The two regions can exchange power through a set of large transmission lines, known as the intertie, that stretch from the Dalles Dam on the Columbia River in Oregon to the Los Angeles area. The intertie can send as much as 6,900 megawatts in either direction, according to the Northwest Power Planning Council.
Both Governor Kitzhaber in Oregon and Gov. Gary Locke of Washington, a Democrat, have urged their residents to conserve energy and implored the federal government to impose a cap on the price of wholesale electricity. Several California utilities have warned that they face severe financial problems because of the increase in electricity prices, and those economic forces have clearly already spread north.
Earlier this month, Tacoma Power, the utility serving Seattle's neighbor, said zooming wholesale prices and low reservoir levels at its dams could lead it to seek an 86 percent surcharge for residential customers and even larger ones for businesses. A federal cap could reduce those proposed charges. And in Oregon, Portland General Electric has asked the state's Public Utility Commission for permission to raise electricity bills at least 13 percent.
With the demands on the system coming during a period of such low rainfall, the complexities are on stark display here on the Skagit River. When Bill McMillan, a field biologist with Washington Trout, a conservation organization, went out to fish for steelhead on Thanksgiving morning, he was stunned to see just how low the river had dropped in a one-day period, he said.
Mr. McMillan blamed Puget Sound Energy, the company that operates two dams on the nearby Baker River, which feeds into the Skagit, for abruptly stopping the flow out of the dams in order to raise the level of its reservoirs.
"They cut the umbilical cord on all these fish," said Mr. McMillan, who has put down stakes with pink ribbons to mark the dozens of salmon egg nests, known as redds, that were exposed. The company says the drop in the river level was an unavoidable result of the low rainfall this autumn and planned maintenance at the dam.
State officials, working with Puget Sound Energy and the Seattle City Light, which operates dams upriver on the Skagit, say they are trying to restore enough of the flow to help the fertilized salmon eggs survive through the coming months.
But depending on how much rain and snow there is in coming months, even the process of adding water to the river to help fish could complicate the similar efforts that will be required in the spring when other species of salmon come to spawn.
"You could do that," said David E. Pflug, senior fisheries biologist with Seattle City Light. "But you'd be borrowing from next year."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: An electricity shortage in California has put pressure on the power grid. Consumers were urged this summer to cut power consumption. (Associated Press); Increased demand for power and unusually low rainfall have produced low levels of water in rivers in the Northwest, including the Baker River. (Gary Settle for The New York Times)(pg. 42)
 
Map of Washington highlights Sedro Woolley: Low water levels threaten fish in the Pacific Northwest. (pg. 42)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NWAC (NASDAQ) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (94%); NORTHWEST USA (93%); OREGON, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (91%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHWESTERN STATES (US); CALIFORNIA; OREGON; WASHINGTON (STATE); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (94%); NORTHWEST USA (93%); OREGON, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); WEATHER; SHORTAGES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; HYDROELECTRIC POWER NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (90%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (89%); ENERGY DEMAND (79%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (69%); FISHES (69%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE JOHN KITZHABER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



424 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 58; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: Round-the-World Flight Kept Aloft by Dreams and Duct Tape

 BODY:
"The wheels come up," said Daniel Dominguez. "We see the St. John's airport below, and I look back and say, 'My God, we're actually doing this.' That was when this whole thing really hit me."
On Sept. 15, after years of planning, Mr. Dominguez and a friend and fellow pilot, Christopher Wall, both 22-year-old college students, left Newfoundland for a three-month trip around the world in their refurbished 1957 twin-engine Aero Commander 560E. When they returned to Rochester on Friday, they became, unofficially, the youngest crew ever to circumnavigate the globe. 
 Mr. Dominguez said the two, who grew up together in El Paso, dreamed up the idea of the flight in a dingy bar in Juarez, Mexico, when they were 17.
"Chris and I always wanted to fly," he said. "Apparently, when I was 7 years old, I told my mother that I was going to fly around the world in my own plane. She and my father traveled all over Mexico and Central America as kids in a VW bus, so they never told me that I couldn't do it."
The day he turned 17, Mr. Dominguez passed the test for his private pilot's license, and several months later, he said, he and Mr. Wall "took a mind-blowing flight to Ketchikan, Alaska, in a Cessna two-seater."
At this point, Mr. Wall chimed in. "Because of Alaska, we made the decision to go around the world," he said. "The next morning, we said, 'How the hell are we really going to do this?' "
When they tried to find sponsors for the project, they were told they needed to have legal nonprofit status. It took them two years to put together the Global Advancement Foundation, in early 1998.
It was and continues to be essentially a two-man operation. Mr. Wall, then an electrical engineering student at Rice University in Houston, and Mr. Dominguez, an economics major at the University of Rochester, persuaded officials at the Rochester school to donate a small office and a phone line. Then they began planning the project and raising money in earnest.
"No one would back us without a plane," Mr. Wall said. "I began to settle on the Aero Commander. You could get them for a good price, even if they're kind of beat up. They take off easily and can carry the equivalent of a Jeep. And they look cool."
A year ago, while searching on the Internet, Mr. Wall found his prey, grounded derelict on an airfield in Guthrie, Okla.
"The paint was peeling, the interior was dead, it hadn't been flown in a year," he said. "But it was only selling for $15,000. I called Dan and said, 'Dude, I found our airplane.' "
Mr. Dominguez said he took a bus to Oklahoma, "and there's the ugliest plane I've ever seen."
"It had been a drug-running plane in Miami," he went on. "The owner got caught, then got himself killed."
Using student loans and credit cards, the two set up a Delaware corporation, bought the plane and christened it Dreamcatcher.
Mr. Wall was so devoted to the project that he drove 700 miles from Rice to Oklahoma every weekend to work on the plane.
"I'd work all weekend, then try to make it back to school so I didn't flunk out," he said. "I got her together enough to fly to Rochester and got a one-way permit from an F.A.A. guy who swore when we bought her that she'd never fly again."
But Mr. Wall had not tested the gas tanks. Just before takeoff, they discovered that, in the plane's earlier life, one wing tank had been removed to store drugs.
"We put 156 gallons in the center tank," Mr. Dominguez said, "and it starts to leak down the side. But we had to get to Rochester. We didn't have any more money for gas. A little duct tape, a wing and a prayer, we got in and went."
Once in Rochester, Mr. Wall took a year off from Rice while Mr. Dominguez continued his studies. Both prepared for their round-the world flight.
"We'd be out on the airfield sunrise to sunset," Mr. Dominguez said. "Chris would be doing airplane mechanics and I'd be flight-instructing in my spare time."
Their dream was taking shape. "It was students who made it happen," Mr. Wall said. "We made it a school project. We would also invite our friends out, have a case of beer, and we stripped and polished her, tore out the interior, tuned the engines, all new hoses, electronics, everything."
With what he called "huge help" from two students, Jennifer Powers and Elizabeth Ann Begy, the project put up a Web site, worldflight2000.org.
Despite all the work, the project continued to struggle financially. Mr. Wall and Mr. Dominguez began giving speeches at schools. "We're trying to encourage all these kids to make their dreams happen," Mr. Dominguez said. "But what do you say to a third grader who asks what you're going to do when you run out of money?"
The question weighed heavily until the young pilots flew the Dreamcatcher to an air show in Oshkosh, Wis., in late July.
Attended by more than 500,000 people, the event was their best shot at publicity. "They gave us a spot near the center," said Mr. Dominguez. "And our photographer, Jesse Weisz, ran around letting everyone know what we were doing and getting us all sorts of sponsors. We got $21,000 in camera gear from Rowe Photo in Rochester, Garmin gave us radios and global positioning equipment, and an engine mechanic from Tennessee named Nick Carter offered us a $25,000 engine overhaul, which we found out we desperately needed. We easily had over $100,000 in equipment and service donated to us."
Now, the project was gear rich but still cash poor. Its saving grace came in August when Mr. Dominguez, sleeping under a table in his flight office, got a call from the president of America Online, Robert W. Pittman. "I'm there in my boxers, and AOL offers us enough sponsorship to make this thing happen," Mr. Dominguez recalled. "I was floored."
He paused. "But as I said before, none of this really hit me until we were out there over the Atlantic. Suddenly, I became incredibly aware of everything we had sacrificed to get here, and of my own mortality."
From Newfoundland, he and Mr. Wall flew to the Azores, Barcelona, Spain, Rome, Greece, Cairo, Oman, Bahrain, India, Bali, Australia, Vanuatu and Hawaii and made their return to the United States mainland on Dec. 6, when they landed at tiny Half Moon Bay airport in California.
Both men said they lived as aerial vagabonds, flying a plane that had one wing in the 1950's, and one in the 21st century. One night they slept in hammocks under the Dreamcatcher's wings, the next in a $400 a night hotel room that a benefactor had paid for on the Greek island of Rhodes.
They said they watched the sun rise from inside the Coliseum in Rome, had machine guns pointed at them by anxious guards at an airport in Cairo, and toured the pyramids by camel later in the day.
When an engine failed over the Red Sea, they were forced to dump about $1,000 worth of fuel, turn around and make an emergency landing on the Egyptian coast. Later, they spoke to 1,000 schoolchildren at one time in Bhubaneshwar, India, snorkled in the Great Barrier Reef off the coast of Australia and surfed off Oahu, in Hawaii.
"As you fly around the world, your mind opens up and you realize what a small world it really is," Mr. Wall said. "After seeing what I have seen, I want to see so much more."
Mr. Dominguez added: "I suppose the main thing that we've learned is that anything is possible. Dare to have a dream. Even if you fail, you'll have a hell of a story to tell."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Christopher Wall working on the Aero Commander during a stop in Bangor, Me. Searching the Internet, he found the plane in Oklahoma. (Chris Dixon); Christopher Wall, above left, and Daniel Dominguez returned to Rochester Friday after a round-the-world trip that included stops in Newfoundland, Rome and India. During one segment of the odyssey, Mr. Wall, at left in photo at right, and Mr. Dominguez piloted their 1957 twin-engine Aero Commander over the Brazos River in Texas. (Carlos Ortiz/Rochester Democrat and Chronicle); (Chris Dixon)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (76%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (59%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); EL PASO, TX, USA (79%); BANGOR, ME, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: RICE UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: RICE UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (76%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (59%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); EL PASO, TX, USA (79%); BANGOR, ME, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; AROUND-THE-WORLD TRIPS AIRPORTS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); AIRLINES (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (63%); 

PERSON: WALL, CHRISTOPHER; DOMINGUEZ, DANIEL DANIEL DOMINGUEZ (96%); CHRISTOPHER WALL (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



425 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1540 words

HEADLINE: THE 43RD PRESIDENT: THE DEMOCRATS;
MANY DEMOCRATS APPEAR SKEPTICAL OF GORE'S FUTURE

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 16

 BODY:
Only days after they steadfastly defended Vice President Al Gore as the man who should be president, many prominent Democrats now say it would be difficult for him to stage a comeback in 2004. Instead, they are looking to someone who will never again run for president to serve as the driving force in the opposition party: Bill Clinton.
As the party prepares for a spell out of power in both Congress and the White House, tensions are already flaring between loyalists of Mr. Gore and Mr. Clinton over who should have more say over the future of the Democrats. 
 For all their effusive praise for Mr. Gore's concession speech this week, several leading Democrats say they still believe he was a flawed candidate who squandered a prime opportunity to capture the White House.
"Gee whiz, I wouldn't begrudge the guy for wanting to try again," said Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware, who friends say has toyed with running himself in 2004. "Ironically, the closeness of the election has put a sheen back on him that I'm not sure can be sustained for four years. It will be an uphill battle for him to get the nomination again."
Given that Mr. Clinton remains a more popular figure in the party than Mr. Gore, many Democrats said they would turn to him to help set the message for the party and raise money. The latest Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll shows that nationally Mr. Clinton has an impressive 66 percent approval rating -- higher than two other popular post-war presidents, Ronald Reagan and Dwight D. Eisenhower, at the close of their terms.
Even Tony Coelho, Mr. Gore's former campaign chairman, said Mr. Clinton was now the leader of the party, although the vice president was the standard-bearer in 2000.
"Bill Clinton is the incumbent president and the so-called last winner so he is the de facto leader," said Mr. Coelho, a former California lawmaker. "He will be the one that the party will depend on to raise money and to be a major voice in whatever they're doing across the country."
He added, "I submit to you, we're going to have a governor's race in New Jersey next year -- and Mr. Clinton will draw the biggest crowd."
Mr. Clinton, who apparently has not settled on what he intends to do when he leaves office, aside from working on his presidential library, has encouraged the interest, telling influential Democrats that he intends to play an energetic role.
"He is serious," said Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Senate Democratic leader. "He has indicated to me that he will be helpful to work with us in Congress to articulate our message and help with fund-raising. He will always be the one who energizes our base. He enjoys a depth of friendship and a network of relationships around the country that is pretty remarkable."
A telling example of Mr. Clinton's desire to stay influential is that he is moving behind the scenes to install one of his best friends and the party's top fund-raiser, Terry McAuliffe, in the job of chairman of the party.
Though Mr. Gore belatedly signed on to the idea, Mr. Clinton's move infuriated some Gore loyalists who complained that Mr. Clinton was trying to impose his own team without regard to the vice president's wishes.
Senator Robert G. Torricelli of New Jersey, a leading figure in national Democratic campaigning, said that Mr. McAuliffe would "ensure Clinton's involvement" in running the Democratic National Committee.
"The nation is unaccustomed to having a former president who is this young of age and who is likely to have this continuing interest," Mr. Torricelli said. "That may all result in an extraordinary level of involvement by Bill Clinton." (Mr. Clinton will be the youngest ex-president after Theodore Roosevelt, who was 50 when he left office in 1909.)
"He's only a 54-year-old with a lot of energy left," said Bill Richardson, the secretary of energy. "He will be a major attraction as a fund-raising source and his new Democratic philosophy is important."
To be sure, in the minds of some people Mr. Clinton's presence was a liability to the ticket after the scandal that led to his impeachment but ended in acquittal.
But adding to the Clinton family's expected political power, some Democrats also said that Hillary Rodham Clinton, the senator-elect from New York, will have a larger role in the party than Mr. Gore -- and that Mr. Clinton's stature will be enhanced by his wife.
"He's not someone who's going to be relegated to back stage," said Art Torres, chairman of the California Democratic Party. "He'll continue to have a role, not only as the spouse of a senator, but his energy and commitment will always be there."
One reason why many Democrats are turning to Mr. Clinton over Mr. Gore is that they contend that the vice president made a fundamental mistake in not emphasizing the administration's accomplishments during the campaign.
"I'm very sorry that he lost the presidency by such a close margin," said Tom Giblin, chairman of the New Jersey Democratic Party. "But politics is not like horse shoes: you don't get a prize for second place. It's going to be very difficult for Al Gore to come back."
Expressing concern that Mr. Gore neglected the president during the campaign, Mr. Giblin added, "My attitude was that Bill Clinton brought Al Gore to the dance. He should have gone home with him from the dance."
Mr. Torricelli said "there will be a sense of entitlement" on Mr. Gore's part because of the close outcome. But he said that while there was "sympathy" for Mr. Gore's loss, "there is a deep disappointment that his campaign was unsuccessful in nearly ideal circumstances following a successful Clinton presidency, an expanding economy and Democratic dominance of most national issues."
In a statement e-mailed to The New York Times, Mr. Gore said he had made no decisions about his next career move, let alone whether he will run for president in 2004.
"I'm not going to make any decisions about what I do next in life until I take some time off," Mr. Gore said.
Some Democrats argued that Mr. Gore markedly improved his prospects for 2004 by coming so painfully close to becoming president, and drew additional support because of his gracious concession speech.
Nevertheless, many others in the party said that Mr. Gore was foolish to turn his back on Mr. Clinton and never demonstrated adequate political skills as a candidate. And on Capitol Hill, many Democrats have never felt particularly invested in Mr. Gore, who was something of a loner in the House and the Senate.
Asked whether he considered Mr. Gore the leader of his party, Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, blurted, "No! Really! It's going to fall on the shoulders of Congressional Democratic leaders."
Realizing he had been dismissive of Mr. Gore, he revised his response, saying, "I shouldn't have answered so quickly about Al Gore. It's too soon to tell."
Even so, Mr. Durbin was not especially optimistic about Mr. Gore. "Historically, there have been few who have risen from the ashes to run again, Stevenson, Nixon, Reagan." Explaining that Democrats are certainly not uniting behind Mr. Gore, he added, "Most Democrats I've spoken to are very open minded about four years from now."
Mr. Gore still enjoys a vast financial and interest-group network that no other contender could easily assemble. He also has the experience of having run, twice. And he drew more actual votes than even Mr. Clinton did either in 1996 or 1992.
Representative Norm Dicks of Washington, a diehard Gore backer, said on Thursday, "I talked to him yesterday. I said, 'There will be another day for you, Al,' meaning there will be another shot if you want to do it. He didn't say much. I honestly believe if elected he could be one of the greatest presidents."
Yet the swiftness of many Democrats to dismiss Mr. Gore was striking. Several were even more disparaging when speaking anonymously.
One prominent Democrat in Congress who was a Gore ally, said, "The problem you've got here is if you ask for his list of closest friends in Congress, there is no list." Asked how lawmakers could turn on Mr. Gore so fast, he said of his colleagues, "They don't feel the crusade continues."
Many were stumped when asked who was the leader of their party. While Mr. Clinton was cited by many, several others mentioned the Congressional leaders, Mr. Daschle and Representative Richard A. Gephardt. A smaller number suggested Mr. Gore.
Others could not muster an answer.
"I don't think the Democratic Party has a leader," Mr. Daschle said. "It probably has several leaders."
Among the Democrats who have been mentioned as possible candidates in 2004 are Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, Mr. Gore's running mate, and Senators John Edwards of North Carolina, John Kerry of Massachusetts, Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Biden, Mr. Gephardt, Mr. Daschle, Gov. Gray Davis of California, and Gov. Tom Vilsack of Iowa.
And no one seems to be ruling out Mr. Gore.
"You don't do it once and say, 'That's it,' " said James Carville, the Clinton strategist. "Anybody that's ever run for president wants to be president. They die wanting to be president. It's not an itch that goes away with one scratch."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: At left, the House minority leader, Richard A. Gephardt, and the Senate minority leader, Tom Daschle, on Thursday. At right, President Clinton, golfing in 1999 with Terry McAuliffe, the Democratic fund-raiser. (Photographs by Associated Press); Vice President Al Gore and Senator Joseph I. Lieberman leaving the stage at the Old Executive Office Building in Washington after Mr. Gore delivered his concession speech to the nation on Wednesday evening. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. 50)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (66%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (66%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FUNDRAISING (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); GOVERNORS (69%); LIBRARIES (50%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); MCAULIFFE, TERRY AL GORE (94%); BILL CLINTON (94%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOE BIDEN (73%); JOE LIEBERMAN (73%); TOM DASCHLE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



426 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 48; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: THE 43RD PRESIDENT: THE TV COVERAGE -- CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK;
An Apocalyptic Attitude Gripped the TV Commentators, Not Their Viewers

BYLINE: By CARYN JAMES 

 BODY:
For the last five weeks, Ted Koppel began "Nightline" by reciting ABC's slogan for the postelection drama; in a solemn cadence suited to imminent nuclear disaster, he declared, "A Nation Waits." On MSNBC, when Brian Williams wondered what to tell the children when they came home from school and asked if our country was O.K., his booming voice carried a hollow echo of Red Scare days. Many civics classes have been taught about this election muddle, but no one was shouting, "Duck under the desks, kids, they're recounting in Florida!" And just before George W. Bush's victory speech on Wednesday, Peter Jennings said the president-elect would "begin to settle the nation down, if he can." Settle down? Who was unsettled?
Television viewers were mildly curious or gripped, weary or disengaged during the last month. But nowhere (except in the street demonstrations carefully staged for the cameras in Florida) was there a sense of high anxiety. Yet the anchors and commentators maintained a relentlessly hysterical tone, an apocalyptic attitude far removed from the general public's. 
 Throughout the postelection phase, the tone-deaf commentators illuminated a great deal about how television news has changed in recent years. Though the coverage has become more opinionated, more fraught with attitude, viewers have less and less reason to trust those opinions.
You'd think the commentators would have learned something from the impeachment coverage, when their tone of high moral dudgeon was so out of touch with the public's reaction. But no. Isolated by their narrow Washington perspective and whipped up by the need to fill so much air time, they projected hysteria onto a postelection scene that never called for it.
This trend shows the impact of the 24-hour cable news channels, whose influence has bled into the networks. Filling its time with chatter, cable news leans heavily on opinion (anyone can be an expert) and hypothetical questions. "We could have chaos and a constitutional crisis," Tim Russert warned on NBC, speculating about what might happen if a recount were to show that Al Gore won the Florida vote, but the State Legislature certified Mr. Bush as the winner instead. His chaos theory fit neatly into a need to keep viewers hooked by heralding every event as a crucial turning point. Each court decision was anticipated as the one that could determine the presidency; never mind that every ruling would certainly be appealed and appealed and appealed.
The trend to overdramatize has been growing for some time, of course. In the last six months Mr. Gore has given at least three speeches that commentators widely labeled "the most important of his career" (his convention acceptance, his address explaining why he was taking legal action in Florida and his concession).
But this melodramatic approach became more pronounced as the postelection saga dragged on and the television chatter became more detached from reported facts. Commentators offered reminders that we were not in a constitutional crisis; their supposedly reassuring evidence was, in one of the most frequently used cliches, that "there are no tanks in the streets," as if that were a likely possibility.
No matter how often or how congenially the commentators acknowledged their insular view, the hysterical tone fostered a false sense that the public was teetering on the verge of nervous collapse. "It's magic to us because we all feel sort of rattled by what's going on," Michael Beschloss said on ABC about the postelection phase, turning his historian's perspective into a royal "we" that suggested a panicky nation.
Jeff Greenfield on CNN noted that without an administration in place, Washington folks did not know where to send their resumes. When his guest, the writer Andrew Sullivan, said no one should feel sorry for unemployed career politicians, Mr. Greenfield responded, "Send your e-mails to him," as if he were talking to members of a private club.
Given the relatively small ratings of cable news in ordinary periods (those ratings often doubled during the postelection weeks), it may seem to commentators that they are talking only to each other. But that attitude is especially surprising because there is such lip service paid to hearing from ordinary citizens. The person-in-the-shopping-mall interview is a staple time-filler on cable, though it is usually no more than background noise. And those interviews should not be anything more, given the leading questions, and the answers calculated to get on television by feeding reporters what it seemed they wanted to hear.
When it became clear that Mr. Bush would be president, the day after the final Supreme Court ruling, Mark Potter of CNN visited the Village Inn restaurant in Tampa, Fla. Talking to a white-haired Democratic couple sitting in a booth, he asked the wife, "Are you upset with the way the courts handled this?"
"Uh, yes," she answered. "They have been ping-ponging" the issue in and out of court, "and that's not where it belongs."
"Are you upset with the results?" he asked her husband.
"Well," he said with a chuckle, not a bit like someone in distress, "it would have been good to have my man in."
Mr. Potter then turned to a middle-aged Republican woman who said the results were fair. "Votes were counted twice, three times in some places," she said, parroting lines she had obviously heard all too often from her party on television.
Viewers can see through the laughable hype. Far from creating anxiety, the suspense and uncertainty of the postelection weeks made watching television seem different and genuinely exciting. In the era of 24-hour news, events are so precisely forecast and predigested (the content of every speech and the name of every cabinet nominee is leaked in advance), that they seem familiar by the time they happen.
But starting with the wrong calls on election night, for this limited postelection period television was the bearer of unexpected news. Time and again legal scholars were asked to anticipate court rulings, and guessed wrong so often that viewers learned to ignore all predictions.
Some of the most compelling moments came when Dan Abrams and Pete Williams on NBC read and sorted out the last Supreme Court decision, freezing as they stood side by side on the steps of the court, displaying all the adrenaline and intellectual energy that even live television rarely captures.
Such excitement can't last. By the next day commentators were struggling to read the Supreme Court justices' minds. Discussing how impossible it was to do that, the historian Doris Kearns Goodwin created an intriguing image. The justices "don't go on the morning shows in their robes to explain their decision," she said.
Though the world does not need any more spin, the justices might as well talk to Matt and Diane and Bryant. As it stands, others are spinning their subtexts for them. Laurence H. Tribe, one of Mr. Gore's lawyers, said in a television interview that dissenting opinions often seemed melodramatic. If that is true, it would make the dissenters natural television pundits. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; TELEVISION; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (77%); CHILDREN (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ELECTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (61%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); JAMES, CARYN GEORGE W BUSH (79%); AL GORE (75%); TIM RUSSERT (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



427 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 51; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 3253 words

HEADLINE: THE 43RD PRESIDENT;
Remarks at Announcement of Powell's Nomination as Secretary of State

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from remarks by President-elect George W. Bush designating General Colin L. Powell as secretary of state and General Powell's response as recorded by The New York Times:
 
PRESIDENT-ELECT BUSH: Many times during the course of my campaign I said that if all went well Gen. Colin Powell just might be called back into the service of his country. Today it is my privilege to make that call and ask him to become the 65th secretary of state of the United States of America. 
 Colin Powell first answered the call to duty as a lieutenant in the United States Army, where he served for 35 years. He's been a decorated infantry officer, an Army corps commander, a national security adviser, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, adviser to our last three presidents; providing good counsel, strong leadership and an example of integrity for everyone with whom he served.
His entire life has prepared him to fulfill the responsibilities that he will soon hold. General Powell is an American hero, an American example and a great American story. It's a great day when a son of the South Bronx succeeds to the office first held by Thomas Jefferson.
Much has changed since our country's early days. But the fundamental principles guiding American foreign policy are the same. Foreign policy in the coming years must serve our national interests in the world while speaking for the highest of America's ideals.
In word and deed we must be clear and consistent and confident that our values are real. And we must be true to our friends. We must conduct our foreign policy in the spirit of national unity and bipartisanship.
Our next secretary of state believes as I do that we must work closely with our allies and friends in times of calm so that we will be able to work together in times of crises. He believes as I do that our nation is best when we project our strength and our purpose with humility.
As president I will set our priorities and we will stand by them. If we do not set our own agenda, it will be set by others, potential adversaries or the crises of the moment.
Our administration will work with our allies in Europe and in the Far East and around the world to extend the peace. We will promote a fully democratic Western Hemisphere bound together by free trade. We will defend America's interest in the Persian Gulf and advance peace in the Middle East, based -- as any lasting peace must be -- on a secure Israel. We will fight the weapons of mass destruction and the means to deliver them. We will work toward a world that trades in freedom.
And my administration will understand that American values always are at the center of our foreign policy. Our stand for human freedom is not an empty formality of diplomacy but a founding and guiding principle of this great land. By promoting democracy we lay the foundation for a better and more stable world.
This is a moment of great opportunity and my administration will seize it. America has unique power and unmatched influence. And we will use them in the service of democracy, spreading peace across the world and across the years.
In this cause I've known of no better person to be the face and voice of American diplomacy that Colin L. Powell. Wherever he goes and whomever he meets, the world will see the finest of the United States of America.
In this office he follows in the footsteps not only of Jefferson but also of one of his personal heroes, Gen. George C. Marshall. And I would say of General Powell what Harry Truman said of General Marshall: He is a tower of strength and common sense. When you find somebody like that you have to hang on to him.
I have found such a man. In directness of speech, his towering integrity, his deep respect for our democracy and his soldier's sense of duty and honor, Colin Powell demonstrates the qualities that made George Marshall a great secretary of state -- qualities that will make him a great representative of all the people of this country.
And so it is a great honor for me to submit the name to the United States Senate of Colin L. Powell as secretary of state.
 
GENERAL POWELL -- Thank you so very, very, much ladies and gentlemen. Mr. President-elect and Mrs. Bush, Mr. Vice President-elect Cheney, ladies and gentlemen, citizens of Crawford, Tex., it's a great pleasure to be with you this afternoon and I am honored, honored to be given the opportunity to return to public service as the 65th secretary of state of the United States of America.
Mr. President-elect, I thank you for the confidence that you have placed in me and I look forward to serving you, the American people and the cause of peace and freedom around the world.
And it is a special privilege for me to once again have the opportunity to serve with Vice President-elect Dick Cheney. We have been through many adventures together and many more adventures await us in the future.
Mr. President-elect, during your administration you will be faced with many challenges, and crises that we don't know anything about right now will come along. But I believe that these challenges and these crises will pale in comparison to the wonderful opportunities that await us.
Opportunities that have been brought about by the end of the cold war, by the spread of democracy and the free enterprise system around the world.
Opportunities that come to us because we held steadfast in our belief in democracy.
Opportunities that will come to us because of the information and technology revolutions that are reshaping the world as we know it, destroying political boundaries and all kinds of other boundaries as we are able to move information and capital, data around the world at the speed of light -- able to move knowledge around the world at the speed of light.
Opportunities that will come to us because the old world map as we knew it of a red side and a blue side that competed for something called the third world is gone. And the new map is a mosaic, a mosaic of many different pieces and many different colors spreading around the world. A world that has seen that Communism did not work, Fascism did not work, Naziism did not work.
If you want to be successful in the 21st century you must find your path to democracy, market economics and a system which frees the talents of men and women to pursue their individual destinies.
And at the center of this revolution America stands, inspiration for the world that wants to be free. And we will continue to be that inspiration by uniquely American internationalism, as President-elect Bush has stated it.
Not by using our strength and our position of power to get back behind our walls but by being engaged with the world. By first and foremost letting our allies know that we appreciate all we have been through over the last 50 years and our alliances are as strong now as they ever have been and they are as needed now as they ever have been. And we will work with our allies to expand and to make those alliances the center of our foreign policy activity.
We will work with those nations in the world that are transforming themselves -- nations such as China and Russia. We will work with them not as potential enemies and not as adversaries but not yet as strategic partners but as nations that are seeking their way. We will have areas of agreement and areas of difference and we will discuss them in rational ways, letting them know of our values, letting them know of the principles that we hold dear.
For those nations that are not yet on this path of democracy and freedom, for those nations that are poorly led -- led by failed leaders pursuing failed policies that will give them failed results -- we will stand strong. We will stand strong with our friends and allies against those nations that pursue weapons of mass destruction, that practice terrorism. We will not be afraid of them, we will not be frightened by them. We will meet them, we will match them, we will contend with them. We will defend our interests from a position of strength.
That strength comes to us from the power of our system, the democracy and the free enterprise system. It comes to us from our economic power. It comes to us from our military power.
As as we go into this new century and as we begin this new administration we have to make sure that all those elements of power are protected and allowed to thrive even more. With an economy that is strong, growing, part of a now international economic system, global trade. With military power -- we are the best on the face of the earth; we're going to keep it that way; and we're going to take actions early on to ensure that our young men and women who might be called to go in harm's way have what they need to be successful. We owe that to them.
And I've spent a good part of my life helping those G.I.'s get ready for battle and I've spent a good part of my life up on Congress, before Congress, working hard to get those troops what they needed. Well, I don't have to do that quite anymore but I will certainly be there with the secretary of defense, assisting the secretary in getting what he needs for the military.
But I now will be up before the Congress letting them know in the most powerful terms that I can muster that the dedicated men and women of the State Department need that same kind of support. They are in the front lines; they are part of this contest; they are part of the battle. And we must make sure that when they go to do the work of the American people they not only have the support that they need but they have the resources that they need.
And that will be a priority of my stewardship as secretary of state.
So I think these are promising times, times of great opportunity but times also of challenge and danger. We are up to the task. President-elect Bush has given us the guidance we need. We're going to pull together a great team. We're going to communicate with the American people to make sure that we are crafting a foreign policy that reflects their values and their will.
We will work with Congress in a bipartisan fashion so that we can arrive at consensus and that the world can see us united behind our foreign policy.
Exciting times. And I am so proud to be a part of those times. And I thank the president-elect for giving me this opportunity.
I'm especially pleased that he chose to hold this ceremony in a school in Crawford, Tex. I was, frankly, glad it wasn't at the ranch. Nothing wrong with ranches, but I don't do ranchwear very well. And I'm from the South Bronx, and I don't care what you say, those cows look dangerous.
But the real reason -- but the real reason I'm so happy that we're doing this in a school is because for the last several years of my life I've been working with young people -- young people such as the students who come here every day to be prepared for the future.
I have been working hard as the chairman of America's Promise: The Alliance for Youth, a great crusade that we have been conducting for the last three years. It was a mission that was given to me by former President Bush and President Clinton and former President Carter, President Ford and Mrs. Reagan.
We've accomplished a lot over the last three years and as I now take on new duties as secretary of state I want to say to all of the partners who have worked with us in America's Promise that I'm not leaving it. I'm going to find a way to continue to play an important role in the work of America's Promise and the president-elect has encouraged me to do just that.
I go around the country telling people no matter how busy you are you have time to give back to young people. And that's what I'm going to do as secretary of state. Not only to encourage other cabinet officers to do likewise but hopefully to take this promise message around the world so that all nations realize that we have nothing more valuable as a national asset, in anyone's country, than the young people. And we have to prepare them. So the little red wagon will still be a part of my life.
And finally, I would just like to note that in the newspaper stories that will be written about this occasion they will say that Colin Powell is the first African-American to ever hold the position of secretary of state. And I'm glad they will say that, and I want it repeated.
I want it repeated because I hope it will give inspiration to young African-Americans coming along -- but beyond that, all young Americans coming along -- that no matter where you began in this society with hard work and with dedication and with the opportunities that are presented by this society, there are no limitations on you.
And I also want to pay tribute to so many people who helped me reach this position in life: African-Americans who came before me who never could have risen to this position because the conditions weren't there and we had to fight to change those conditions.
For me this isn't history, it's my lifetime. I was exposed to these things in my lifetime. And I will work with President-elect Bush and with Vice President-elect Cheney to do everything I can do to help them. To show to America, as President-elect Bush said the other evening, that this will be an administration, he will be a president for all the people, all the time.
I know that is the deepest emotion in his heart. The American people will see that in due course. We'll get over these difficulties that we have seen in recent days. And we'll come through this a stronger, greater nation on the way to that more perfect union that we always dream about. Thank you very much.
 
Questions and Answers
 
Q. General Powell, Mideast peace has proved elusive for many years. There are some preliminary talks this weekend in Washington. Will you be monitoring these? And when you become secretary of state, when you're confirmed, what do you see as the U.S. role. . . . .
 
GENERAL POWELL: I will certainly be monitoring them. But, you know, you can only have one president, one secretary of state and one foreign policy team at a time. And so although we'll be monitoring them, it's entirely in the hands of President Clinton, Dr. Albright and their team.
It is absolutely a given that under a Bush administration, America will remain very much engaged in the Middle East. I expect it to be a major priority of mine and of the department. It will be based on the principle that we must always ensure that Israel lives in freedom and in security and peace. But at the same time, we have to do everything we can to deal with the aspirations of the Palestinians and other nations in the region who have an interest in this.
And so I think America will continue to be a friend to all sides. America will continue to put forward ideas. America will remain engaged until we can find that solution to this most difficult problem. But at the end of the day, it's going to be the parties in the region who will have to find that solution and come into agreement. They are going to have to live with each other.
And hopefully, in the near-future we can find ways that they can accommodate their differences and find that elusive solution. It is elusive, but it is out there somewhere. And hopefully, if it doesn't happen in the very near-future and it becomes something for us to manage, you can be sure that we'll be fully engaged in trying to find a solution to that problem.
 
Q. Inaudible
 
GENERAL POWELL: We have a different situation now than we had in 1991 and 1992. At the end of the Gulf War, the Iraqi regime agreed to the conditions that brought an end to the conflict, that they would fully account for all the weapons of mass destruction and other evil technologies that they were working on. They have not yet fulfilled those agreements.
And my judgment is that the sanctions in some form must be kept in place until they do so. We will work with our allies to re-energize the sanctions regime. And I will make the case in every opportunity I get that we're not doing this to hurt the Iraqi people. We're doing this to protect the peoples of the region, the children of the region, who would be the targets of these weapons of mass destruction if we didn't contain them and get rid of them.
Saddam Hussein is sitting on a failed regime that is not going to be around in a few years' time. The world is going to leave him behind and that regime behind as the world marches to new drummers, drummers of democracy and the free enterprise system. And I don't know what it will take to bring him to his senses. But we are in the strong position. He is in the weak position. And I think it is possible to re-energize those sanctions and to continue to contain him and then confront him, should that become necessary again.
 
Q. Inaudible
 
GENERAL POWELL: Well, our plan is to undertake a review right after the president is inaugurated and take a look not only at our deployments in Bosnia but in Bosnia and Kosovo and many other places around the world, and make sure those deployments are proper. Our armed forces are stretched rather thin, and there is a limit to how many of these deployments we can sustain.
So we're going to take a look at that. We're going to talk to our allies. We're going to consult. We're going to make on-the- ground assessments of what we're doing now, what's needed now, but also what is really going to be needed in the future and see if we can find ways that it is less of a burden on our armed forces, not as a way of running out but as a way of substituting others or substituting other kinds of organizations and units and perhaps police organizations to handle the remaining missions.
So we're not cutting and running. We're going to make a careful assessment of it, in consultation with our allies, and then make some judgments after that assessment is concluded. . . .
 
Q. Inaudible
 
GENERAL POWELL: The president-elect has made a commitment to national missile defense. I have watched the debates on national missile defense for many, many years, and I think a national missile defense is an essential part of our overall strategic force posture, which consists of offensive weapons, command-and-control systems, intelligence systems, and a national missile defense. And I still hearken back to the original purpose of such a defense, and that is to start diminishing the value of offensive weapons.
We have been pursuing the technology. I'm quite confident that when a secretary of defense is named, that person will go into the Pentagon and make a full assessment of the state of technology -- Where are we? What can we accomplish? -- and structure a plan that is consistent with the approach that then-Governor Bush gave in Washington early this year.
So we're going to go forward. We have to spend time discussing it with our allies, discussing it with other nations in the world that possess strategic offensive weapons and don't yet understand our thinking with respect to national missile defense.
These will be tough negotiations. I don't expect them to be easy. But they will have to come to the understanding that we feel this is in the best interest of the American people -- and not only the American people, the people of the world -- to finally start to move in the direction where we can take away the currency associated with strategic offensive weapons and the blackmail that is inherent in some regime having that kind of weapon and thinking they can hold us hostage.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gen. Colin L. Powell with President-elect George W. Bush yesterday. (Reuters); Colin L. Powell drew laughter yesterday when he said he was glad the announcement of his nomination as secretary of state was not at the Bush ranch, because "I'm from the South Bronx, and I don't care what you say, those cows look dangerous." (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (51%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT FAR EAST MOTORS (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (57%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (56%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (57%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (56%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); INDIAN OCEAN (51%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMIES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (74%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); POWELL, COLIN L (GEN) GEORGE W BUSH (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



428 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1622 words

HEADLINE: THE 43RD PRESIDENT: THE PRESIDENT-ELECT;
POWELL TO HEAD STATE DEPT. AS BUSH'S FIRST CABINET PICK

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: CRAWFORD, Tex., Dec. 16

 BODY:
In his first cabinet appointment, President-elect George W. Bush today named retired Gen. Colin L. Powell to be his secretary of state and called for a foreign policy addressing global opportunities, challenges and dangers "in a spirit of national unity and bipartisanship."
Standing together in a school in a dusty crossroads town near Mr. Bush's ranch, Mr. Bush and General Powell delivered a foreign policy prescription for the new administration. Also flanking Mr. Bush was his running mate, Dick Cheney, the former defense secretary who with General Powell had helped Mr. Bush's father wage the gulf war. 
 "As president, I will set our priorities and we will stand by them," Mr. Bush said. "If we do not set our own agenda, it will be set by others, potential adversaries or the crisis of the moment."
But the general's remarks were broader and more expansive than the incoming president's, and when the time came for questions it was General Powell who answered them.
"Crises that we don't know anything about right now will come along," Mr. Powell said, recalling the "adventures" like the Persian Gulf war that he and Mr. Cheney fought together when the general was chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Excerpts, Page 51.
In Washington, Senate leaders promised a swift confirmation of the appointment, which would put Mr. Powell, the first black to hold the post, fourth in the constitutional line of succession.
Mr. Powell called Iraq's president, Saddam Hussein, the leader of a "failed regime" and said he would "re-energize" sanctions. He warned terrorists that "we will meet them, we will match them, we will contend with them." He reassured allies that while the United States would review the deployments in Bosnia and Kosovo, "we are not cutting and running." And he reaffirmed commitment to a missile defense shield.
Mr. Bush's selection of the well-known and charismatic general was long expected. But by naming Mr. Powell as his first cabinet choice and showcasing him alone, Mr. Bush sought to send several signals, reassuring allies of stability in foreign policy, and emphasizing to the black voters who had overwhelmingly voted against him in November that he intended to reach out.
For both men, it was an emotional moment that they sealed with a hug. Mr. Bush had tears in his eyes as he praised the 63-year-old son of Jamaican immigrants who rose to the highest post in the military as "an American hero, an American example and a great American story." Mr. Bush called it a "great day when the son of the South Bronx succeeds to the office first held by Thomas Jefferson."
General Powell himself noted that he would be the first black secretary of state and said he wanted to stand as an example that "there are no limitations on you." He also defended Mr. Bush after the bitterly contested election, in which charges arose that many blacks were disenfranchised in Florida.
"He will be a president for all the people, all the time," General Powell said. "I know that is the deepest emotion in his heart. The American people will see that in due course. We will get over these difficulties that we have seen in recent days."
It was the general too who added some humor to the ceremony as he said he was relieved to be at a school and not the president-elect's ranch. "Nothing wrong with ranches," he said, "but I don't do ranchwear very well."
As Mr. Bush looked surprised then started to laugh, General Powell said, "I'm from the South Bronx, and I don't care what you say, those cows look dangerous."
But for the most part, Mr. Bush and his aides wanted the event to be seen as policy-oriented. Andrew H. Card, the incoming White House chief of staff, took the stage before Mr. Bush and General Powell arrived and abruptly warned the local crowd, "We ask that you not interrupt with the typical enthusiasm we would have at a campaign stop."
Mr. Bush and General Powell spoke of global changes that they said presented opportunities for spreading democracy and capitalism, as well as risks.
"The old world map as we knew it, of a red side and blue side that competed for something called the third world, is gone," General Powell said. "And the new map is a mosaic, a mosaic of many different pieces and many different colors spreading around the world."
General Powell seemed to signal that the United States would not retreat into an isolationist mode -- as some have interpreted Mr. Bush's pledges to scale back deployments -- but would work toward "a uniquely American internationalism."
This would be achieved, he said, "not by using our strength and our position of power to get back behind our walls, but by being engaged in the world."
He stressed that the information and technology revolutions were destroying boundaries around the world and creating new opportunities for the United States, economically and politically.
Both Mr. Bush and the general talked of a foreign policy that was not only centered on vital national interests but embraced American values. "Foreign policy in the coming years must serve our national interests in the world while speaking for the highest of America's ideals," the president-elect said.
On the Middle East, General Powell said it was "absolutely a given" that the Bush administration would remain "very much engaged" in the region.
Policy, he said, would be based "on the principle that we must always ensure that Israel always lives in freedom and security and peace." He added, "But at the same time we have to do everything we can to deal with the aspirations of Palestinians and the other nations in the region who have an interest in this."
The general said that as Israeli and Palestinian negotiators arrived in Washington next week for talks that could lead to one last effort by the Clinton administration to forge a peace deal, he would be "monitoring." But he emphasized that there was only one president and secretary of state at a time.
"At the end of the day it's going to be the parties in the region who will have to find that solution," General Powell said. He called the solution "elusive" but said, "it is out there somewhere."
General Powell also offered a strong warning to Iraq. The Bush administration has been criticized by some analysts for stopping the war against Iraq too soon and leaving Mr. Hussein in power.
"Saddam Hussein is sitting on a failed regime that is not going to be around in a few years' time," General Powell said. "The world is going to leave him behind and that regime behind, as the world marches to new drummers, drummers of democracy and the free enterprise system."
He pledged to "re-energize the sanctions regime," saying that Iraq had not fulfilled its agreement to end its nuclear, chemical and biological weapons and missile programs, one of the conditions for ending the war he commanded.
"And I will make the case in every opportunity I get that we're not doing this to hurt the Iraqi people," he said. "We're doing this to protect the peoples of the region, the children of the region, who would be the target of these weapons of mass destruction if we didn't contain them and get rid of them."
At times General Powell sounded as if he were speaking not just as the next secretary of state but as the next secretary of defense, too.
He said the administration would review the role of American troops deployed around the world. That had been a core campaign pledge of Mr. Bush's. General Powell suggested that the review would reconsider not only the presence of American peacekeepers in Bosnia and Kosovo, but also troops stationed overseas in a variety of missions.
"Our armed forces are stretched rather thin," General Powell said, echoing campaign themes raised repeatedly by Mr. Bush and Mr. Cheney. "And there's a limit to how many of these deployments we can sustain."
At the same time, appearing sensitive to fears of American isolationism, he said the administration would only reduce troops after consulting with allies and finding other forces to take up some of the duties.
General Powell also made a strong case for building a national missile defense, saying it was necessary to thwart the "blackmail inherent in some regime" possessing long-range missiles capable of carrying nuclear warheads. During the campaign, Mr. Bush called for deploying a more expansive system than the limited one President Clinton considered but ultimately deferred earlier this year.
Although General Powell did not offer details of the system the new administration intends to propose, he said a defensive shield was "an essential part" of the nation's security strategy. He echoed the rationale for missile defense first articulated by President Ronald Reagan, whom he served as national security adviser.
"I harken back to the original purpose of such a defense, and that is to start diminishing the value of offensive weapons," he said.
As secretary, General Powell will be the administration's chief negotiator, who will have to deal with the fears of Russia and China, as well as of European allies, that such a system will be destabilizing. He acknowledged it would be a challenge.
"These will be tough negotiations," he said. "I don't expect them to be easy. But they will have to come to the understanding that we feel this is in the best interest of the American people -- and not only the American people, the people of the world."
General Powell described Russia and China as countries that the United States would attempt to work with, "not as potential enemies or adversaries, but not yet as strategic partners." There would be disagreements with Moscow and Beijing, he said, and "we will be letting them know what we believe."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Colin L. Powell, nominated as secretary of state, was surrounded by George W. Bush, Laura Bush and Dick Cheney in a school auditorium in Texas. Senate leaders promised a quick confirmation of the appointment. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. 1); President-elect George W. Bush, during lunch yesterday with Gen. Colin L. Powell at the Bush ranch in Crawford, Tex., said it was an emotional moment when he announced that he had chosen General Powell as secretary of state. "I so admire Colin Powell," Mr. Bush said. "I love his story." (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. 50)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); KOSOVO (79%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (72%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (55%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (55%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); KOSOVO (79%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (72%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BLACKS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); DESERT STORM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); IMMIGRATION (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); ARMED FORCES (70%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (70%); TERRORISM (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); POWELL, COLIN L (GEN); MITCHELL, ALISON GEORGE W BUSH (94%); DICK CHENEY (78%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



429 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 170 words

HEADLINE: On the Road: A Wrong Turn

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Road Project Takes Both People and Animals Into Account" (news article, Dec. 11): 
 While I applaud the steps taken to accommodate environmental concerns in the expansion of a highway near Middletown, Conn., one should not get the impression that expanding roads is a viable solution for traffic congestion.
In addition to the air pollution that cars produce, expanding roads facilitates sprawl. This is not only environmentally destructive, but also costly to taxpayers, since the cost of supplying services to sprawling subdivisions is often greater than the tax revenues they generate.
When roads are expanded, traffic increases to fill the available space, and people will make trips they wouldn't ordinarily take when a road is known to be congested. Policy makers should expand mass transit systems and bike paths, rather than continue the failed policies of the past.
 
ERICH PICA
Washington, Dec. 12, 2000
 
The writer is an economic policy associate, Friends of the Earth. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FRIENDS OF THE EARTH (56%); FRIENDS OF THE EARTH (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FRIENDS OF THE EARTH (56%); FRIENDS OF THE EARTH (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLETOWN (CONN); UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (88%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (88%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (86%); TAXES & TAXATION (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); AIR POLLUTION (55%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: PICA, ERICH

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



430 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 10; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1950 words

HEADLINE: Alan Greenspan and the Temple of Boom

BYLINE: By Robert Kuttner; Robert Kuttner is co-editor of The American Prospect. His most recent book is "Everything for Sale: The Virtues and Limits of Markets."

 BODY:

 MAESTRO
 Greenspan's Fed and
 the American Boom.
 By Bob Woodward.
 Illustrated. 270 pp. New York:
 Simon & Schuster. $25.
 
 GREENSPAN
 The Man Behind Money.
 By Justin Martin.
 Illustrated. 284 pp. Cambridge, Mass.:
 Perseus Publishing. $28. 
 Bob Woodward has written about America's most reclusive power centers, from the Central Intelligence Agency to the White House to the Supreme Court -- and now the Federal Reserve Board. Woodward's method, the subject of admiration, envy and scorn, is to cultivate so many players that soon everyone feels compelled to volunteer his or her side of the story. His critics have faulted him for running a kind of journalistic protection racket: Nice little reputation you have there; it would be a shame if anything happened to it.
By extension, Woodward is said to be overly kind to those who do talk. In a famously scathing review of five of his previous books, the essayist Joan Didion wrote that "the informant who talks to Mr. Woodward . . . knows that his or her testimony will be not only respected but burnished into the inside story"; despite their reportorial virtuosity "these are books in which measurable cerebral activity is virtually absent."
In "Maestro," Woodward has refined his technique, mostly for the better. As usual, everyone talks. But "Maestro" offers a good measure of cerebral activity. In a surprisingly short book, Woodward lucidly explains the axes of intellectual and political disagreement over monetary policy, productivity growth, irrational exuberance and more, shedding new light on major conflicts of the Greenspan era and demystifying this most political of ostensibly technical institutions. He supplements his interviews with extensive archival research and connects the dots with his own analysis. You wonder how he has the nerve to put a complex conversation from 1989 in quotation marks -- until you realize that this time he's unearthed a little-known verbatim transcript.
Starting with the book's worshipful title, Woodward is certainly kind to Alan Greenspan, perhaps a little too kind. But these days, who isn't?
Two months after Greenspan took office in August 1987, the stock market lost over 22 percent of its value in a day. The nation's largest financial institutions, thinly capitalized and in debt to one another, can collapse if money markets seize up for lack of buyers or lenders. Greenspan, working closely with E.+Gerald Corrigan, president of the New York Fed, embarked on a course far more interventionist than his onetime mentor, the free-market apostle Ayn Rand, might have commended. Woodward explains just how Corrigan discreetly instructed bank executives to keep lending to momentarily insolvent debtors. The Fed would back them up. All this was illegal and, if it didn't work, could violate countless fiduciary duties and prudent-man rules. But it was precisely what the Fed had failed to do in 1929. This time, the system held.
From there, Woodward recounts how the Maestro gradually brought his ample skills to his masterwork -- the longest boom in American history. Greenspan perceived that something fundamental had changed, allowing faster rates of noninflationary growth and lower unemployment than previously thought possible. He proceeded not from theory but from data. In the process the Fed was transformed, from a dour financial fortress that would readily throw millions out of work before risking a little inflation into a temple of boom. We get no major revelations, but a lot of nice nuance and detail.
By tradition, other members of the Fed's board of governors and the Open Market Committee (which sets key interest rates) seldom vote down their chairman. A Fed chairman on the verge of losing a vote usually fashions a face-saving compromise. Those who lose don't last. Even Greenspan's predecessor, the formidable Paul Volcker, called it quits after losing a 4-3 vote. As Woodward shows, Greenspan maintains his political equilibrium as skillfully as he equilibrates monetary policy. Rarely, when colleagues are leaning against him, he makes a personal appeal. Usually, he has already worked key members one at a time.
Before the Greenspan era, the Open Market Committee voted as a body on each change in interest rates. In the anxious aftermath of the 1987 crash, Greenspan persuaded his colleagues to change the process. The committee would now vote a policy "directive," but leave the timing and magnitude of rate-setting to the chairman. In Fed jargon, the directive would be either neutral, "asymmetric-negative" (prefiguring a rate cut), or "asymmetric-positive" (signaling a probable increase). Greenspan promoted the shift as a subtler way of influencing the markets. But, as Woodward writes, the committee "was basically ceding operational control to Greenspan." Several strong-willed colleagues, with agendas of their own, quit once they saw that Greenspan held most of the cards.
So what's not to like, either about Alan Greenspan or about Bob Woodward's portrait of him? History will surely judge Greenspan as an exceptionally successful Fed chairman. Still, Woodward's "Maestro" is a shade too asymmetric-positive. His charity reflects both the implicit bargain in his method and a genuine admiration for his subject. In his account, Greenspan managed the Fed, the economy and the political footwork virtually without error. The only misjudgments Woodward allows are those that Greenspan acknowledges himself. In 1991, pressing for a rate cut, Greenspan realizes he doesn't have the votes and backs off. Woodward writes, "Greenspan realized he may have made a mistake in trying to move impulsively."
Woodward softens blemishes. As
a private consultant, Greenspan had written a report in 1985 endorsing the savings and loan manipulator Charles Keating. Woodward accepts at face value Greenspan's alibi: "Keating hadn't done anything wrong at that point, or if he had, it wasn't detectable." We should all be the targets of such investigative reporting.
Isn't there anything that Greenspan did wrong? He deserves immense credit for resisting pressure to extinguish the boom by overreacting to real or imagined inflationary threats. By contrast, nearly every postwar recession was engineered by previous inflation-phobic Federal Reserve Boards. He brokered and kept the grand bargain of the 1990's: deficit reduction for lower interest rates. Greenspan also did brilliantly at heading off several potential catastrophes, all outside the Fed's explicit franchise, including the stock market crash of 1987, the huge banking losses of the early 1990's, the Mexican peso collapse of 1994, the Asian contagion of 1998 and the failure of Long Term Capital Management. He may even have talked down a fevered stock market.
But, as critics like James K. Galbraith and Alan Blinder, a former vice chairman of the Fed, have pointed out, the economy was probably capable of somewhat faster noninflationary growth somewhat sooner. George Bush (Sr.), for one, may have been justified in seeing Greenspan's interest rate cuts in the 1990-91 recession as too little and too late. Woodward tells that story pretty much from Greenspan's point of view.
To be sure, notable public figures often choose sympathetic biographers, and writers frequently profile people they admire. Mostly, Woodward's rendition of events is scrupulous and illuminating. "Maestro," however, has a few quirks. The narrative is mostly chronological, but we get four pages on Greenspan's early years sandwiched into the middle of the 1988 election. Some of those interviewed on background complain (on background) that their fingerprints were not supposed to be visible, but it is so clear who talked that Woodward might as well have published a list. He opens with a paean to his research assistant so effusive ("my full-time collaborator at every step of this book -- reporting, writing, and editing") that you wonder what the division of labor really was and why he didn't just give young Jeff Himmelman a byline.
But the book's one substantive weakness is more its narrow focus than its favoritism. Given his exceptional access and research, Woodward might have chosen to pursue more about the Federal Reserve itself. Alan Greenspan is not just a central banker, but also a regulator; he is indulgent of bank mergers and other inventions of the market. To the consternation of other members of the board of governors, the Fed staff reports directly to him. None of this particularly interests Woodword. But there will be more comprehensive books on the Greenspan Fed, and all will owe a debt to Woodward's "Maestro."
Justin Martin, a former staff writer at Fortune magazine, had the double misfortune to publish a Greenspan biography within weeks of Woodward's, and not to have gained his subject's cooperation. Yet there is interesting material here. Where "Maestro" concentrates on Greenspan's tenure at the Fed, Martin mostly covers Greenspan's earlier life. Besides informing us about Greenspan's childhood love of baseball, his early career as a musician and his first marriage, and about details of his connection to Ayn Rand, Martin helps the reader see the way Greenspan's earlier career made him such an effective Fed chairman. As a business consultant and data analyst, mining such arcana as freight car loadings and steel shipments, Greenspan gained a better understanding of the real economy than most high theorists. All this might have made Martin's "Greenspan" a neat complement to Woodward's "Maestro," if only Martin had been a more effective writer. His extensive interviews often yield unremarkable quotations. (" 'I had very high regard for Alan,' recalls Kissinger.") Oddly, he devotes more space to Greenspan's tenure as President Gerald Ford's chief economic adviser than to his 13 years at the Fed.
Neither Woodward nor Martin quite addresses the central irony of the Greenspan era. Though Greenspan is a stout free-market man in a staunchly free-market era, each of his successes was a triumph of economic intervention. Another great conservative monetary economist, Milton Friedman, argued that monetary policy should be put on automatic pilot, because Fed chairmen, subject to political pressure and human error, were at risk of oversteering the economy into recession or inflation.
But had Greenspan not moved vigorously in 1987 to flood the system with money, the 1990's might have been more like the 1930's. Had the Fed and the Treasury not moved to orchestrate carefully bounded bailouts of Mexico and Korea, of Long Term Capital Management and of technically insolvent money center banks, the market system would have been worse off. Had Greenspan not taken the trouble to revise Friedman's "natural rate of unemployment" theory in light of changes in the real economy, growth would have been needlessly slowed.
Evidently markets oversteer at least as much as Fed chairmen. And it turns out that institutions of government (of which the Fed is one) can learn from past mistakes and sometimes turn in virtuoso performances. Even most free-marketeers would prefer an activist Fed run by Maestro Greenspan to one operating on autopilot.
But is the Fed as currently structured the best possible institution to manage the economy? Do the criteria under which it operates serve the broadest public interest? The damage control was superb, but should there have been more preventive regulation? And what will happen if Greenspan's successor lacks the Maestro's touch? Both Woodward and Martin find Greenspan so compelling a figure that they have emphasized the great man at the expense of exploring the institution.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Bruce Strachan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: MAESTRO: GREENSPAN'S FED AND THE AMERICAN BOOM (BOOK); GREENSPAN: THE MAN BEHIND MONEY (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (58%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (58%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (58%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LITERATURE (77%); WRITERS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); MONETARY POLICY (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); TRANSCRIPTS (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); EXECUTIVES (60%); 

PERSON: KUTTNER, ROBERT; WOODWARD, BOB; MARTIN, JUSTIN ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



431 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 26; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: One Man's Justice

BYLINE: By Jeffrey Rosen; Jeffrey Rosen, an associate professor at the George Washington University Law School and the legal affairs editor of The New Republic, is the author of "The Unwanted Gaze: The Destruction of Privacy in America."

 BODY:

 Law Without Values
 The Life, Work, and Legacy of Justice Holmes.
 By Albert W. Alschuler.
 325 pp. Chicago:
 The University of Chicago Press. $30. 
 Justice Oliver WENDELL HOLMES was a cold, savage and brutal man. He was indifferent to human suffering; he came "devilish near to believing," as he put it, "that might makes right"; and he scorned all political and moral enthusiasms except for eugenics. This is the thesis of Albert W. Alschuler's "Law Without Values," an exuberantly and entertainingly polemical attack on the character, scholarship and philosophy of America's most revered judicial saint. Never mind the hagiography served up by Holmes's fawning acolytes. The real Holmes, according to Alschuler, was a social Darwinist who glorified war and had contempt for the losers in democratic struggles. He was not someone you would have wanted as a friend.
Alschuler, who teaches at the University of Chicago Law School, argues convincingly that Holmes's supporters were able to repackage him as a progressive simply because he happened to write the most famous dissent in American history when he defended the constitutionality of New York's maximum-hour law for bakers. ("The 14th Amendment does not enact Mr. Herbert Spencer's 'Social Statics,' "Holmes wrote in 1905, even though he himself was the only true social Darwinist on the Supreme Court.) But although Holmes voted to uphold progressive laws, he also voted to uphold illiberal, even fascistic ones. He voted in favor of virtually all laws because of his radically restrained view of judicial authority. "I quite agree that a law should be called good if it reflects the will of the dominant forces of the community," Holmes wrote to Felix Frankfurter, "even if it will take us to hell."
In his determined pursuit of this vision, Holmes upheld some of the darkest statutes ever passed by American legislatures. In 1903, for example, he refused to invalidate Alabama's scheme of voter registration, which used literacy tests, poll taxes and other ruses to exclude nearly all the 180,000 blacks in the state from voting. In an opinion that managed to be quixotic and perverse, Holmes held that if the registration scheme really was a fraud on the Constitution, the court couldn't order the plaintiff to be registered without participating in the fraud.
Even more notoriously, Holmes in 1927 upheld laws that eventually led to the sterilization of more than 18,000 "imbeciles" in 30 states, many of whom were hardly mentally disabled. "Three generations of imbeciles," Holmes wrote in his opinion, "are enough." Alschuler quotes a letter in which Holmes talked about "restricting propagation by the undesirables and putting to death infants that didn't pass the examination, etc., etc." What to make of such sentiments? Enthusiasm for eugenics, as Judge Richard Posner has noted, was a staple of progressive thought during Holmes's career -- advocates included George Bernard Shaw and Theodore Roosevelt. And if some of Holmes's comments seem outrageous even by the standards of his day, perhaps Alschuler takes his private letters a bit too literally. Holmes, like many of us, often indulged in deliberately shocking hyperbole in private, to amuse himself and his friends and to unsettle conventional pieties.
Even if Holmes was an enthusiastic eugenicist, it's not clear how relevant his anti-egalitarian views were to his jurisprudence. "I am so skeptical as to our knowledge about the goodness or badness of laws that I have no practical criticism except what the crowd wants," he wrote, even as he confessed that he loathed "the thick-fingered clowns we call the people."
Alschuler finds Holmes's defense of judicial restraint "ambiguous" and incoherent because it failed to specify how the dominant power was dominant. But Holmes's attitude toward democracy might best be described as aristocratic indifference: he viewed legislative battles as a spectator sport for Nietzschean judges, who were meant to keep their hands off the vulgar disputes of the grasping masses while fixing their gaze on more important achievements, like creative genius, everlasting fame or heroic death on the battlefield. Consistent with this vision, Holmes was willing to use his judicial power to intervene primarily in cases involving clear violations of First Amendment rights, where the possibility of democratic struggle itself was at risk.
After reading Alschuler's spirited attack on Holmes, I found myself all the more admiring of Holmes's dark skepticism, wicked wit and hunger for greatness, and all the more convinced of his deep relevance in the 21st century. The most important liberal and conservative legal movements today are the heirs of Holmes -- from critical race and critical legal theorists on the left to law and economics scholars on the right to contemporary pragmatists and functionalists in the center. Nearly all share Holmes's view that the public purposes asserted for laws, like supposedly objective notions of right and wrong, are often hypocritical masks for raw power struggles. But while the contemporary heirs of Holmes are often eager to use the courts to impose their own visions of the good and true on citizens, Holmes himself rejected the crude proposition that all law is politics. Unlike many of his followers today, Holmes was sufficiently skeptical of his own exclusive ability to discern the truth that he insisted that judges should not use their undemocratic power to impose supposedly objective (but actually, vigorously contested) principles of right and wrong on a deeply divided nation.
Alschuler wants to persuade us that Holmes's scholarly and judicial achievements were "mostly negative" because his "revolt against objective concepts of right and wrong" led to "a revolt against natural law." But Holmes's rejection of the claim that abstract principles of natural law exist independently of the values and customs of a particular society did not, in fact, lead him to embrace what Alschuler calls "law without values." On the contrary, Holmes recognized that positive law is suffused with values; he wrote that "law is the witness and external deposit of our moral life."
Holmes's judicial abstinence may have grown out of his aristocratic indifference, but he points the way toward a vision of judicial humility that is more relevant than ever in a pluralistic and egalitarian age in which people violently disagree. For reminding us of the power of Holmes's embattled vision, in spite of his valiant efforts to discredit it, we have Albert Alschuler to thank. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: LAW WITHOUT VALUES (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); LAW SCHOOLS (79%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); LAWYERS (75%); LITERATURE (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); HISTORY (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (68%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: ROSEN, JEFFREY; ALSCHULER, ALBERT W ALBERT W ALSCHULER (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



432 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 30; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: Children's Books

BYLINE: By Simon Rodberg 

 BODY:

 Skyscrapers
 How America Grew Up.
 By John B. Severance.
 Holiday House, $18.95.
 (Ages 10 and up) 
 The cover of John B. Severance's "Skyscrapers: How America Grew Up" features a photo of the tippy-top of the Woolworth Building surrounded by clouds. In this grounded but entertaining history for middle-grade readers, Severance aims to demystify what made that tower rise so high. From Mrs. O'Leary's cow to Donald Trump, he ties together engineering, economics and aesthetics and the personalities who dominated them.
The story of skyscrapers is one of technological and urban growth, set mostly in New York and Chicago. But Severance's tale is really a history of outsize megalomania building outsize monuments to its own majesty. He writes that cathedrals and pyramids have one thing in common with the 19th- and 20th-century tall buildings we know as skyscrapers: the power of the human ego. The egos sparkle in this information-packed narrative of how continual competition drove American building ever higher.
The one element missing might be called the David Macaulay factor: a cogent explanation of skyscrapers' design. How does a thousand-foot pile of steel and glass manage to stand up straight? Severance gives us some tidbits, but his book, full of beautiful photographs, suffers from the lack of diagrams to make technologies like frame-tube structure comprehensible. We want to know the way those things work.
As a story, though, "Skyscrapers" is gripping. One feels a chill of fear from the inside drama of how the Citicorp Center in Manhattan came a hurricane away from collapsing, and a thrill of triumph for the architect and the consulting engineer who saved it.
Severance also manages to make architectural theory seem both relevant and understandable, particularly in his narrative on the origins and excesses of the International style. His last chapter sounds a note of skepticism about the humanity of these human monuments. But the thrust of the book is that of the Great Leap Upward. Simon Rodberg
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: SKYSCRAPERS: HOW AMERICA GREW UP (BOOK)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (53%); C (BMV) (53%); 8710 (TSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: CHILDREN'S BOOKS & TOYS INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); ENGINEERING (89%); LITERATURE (76%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (70%); CITY LIFE (55%); CITIES (55%); 

PERSON: RODBERG, SIMON; SEVERANCE, JOHN B DONALD TRUMP (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



433 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 36; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: New & Noteworthy Paperbacks

BYLINE: By Scott Veale

 BODY:

THE COLLECTED SHORT FICTION OF BRUCE JAY FRIEDMAN. (Grove, $14.) These humorous tales, published between 1953 and 1995, feature dizzying flights of fancy and whammo endings, taking on subjects as varied as psychiatrists, Hollywood, cocaine, guilt, sex and Jewish mothers. "Friedman has been likened to everyone from J. D. Salinger to Woody Allen," Christopher Buckley wrote here in 1995. "This collection should finally establish him for what he is: Bruce Jay Friedman, sui generis and no mean thing." Speaking of Jewish mothers, Friedman's 1964 novel, A Mother's Kisses (University of Chicago, $14), describes the efforts of a 17-year-old Brooklyn boy to break free from the gravitational field of "the most unforgettable mother since Medea," according to our reviewer, Haskel Frankel. She is "heaven and hell jammed into a hammock-sized bra and a too-tight girdle. She is a Bensonhurst Mae West."
 
THROUGH THE BRAZILIAN WILDERNESS, by Theodore Roosevelt. (Cooper Square, $19.95.) Roosevelt was, among other things, an avid naturalist, and his informal account of the 48-day Roosevelt-Rondon expedition in 1913-14 to map the "River of Doubt" is filled with harrowing encounters with rapids, blistering heat, mosquitoes, fire ants and jungle illness. In 1914, the Book Review called this an "excellent volume" by an author "blessed with a power for minute and careful observation." In Stranger in the Forest: On Foot Across Borneo, by Eric Hansen (Vintage Departures, $13), a young American traveler chronicles his solo trek through the wilds of Borneo, a journey with more than its own share of close calls and improbable adventures. The result is "a gracefully written and passionate book" whose author "is more interested in the people he meets than in discussing his own considerable courage and endurance," Tim Cahill wrote here in 1988.
 
THE LAST SURVIVOR: Legacies of Dachau, by Timothy W. Ryback. (Vintage, $12.) An American journalist takes the pulse of the German town of Dachau, using the (possibly fabricated) memories of an 87-year-old Holocaust survivor to stage a morality play about a haunted place and its troubled residents. The book "is elegantly written without ever neglecting the magnitude of horror that underlies every gesture, breath and nuance in Dachau," Thane Rosenbaum wrote here last year.
 
LOVERS FOR A DAY, by Ivan Klima. (Grove, $12.) These Czech stories, written both before and after the fall of Communism, revolve around themes of love and death, featuring factory workers, students and other characters whose dreary lives are tempered by the consolations of sex, humor and fantasy. "Klima's view of love is often witty, sometimes playful, and has a convincing sense of the erotic, but it is never sanguine," Andrew Miller said here last year.
 
WHO I WAS SUPPOSED TO BE: Short Stories, by Susan Perabo. (Scribner, $11.) In this debut collection, a data processor squanders her inheritance on one of Princess Diana's gowns and Batman's butler recounts the demise of his dissolute boss. "Perabo's clear, wry sentences meld a prose style that's reminiscent of Raymond Carver's with a sensibility that's informed by People magazine," Dana Kennedy wrote here last year.
 
SELECTED LETTERS OF DAWN POWELL: 1913-1965, edited by Tim Page. (Owl/Holt, $16.) Dawn Powell (1896-1965) was primarily known for her novels but wrote hundreds of letters to friends, relatives and other writers. This selection by a devoted admirer displays her social gifts and her "ironic, triumphant, mocking and game" voice, Lorrie Moore wrote here in 1999. Her letters offer "a portrait of a hard-working, resilient female artist and professional. . . . A reader comes to the last of them already missing their company."
 
CROSSING: A Memoir, by Deirdre McCloskey. (University of Chicago, $15.) A renowned economist and historian tells of her decision at the age of 52 to change herself from a man into a woman, of the grueling physical procedures involved in her transformation and of the emotional evolution she experienced on the way. "This is a woman worth knowing," Maxine Kumin said here in 1999. "She has given us a highly readable, dramatic account of her crossing."
 
THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF JOSEPH STALIN, by Richard Lourie. (Da Capo, $15.) In this ambitious novel, the dictator reviews his own rise to power at the same time his archrival, the exiled Trotsky, is writing his own book about Stalin's life. The result is an uneven but "often engaging" tale that "effervesces as the memoirists battle each other for control of the truth," Ken Kalfus said here in 1999. Scott Veale
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos (Molly K. Friedman; Tim Page)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%); CZECH REPUBLIC (67%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (77%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: VINTAGE DEPARTURES (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%); CZECH REPUBLIC (67%); ILLINOIS, USA (77%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); HOLOCAUST (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); COCAINE (57%); FACTORY WORKERS (50%); 

PERSON: JEROME DAVID 'J D' SALINGER (58%); WOODY ALLEN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



434 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 46; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 8796 words

HEADLINE: What's Tab Turner Got Against Ford?

BYLINE: By Michael Winerip; Michael Winerip is a staff writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
'I'll be back later," Tab Turner told his secretary as he rushed out of his North Little Rock law office, a file full of damning documents under his arm, a cell phone in one hand, a cup of coffee in the other. Brenda Gwin smiled but did not bother to ask what exactly her boss meant by "later." Later could be 3 o'clock that afternoon or later could be one day next week. Even during normal times, Tab Turner is an incredibly busy man, a product-liability lawyer who has grown rich by specializing in sport utility vehicle rollover cases, who files scores of lawsuits each year against auto manufacturers. But lately, with rollover fatalities repeatedly being linked to the Ford Explorer and its recalled Firestone tires, Turner has been rocketing around the nation faster than a car with a sudden acceleration problem. Rarely is he in the same city two days in a row.
New S.U.V. cases keep rolling his way; at the moment, he has 20 crashed Explorers and 50 mangled Firestone tires stored in a Little Rock warehouse for safekeeping in case he needs to produce them for trials against Ford or Bridgestone-Firestone. 
 It was 10:20 on a Thursday morning in mid-November, and he was due in Houston in two hours to meet a quadriplegic on a ventilator, a woman who all but died when the Ford Explorer she was riding in had a tread separation on the rear right Firestone and rolled over. Turner's spirits were high. "A perfect case," he called it. The police report from the crash was full of good news for Turner: there was no driver error reported, no speeding, no alcohol, no other vehicle involved, the pavement was dry, the rollover occurred on the roadway. When the ambulance arrived, the victim was still in the overturned Explorer, hanging by her seat belt. "Can't do much better than that," Turner said.
In Houston, he was planning on explaining the latest developments in the lawsuit to the woman, her family and her three local attorneys and then flying back to Little Rock. But he was also thinking that afterward he might try to settle a second matter in Houston, then maybe fly to Dallas to settle a third of his 100 or so S.U.V. rollover lawsuits. That was the nice thing about owning a jet. He might suddenly fly to L.A., Akron or Detroit to settle cases there.
"I just wait for his call to find out where he is," said his secretary, who often changes his hotel reservations several times a day.
His drive to the Little Rock airport is only 10 minutes, but Turner is not one to squander 10 seconds, and he worked the cell phone the whole way, sipping his sixth coffee of the morning, steering at times with his elbow and trying to mediate a dispute between several trial attorneys scattered around the country who were all jockeying for a piece of a federal class-action lawsuit in Indianapolis involving the Firestone recall. "The problem is, there's just too many greedy lawyers involved," Turner said into the cell phone. "There's even airline crash people jumping into this -- you never know what they're up to."
The 41-year-old Turner owns, and has mastered, the three machines essential for the modern plaintiff attorney -- the cell phone, the laptop computer and the corporate jet -- and they have enabled him to do to Ford Motor Company what it would have taken a dozen lawyers to do a decade ago. "Ford can't keep up with me," he says, and it's clearly true; they ask him to fly to them when they're ready to talk settlement, because he's more mobile. Turner is a Southern Baptist who believes it would be wrong to drink a beer in front of his three young daughters, and he wryly refers to settlement negotiations as "come to Jesus meetings," presumably because the automakers have seen the folly of their ways. "Ford's ready to get serious on this one," he'll say. "They're ready for their come to Jesus meeting." In one recent stretch, he says, he settled 11 cases (10 of them rollovers) in six weeks, for a combined total of $11.5 million, a third of that his contingency fee.
No one was more responsible than Turner for helping keep the Explorer-Firestone problems atop the national news for so long, to the point that even Ford officials say they've never seen an auto-safety story like it -- not the Chevrolet Corvair in the 1960's, not the Ford Pinto or Firestone 500 tire recall in the 1970's, not the side-mounted gas tank on G.M. pickups in the 1990's.
After a decade of litigating S.U.V. rollovers, Turner has amassed an extraordinary library of Ford internal documents, and he e-mails them around the nation with gusto, to reporters, Congressional investigators, Nader types and fellow plaintiff attorneys. Throughout the summer and fall, he supplied crucial documents to reporters as they vied to be first to figure out who knew what when at Ford and Firestone concerning defective tires that federal investigators have now linked to 148 deaths, mainly in Explorers.
It was Turner who provided the Ford documents showing that when the Explorer was developed in the late 1980's, the prototype repeatedly failed Ford's own rollover tests; and it was Turner who provided documents showing that Ford played a major role in developing the flawed Firestone tire.
When Congressional investigators needed someone to make sense of the thousands of pages of evidence that Ford and Firestone produced at hearings, they discreetly invited Turner to sift through the papers for them. More than once, Ford officials arrived while Turner was there, and he hid behind a closed Senate office door.
When Joan Claybrook, the president of Public Citizen, the Nader consumer group, was lobbying Congress for tougher auto-safety laws last fall, she called Turner for help finding people involved in Explorer accidents. At one point, Claybrook says, "Tab helped get 15 victims to Washington for me practically overnight."
Though Turner is a sole practitioner working out of a modest suburban office, Ford has no greater legal nemesis. For weeks, Ford's 250-person public-relations department fought a guerrilla war, trying to contain the damage of documents leaked by Turner. "Every day Tab would take one of those documents and say, 'Here's a little grenade -- let me throw it in there,"' says Ford's vice president for public relations, Jason Vines, who calls Turner "one of those sharks out there who think they've found the keys to the A.T.M."
But if Turner has been able to clamp his sharky little jaws around the Ford A.T.M., it is because he has been able to beat the auto company at trial before, three times convincing juries that Ford knowingly produced defective vehicles. In 1995, Turner persuaded a Houston jury that all Ford Bronco II's -- not just the one involved in that accident- were dangerously tippy and unstable, that Ford executives ignored warnings from their own engineers and that, as a result, the company was 100 percent at fault for the death of a 20-year-old college student, even though the rollover that killed her was precipitated by a tire-tread separation. The jury award was $25 million, the largest trial verdict at that time in an S.U.V. rollover case.
In 1996, Turner was the first to beat Ford in a sudden-acceleration trial, convincing an Arkansas jury that two elderly women had died because their Grand Marquis suddenly raced off with no warning.
And now he is maneuvering to be the first since the recall to put the Explorer, America's most popular S.U.V., on trial. Despite repeated attempts by Ford and Firestone to win a postponement (Ford eventually settles the vast majority of its rollover suits), a Corpus Christi judge has set the case of Donna Bailey -- the quadriplegic in Houston -- for trial on Jan. 8. Turner says he does not expect to settle this one. He says that he is particularly eager to shine the spotlight on Ford, and that it should accept a major share of the blame. As he has said over and over, in eight-second sound bites for Katie Couric, Bryant Gumbel and Dan Rather: "This is a case of a bad tire on a bad vehicle. Tread separation should not cause a vehicle to roll over."
If the case does go forward, it will very likely be one of the more sensational product-liability trials in years, a legal showdown that gets to the heart of how we live. The sport utility vehicle is as good a symbol as any of America's unprecedented economic boom. The S.U.V.'s elevated "command seating" gives the owner a king-of-the-road, doobie-doobie-doo conceit and has proved popular with a broad class of well-to-do consumers, from good old boys hauling their Chris-Crafts fishing to soccer moms taking the fifth grade C.Y.O. champs out for pizza. The S.U.V. was marketed to be all things to all prosperous people, performing on road, off road, hauling heavy loads or precious cargo. It has made automakers rich, accounting for half of Ford's profit by the late 1990's.
But that same S.U.V. is just as passionately despised by another segment of drivers who can't see past it on the highway and think of it as the piggy vehicle of our time. S.U.V.'s are tanklike (a Ford Excursion weighs 7,700 pounds); their gas mileage can be atrocious (an Expedition gets 12 miles per gallon in the city; 17 on the highway). And God forbid if you're driving in an ordinary sedan and get into a crash with an S.U.V. -- you are more than three times as likely to die than if you had been hit by a midsize car.
Many car models have fan clubs, but S.U.V.'s may be the only one with a hate club, a group of San Francisco people so angry about the vehicle's gas-guzzling ways that they surreptitiously tag them with bumper stickers saying: "I'm changing the climate! Ask me how." "We call these vehicles 'superpredators' and the people that drive them 'superparasites,"' says Charles Dines, a club founder.
S.U.V.'s also have their own special safety flaw. The tradeoff for command seating is a higher center of gravity, making the S.U.V. many times more likely to roll during a sharp emergency turn than, say, a Ford Taurus station wagon or a Ford Windstar minivan or most sedans. If you fill a sedan with people and suitcases, it is less likely to roll over because the weight is added below the car's center of gravity, so it acts like ballast; with an S.U.V., the weight is added above the center of gravity, making the vehicle more tippy. (Indeed, a recently published federal safety scorecard gives a fully loaded Explorer the worst rollover rating, one star out of a possible five.)
Which is not to say that the Explorer stands out as particularly rollover-prone among S.U.V.'s. Despite all the horrible publicity, federal fatality data and safety ratings seem to indicate that the Explorer is pretty typical of midsize S.U.V.'s. Jon Harmon, a Ford spokesman, tells reporters that if the bad Firestone tires had been on another S.U.V., "you wouldn't be talking to me; you'd be talking to one of those other companies."
He may be right. But Ford is America's S.U.V. king, and those tires, built to Ford specifications, were on Explorers. So there will be a measure of Shakespearean justice if the day of reckoning does come early next year in Corpus Christi and it is Ford that is called to stand at trial in defense of the S.U.V.
An Explorer trial would have the undivided attention of Turner's fellow attorneys. Bridgestone of Japan says it has set aside $450 million to pay for expected legal claims against its Firestone subsidiary, but plaintiff attorneys worry that Firestone could declare bankruptcy, tying up lawsuits for years. Ford, they know, can pay instant cash.
Turner is juiced. He is a former Division II All-America lineman out of Ouachita Baptist University in Arkadelphia, Ark., and practices law with the fury of a guy who likes to hit. When he heard that the Texas judge had set a trial date, he informed colleagues with a three-word e-mail message: "Lock and load."
That mid-November morning, as he waited for his Cessna to take off from Little Rock, the cell phone rang yet again, and it was the head of a test-driving company calling with the latest results. A few months before, Turner hired the Arizona company to run two Explorers through a series of extreme maneuvers. "Howdy, Steve," Turner said. "I had a productive trip. Sorry I missed you, but money always comes first."
The jet was taxiing for takeoff. "Oh! How did Mark lose control? . . . Wow! And he's O.K.? . . . Did you get it on video? . . . All right! . . . Let's keep this quiet for now. The last thing we need at this point is one of these media hounds finding out." As the jet climbed upward, Turner put the cell phone down. "Rolled over," he grinned. "Can't do better than that -- that's worth a half-million dollars right there."
It would be good news for Donna Bailey in Houston. The plane had broken through the clouds; he would be there in an hour. He had agreed to take her case months before and had put in a lot of time on it, though this would be his first meeting with Bailey. One reason Turner is so successful is he tries to cock a cold eye on these cases, saving the emotion for the jury. He carefully screens accident reports, accepting about one of every five rollovers, eliminating cases where alcohol is a factor, where the rollover is tripped by an off-road object like a curb or more than one vehicle is involved. In short, he tries to take only single-vehicle rollovers that happen on the pavement so he can make the S.U.V. engineering the central issue at trial.
He hadn't met Bailey yet because he hadn't needed to. But he was planning an unusual strategy for this trial and had to have her approval. He knew almost nothing about her. When asked what she did for a living, he said: "I think a teacher, but I'm not sure. I may be thinking of another case." He said he wouldn't concentrate on that kind of detail until the week of the trial.
If you ask some of the key witnesses to the Explorer-Firestone drama -- Jason Vines at Ford, Joan Claybrook at Public Citizen, Brian O'Neill at the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety -- why it has become the biggest auto-safety story in decades, they can only offer theories. "I've been doing this since 1970," says O'Neill. "I've never seen anything like it."
Vines says a lot of it is that Ford and Firestone are well-known American brands. While Firestone is foreign-owned, Fords and Firestones have worked together for a century and even intermarried. Claybrook suggests it is because the public smells a Watergate-like coverup. She says people are angry that Ford was replacing defective Firestones on Explorers as far back as 1998 in Saudi Arabia and not telling U.S. safety officials. She says Jacques Nasser, Ford's C.E.O., asked her why the story struck such a nerve, and she answered, "The public smells a rat."
Part of it would have to be that S.U.V. buyers are wealthy, vocal and not used to their fancy machines failing. At hearings this fall, almost everyone had an S.U.V. story. Senator William Frist of Tennessee, for one, described the death of a close friend, a surgeon taking his son to college, in a Firestone-Explorer wreck just days after the Aug. 9 recall of the 6.5 million tires.
Whatever the reasons, one thing is certain: the story's power is about more than just the number of people killed. Assuming government figures are right and 148 Americans have died in these crashes in the last decade, that total is modest in the universe of auto-safety statistics. Each year, 40,000 Americans die on highways, and safety officials estimate thousands of them could have saved their lives simply by buckling their seat belts. And the tire debacle is in many ways the lesser S.U.V. story: some 670 car passengers are killed each year when they are unlucky enough to get into crashes with an S.U.V. -- that's 6,700 deaths by S.U.V. in a decade.
Nor should it be news that S.U.V.'s roll over. Experts have been warning about it for decades. From the time the S.U.V. was introduced in its primitive form -- the World War II jeep -- Americans loved the design but hated the consequences. After the war, civilians wanted to buy surplus jeeps, but the Army banned their sale because of the rollovers. In 1970, American Motors became the first major auto company to offer a compact S.U.V., the Jeep CJ, which sold well but was also the target of a "60 Minutes" expose and numerous rollover lawsuits. For the past 30 years, each decade has featured an S.U.V. marketing coup followed by a rollover scandal.
In the 1980's, as every automaker fought for a piece of the new S.U.V. market, Ford's Bronco II made lots of money, selling 760,000 in seven years. Then a 1989 Consumer Reports study found the Bronco II so unstable that the magazine recommended against buying it. From 1983 to 1999, 1,742 persons were killed in Bronco II rollovers, according to federal data analyzed by Alice and Randy Whitfield, consultants for plaintiff attorneys. As of 1995, Ford had settled 334 Bronco II rollover cases for a total of $113,385,504.60.
To erase that memory, in 1990 Ford remodeled the Bronco II into the Explorer, which resulted in the most spectacular S.U.V. marketing success of all time -- 3.6 million sold -- and now there's this, the worst S.U.V. rollover scandal ever.
Americans are like moths drawn to the flame when it comes to S.U.V.'s. Even Turner the rollover lawyer owns an S.U.V., a Chevy Suburban that he uses at work, one of the very biggest, safest rated and piggiest (12 miles per gallon in the city; 15 on the highway).
The federal auto-safety agency, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (N.H.T.S.A.), has been doing S.U.V. rollover studies for 27 years and in the early 1990's considered setting a minimum stability standard to cut down on fatalities. The safety agency concluded that to noticeably reduce the rollover rate would mean getting rid of most midsize S.U.V.'s (like the Explorer) and up to half of the fullsize S.U.V.'s. To make them safer, they would need to be widened and lowered until they started looking like station wagons again.
In this era of strong antiregulatory sentiment, even a Democratic administration had no stomach for telling the public it couldn't have what it wanted. As the federal agency noted, reducing rollovers would necessitate "drastic design changes to a vehicle type that is sought after by consumers." Which gets to another reason the story has played out so large: over a few weeks last summer, the Explorer-Firestone problems stunned the public into realizing how much federal auto-safety enforcement had deteriorated in the last 20 years.
A plaintiff attorney like Turner and federal safety officials would seem to be natural allies. They are both out hunting the same thing: auto-safety problems. And there was a time when the two groups did work together. In 1978, when an attorney named Mark Robinson Jr. won $6.7 million in the Ford Pinto case known as Grimshaw, he was in regular contact with the head of N.H.T.S.A., Joan Claybrook, and her federal investigators. Indeed, a few months later, relying partly on evidence from Robinson's trial, Claybrook initiated legal action, prompting Ford to recall the Pinto.
Claybrook, who left in 1981, right after President Reagan's election, is widely regarded as the last aggressive director of the auto-safety agency. She is still close to many plaintiff attorneys, including Turner. It was a few years ago, over dinner in Washington, that Turner first mentioned to her that he had several Explorer-Firestone rollover cases. In contrast, most plaintiff attorneys consider recent N.H.T.S.A. administrators the enemy. They do not share secrets over dinner. Since Claybrook, top officials have been far more pro-business; when they leave government, they often work for auto companies.
Turner's biggest challenge in a trial is often figuring out how to discredit the federal safety agency. In 1996, he tried a sudden-acceleration case against Ford. At the time, no lawyer had won one of these trials, in large part because of a 1989 N.H.T.S.A. study concluding that no sudden-acceleration defect pattern existed and that driver error was the main culprit.
To win, Turner had to undermine both Ford and the federal government. He had to convince jurors that he -- a common plaintiff's lawyer -- knew more about auto safety than the federal agency supposedly looking out for the public's interest. That little-noticed trial speaks volumes about the federal agency's decline.
Two elderly sisters, 75-year-old Jasmine Stell and 79-year-old Cecil Pugh, had finished shopping at a Little Rock mall and then climbed into Stell's late-model Grand Marquis. Stell turned on the key, and the next thing anybody knew the car rocketed out of its parking space, racing so fast one shopper jumped onto the hood of his car to dodge the vehicle. In seconds, the car slammed into a large concrete planter that said "Park Plaza Mall." The vehicle was totaled; the two women died.
Turner claimed that the car was defective, that a malfunction in the engine's electronic system had prompted it to speed off for no apparent reason. Ford blamed driver error.
As so often happens in auto-defect suits, neither side was able to definitively say what caused this particular crash. The two best witnesses, the women in the car, were dead. Another witness -- the shopper who jumped out of the way -- said that as the speeding car passed, he heard a sound consistent with someone pumping the brakes. But when the brakes were tested later, they seemed fine. Just before she died, Stell told a medic that she kept pressing her foot down but that the car went faster.
Ford's attorney emphasized the N.H.T.S.A. study debunking sudden acceleration. What happened to the women was tragic, he said, and yet perfectly explainable: it appeared that poor, confused Mrs. Stell had mistakenly floored the gas pedal instead of the brake. Ford's star witness was Gen. Jerry Curry. From 1989 to 1992, under President George Bush, Curry, a retired Army general, was N.H.T.S.A.'s administrator. He testified in support of the agency's study discrediting sudden acceleration. When asked how he would explain the women's accident, Curry answered, "If they do what the normal people do when that has been documented by the government, they put their foot on the wrong pedal." Curry spoke with confidence: the federal government, he said, "wouldn't allow a dangerous vehicle to be sold."
Turner likes to open by telling jurors he's just a country boy from Arkadelphia, but when it was his turn for cross-examination, he skinned and gutted General Curry. Turner got Curry to acknowledge that after he left government, he worked for the auto industry and was paid $340 an hour to testify for Ford in this and several other cases each year. Turner asked Curry how he could say that federal investigators wouldn't allow a dangerous vehicle on the road.
"What about the Pinto?" Turner asked of the Ford compact best remembered for a gas tank that became an exploding inferno in rear-end collisions.
"The Pinto got a very bad rap," answered Curry, at that moment himself going up in flames right before the jurors' eyes.
Turner had heard that Ford was concerned enough about sudden acceleration to keep a fat file of complaints sent in by owners. It took six months of discovery requests before he finally located that file in Ford's parts and services department. There were about 1,000 complaints in 10 boxes, and after sorting through them, he flew around the country taking depositions from the 12 most upstanding citizens with the most exemplary driving records.
He interviewed Ronald Campbell, a Virginia state trooper, who said he was starting his wife's Grand Marquis to move it from the front of the house to the driveway when it took off across the yard, and no matter how hard he pressed the brake, it kept accelerating until he turned off the ignition, stopping just short of a propane tank. He interviewed David McEachen, a California Superior Court judge who described his Ford Crown Victoria lurching and hitting the garage wall. He interviewed three Secret Service agents -- including one who guarded Vice President Dan Quayle -- and each described an incident when a government-leased Ford raced off from a parked position and kept going, though the drivers said they repeatedly hit the brake.
But the testimony that really sank Ford came from Joseph Gorman, a faithful Ford employee for 30 years, so trusted he served as a driver for William Clay Ford (father of the current chairman) and his wife, Martha Firestone Ford. The Fords were visiting New Orleans, staying at the Intercontinental Hotel, and Gorman was to drive Mrs. Ford to see some plantation homes.
As he prepared to leave the circular drive in front of the hotel, Gorman testified, he shifted the Lincoln from park to drive, keeping his foot on the brake: "There was a sudden surge. I immediately hit the brake, but the car did not stop. We hit the front of the building, the pillars . . . and I think we hit one or two automobiles that were parked along the front of the building and then we came to a stop." It took just seconds, he said, but the car traveled 60 feet, and he was scared.
"Why were you scared?" Turner asked.
"Let this happen to you, and you'll find out," Gorman said. "I just couldn't get the car to stop, and I was scared for my life and scared for Mrs. Ford." Mrs. Ford was treated for a bloody nose. Gorman said that Ford later sent out two engineers to interview him. They did not believe him. "One of the engineers indicated to me that he thought that it was human error," he testified.
"Was it?"
"I told the gentleman that I didn't think so." Nor did the Arkansas jurors. They found Ford at fault and awarded the sisters' estate $311,000. (Ford appealed, but wound up settling.)
Is sudden acceleration real? are some S.U.V.'s dangerously prone to rollover? What is an acceptable tire-tread failure rate? There would be no need for Tab Turners if a trusted referee existed to arbitrate the claims of auto companies, Nader groups, insurers and motorists. Unfortunately, the federal body set up to do so, N.H.T.S.A., is understaffed, slow to react, unreliable and the captive of all sorts of political agendas. The last time N.H.T.S.A. was aggressive was under Jimmy Carter. Spurred by an eerily similar tire failure -- the recall of millions of Firestone 500 radials -- Claybrook recommended tough new standards for tires and light trucks that would have affected the first generation of S.U.V.'s. And then came Ronald Reagan. Reagan slashed the agency's budget, revoking several new regulations -- including a dashboard warning light for tire-inflation problems.
N.H.T.S.A. never recovered. One of the few things Democrats and Republicans agreed about during Congressional hearings this fall was how pathetically the agency performed during the Firestone-Explorer crisis. In fairness, the Reagan cuts had never been recouped. N.H.T.S.A.'s budget last year was one-third less than it had been in 1980 real dollars. This was the result of three terms of pro-business Republican presidents and two of a Democratic administration that reinvented government by cutting it further.
There is plenty of blame to go around. The agency's sad state was partly the work of Republican congressmen like Michael Oxley of Ohio during the Gingrich years. In 1995, Representative Oxley worked hand in hand with Chrysler to limit N.H.T.S.A.'s recall powers -- right in the midst of an agency investigation of Chrysler for a rear-door latch problem on minivans that was linked to 41 deaths. (After much bad publicity, Chrysler grudgingly agreed to a voluntary replacement of the van latches.)
Credit for N.H.T.S.A.'s sorry condition goes to Democratic congressmen, too, like Representative John Dingell of Michigan, the automotive state, who undermined the Clinton administration's early efforts to put an aggressive director at N.H.T.S.A.'s helm in 1993. "Dingell blocked several strong candidates for this job to protect the auto industry," says Claybrook, a fellow Democrat. And while Dingell has denied that, the director's post wound up going to a medical doctor with no experience in government safety regulation.
For people who care about auto safety, what has happened to N.H.T.S.A. has been torture to watch. Brian O'Neill is no radical; as president of the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, he does safety research sponsored by insurance companies. It makes him a rare hybrid -- a mix of big-business interests (insurance) with a financial incentive for aggressive safety laws (to reduce claim costs). After 30 years on the job, O'Neill is disheartened by the agency's problems. "Auto safety is a major public health issue," he says, the leading killer of Americans ages 1 to 34. "And yet the National Institute for Dental Research gets more money than N.H.T.S.A.
"We have denigrated government work. N.H.T.S.A. has a real hard time hiring engineers. Why would a bright young engineer want to go work for N.H.T.S.A.?" There is something even more demoralizing here than an agency that has been shrunk. This is an agency that has been caged so long its investigative and regulatory muscles have atrophied from 20 years of disuse.
On July 22, 1998, when State Farm, the nation's largest auto insurer, warned N.H.T.S.A. about a spike in Firestone-Explorer wrecks, the federal agency did nothing. In 1998, when Ford began replacing defective Firestones on its Explorers in Saudi Arabia and Venezuela because of rollover deaths there, N.H.T.S.A. missed it entirely. Their explanation at Congressional hearings: how could we know? Ford didn't tell us!
N.H.T.S.A. investigators failed to notice that Firestone ATX tires were detreading on Explorers across America's Sun Belt, until they saw it on television. On Feb. 7, a report on KHOU-TV in Houston did exactly the sort of investigation that N.H.T.S.A. people had lost the ability to perform. The KHOU team -- Anna Werner, David Raziq, Chris Henao -- collected cases by word of mouth, interviewing tire experts, liability lawyers (including Turner), disgruntled Firestone employees, consumer advocates and family members, until they had tabulated 30 deaths.
Nor were the N.H.T.S.A. investigators capable of pinpointing what factories were manufacturing the bad Firestones. It was a team of Ford engineers who figured that out in late July, using the same Firestone claims data that N.H.T.S.A. had been sitting on for weeks. And it was Ford that pressed Firestone for the recall, not N.H.T.S.A.
On Sept. 6, at a House hearing one month after Ford and Firestone had announced that a large percentage of the bad tires had come from a Decatur, Ill., Firestone plant, Sue Bailey, the acting N.H.T.S.A. administrator, was asked by Representative Greg Ganske, Republican of Iowa, whether the agency had sent investigators to Decatur. "Not to my knowledge," Bailey answered.
"Why not?" Ganske asked.
"I think that clearly is a question we should consider," Bailey said.
"I can't believe you haven't thought of that," Ganske said. In fairness to Bailey, she had been on the job just three weeks. And she did show up to take the heat. As several congressmen noted, Rodney Slater, President Clinton's transportation secretary, ducked a request to testify that day. It's no wonder Ford loves to hire former N.H.T.S.A. directors like General Curry and Diane Steed (under Reagan) to testify as expert witnesses about how safe a vehicle is. If there were an auto defect, a N.H.T.S.A. administrator might well be among the last Americans to know.
For lawyers like Turner, there is a historical moment involving Ford and President Nixon that crystallizes how the auto industry wields power in Washington. On April 27, 1971, Nixon held a private White House meeting with John Ehrlichman, Henry Ford II and Lee Iacocca, then Ford's president, that would have stayed secret forever if not for Watergate and the subsequent release of the White House tapes.
Iacocca and Henry Ford II had come to ask Nixon to go easy on safety and pollution regulations. Henry II complained that the price of the Pinto could be driven up by "safety requirements, the emission requirements, the bumper requirements." Iacocca explained that he had made Ford's case to Nixon's transportation secretary, John Volpe, telling him: "Would you guys cool it a little bit? You're gonna break us." And Volpe said: "Hold it. People want safety." To which Iacocca replied: "What do you mean they want safety. We get letters. . . . We don't get anything on safety!" Iacocca was peeved about pending air-bag regulations. "The citizens of the U.S. must be protected from their own idiocy," he told Nixon, "so we will put in a sophisticated device that will blow up on impact and package him in an air bag and save their lives." But, he said, Ford needed a major implementation delay.
Happily for Ford executives, they found a receptive president. Nixon assured them that he was "extremely pro-business" and said that the best way to protect Ford was "a delaying action." Nixon made it plain that he had no stomach for consumer advocates, "a group of people that aren't one really damn bit interested in safety or clean air." The president assured Ford and Iacocca that they could speak freely in front of Ehrlichman. "John is a lawyer who says nothing," Nixon explained, and there was laughter.
But Nixon was wrong. Ehrlichman went to prison for Watergate, then found religion, and by 1990 was being hired as a consultant for attorneys suing Ford who wanted him to elaborate about the meeting. Later on that same day, Ehrlichman has testified, he had a second meeting with Nixon. And Nixon told him to direct Transportation Secretary Volpe to delay all pending safety measures. "The secretary was to stop all of these . . . safety regulations," Ehrlichman recalled. "The president wants it all stopped." The president also "instructed me to tell Charles Colson, one of his assistants, to exploit the Ford meeting," he said. "I wrote a memo to Charles Colson conveying the president's wish that he hit up the Ford people for a political contribution."
Helen Petrauskas, Ford's vice president for safety, says the industry has changed in the last 15 years, and Ford has come to see that customers want safety features and will pay extra for them. "If you ask people why they bought a vehicle, safety is one of the top three or four reasons," she said. The "old idea" of pitting safety against profitability no longer applies, she said.
Ford officials say the Explorer is a safe vehicle that got stuck with a bad tire. They acknowledge being slow to spot the problem, mainly because the tire is the only part of the vehicle Ford doesn't warranty (the tire company does). And so Ford didn't have the raw claims data that would have shown a spike in accidents; instead, Ford relied on Firestone, which kept saying there was no problem.
Once N.H.T.S.A. opened an investigation last May, Petrauskas says, Ford pressed Firestone for the same claims data that the tire company was turning over to federal investigators, so Ford could make its own judgment. Firestone kept resisting, she says, "telling us this material is confidential." Even when Ford and Firestone lawyers negotiated a deal for the data in late June, she says, "we still had to make two or three 'Where is it?' contacts." The data wasn't made available until late July, she says, and immediately six Ford engineers drove to Firestone's Akron offices to collect it. Within days, Ford pinpointed a high level of claims involving ATX tires produced at all four Firestone plants, as well as Wilderness AT tires from Firestone's Decatur plant, and pressed Firestone for the recall.
Sorting out the who knew what when has become a morass, as infighting between the corporations has turned nasty at times. This was evident at a Nov. 27 deposition of Robert Martin, Firestone's recently retired vice president for quality assurance. The daylong deposition was held in a ballroom at the Hermitage Hotel in Nashville and looked like a national bar association convention; there were three dozen plaintiff attorneys (including Turner), representing 114 lawsuits, joined by a dozen Ford and Firestone attorneys.
When a Ford lawyer asked Martin why Firestone hadn't handed over the claims data sooner, Martin shot back, "Your legal department chose not to sign a confidentiality agreement."
Turner was picked by his colleagues to be leadoff man for the plaintiff attorneys, in part because he understands the engineering issues so well. He has a gift for eliciting the telling anecdote that sticks in a juror's mind. After a series of highly technical questions, Turner suddenly shifted and asked Martin how he felt about the Explorer's safety record. "I would not like my 16-year-old granddaughter to learn to drive on an Explorer," said the Firestone man.
As the story unfolded last summer, it took a while for the news media to realize how intertwined the development of the Firestone tire and the Explorer were. Ford officials repeatedly tried to distance themselves from the manufacture of the recalled Firestones. In his Congressional testimony, Ford's Nasser claimed, "This is a tire issue, not a vehicle issue." However, a finished tire doesn't simply arrive at a Ford plant and get plunked on an Explorer. The Firestone ATX was made to order for Ford. Ford set the specifications, and during two years of testing that tire on Explorers in 1989 and 1990, Ford engineers repeatedly requested changes by Firestone, dictating tire size and air pressure.
These are things Turner has known for more than a decade, since he first began litigating Bronco II rollover cases. As he says, "There are some advantages to doing the same thing for 10 years." From hundreds of Ford depositions and thousands of pages of discovery documents collected in the course of hundreds of lawsuits, he knew that one of Ford's biggest worries in designing both the Bronco II and its successor, the Explorer, was the rollover problem. Turner knew from Ford's own road-test results that one factor affecting rollover was the tires' size and air pressure: the bigger the tire, the tippier it made the S.U.V. for sharp turns. Turner had the Ford engineers' tables and charts showing they constantly juggled the size and air-pressure of the tires in hopes of making the prototype Explorer more stable.
But as much as they juggled, the rollover issue would not go away. In September 1989, Roger Stornant, a Ford engineer working on the Explorer prototype, wrote that Ford's general counsel was concerned that it would be the only manufacturer "with a vehicle that has a significant chance of failing the Consumer Union test" for rollover stability. This would have been very bad for Ford; a few months before, the consumer magazine had given the Bronco II a "poor" stability rating.
For style reasons, Ford would have loved a larger, 245-centimeter-wide tire on its new Explorer; a big tire is a marketing plus for an S.U.V., part of the macho appeal. For best tire wear, Ford and Firestone would have also liked a high air pressure of 35 p.s.i. (The higher the tire pressure, the less the tire's rubber surface comes in contact with the road, meaning less friction and less wear.) As Ford's Harmon says, "Any tiremaker will prefer a higher tire pressure. It's better for tire wear."
But at Ford's Arizona Proving Grounds in May 1989, when they tested the 245 Firestone tire at 35 p.s.i. on an Explorer prototype in a J-turn maneuver (an extreme turn of the wheel to the left, which you might use to avoid an animal or car), it lifted two tires off the ground (known as a rollover response). The other S.U.V. used for comparison, the Chevy S-10 Blazer, did not roll with a 245, 35-p.s.i. tire. In fact, Ford engineers did six tests of the Chevy S-10, and it did not roll once; the Explorer prototype rolled 5 of 12 times.
In the end, the Ford engineers settled on a smaller tire, a 235, with a low air pressure, 26 p.s.i., to improve the Explorer's stability. But not all Ford engineers agreed it was wise to rely so much on tire size to improve stability. Robert Bacigalupi, a tire engineer who worked on both the Bronco II and Explorer, wrote a memo in 1986 when the same issue came up with the Bronco II, noting "better alternatives to tire size are for example lowering the vehicle for lower center of gravity, adding weight low in the vehicle and widening the track." But, he noted, such solutions usually get put off because "cost or timing implications tend to stall them."
And time was short. Through the summer of 1989, Ford test drivers in Arizona submitted nightly rollover results by fax to Dearborn. The Explorer was six months from Job 1, the date when the first vehicle is due off the assembly line. "There's a lot of pressure and stress to ensure we make Job 1," Henry Sleath, a Ford test driver, told Turner in a deposition.
The most ambitious changes proposed by Dave Houston, Charles White and Ron Campbell, Ford engineers, to make the Explorer more stable -- widening it by two inches and lowering the engine two to three inches by switching from a twin I-beam to short long arm (S.L.A.) suspension -- would have taken the most time and expense and could have delayed the debut of a vehicle expected to make a great deal of money. Indeed, in 1991 the Explorer would make $599 million in profits before taxes.
Ford engineers were directed by supervisors to "utilize as many of the chassis revisions as possible without delaying Job 1." A few changes were made; the springs were altered, the prototype was lowered half an inch and the 26 p.s.i. tire pressure was used.
As the first Explorers rolled off the assembly line, Ford engineers knew how delicate a safety margin there was for those tires. That February, in 1990, Jim Avouris, a Ford engineer, asked Firestone to alert its dealers to use only the recommended tire and nothing larger than 235's. A letter was sent to Firestone dealers warning of the dangers of using the wrong size tire: "Failure to follow these precautions may adversely affect the handling of the vehicle and possibly cause loss of control and rollover, which could result in serious injury or death."
It would be years before Ford undertook the more ambitious changes suggested by its engineers; the S.L.A. suspension was added in the 1995 Explorer, although the engine was not significantly lowered then either, in part, a Ford memo says, because of "program cost." The two-inch widening is slated for the 2002 Explorer. Ford acknowledges that these changes improve the Explorer, but says it was already very safe.
A few weeks before the recall last summer, Turner first mentioned to a reporter that he believed the 26 p.s.i. played a major part in precipitating the tread separations. Sharyl Attkisson of CBS had been one of the most aggressive correspondents on the story, but she had not heard of this issue before. "I wondered how long it would take people to see it," Turner said.
They see it now. Firestones have been most prone to fail in hot climates -- the Mideast, Venezuela and across America's Sun Belt. The lower 26 pressure -- chosen for stability reasons -- also meant more tire friction, more heat. In fact, within weeks of the recall, Ford upped its recommendation to 30 p.s.i. for the tire. Ford's Harmon says Ford did this because Firestone claimed it would help the tire's durability. But, he said, 26 p.s.i. should not have been a problem. He points out that from 1995 to 1997, Goodyear had a contract to produce about half the tires for the Explorer; those 2.6 million Goodyears were inflated to a 26 p.s.i. and did not fail the way Firestones did.
The explanation for that may be the obvious -- Goodyear produced a better tire, which had more of a safety margin to absorb the stress of 26 p.s.i. Tread separations have not been a problem on Explorers with Goodyear Wranglers.
But it also appears that Ford had some indication back in the mid-1990's that the Goodyear tire, which is more than a pound heavier than the Firestones, was more durable. In five tread-wear road tests for Ford between February and July 1994, Vehicular Testing Services compared the durability of Firestones versus Goodyears being made for the Explorer. The Firestone ATX did markedly poorer than the Goodyear on every test, in some cases wearing out twice as quickly.
The Firestone Wilderness tire that was used on the Explorer beginning in 1996 had the lowest acceptable heat resistance rating the government gives, a C; the Goodyear had a B. And in a tire being run at 26 p.s.i., being exposed to more friction, heat resistance mattered.
So why didn't Ford stay with the superior Goodyear for its Explorers? Money. In 1996, Goodyear decided it couldn't produce an Explorer tire at the price Ford was willing to pay. Ford is renowned for its aggressive cost cutting, reflected by the corporate rise of Jacques Nasser, nicknamed Jac the Knife. Repeatedly during 1995 and 1996, Ford pressed Goodyear to reduce costs. In a Jan. 17, 1996, letter from Lee Connolly, Goodyear's director of tire sales, to C.J. Hole, a Ford purchasing director, Goodyear said it needed a price increase from Ford because of higher raw material costs.
On Jan. 26, Ford declined, complaining that Goodyear prices were already "uncompetitive." "The pricing level disparity between Goodyear and your competitors is a significant concern to us," Hole wrote. Unable to budge Ford, Goodyear stopped making tires for the Explorer. From 1997 until the recall, Ford contracted exclusively with the company that had the cheaper tires, Firestone.
Ford's Harmon says that at the time Ford thought it was getting a comparable quality tire from Firestone at "better value. In retrospect we were wrong."
Ford executives disparage Turner for using company documents to raise safety questions. They say only one measure of safety matters: "If you look at the Explorer's real-world safety record," Petrauskas says, "it's significantly better than the average car and the average S.U.V. And since it can't be attacked on its real-world record, all that leaves is picking through the documents."
By "real world" she means federal fatality crash data. But like so many auto-safety issues, interpreting the data is not straightforward. There are data for four Explorers: the biggest Explorer (four-door, four-wheel-drive) has a better fatality rate than the average for all passenger vehicles; the two-door, four-wheel-drive model and the four-door, two-wheel-drive model have fatality rates similar to the average for passenger vehicles; the smallest (two-door, two-wheel-drive) has a considerably higher fatality rate.
If a family is making a choice based on the safety data between an Explorer and a van -- say a Dodge Caravan or Ford Windstar -- it would pick the van, which has lower fatality and rollover rates. But this is what makes auto safety part science and part art. Just because one vehicle has a higher fatality rate doesn't necessarily mean it is more dangerous. Part of that rate depends on the demographics of who's driving what vehicle. Sports cars have high fatality rates even though they are often well engineered, but they tend to be driven by younger males who go fast, pushing up the death rate. Vans may be boxy and stiff-riding, but they tend to be driven by safety-conscious families.
Ford engineers understood this when they designed the Explorer. They had decided to make it bigger than its Bronco II predecessor, more of a family vehicle, and knew that fact all by itself would improve the safety record. "With the high (80/20) mix of 4 door vehicles we can expect a less aggressive driver profile with a corresponding reduction in all accident statistics," says a Ford memo.
The Explorer-Firestone story is a parable for this antigovernment era, with Tab Turner playing a lead role as free-market capitalism's de facto commissioner of auto safety. Ford may resent the Tab Turners of America, yet Ford is in good part responsible for the proliferation of Tab Turners.
Automakers have used their lobbying muscle and their political allies in Congress and the White House to get their fondest wish, an auto-safety agency with no teeth. But a regulator that doesn't bite once in a while loses credibility. With no trusted arbiter in Washington, safety issues get litigated over and over in state courts. We are living in a time of rollover lawyers, tire lawyers, sudden-acceleration lawyers. Jurors have become the referees of auto safety, and Tab Turner is their mentor.
Ford says that since the recall more than 200 Explorer lawsuits have been filed. All but a handful will most likely be settled; how much Ford is willing to pay will depend on the outcome of the few that reach a jury. What might Donna Bailey's case in Corpus Christi look like if it does go to trial? Turner hopes a lot like the Bronco II rollover case that he tried in Houston in 1995. In that lawsuit, a Bronco II full of Texas A&M college students suffered a tread separation on a right-rear General Tire and rolled over on a flat road, killing Jennifer Cammack. The jury found Ford entirely at fault, awarding $25 million. (Ford appealed, but settled the case for what Turner calls "a very substantial sum.")
Edward Rogers, a Houston architect, was a member of that jury and says that when it came to deciding how much each party was responsible, they discussed assigning some blame to the tire. "It was the immediate cause," Rogers said. "But it would be a reasonable expectation that a vehicle will have a tread separation and should be able to handle it, even fully loaded. If there's so little margin of error in the center of gravity, then the vehicle was at fault." He says that what jurors discussed most was all the engineering compromises Ford had made instead of reducing the rollover problem. "Ford did a calculation to deal with the consequence of an inferior design rather than change it," Rogers said. "That blew us away."
This may not bode well for Ford in the Corpus Christi case. Ford engineers who developed the Explorer were trying to make the very same safety changes as the Ford engineers who developed the Bronco II a decade earlier -- widening the vehicle and replacing the front-end suspension -- but they, too, were overruled for cost reasons. Jurors expected that monthlong Bronco II trial was going to be a technical snoozer, but they were mesmerized. "Watching Turner take apart Ford, it was like watching a made-for-TV movie," Rogers said.
On that mid-November day, as Tab Turner jetted her way, Donna Bailey and her two brothers waited nervously in Room 519 at the Texas Institute for Rehabilitation and Recovery. She had seen Turner on the TV news and considered him a little bit of a celebrity. His visit would certainly liven up the day. Being paralyzed was driving her mad with boredom. The 43-year-old used to work as a physical trainer for corporations. She loved the outdoors and had been going on a rock-climbing expedition with two friends on the day of the rollover last March.
That two-door Explorer was heading north on U.S. 181, Bailey recalls, when she heard the thudding sound of a tire coming apart. "It happened so fast," she said. Her friend "was trying real hard to keep control." Bailey remembers her yelling. "Then we fell over. They got out. They were fine. But I was hanging upside down from my seat belt. And I just remember thinking I was dead. And a man was trying to kick in the windshield to get to me.
"I don't know if you want to write this, but I died and came back. I saw four angels. They said I had a message and sent me back."
"We believe God allowed it," said her brother Tim, an actor. "We believe He made the best provisions possible, so this case could be national news and they could be brought to justice."
Bailey said the best times now are weekends, when her two teenage children visit. Her ex-husband drives them the 200 miles from Corpus Christi to the Houston facility. "They pamper me," she said. "They groom me and feed me." Her big project now is learning to operate an electric wheelchair for quads. You control it with your breath, by what's called the sip-and-puff method. Sip in hard, the chair goes backwards; sip in soft, the chair goes left. Puff out strong, you go forward; puff out softly, you go right. Bailey still hadn't mastered it. The breathing tube in her throat kept throwing her off. She couldn't seem to puff hard enough to get the damn chair to go straight. Instead, her weak puffs made the chair veer right, and she kept hitting into walls.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Ford can't keep up with me," says Tab Turner, master of the cell phone, laptop computer and private jet. Here, he checks in with someone, somewhere, during a trip to Washington to lobby for stricter auto-safety laws. (David Burnett/Contact Press Images, for The New York Times); "A perfect case," Turner says of the rollover that made Donna Bailey a quadriplegic. A patient at a Houston rehabilitation hospital, she is learning to operate a breath-controlled wheelchair. (Robbie Mcclaran/Saba, for The New York Times); When Public Citizen, the Nader consumer group, needed victims to appear on Capitol Hill this fall, Turner was happy to help provide them. (David Burnett/Contact Press Images, for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 5108 (TSE) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (92%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO; BRIDGESTONE CORP BRIDGESTONE CORP (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (59%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO; BRIDGESTONE CORP PUBLIC CITIZEN (59%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); ARKANSAS, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; AUTOMOBILE SAFETY FEATURES AND DEFECTS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; LIABILITY FOR PRODUCTS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; TIRES; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; RECALLS AND BANS OF PRODUCTS; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); LITIGATION (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LAWYERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (75%); PRODUCT SAFETY (75%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (75%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (75%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (74%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (74%); PRODUCT RECALLS (73%); PARALYSIS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (70%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (63%); 

PERSON: WINERIP, MICHAEL; TURNER, TAB MICHAEL 'MIKE' TURNER (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



435 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 25; Column 3; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 12-17-00;
To Loaf or Not to Loaf

BYLINE: By John Leland; John Leland is a reporter in the Style department of The New York Times.

 BODY:
Are you lazier now than you were eight years ago?
Neither Al Gore nor George Bush ever actually raised the question during the campaign. But once you get past all the stuff about lockboxes and bariffs and terriers, this has been the subtext of the contest. The election, as we were reminded, was less about issues than about personal style, and like dogs and their owners, nations often resemble their leaders. So what leadership style were we prepared to claim as our own: that of the energizer veep or of the man who raised coasting to a form of personal expression? As the legal wrangling stretches into untold excesses of overtime, the election comes down to a referendum on the coasting question. Whatever happens between now and Inauguration Day, that giant snoring sound you hear is the first susurrance of an electorate eager to take five. 
 For eight years, Bill Clinton was a natural to lead a nation swept in workaholic frenzy -- a huffing, puffing mass of cholesterol and ambition, leading the country as if it were the world's biggest aerobics class. He detained staff members and reporters in marathon strategy sessions. His public speeches set endurance records. The bags under his eyes could carry groceries. The populace responded in kind, working longer hours and making kids do more homework. By 1998, the average American family worked 15 more weeks a year than it did in 1969.
The brainy young wonks on Clinton's staff were models for the age, creating the midnight-oil-burning, pizza-ordering paradigm for the dot-com crowd that followed. (Clinton's anthem, "Don't Stop," called for more sustained effort than the party's previous, sloth-friendly "Happy Days Are Here Again.") Television shows about families virtually disappeared; shows about workers -- E.R.," "The Practice," "Ally McBeal," "The West Wing" -- multiplied like billable hours.
In a period that gave us Viagra, an Ecstasy boom, progress against H.I.V. and a Barry White boxed set -- could there be any more favorable conditions for widespread whoopee? -- the nation seemed more interested in being handcuffed to the office than to the cute officemates. Even the era's defining sex scandal was all aggressive acquisition and legal grind, no leisurely afterglow -- something to keep Clinton busy when the spoil sports shut the government down.
But eight years was enough, already. A big part of the work force that entered the Clinton years afraid of never getting on the economic treadmill now dreams of getting off. People entering the job market now say they would rather have more time than more money. Even kids are burned out. A recent Harvard admissions paper described applicants as "dazed survivors of some bewildering lifelong boot camp." The Piscataway, N.J., school board declared a moratorium on excessive homework.
Yet here was Al Gore, earnestly promising to continue the legacy of those workaholic Clinton years. During the campaign, he repeated the mantra that the administration had created 19 million new jobs, as if this were not the equivalent of a father boasting that he had created that many new household chores. Nineteen million new jobs? Who had time or energy? If Gore prevails, he may find himself a wired alpha among tired betas.
George W. Bush, by contrast, found himself on the other side of the coasting question. Not for him the vanity of toiling late at night under fluorescents, hoping to get a star for attendance. As governor of Texas, he typically knocked off at 5 p.m., and still managed to schedule a couple hours during the day to exercise, play video games, get a massage or nap. He clipped the time he spent reviewing each scheduled execution from half an hour to 15 minutes. If briefings droned too long, his adviser, Karl Rove, told The Los Angeles Times, Bush would point to his computer's solitaire program. So when he began the arduous task of his transition before the wrangling in Florida had gotten under way, it was a distressing turn of events. If this man stands for anything, surely it is for working only as hard as he has to.
The national economy is already starting to kick back. Investors have soured on dot-coms, with their tireless, nonhierarchic team members who think success means working 130-hour weeks, crashing on the office couch, putting off adulthood till their options are vested. Instead, the market has returned to its previous bias for the old blue chips, where success means never having to say you're too busy for golf or a long martini lunch. That's what hierarchies are for.
All movements have their unsung heroes, and the conquest of coast is no exception. Of note are Miami-Dade County's vote counters, who decided that they didn't care to spend Thanksgiving poring over disputed chad. But the real avatars of the new loafing were those Florida voters who could not muster the effort to poke all the way through the ballot, leaving a lazy dimple as a measure of their intentions. Theirs was not a strong will expressed ambiguously, I like to think, but a sluggish will articulated with elan. The people have spoken, and they are pooped.
And the big winner? However the electoral haggling comes out, I'm betting on Gore's old boss. After eight years of leading the age of overwork, Bill Clinton again finds himself on the golden edge of the curve: out of work, empty of nest, with a sweet pension and enough gimme caps to last a lifetime. He is not the type to stay home baking cookies. But if the nation is indeed entering a recumbent revolution, what better role model than a man who walked away from the choicest job in the free world? He is once again set to lead the nation. This time in a nap.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Corbis Bettmann)
 
Chart: "A Day In The Life Of Gov. George W. Bush"
PUB-DATE: April 15, 1997
9-9:15 a.m. Photo op: Representative Henry Cuellar and the Rev. Alessandro DiTaddeo.
9:15-9:30 Al Gonzales re: execution.
11:15-11:30 Press room greeting: Shelby County Day.
11:30-1:30 Private time.
1:30-2 Photo ops: Senator Steve Ogden and 14 interns; Hood County Day; Firefighter Appreciation Month; Warm Springs Rehabilitation Day; Child Abuse Prevention Month; Lockhart Leadership. Press room greeting: Sharpstown/Houston Leadership.
2-2:15 Photo op: Texas Tourism Week Proclamation with Laura Bush.
4-4:15 Press room greeting: San Marcos Baptist Academy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); DOGS (77%); POLITICS (77%); MAMMALS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); OVERTIME (74%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (74%); REFERENDUMS (72%); LABOR FORCE (71%); EMPLOYMENT (66%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); SCANDALS (50%); SEX SCANDALS (50%); 

PERSON: LELAND, JOHN; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); AL GORE (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); HENRY CUELLAR (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



436 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 6; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: Q. & A.;
Monthly Surcharge On Rent

 BODY:

Q. Does a landlord have the legal right to impose a $20.74 monthly surcharge for an air-conditioner in my apartment? The surcharge is charged for the entire year even though I use the air-conditioner only during the summer months. These charges amount to more than $240 a year. . . . L. Lampkin, Manhattan.
 
A. Joel Abramson, a Manhattan landlord-tenant lawyer, said that any right that the landlord may have to impose such charges must be contained in the lease. Accordingly, he said, the letter writer should check the lease to determine whether there is a provision that allows the landlord to impose the surcharge. 
 "It's not uncommon in situations where the electric service is included in the monthly rent for the lease to contain a provision allowing for a surcharge for air-conditioner usage," Mr. Abramson said. "And in most cases, such surcharges can be charged on a year-round basis even though the air-conditioner is only being used for a few months during the summer."
If the lease does not contain a provision for the imposition of a surcharge, he said, the tenant would not be legally required to pay it.
Mr. Abramson also said that if the letter writer is a rent-regulated tenant, and has previously been allowed to use the air-conditioner without having to pay a surcharge, it is possible that the imposition of a surcharge at this point would be considered an illegal rent increase.
That, he said, is because a service provided to a tenant at the commencement of a tenancy -- including the right to use an air-conditioner without having to pay a surcharge -- cannot be withdrawn by the landlord.
If that is the case here, he said, the letter writer can file a request for a reduction in rent with the State Division of Housing and Community Renewal, based on a reduction in services. Such a request can be filed at the agency's office at 92-31 Union Hall Street, Jamaica, Queens. Information: (718) 739-6400.
 
Managing Agents On Co-op Boards
 
Q. Is it illegal for two co-managing agents to be on the board of a co-op or condominium? Would the answer be different if one of the agents was also one of the original sponsors of the conversion? . . . Herbert Isaacs, Manhattan.
 
A. Michael Finder, a Manhattan co-op lawyer, said that the governing documents of many co-ops and condominiums would permit service on the board by managing agents and sponsors.
"Some governing documents require only that a board member be at least 18 years of age," Mr. Finder said, adding that in most cases, managing agents who sit on boards serve as recording secretaries.
He said that a potential conflict of interest on the part of a managing agent or a sponsor who is a director would not prohibit either from serving on the board. Rather, Mr. Finder said, a board member with a conflict of interest on specific matters would be prohibited from voting on those matters.
Moreover, he said, while a sponsor is prohibited by law from exercising control over a co-op after five years have passed since the conversion, it would be difficult to establish that mere service on the board after the five years have passed constitutes continued control by the sponsor.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

INDUSTRY: SIC5141 GENERAL LINE GROCERIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CO-OP ULM KONSUMGENOSSENSCHAFT EG (52%); CO-OP CHEMICAL CO LTD (52%); CO-OP '82 UA (52%); CO-OP ATLANTIC (52%); CO-OP SERVICES CREDIT UNION (52%); CO-OP JERUSALEM AGUDA ZARCHANIT SHITUFIT LTD (52%); CO-OP STAR RT (52%); CO-OP ZAFON HYPERSHUK MARKETING CHAINS LTD (52%); CO-OP BUILDING CONSULTANTS (52%); CO-OP MORAVA SRO (52%); CO-OP GRAIN & SUPPLY CO (52%); CO-OP COUNTRY FARMERS ELEVATOR (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES REAL ESTATE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); RENT CONTROL (89%); LAWYERS (78%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); 

PERSON: A MICHAEL FINDER (73%); A JOEL ABRAMSON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



437 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 15; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: FILM: The Year in Film: Critics Pick Their Favorites;
Paradise and Politics

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN 

 BODY:
'THE DECALOGUE' Krzysztof Kieslowski's 10-part masterwork was first shown on Polish television in 1988-89 and finally released in theaters this year. It is a sweeping meditation on the human condition that ranks beside the greatest works of Ingmar Bergman in its depth and the potency of its layered symbolism. Loosely based on the Ten Commandments, the cycle's 10 fables, set in and around a Warsaw housing development, ponder the meaning of life and death, morality and the existence of God. Kieslowski's skeptical, open-ended vision suggests that the answers can be intuited only from riddles, signs, portents and sudden, odd strokes of fate. For all its somberness, the individual stories are extremely entertaining. And the visionary realism of this Polish filmmaker, who died four years ago, invests the most mundane objects with a luminous metaphysical weight and an awareness of the interconnectedness of things.
 
'YI YI' ("A ONE AND A TWO") Edward Yang's moving, beautifully photographed three-hour drama explores the lives of an extended family in contemporary Taipei. Beginning with a wedding and ending with a funeral, the film is a multi-generational portrait of Taiwan in today's booming, glass-towered economy. The most compelling character is a rebellious, camera-wielding 8-year-old boy (Jonathan Chang), given to astonishing philosophical apercus. Amid all the domestic tumult and high-tech wheeling and dealing, the movie asks profound questions about human choice and the possibility of second chances. Its introspective mood is echoed by cinematography that observes the characters through reflecting windows.
 
 'TRAFFIC' Adapted from a British miniseries about the international drug trade, Steven Soderbergh's despairing film (the most powerful American ensemble film since "Nashville") interweaves the parallel stories of drug traffickers and law enforcers to create a riveting panorama of greed, corruption and social decay. Michael Douglas is a newly appointed American drug czar (with a teenage daughter who free-bases cocaine) investigating this treacherous territory. The brilliant cast includes Don Cheadle, Benecio Del Toro, Luis Guzman, Dennis Quaid, Catherine Zeta-Jones and Amy Irving. The movie makes absolutely clear why the war on drugs as it has been waged so far in the United States cannot be won.
 
 'HUMANITE' The French director Bruno Dumont's devastating film views the world through the eyes and ears of a repressed, clumsy police detective and possible murderer (Emmanuel Schotte) investigating the rape and murder of an 11-year-old girl. With an intensely naturalistic soundtrack and a stinging visual acuity (a closeup of a woman peeling a potato, for instance, suggests the peeling away of raw human skin) the movie creates an almost unbearable vision of the physicality of life and implies that what we think of as civilization is a fragile membrane barely preventing us from all-out bestiality.
 
 'BEAU TRAVAIL' Claire Denis's adaptation of Melville's "Billy Budd" moves the allegory to a French Foreign Legion outpost in the east African enclave of Djibouti. At once voluptuous and austere, the movie is a woman's contemplation of an all-male society. Its rigorous codes of authority, repression, discipline and honor become the cinematic equivalent of a military ballet in which the Legionnaires' drills and training rituals are ecstatic rites of purification. Cool, hallucinatory, unforgettable.
 
 'NURSE BETTY' In the darkly comic fairy tale that echoes "The Wizard of Oz," an aspiring nurse (Renee Zellweger) afflicted with traumatic amnesia after witnessing her husband's murder, travels to Los Angeles to marry her favorite soap opera character, a handsome doctor (Greg Kinnear). As the killers (Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock) pursue her, the movie becomes an alternately hilarious and poignant reflection on the American addiction to Hollywood fantasy. The movie finds the misanthropic chill of the director Neil LaBute ("In the Company of Men") partially thawed.
 
 'THE COLOR OF PARADISE' The touching Iranian film, directed by Majid Majidi, contemplates the world as experienced by a blind 8-year-old boy whose impoverished father balks at caring for him. For all the sadness and emotional uncertainty, the movie's evocation of the natural world (both its beauty and its destructive power) is ecstatically sensuous. It is like going back to the Garden of Eden.
 
 'HUMAN RESOURCES' When an idealistic young man fresh out of business school takes a white-collar management job in the factory where his father has worked as a laborer for 30 years, everything at first seems rosy. Very quickly, however, he finds himself falling into a treacherous rabbit hole of duplicity and corporate politics that pit father and son against each other in a war between management and labor. Using a cast of mostly nonprofessional actors, the French director Laurent Cantet has made a deeply insightful film about the dirty politics of the business world.
 
 'YOU CAN COUNT ON ME' The directorial debut of the playwright and screenwriter Kenneth Lonergan is a small, perfectly observed portrait of a young single mother (Laura Linney) and her wastrel brother (Mark Ruffalo) who returns to visit her in their upstate New York hometown. The sister, who works in a bank, recklessly initiates an affair with her starchy, married new boss (Matthew Broderick), while her brother's well-meaning efforts to be a surrogate father to her 8-year-old son backfire. Sibling devotion streaked with pain and resentment is distilled in exquisitely fine-tuned performances.
 
 'CAST AWAY' The heart of this modern-day Robinson Crusoe drama about a Fed Ex employee shipwrecked after a plane crash in the Pacific comes as close as a Hollywood movie has ever done to conveying the loneliness, fear and sheer craziness of being stranded on a desert island. The awesome man-against-nature sequences are everything "The Perfect Storm" promised but failed to deliver, and its plane crash is the scariest ever depicted in a movie. But in true Hollywood fashion, these indelible sequences are book-ended by a schmaltzy love story.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cinema Emmanuel Schotte, left, with Philippe Tullier in "Humanite." (Roger Arpajou/Winstar); Dennis Quaid and Catherine Zeta-Jones in Stephen Soderbergh's "Traffic." (Bob Marshak/USA Films); Ewa Blaszczyk, left, and Piotr Machalica in Part 9 of "Decalogue." (Cowboy Booking International)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); TAIWAN (79%); POLAND (73%); 

CITY: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); WARSAW, POLAND (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TAIWAN (79%); POLAND (73%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); WARSAW, POLAND (73%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES MURDER (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); FILM (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (88%); DRUG POLICY (86%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (78%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (68%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (68%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); CORRUPTION (66%); COCAINE (63%); SEX OFFENSES (61%); 

PERSON: HOLDEN, STEPHEN INGMAR BERGMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



438 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 1; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2762 words

HEADLINE: Jim Surdoval: Politician, Dealmaker, Convicted Felon

BYLINE: By DEBRA WEST 

DATELINE: YONKERS

 BODY:
JAMES SURDOVAL has long been the man to see in Yonkers. Part political adviser, part administrator and 100 percent dealmaker, Mr. Surdoval has always known how to get a job done.
In the thick of the city's desegregation crisis, he organized the forces for compliance with a federal court order. When the City Council's resistance to that order threatened to bankrupt Yonkers with fines, he helped introduce a strong mayor system that changed the power structure. And while the city was still struggling with insolvency and its history of racial division, he offered hope with a glittering downtown revitalization project. 
 But those achievements aside, the most remarkable thing about Mr. Surdoval is that after admitting to a crime that makes parents hysterical and lawmakers cry for tougher sentencing, he has survived, bruised but not broken.
In April, Mr. Surdoval, who is 43, pleaded guilty to having sex with a 15-year-old boy he met in an Internet chat room and to downloading child pornography on his home computer. In September he was sentenced to five years' probation.
Through it all, he has barely missed a paycheck. He retains the support of friends and has suffered little of the finger-pointing that people convicted of sex crimes often report.
That speaks to the survival skills of Mr. Surdoval, a Yonkers native who has quietly shaped city politics from behind the scenes for a dozen years. He has successfully skated between candidates and political parties, either as a media consultant to campaigns or as an on-staff adviser.
"At the end of the day, Jim knows a tremendous amount of stuff," said Andrew Beveridge, a longtime Democratic district leader in Yonkers, who has known Mr. Surdoval since 1985. "He's a political operative and a political consultant and he knows Yonkers better than anybody. He understands the state. He understands how you get federal money. He understands everything about government. And people like him."
Mr. Surdoval, whose grandparents settled in Yonkers nearly a century ago, had dropped out of college and was working in advertising in Manhattan when he began campaigning, first for candidates for the City Council and then for a young Democratic candidate for mayor, Nicholas C. Wasiscko. In 1987, Mayor Wasiscko made Mr. Surdoval his No. 2 man, helping to handle the desegregation case.
"It was an exciting, troubling time," Mr. Surdoval said. "I helped organize for compliance with the court order. I was out in the trenches. I met a lot of people."
Mr. Wasiscko lost the following election and when he tried to come back the next time around, Mr. Surdoval backed his Democratic rival, Terence M. Zaleski. He became chief of staff in the Zaleski administration but was later fired and went to campaign for Mr. Zaleski's Republican rival, the current mayor, John D. Spencer.
Mayor Spencer made Mr. Surdoval his director of downtown and waterfront development, Yonkers's attempt to gentrify its riverfront with a park, office space and apartments. Mr. Surdoval secured $75 million in state and federal grants for the project.
"Some people say because I go from a Republican to a Democrat I'm like a gun for hire," Mr. Surdoval said. "But the issues are the same. I've never changed principles. I just change candidates."
Sitting in his Warburton Avenue apartment here, with its neat, mission-style furniture, fresh flowers and stunning view of the Hudson River, Mr. Surdoval talked about his life before and after his criminal case.
A tidy man, as unremarkable as his beige pressed corduroy pants, Mr. Surdoval said he wanted to set the record straight, but "every time I've tried to explain it, I've either been misinterpreted or accused of blaming the victim."
When Mr. Surdoval was sentenced in September, Judge Kenneth H. Lange of the County Court ridiculed a letter Mr. Surdoval sent him in which Mr. Surdoval explained he was only trying to counsel the boy, who would boast online of his relationships with older men. Mr. Surdoval said he first chatted online with the boy in hopes of encouraging him to attend meetings for gay teenagers at the Loft, an organization for homosexuals in White Plains. Later, he said, he visited the boy intending only to give him a magazine article about gay teenagers.
"Certainly, the screen name that you used, CompuBoy69, suggests something other than a mentoring approach," Judge Lange said.
The court-appointed psychiatrist who evaluated him said Mr. Surdoval's attempts to explain his circumstances amounted to a refusal to accept responsibility. And because of that, Mr. Surdoval was deemed a moderate risk sex offender, or level two on a scale of one to three. With a moderate risk classification, the police can release the name, photo and zip code of a convicted sex offender to neighborhood groups considered vulnerable. With a high risk offender, the police can also disclose the offender's street address. Warning the public about a low risk offender is prohibited.
The Yonkers police would not say if they have disclosed information on Mr. Surdoval.
"After the sentencing and hearing the judge's reaction, I realized it's a no-win situation," Mr. Surdoval said. "I'm not going to explain myself anymore. I obviously hope that people are not going to judge me for this one thing and assume that the worst thing that has happened to me is the most important thing about me."
Still, when he talked about the case, Mr. Surdoval seemed uneasy. He set his hands as if he were weighing both sides of an argument, as if he were wondering if he should just tell the story the way he sees it (that he had one encounter with a sexually active and willing gay teenager who sought out older men online) or tell the apologetic version he has come to realize is more expedient.
In the end, Mr. Surdoval chose to discuss his circumstances as if they were a political argument. No one called Joey Buttafuoco a pedophile because he had sex with an under-age Amy Fisher, he said, but time and again news stories have called Mr. Surdoval a pedophile. It is a label he said is inaccurate and smacks of homophobia. (Of course, Mr. Buttafuoco's name has become a guaranteed laugh for comedians and he went to jail for his crime.)
"The scarlet letter of the Internet age is to be painted with that brush and labeled a pedophile," Mr. Surdoval said. "I'm not a pedophile. What happened was wrong and it was a felony. But this is an age-of-consent case. I don't mean to minimize it, but I was immediately stereotyped as the guy in the raincoat who hangs around playgrounds and that's not me."
Mr. Surdoval's crime was revealed almost by accident.
In January 1999, the body of 12-year-old Orlandito Maldonado was found buried next to an abandoned ice cream stand along the Saw Mill River Parkway in Dobbs Ferry. The boy had disappeared months earlier from his Yonkers neighborhood, and the police believed that a 38-year-old carpenter, Robert DeRosario, might know something about it.
Neighborhood boys had told investigators that Mr. DeRosario, who lived a few blocks from Orlandito, had offered to pay young boys for sex and that they last saw Orlandito in the lobby of Mr. DeRosario's building. The day Orlandito's body was identified, the police seized Mr. DeRosario's computer and their investigation took an unexpected turn.
The computer's hard drive revealed that Mr. DeRosario was a frequent visitor to an America Online chat room for gay men in Westchester. Interviewing the boys Mr. DeRosario chatted with online led the police to other men who used the chat room to arrange meetings with under-age boys.
That started a crackdown on Internet pedophilia that cast Westchester in a sinister light. Arrests were announced almost weekly, making it the talk from Scarsdale to Somers.
Over the course of a year, nine men were arrested and charged with having sex with boys they met through an AOL chat room. All have pleaded guilty or were convicted. A few of the men faced charges involving more than one boy, but most of them, including Mr. Surdoval, faced sodomy charges involving only one boy.
That boy, who started meeting men online when he was 14 and continued until his parents discovered his activities and sent him away for treatment, had had sex with all nine men charged in the course of the investigation.
Few of the men received jail time. Nicholas Puner, a former Planning Board chairman in the Town of New Castle who admitted to sodomizing two boys, was sentenced to 60 days in jail; Patrick Murphy, a former spokesman for Pepsico Inc. who is HIV-positive and pleaded guilty to child endangerment as well as sodomy, was sentenced to six months; and Walter Salvatore, the only man charged in the roundup who chose to go to trial, was sentenced to one to three years in prison.
As for the murder case that started it all, no one has yet been charged with Orlandito's murder. In May, Mr. DeRosario pleaded guilty to abusing 12 boys, some of whom he met on the Internet. He was sentenced to 10 years in prison.
Mr. Surdoval has fared surprisingly well for a man who is an admitted felon.
He spent the night in jail when he was arrested, but was not sentenced to any prison time. Instead he was given five years' probation, during which he cannot drink alcohol, visit stores that sell pornography, be alone with anyone under the age of 18 or keep a computer in his house.
He was suspended with pay from his job as the director of downtown waterfront redevelopment when he was charged in September 1999, and fired when he pleaded guilty seven months later. Even before he was fired, however, he had secured work as a consultant with three developers whom he knew from his work in city government, and he said his income is now about the same as the $107,000 city salary he used to earn.
Mr. Surdoval never hid the fact that he was gay. But to realize that his sex life has now been dissected and discussed by co-workers, strangers and friends has been difficult, he said.
"My life has changed," Mr. Surdoval said. "I used to work in an office. Now I work at home alone. I'm lonely. I feel embarrassed and ashamed. I don't feel comfortable being me with this new recognition."
The support of his live-in companion, a 25-year-old man whom he met two years ago through an Internet chat room, has helped him through tough times, he said.
His harshest critics, he said, are gay acquaintances who fear that an openly gay man caught with a teenage boy tarnishes the image of gay men everywhere.
"There's such a stigma against it within the gay rights movement," Mr. Surdoval said. "That's what they don't want to be seen as, recruiters. Believe me, I'm no recruiter."
Gay activists aren't the only ones who have distanced themselves from Mr. Surdoval. Mayor Spencer; his chief of staff, Kathy Spring, and Vincenza A. Restiano, the City Council president, would not return telephone calls regarding Mr. Surdoval. But many people who are not in public office expressed sympathy for and confidence in Mr. Surdoval.
"I think he was guilty of bad judgment," said Bob E. Donnelly, a lawyer from Dobbs Ferry who has been friends with Mr. Surdoval since 1975. "Anyone is capable of doing one dumb thing. Jim is an intensely bright and hardworking guy who stayed in public life because he had high ideals."
James Jacobs, a sociologist and law professor at New York University, said he was not surprised that, professionally, Mr. Surdoval has been able to overcome the stigma associated with his crime.
"Look at Marv Albert; he's back on television," Dr. Jacobs said. "Look at President Clinton. It's interesting to see who is able to flick this kind of thing off. The more social and professional resources you have, the more protection you have. If you have a lot of chips in the bank, and you have a lot of friends and a lot of favors owed to you, you can get back your life even if you are convicted of a crime."
Americans are funny, Dr. Jacobs said. They can be very punitive but often they are forgiving, particularly if there is an illness to blame, like alcoholism.
That may be behind the forgiveness.
"I think we are criminalizing something that is a mental problem," Mr. Beveridge said.
On the other hand, the acceptance may stem from something unique to Mr. Surdoval. In discussing his success in garnering $75 million in state and federal money for the waterfront project, Mr. Surdoval said, "What I was best at is selling the concept."
In the rehabilitation of his own image, he is selling a concept too: that he was somehow the victim of a wild teenager.
"This boy was pretty aggressive as I understand it," said Mr. Beveridge, who quickly discussed legal strategies, courtroom maneuvers and the absence of DNA evidence.
Another old friend agreed.
"Have you looked into the number of men that boy was involved with?" asked J. Edward Meyer, who retired in April after 23 years on the New York State Board of Regents. "Talking to Jim's lawyer, the young man was the heavy in this situation."
Mr. Meyer, a onetime State Assemblyman, has known Mr. Surdoval for almost 25 years. When Mr. Surdoval was 18, he helped with Mr. Meyer's unsuccessful campaign for Congress. ("He made suggestions about the people I should meet, the events I should attend and the demographics of the city," Mr. Meyer said.)
Now in private practice as a lawyer, Mr. Meyer said he was not surprised Mr. Surdoval's career had not been thwarted by the charges against him. "Regardless of his sexual problems, he's a person who brings to the table some substantial issues," Mr. Meyer said.
Andrew Maniglia was deputy mayor during the Zaleski administration and worked alongside Mr. Surdoval. Now both men work for Ginsburg Development Corporation. Mr. Maniglia oversees Ginsburg's development in the Rockland County town of Haverstraw.
Mr. Surdoval is a consultant, giving advice on and writing grants for the project, which includes 850 residences and a ferry connection from Haverstraw to Ossining. It is one of three waterfront consulting jobs Mr. Surdoval secured while he was suspended from his Yonkers government job.
Mr. Surdoval declined to name the other two. ("That's the good part about working in the private sector; I don't have to tell you," Mr. Surdoval said.)
Mr. Maniglia is an old friend of Mr. Surdoval's and he is glad to work with him again.
"I don't think this sole incident should be the last judgment on his life," he said. "He's a very talented individual with a lot to offer."
Asked whether Mr. Surdoval's criminal record made Ginsburg Development Corporation think twice about hiring him, Mr. Maniglia would only say, "The company policy is not to comment on consultants."
Not everyone is so forgiving. There is plenty of bad blood between former Mayor Zaleski and Mr. Surdoval. Mr. Zaleski fired Mr. Surdoval in 1993 for ethics violations after Mr. Surdoval cashed a friend's paycheck from the city. At the time, Mr. Zaleski called Mr. Surdoval's behavior "fraudulent," while Mr. Surdoval says the firing was based on an unrelated political conflict.
. No charges were brought against Mr. Surdoval, and hundreds of supporters, Democrats and Republicans alike, founded a "Fairness for Jim Surdoval Committee" to raise money for him to fight the accusations. Mayor Spencer was on the committee.
Mr. Zaleski still has a lot to say about Mr. Surdoval.
"He was part of the Yonkers network of people and players that in my opinion don't serve the city well," said Mr. Zaleski, who lives in Garrison now and works as a lawyer and lobbyist. "He was a fundamentally untrustworthy individual. He was doing things that were totally self-serving."
Mr. Zaleski said he knew of Mr. Surdoval's criminal troubles from news reports and was shocked to think that anyone from his administration was involved in sexual wrongdoing.
"That type of criminally repugnant behavior just turns my stomach," he said.
But Mr. Surdoval shrugs off Mr. Zaleski's criticism.
"In the end, he moved to Cold Spring, and I stayed in Yonkers, running the office of downtown development."
Under Yonkers law, Mr. Surdoval is now prohibited from working on his former domain, the waterfront, until April 2002, two years after he pleaded guilty. But he can work on other aspects of Yonkers politics and he says he still speaks to "people in City Hall" frequently.
"My own bet is he'll help in one political campaign or another," Mr. Beveridge said. "They'll call him in because he understands Yonkers better than anybody else."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: James Surdoval at his Yonkers home, where he discussed his career as an aide to three Yonkers mayors and talked about wanting to set the record straight about his criminal case. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times) (pg. 1); Above: James Surdoval, seen standing in the background behind the Yonkers seal, with Gov. George E. Pataki, second from right, and Mayor John D. Spencer, right, at a news conference on Yonkers waterfront development. Left: District Attorney Jeanine Pirro announcing the indictment of Mr. Surdoval. (Susan B. Markisz for The New York Times; Chris Maynard for The New York Times); Snapshot, including James Surdoval, second from right, during the Spencer campaign. (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YONKERS (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SEX CRIMES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PORNOGRAPHY AND OBSCENITY; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; ETHICS SENTENCING (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); CITIES (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); GUILTY PLEAS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); POLITICS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); FELONIES (77%); PROBATION (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (74%); OBSCENITY (74%); CHILD PORNOGRAPHY (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (73%); PORNOGRAPHY (73%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CHAT ROOMS (67%); 

PERSON: WEST, DEBRA; SURDOVAL, JAMES JAMES SURDOVAL (98%); TERENCE M ZALESKI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



439 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 8; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: L.I. @ WORK;
Growing Up Together With the Family Business

BYLINE: By WARREN STRUGATCH 

 BODY:
MORE than 30 years have passed since she failed to jot down the correct phone number of an important prospect calling from California, but Christine Jelley still remembers the sinking feeling she had -- at age 8 -- of disappointing her parents.
"Every order was a life-or-death proposition in those days," said Ms. Jelley, now 41. She was talking about the electronics company her father and mother, Michael and Cecilia Coyle, had started in their Bay Shore garage. 
 "The phone was in their bedroom and doubled as the business phone," she said. "It was intimidating trying to handle the business calls properly. But I also had the feeling my brothers and I were really needed to help make the business a success."
And if she botched one call, that didn't stop her parents from giving her plenty more opportunities to make good. There were some lean years, but the business, M.C.G. Surge Protection, eventually grew enough so that Mr. Coyle could lease warehouse space and get out of the garage.
"Those days were no bed of roses," said Mr Coyle, now 69. "The kids got factored in because there were no other bodies to do the work. It was sink or swim."
The company, which will have about $4 million in sales this year, now provides full-time employment to nearly 30 people, including the three Coyle siblings. Michael, 42, is chief engineer; Ms. Jelley runs the advertising department; and Glen, 36, is the in-house graphic artist. Patrick Coyle, 27, a cousin, is the sales manager.
M.C.G. Serge Protection is one of four companies singled out by the C. W. Post Campus of Long Island University as exemplary Long Island family businesses. On Dec. 6, Ms. Jelley joined her younger brother to accept congratulations from the Center for Family Business.
The other three families businesses were Scotto Brothers Enterprises of Woodbury, which runs restaurants and banquet halls; the Fortunato Organization of Bohemia, a commercial construction company; and Fireworks by Grucci in Brookhaven.
All four enterprises have addressed one of the paramount problems that family businesses often face, the transition from one generation to the other, said Paul Salerno, the center's chairman and a partner in PricewaterhouseCoopers in Melville.
"Nine out of 10 businesses in the U.S. are family businesses, and they account for almost half of the gross domestic product," Mr. Salerno said. "But most of the time -- I'm talking 70 percent of the time -- the next generation doesn't inherit the business."
Instead, family businesses are sold to outsiders or broken into smaller pieces. The reasons vary. "The founder often doesn't have a succession plan," Mr. Salerno said. "If he does, the next generation isn't happy with it. They may not be willing to commit to his vision of how the company will move forward, or take on the roles he's assigned."
"Sometimes there's really no communication at all," he said. "Daddy may have a plan, but he isn't telling anyone."
Felix Grucci Jr., 49, the president of Fireworks by Grucci since 1983, said that because of Congressional divestiture requirements, he would have to step down from the company before he is sworn in as a United States representative next month.
A senior family member said that Mr. Grucci's sister, Donna Grucci Butler, 51, was expected to succeed him.
In separate interviews, representatives of the four families said they were generally satisfied that they had integrated family and business responsibilities. The incoming generation of executives -- men and women now in their 30's and 40's -- spoke of how their family and business activities were productively intertwined; how as children and teenagers they valued feeling truly needed as they worked alongside adults; and how they respected their elders for qualities like persistence, fairness and dedication to hard work.
Silvana Scotto-Zangri said that interfamily cooperation, both in running the business as well as in raising the next generation, was a cornerstone of her Port Washington childhood. Her father, Anthony Scotto, and three uncles built a one-table Shore Road pizzeria into a $140-million-a-year restaurant and catering empire, and their families pitched in to rear the next generation.
"You're not raised by your mother and father; you're raised by everybody's mother and father," said Ms. Scotto-Zangri, 30, who runs the family's Watermill banquet hall in Smithtown. "You could walk into any one of their houses, open their refrigerator, and help yourself if you were hungry," she said.
As a teenager, she made ample pocket money working in the pizzeria. "Kids would say: 'You get all the free pizza you want. That is so cool,' " she said, laughing. "The downside is you have to work every Friday and Saturday night."
At the pizzeria, and later in the family's growing chain of banquet halls, which now include Westbury Manor and Fox Hollow, she frequently observed how her father handled difficult situations at work.
"What comes to mind is how fair he is," she said. "If someone were caught drinking on the job, he'd always give them another opportunity, after rehab. My father is the king of second chances."
Paul Fortunato, 40, remembers taking water to construction sites as a boy. As a teenager, he picked up various building trades working on construction sites, often alongside his older brother, Bernard Jr. When their father, Bernard Sr., retires -- he is now in his 70's -- Paul Fortunato will become the chief executive of Fortunato Development Inc., the family-owned real estate company. Bernard Jr., 45, is in line to become the chief executive of Fortunato Sons Inc., the contracting company.
"My father," Paul Fortunato said, "will retire when he's ready to retire. There is no date set."
Meanwhile, Bernard Sr., who inherited the 100-year-old company from his father, Dominic, in 1977, continues to groom the next generation. His third son, Peter, 35, is creating his own role in the business, Mr. Fortunato said.
Paul Fortunato said: "Traditionally, we did business on a handshake. As a kid in the business, I learned the importance of mutual respect and that you don't negotiate quality. I learned that you respect your employees but that at the same time you don't let them walk all over you."
"You've got to treat people the way you want to be treated," he continued. "You may pay more to hire the right people, but you've got to get the people who can do the work and do it right. In the long run, what I learned is that the work you do is only as good as the people who do it."
He continues to find inspiration in the example set by his grandfather. "He wore a Stetson hat and a black coat," Mr. Fortunato said in a quiet voice. "He started out in the Bronx as a bricklayer. He used to wear a jacket and tie to the job, to be professional. He'd take off the jacket, roll up the sleeves and lay bricks. You better believe the work was done the right way."
Dominic Fortunato's work ethic remains the foundation of the business today. "I remember being out on sites as a kid," Mr. Fortunato said. "When the old man was around, boy, you knew it. He was awesome."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Fortunatos: from left, Bernard Sr. and his wife, Judi, and the next generation of leadership: Peter, Bernard Jr. and Paul. (Phil Marino for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (51%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MCG SURGE PROTECTION; LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY; SCOTTO BROTHERS ENTERPRISES; FORTUNATO ORGANIZATION; FIREWORKS BY GRUCCI PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (51%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (84%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MCG SURGE PROTECTION; LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY; SCOTTO BROTHERS ENTERPRISES; FORTUNATO ORGANIZATION; FIREWORKS BY GRUCCI LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (84%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; SMALL BUSINESS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE FAMILY COMPANIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); SUCCESSION PLANS (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); TRENDS (73%); ELECTRONICS (71%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (65%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (60%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (52%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (50%); 

PERSON: ;STRUGATCH, WARREN CHRISTINE JELLEY (74%); DONNA GRUCCI BUTLER (73%); CECILIA COYLE (73%); PAUL SALERNO (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



440 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: As Hotels Rise in Vancouver, Occupancy Rate Falls

BYLINE: By HARRIET KING 

DATELINE: VANCOUVER, British Columbia

 BODY:
NINETEEN new hotels have been built in this coastal city and near its suburban airport since 1996, adding more than 6,000 rooms. The hotels' developers were enticed in part by a plan to expand greatly the waterfront convention center at Canada Place. That plan was later rejected, although the tourism industry is still pushing for an upgrade at Canada Place.
A construction crane perches atop the 48-story Sheraton Vancouver Wall Center, which will be the tallest building on Vancouver's skyline when completed in March. Newly opened hotels carry such names as Marriott, Hilton, Sandman, Fairmont, Delta, Westin, Holiday Inn and Hampton Inn. Numerous companies also hold options on land. In 1995, when plans first emerged to expand the convention center, the greater Vancouver area had 17,731 hotel rooms. Today it has more than 24,000. 
 Downtown, hotels were built close to Canada Place or wherever developers could find space in the compact business district.
Vancouver's downtown, with its stunning architecture and reflective glass buildings, is squeezed into the southern end of a narrow three mile long peninsula in Burrard Inlet. At the northern tip, water laps around the 1,000-acre Stanley Park, where joggers have views of ships anchored in the harbor and rugged coastal mountains across the bay.
The city of two million people sprawls southward on the mainland, where hotel owners have also built heavily near the Vancouver International Airport, a 15-minute drive from downtown in the suburb of Richmond. Sixteen million passengers pass annually through the airport, which just completed an expansion that cost $58.3 million (United States dollars).
"There are a number of international name hotels who would build tomorrow if they could find the right spot if the convention center is expanded," says Gordon Johnson, past president of the Vancouver Hotel Association and a regional director for Delta Hotels, a Toronto-based company. Since 1998, the company has opened two new hotels that are a 10 minute walk from Canada Place: the 434-room Delta Pinnacle and the 225-room Delta Vancouver Suites.
The building spree began after British Columbia's provincial government in 1995 called for expressions of interest for an expansion of the Vancouver Convention and Exhibition Center. Many international associations had outgrown Canada Place, which can accommodate a convention of up to only 2,500 people. The tourism industry feared that the benefits the city realizes from conventions would decline and the city would not be able to compete with Seattle, San Francisco and San Diego.
The plan that emerged was called the Portside Project It was to have been a $650 million complex containing a convention center, a 1,000-room hotel operated by Marriott and more berths for cruise ships to Alaska, which dock at Canada Place. But that proposal was rejected by the provincial government as too expensive.
Unwilling to let the cruise industry languish because it brings a million people a year into the city, contributing $330 million a year to the economy, the Vancouver Port Authority immediately began its own $51 million berth expansion, which is to be completed in 2003.
IN October the tourism industry unveiled a proposal for a $320 million expansion adjacent to Canada Place, which could be built by 2005. Meeting and exhibit space would quadruple to 553,000 square feet from 134,000 and enable the center to play host 7,000 delegates, almost triple the current capacity..
"We must take advantage of this unique opportunity to build on the previous success of this important economic engine," said Rick Antonson, president of Tourism Vancouver. "The status quo is not an option." Under the proposal, tourism companies would provide $58 million in financing and the provincial and federal governments $262 million. Mr. Antonson is confident financing can be secured soon because tax revenues derived will, he estimates, pay back investments in 10.7 years. Delegates are expected to spend $310 million a year, according to estimates of a task force made up of tourism, hotel and business representatives. No government action has yet been taken on the proposal.
The expansion proposal does not include a hotel. But Marathon Developments Inc., the development arm of Canadian Pacific Ltd., the transportation, energy and hotel company, owns 81 acres of former rail yards and marinas near Canada Place on which the Vancouver tourism industry would expand the the convention center.
Graeme Stamp, Marathon's executive vice president, is seeking approval from the city for an 800-room hotel there as well. He is talking to executives of hotel companies about operating the hotel after it is built.
James Kaufman, general manager of the new Sheraton Vancouver Wall Center hotel, owned by the Wall Financial Corporation, which has its headquarters here, said, "Maybe we'd like to build the hotel ourselves." The company is completing a 308-room tower addition that is the last phase of Sheraton Vancouver Wall Center, which will be the largest hotel in British Columbia, with 762 rooms.
Peter Wall, the company's chairman and chief executive, said he believes his new hotel will succeed even without an enlarged convention center. He is building 45,000 square feet of meeting space, believing that convention hotels that do not put in meeting space, spas, restaurants and lounges will have a hard time filling their rooms.
This strategy was echoed by the Tokyo-based Aoki Corporation, which in June completed a $32 million renovation of its 510-room Westin Bayshore Resort and Marina adjacent to Stanley Park -- one of eight existing hotels that have invested in extensive renovation in recent years. The Westin Bayshore built a 48,000-square-foot conference center, including 23 meeting rooms and the city's largest ballroom, at 16,000 square feet. "We want to serve a niche market for planners who want to do smaller conferences that require 300 to 400 hotel rooms with a resort atmosphere," said Mark Andrew, the Westin's general manager.
While his hotel is aiming at groups holding smaller meetings, he would be happy to be part of larger gatherings. "Hopefully, we will get an expanded convention center and large citywide conventions like Seattle enjoys," Mr. Andrew said. If the center becomes a reality, the Westin Bayshore would build a 200 to 300 room addition within five to 10 years.
As new hotels have sprung up, occupancy rates have dropped, from 76 percent in the greater Vancouver area in 1996 to 67.5 percent in 1999. Hotel executives expect a further decline this year to 65 or 67 percent.
The empty rooms are taking a toll. "Some big convention hotels are becoming predatory and going after the leisure and individual corporate travelers, the mainstay at nonconvention hotels such as ours," said Stephen Darling, general manager of the new 207-room Westin Grand, which O'Neill Hotels and Resorts of Vancouver opened last year at the south end of the downtown in a high-tech district. "Last spring, they waged a rate war." Yet the 31-story Westin Grand, whose tower is curved in the shape of a grand piano, will post a better-than-average occupancy rate this year, 72.8 percent, because it is conveniently located near the high-tech companies, where most of its corporate clients are doing business.
Francis Parkinson, general manager of the recently opened $42 million, 392-room Fairmont Vancouver Airport Hotel, said suburban Richmond and the airport "had the province's highest occupancy, in the 85 to 95 percent range." He added, "That attracted us, plus the airport was looking for a high end hotel."
The Fairmont is the only hotel in Canada located on an airport concourse and its lobby overlooks departure gates. Guests can check into flights though an in-room check-in service, and some Canadian airlines will deliver boarding passes to guests' rooms. Arriving travelers can hand baggage claim tags to bellmen.
Two years ago, Richmond had 2,000 hotel rooms, but this has exploded to 4,200 rooms today. "Business is not as good as we anticipated," Mr. Parkinson said, "but we are holding our own."
Nine proposed hotels with 1,495 rooms have either been postponed or canceled because of the convention center delay. A billboard on a downtown parking lot bears a sketch of a 170-room Hilton Suites Vancouver hotel and the slogan "the land where dreams become reality." It was to have opened on the site by late 2000, but has yet to break ground.
"There will be some short-term pain for the hotel industry until the new convention center is built," said Mr. Johnson of Delta Hotels. "But we will pull our socks up and get through the next few years. This is an extremely healthy market with good prospects to come."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Westin Grand, left, is designed to evoke a grand piano. Sheraton Vancouver Wall Center, right, will be city's tallest building, at 48 floors. (The Wall Financial Corporation)
 
Map showing the location of Vancouver.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (94%); ALASKA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOLIDAY INN BAHRAIN (57%); HOLIDAY INN HARARE (57%); HOLIDAY INN MUSCAT (57%); HOLIDAY INN SOLOMONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER (BRITISH COLUMBIA); CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (94%); ALASKA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (90%); SUBURBS (90%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (89%); CRUISES (89%); LODGING (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (87%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TOURISM (72%); MARINE VESSELS (66%); 

PERSON: KING, HARRIET

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



441 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1459 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
Redevelopment to Start Near Shore in Long Branch

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

DATELINE: LONG BRANCH

 BODY:
EARLIER this month this old resort city's long-awaited plan to transform 150 acres of its tattered Atlantic Ocean shoreline into a new neighborhood was nudged forward by $11.2 million in loans and grants from the state.
The state financing will help spur the construction of Pier Village, an $80 million residential and retail complex, and in turn promote development in the rest of the renewal area. There, up to 1,300 residences, an entertainment center and thousands of square feet of commercial space are planned. 
 In the three years since the city's plan has been in place, there have been signs of change, including the renovation of an oceanside resort hotel, the former Hilton, and the opening this summer of a new beach club. But progress has been slow.
"We're going into a difficult area of the city that needs state assistance," said Howard H. Woolley Jr., Long Branch's business administrator. "But since there is no one pot of public money, it takes creativity on the part of the state and the developer and persistence on the part of the city."
Pier Village, which will include 100,000 square feet of shops and 440 rental apartments, is a keystone in Long Branch's efforts to rebuild. It will rise on 16 acres between Melrose Terrace and Laird Street, next to the site of the former Kids World amusement pier, which was destroyed by fire a decade ago. Ground is to be broken this summer, according to the Applied Development Company of Hoboken, the developer.
A section of Ocean Boulevard, which runs through the redevelopment area, will also be redesigned. Now a busy six-lane highway, it will be changed to a four-lane avenue with pedestrian walkways and bike paths.
In exchange for the state financing, the developer has agreed to build 88 rental and condominium units for families with low and moderate incomes.
The significance of Pier Village is that it will sustain the city's goal of becoming a year-round community, not just a seasonal resort, said Pratap Talwar, a principal at the Thompson Design Group of Boston, which developed Long Branch's renewal plan. It will also "help create the market conditions for and serve as an impetus to further development," he said.
The plan -- the result of years of discussions among city officials, residents and business groups -- is also meant to improve the city's economy. Long Branch's financial health, along with the tourism it relied on for its tax base, began to falter in the 1950's when shore towns farther south became more popular.
Among other things the plan, known as Long Branch Tomorrow, divides the redevelopment district into five sectors, sets guidelines for developers and incorporates the state's coastal development regulations into local zoning, to streamline the approval process. It also dovetails with New Jersey's development and redevelopment plan, which guides growth to areas where highways, sewers and utilities are in place and away from areas where they are lacking.
UNDER the state plan, Long Branch, which is served by two rail stations, is designated a "regional center." Mr. Talwar said this implies it can accommodate higher-density development and is eligible for state assistance.
Jane M. Kenny, commissioner of the state's Department of Community Affairs, said the Pier Village project "is a great example of smart growth and of the kind of development we envisioned when we think of the possibilities the state plan promotes." For cities to grow, she added, "we have to provide a climate for private investment." Of the total state investment, $9.2 million will be for property acquisition, loans to the developer and permanent financing for the market-rate rentals. The other $2 million will be for the improvements to Ocean Boulevard.
For the Applied Development Company, the state money is key to moving the project ahead. "It's necessary to make the project economically viable and to attract capital from the private sector," said Gregory S. Russo, a vice president at Applied, which the city named earlier this year to redevelopthe Pier Village site.
Applied was also named the developer of 25 acres in the district's Beachfront North. On that site, between Madison Avenue and Marine Terrace, Applied is planning up to 350 residences and 20,000 square feet of retail space.
Mr. Russo said construction of that $62 million project is subject to his company's securing $10 million in state money, which he expects to receive by next month. Meanwhile, Applied is acquiring properties and relocating residents and businesses. As a result, he said, the project will probably start at the same time as Pier Village, which involves fewer relocation issues.
The city has also granted the developer a graduated five-year tax abatement on the rental and retail components of both projects and will help with land acquisition and relocation costs. The state will also provide relocation assistance.
Previous efforts to rebuild the city's oceanfront were hindered by local politics, community opposition and cumbersome regulations. Under the current plan those hurdles have been neutralized to a large degree. Still, few projects have sprouted in the redevelopment area.
P LANNING moves slowly, and I don't think that necessarily is a bad thing," Mayor Adam Schneider said. "The goal is not to have developers backed up at the door, but proposals that work." He said the city had already rebuffed some developers, whose proposals deviated too much from the plan or did not benefit Long Branch. Others in the industry said the relocation and acquisition issues were too great for some companies.
Mr. Russo of Applied said his company, which is active along the Hudson River waterfront in New Jersey, became involved in Long Branch because of local support for redevelopment, the current lack of competition and "the incredible draw of the ocean." That, he added, makes these projects viable even if the economy turns down.
Even before the news of the state assistance, there were some signs that the city's shoreline was beginning to come back. Community leaders point to their refurbished beachfront, the $12 million renovation in the last two years of the 250-room Oceanplace Conference Resort, which may be expanded in 2001; and a beach club on Ocean Avenue that was carved from a vacant armory. The club opened last summer with a sold-out membership of about 400 families, said Joseph F. Lagrotteria, one of its owners.
The city next month will also begin accepting proposals from developers for the 30-acre Beachfront South area of the redevelopment district, which could accommodate additional residential development. Meanwhile, Mayor Schneider said the city would focus on moving forward on one of the three proposals for a new pier for retail, commercial and entertainment uses and perhaps transportation as well. Two of the proposals also call for ferry service to Manhattan.
And in the Beachfront North area, Applied has started the process of relocation. Elizabeth and Joseph Rufalo, 13-year residents, are among the first families to sell their homes. They have moved from the area to a condominium apartment they own in Newark, where Mr. Rufalo works as an administrative analyst for the city. Mrs. Rufalo, who is retired, worked as director of curriculum for the Newark Board of Education and is member of Long Branch Tomorrow, the civic group.
"I was a little disappointed," Mrs. Rufalo said of the realities of relocating. "But I am a realist and know progress goes on. It was just a matter of time." Now, she added, she and her husband are thinking about moving back when the new homes are built.
Mr. Russo said he would create a preferred waiting list for the 175 people who will have to move because of the project and who want to return.
He said Pier Village will consist of one- to three-bedroom rentals with 850 to 1,200 square feet on the upper three levels of several four-story buildings. The ground floors will be for shops and restaurants. Monthly rents will be $900 to $1,800.
Of the 350 units planned at the Beachfront North site, 130 will be rentals similar in size and rent to those at Pier Village. There also will be 120 condominiums that will range in size from 1,000 to 2,000 square feet and in price from just under $200,000 to $400,000; the 100 town houses, with 1,500 to 2,500 square feet, will cost $225,000 to more than $500,000.
Mr. Russo said that while construction of the two projects would be staggered, "there will be a constant supply of units."
The hope, said Mayor Schneider, is that once Applied's projects and the new pier are in place, "the investment climate will have improved so future projects will make sense financially without state assistance."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A rendering of Pier Village, a 16-acre project in Long Branch, which is to have about 100,000 square feet of retail space on the ground floor and residential units above. (Peter DeWitt Architects)

Map showing the location of Long Branch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); 

COMPANY: DESIGN GROUP INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG BRANCH (NJ); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; HOUSING; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); ZONING (78%); RESORTS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); RETAILERS (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); CITIES (73%); COASTAL AREAS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%); APPROVALS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



442 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1725 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Connecticut;
Housing Is Replacing Planned Stamford Offices

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES 

DATELINE: STAMFORD

 BODY:
ALL through the 80's, office buildings popped out of the ground in Stamford like crocuses in spring, but no one gave much thought to where the employees would live. As the housing supply shrank and prices rose, they settled in communities up the line, their vehicles flooding the highways, railroad parking lots and Stamford streets.
Today, office construction is at a standstill, but a critical housing shortage has attracted some developers from nearby states to take over office projects that have languished unbuilt for two or three years, reworking them as rental apartments. Plans for at least three major commercial complexes have been redesigned as housing, and the shift is hailed by city officials as an overdue correction of an imbalance in Stamford's real estate market. 
 Unlike cautious office tenants, eager apartment seekers are at the door, checks in hand, when rentals become available. And backers for new apartments are not hard to find. "Pension funds, the primary source for apartments," said Jeffrey Dunne, senior vice president at CB Richard Ellis, the real estate brokerage firm, "are willing to accept the lower yields of apartments as opposed to offices, because they feel apartments are a safer investment with less ongoing capital requirements."
In spite of the tightest commercial market in decades, "office development is still paying the price for what happened when they built too much on spec," said Robin Stein, Stamford's land use bureau chief. Vacancy rates for quality downtown space have dropped to between 4 and 5 percent, but developers and brokers say that while prospective tenants for new buildings exist, commitments have not materialized, and without tenants there are no lenders.
"The market tells you that more office buildings are not needed in Stamford," said Anthony Malkin, president of W&M Properties of Manhattan, which operates in eight states, including Connecticut. In recent years, the focus has shifted from new offices to "a conglomeration of multifamily development, night life, retail and UConn."
The two most prominent proposed office projects in Stamford are regarded by many real estate professionals as too large to sign up tenants for the 50 percent of space required to secure financing. Connecticut Place, Louis Dreyfus Property Group's proposed 23-story, 574,000-square-foot building at Washington Boulevard and Richmond Hill Avenue, has all its approvals but with no firm starting date has not yet signed up any tenants. The Hines Interest project at 425 Atlantic Street, was approved by the city in 1997 but attracted no tenants. It has submitted a new site plan for an additional 50 feet in height, bringing it to 26 stories. But by eliminating a trading floor, for which it found no interest, it retains its original size of 580,000 square feet.
But some rivals think these plans are too big to succeed. "This is not a 600,000-square-foot market," said Thomas Rich, senior vice president of F. D. Rich, the redeveloper of Stamford's central business district in the 70's and 80's. His own projected complex, consisting of a 230,000-square-foot office building and a 110-unit luxury apartment tower, "has a better chance of getting off the ground," he said. Opposite the University of Connecticut's Stamford branch on Broad Street, it is in compliance with current zoning, but it too has no tenants.
Arthur Collins, chairman of Collins Enterprises in Greenwich, who has developed 725,000 square feet of offices and 231 condominium units overlooking Stamford Harbor, hopes to get a 75,000-square-foot building called Harbor Watch under construction in 2001. "The problem for Hines and Dreyfus," he said, "is that major tenants are not coming from Manhattan any more. They are already in Stamford; they've grown and want to consolidate a few locations."
Nevertheless, Mr. Dunne, along with other brokers, believes the Dreyfus building, with its approvals in place, could be the first to go up. "If we don't have a significant drop in the economy," he said, "there will be sufficient demand for one new building."
But demand seems more immediate for buildings that increase the supply of housing. With the adoption two weeks ago of an amendment to Stamford's zoning regulations, developers of mixed-use projects -- including residential, office and retail components -- in downtown Stamford may apply to have property designated as an "inclusionary floating zone." The new zone requires them to set aside 10 percent of their units at lowered rates. If a developer does not include any offices, only 6 percent of the units must be low cost.
"In a residential market as hot as this," Mr. Stein said, "developers are willing to comply with the affordable-housing component." The measure was created by Richard W. Redniss, president of Redniss & Mead, a Stamford-based land use planning and engineering group, in cooperation with the city and the Downtown Special Service District.
UNDER the new zoning rules, the units set aside for lower cost will not necessarily be part of the projects but may be located partially or altogether at other sites in Stamford. Developers will form partnerships with nonprofit groups or other developers to produce housing plans, which must be approved by the Stamford Zoning Board. Some developers with properties in the central business district are critical of inclusionary zoning as restrictive and an unfair burden on their finances and time, but Mr. Redniss said, "The city is trying to provide a set of tools to foster housing that probably would not be built otherwise."
Of the three residential projects that converted from office use, Signature Place by Roseland Property of Short Hills, N.J., was the first to use the new zone. It intends to build on a site locally famous as "the hole in the ground," a vacant 4.2-acre commercially zoned wilderness behind the Stamford Town Center mall that has been empty of everything but weeds for 20 years. A previous proposal called for a 495,000-square-foot office tower.
Under the zone, "Roseland was allowed to trade in the commercial development rights for more housing than is allowed by current zoning," Mr. Redniss said, "yielding 932 apartments in three towers." Fifty-six additional units will be built at a different site and will be priced below market for people with incomes at 50 percent of the area median, which is $102,400 for a family of four. The developer expects to begin construction in June or July on the project, which will contain ground-floor shops and a pedestrian avenue through a central park.
A second site at Washington Boulevard and West Park Place, previously slated for 250,000 square feet of offices, is to be developed by Archstone Properties of Boston, which hopes to begin construction next fall. The proposal is for 244 apartments, including 10 units at 25 percent of median income, eight at 50 percent and four at 60 percent, with a ground-floor retail component. Families of four earning $25,000 a year could be accommodated at the 25 percent level.
Palmer Hill, the third site, at Havemeyer Lane on the Stamford-Greenwich border is being developed under the "floating" provision of the zone. The developers of Palmer Hill will apply after Jan. 1 to build up to 250 units with an undetermined percentage of reduced rate units and ground-floor shops. A vacant office building of 117,000 square feet formerly occupied by Conair now stands on the property but will be demolished. The developer is Starwood Buckingham of Princeton, N.J., which says it will build half of the below-market-rate units on the site, and half of them elsewhere.
Archstone is investing $280,000 toward developing its off-site units and Roseland will pay $2 million for that purpose. Both companies still must work out plans with potential partners in the low-cost housing to present to zoning officials.
These are not the only apartment ventures in the works, but, Mr. Redniss said, "in these three projects alone we will get about 1,500 units of housing instead of over a million square feet of offices."
A study commissioned by Stamford has found a strong demand for market-rate apartments ranging from $1,500 to $3,000 a month, as well as a need for about 2,800 units of low-cost housing for families earning $50,000 and less to satisfy demand from this year through 2004. The study was produced by Abeles Phillips Preiss & Shapiro, Inc., development consultants commissioned by Stamford's Community Development Agency and Housing Authority. Over the next 20 years, Stamford is expected to build 7 million to 10 million square feet of offices, said Stephen MacKenzie, Stamford's director of economic development. "Housing built close to major employers will take some of it out of the running," he said.
There is speculation that some existing office space in Stamford may be vacated, deferring new construction further.
According to people in the real-estate industry in Stamford, W&M Properties, which specializes in reinvigorating existing office buildings to improve their profitability, has contracted to buy First Stamford Place, a fully rented 800,000-square-foot complex within walking distance of the railroad station. The current owner is TrizecHahn of Toronto, a real estate giant that is divesting itself of $1 billion worth of real estate. The price is said to be $151 million. W&M would not comment on the report.
In addition, International Paper, which bought Champion International's 484,000 square-foot Atlantic Street building early this year, is said to have accepted an offer to sell the property to a consortium of Morgan Stanley and two New Jersey developers: Alan Landis and Gale & Wentworth. A spokeswoman confirmed that International Paper has a contract to sell the building by Dec. 31, but she would not comment on who the buyers are.
Dean J. Shapiro, executive director at Insignia/ESG, the real-estate brokerage, said, "Xerox could move to its Rochester location." Bill McKee, Xerox's spokesman in Rochester, says that is unlikely.
Ed Tonnessen, executive vice president at Albert B. Ashforth Inc., speculates that "we will see at least 300,000 square feet come back on the market, most of it courtesy of the dot-coms and all of it in small chunks. Priceline has already given back 60,000 square feet."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Signature Place, Stamford, is to have three towers with 932 apartments. (Schuman Lichtenstein Claman Efron Architects)
 
Map showing the location of Stamford.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: CBRE GROUP INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: STAMFORD (CONN); UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SHORTAGES; RENTING AND LEASING OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (88%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); APPROVALS (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CITIES (69%); 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR LOUIS DREYFUS PROPERTY (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



443 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 4; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: With Little Discord, County Adopts Budget

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

 BODY:
DESPITE some disagreements, county legislators unanimously adopted a $1.2 billion budget last week with little of the partisan rancor often seen in budget deliberations.
Democrats, who control the Board of Legislators, praised the 17-member legislature for a spirit of bipartisanship and collegiality, but Republicans said some of the credit should go to a strong economy that made the choices easier than usual.
County officials said the budget, which includes a tax cut for the third consecutive year, was also the product of an increasingly amicable relationship between the legislative and executive branches of county government. 
 "A good thing doesn't have to have a political party tag on it," County Executive Andrew J. Spano, a Democrat, said of the budget that will reduce the county property tax levy by 5.2 percent. "What matters is whether it's good for people of Westchester."
The budget represents a total savings for taxpayers of $18.4 million next year.
Mr. Spano rejected the argument that the smooth budget process was merely the byproduct of a good economy.
"Nassau County isn't doing it so well, and they're dealing with the same economy that Westchester is," Mr. Spano said. He pointed out that the legislative and executive branches of the Westchester government have done their arguing quietly and privately, which is more palatable to the public.
As the chairman of the Democratic-controlled Board of Legislators, George S. Latimer, said, "We haven't seen this kind of working together in Albany or Washington."
That is not to say there are no disagreements, observed Richard G. Wishnie, another Democrat and the chairman of the Budget and Appropriations Committee. "Let's be realistic," he said. "We are 17 individuals representing different constituencies, and people have to have their say and give their input.
"But when the time comes to pass the budget and address the concerns of the county, I love my colleagues because they put the importance of the county as a whole before their individual priorities," he added.
For most homeowners in Westchester, the budget for 2001 means a decrease in the property tax rate from $4.73 per $1,000 of market value to $4.06 next year. The actual rates, however, vary from municipality to municipality and will not be known until sometime next year, when assessments are completed.
Several of the Republicans on the board (it is split 9 to 8) said the majority was praising bipartisanship when the real reason the budget passed without much rancor was far less idealistic.
"In the past, in order to reduce taxes, we've had to make cuts," said Paul J. Noto, the minority leader, who represents parts of Harrison, the town of Rye and the village of Mamaroneck, and all of Port Chester and Rye Brook. "That makes things much harder because you're making difficult choices. This time, the debate centered on what do you spend on new programs or add to existing ones as opposed to what you would cut."
In large part, he said, the spirit of cooperation was borne out of larger-than-expected revenue projections -- about $263.3 million -- from county taxes on the sale of consumer goods, and on healthy hotel and vehicle registration taxes.
Katherine S. Carsky, a Republican and Conservative legislator from parts of Greenburgh, Scarsdale and Yonkers, suggested that lawmakers not get swept away by their successes this year.
"There was no point in voting against this budget, which was settled on the basis of extra sales tax revenue," she cautioned. "It's the future we have to be aware of. The danger is that in good times it's very easy to let the costs creep up, but come the day we have a faltering economy, we'll have to face the music."
But Mr. Wishnie, the chairman of the Budget and Appropriations Committee, did not share Ms. Carsky's concerns, pointing out that the budget has a rainy day fund of $26 million.
The new budget calls for spending $38.7 million on subsidized day care for low-income families. It also calls for $600,000 to pay for 26 additional county government positions in park maintenance, pesticide notification and restaurant inspection, among others.
Other budget lines include $570,000 for county libraries and art programs, $410,000 for domestic violence programs, and $225,000 for after-school and weekend programs for children. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE (55%); BOARD OF LEGISLATORS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE (55%); BOARD OF LEGISLATORS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES COUNTIES (92%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); BUDGETS (92%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA ANDREW J SPANO (65%); KATHERINE S CARSKY (55%); RICHARD G WISHNIE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



444 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: THE RIGHT THING;
Giving Advice Through Rose-Colored Stock Options

BYLINE: By JEFFREY L. SEGLIN; Jeffrey L. Seglin teaches at Emerson College in Boston and is the author of "The Good, the Bad, and Your Business" (John Wiley & Sons). His column on business ethics appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail may be sent to: righthng@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
AS dot-com companies hurried onto the public markets during the Internet stock run-up of the late 1990's, everyone wanted a piece of the action. Not only were the companies' founders sitting on a potential pot of gold in their equity, employees also got in on the possible upside by holding stock options. And the options booty was also extended to outsiders, like lawyers and consultants.
Dot-com stocks, of course, have taken a tumble since those heady days, and options are not as attractive -- if they have any value at all. But that doesn't negate the need for many start-up companies to find alternative payments for services they receive. Cash, after all, is precious for day-to-day operations, so many dot-coms continue to use shares or stock options to pay outside vendors and consultants. 
 For an outsider who supplies a tangible product in exchange for equity, such deals pose few conflicts. But what if the outsider is in the business of providing objective advice -- about when to go public, for example? Could such advice be tainted by the self-interest of reaping a big payoff from the company's initial public offering?
The quandary is front and center when lawyers accept stock or stock options in a company instead of cash for their advice and services.
"It pits human nature to be professional versus human nature to look out for oneself," said Jeffrey Haas, professor of securities law at the New York School of Law. "Both are very strong primitive notions."
But paying with stock can make economic sense for a new business. "In the beginning of a company's life, equity becomes the only currency you have to buy top-flight services," said Fred Marcusa, a senior partner at Kaye, Scholer, Fierman, Hays & Handler in Manhattan.
Mr. Marcusa still receives only cash for his services. But he says many people who give advice can be influenced by the simple fact that they are paid -- whether in cash or in stock. He said he thought the conflict over lawyers' taking stock in lieu of cash resulted from "a certain amount of jealousy" among people at other firms who didn't get in on the action.
Others reject outright the idea of receiving stock. "I just don't do it," said Gerald E. Boltz, a partner in the Los Angeles office of Bryan Cave. "It has an impact on objectivity. The company is entitled to objective legal advice. I'm not sure it's good for the company or the attorney."
While the American Bar Association has decided that there is nothing illegal or unethical about lawyers' taking stock in lieu of cash, it has set only broad parameters: The transaction must be reasonable, the client must consent to the transaction in writing, and the client must have reasonable opportunity to seek a second legal opinion on the deal.
Recognizing that some companies may not have the wherewithal to pay a high-ticket lawyer in cash, the A.B.A. suggests that if stock is used, the amount should be equal to the cash value of the services, based on the stock price at the time of the transaction. But many people see a qualitative difference between taking cash and taking stock of comparable value, especially in a hot market. "It's like swinging for the fence," Professor Haas said of accepting stock. "If, normally, you're getting $300 or $400 per hour for doing this type of work, if the stock turns out to be a home run, it could turn into $1,500 an hour, in essence."
That something is ethical simply because it's socially acceptable is an arguable point. Ethical conflicts become clearest when the payoff from going public is huge.
"It's not the form of compensation you want to keep your eye on, but the relative magnitude," said William H. Simon, a professor of legal ethics at Stanford Law School. "If a large fraction of a lawyer's portfolio is invested in a client, then people worry that his independence will be compromised and he'll be more likely to overlook improper practices or even encourage them in the hope of personal gain."
When the stock market settles down, the conflict isn't as clear, and neither are the concerns of the lawyers who accepted the stock. Lawyers shouldn't be asking themselves whether to take stock instead of cash, but rather when to cut off clients who don't pay in cash.
The real issue isn't whether there is a conflict in accepting stock compensation. Of course there is potential for conflict. The challenge is how to deal with it.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David G. Klein)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: KAYE SCHOLER LLP (84%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; LEGAL PROFESSION; STOCK OPTIONS AND PURCHASE PLANS; ETHICS STOCK OPTIONS (92%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); ETHICS (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); STARTUPS (78%); LEGAL ETHICS (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); LAWYERS (72%); BONDS (66%); SECURITIES LAW (64%); 

PERSON: SEGLIN, JEFFREY L FRED MARCUSA (67%); JEFFREY HAAS (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



445 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 9; Page 14; Column 4; Society Desk

LENGTH: 242 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Carter Marsh, Red Abbott

 BODY:
Carter Scott Marsh, a daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Spencer Scott Marsh III of New Vernon, N.J., was married last evening to Jamison Owen Abbott, the son of Mr. and Mrs. Richard Denis Abbott of Cochranville, Pa. The Rev. Zachary Fleetwood performed the ceremony at St. Peter's Episcopal Church in Morristown, N.J.
Mr. and Mrs. Abbott, who graduated cum laude from Princeton, are teachers and coaches. The bride, 25, is the associate director of athletics at Episcopal High School in Alexandria, Va., where she also teaches history and is the head soccer and lacrosse coach. The bridegroom, 27, who is known as Red, teaches physics and mathematics at the Landon School in Bethesda, Md., where he also coaches football and wrestling. 
 The bride's father, who retired as a managing director in the private client group of E. M. Warburg Pincus, the investment bank in New York, is now a consultant for the Beacon Trust Company, a money management business in Chatham, N.J. Her mother, Elizabeth Marsh, is a trustee of the Newark Museum and of Drew University and is a co-founder of New Jersey Seeds, a nonprofit organization in Hightstown, N.J., that helps prepare economically disadvantaged students for independent secondary schools.
The bridegroom's mother, Dixie Abbott, and his father, a member of the Pennsylvania State Horse Racing Commission, own the Charlton Bloodstock Agency, a thoroughbred racehorse brokerage service in Cochranville.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (56%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (56%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (78%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (77%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: WARBURG PINCUS LLC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (78%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (77%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (90%); HORSES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); SOCCER (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); HORSE RACING (70%); LACROSSE (55%); 

PERSON: MARSH, CARTER SCOTT (CARTER SCOTT ABBOTT); ABBOTT, JAMISON OWEN CARTER SCOTT MARSH (77%); RICHARD DENIS ABBOTT (76%); SPENCER SCOTT MARSH III (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



446 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 1; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 3382 words

HEADLINE: Dumping Ground Once Again

BYLINE: By JOHN SULLIVAN 

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
If THE United States Army Corps of Engineers has its way, barges hauling dredging rigs the size of football fields will begin creeping up the Delaware River next summer.
At a cost of more than $300 million and taking up to four years to complete, the corps' plans call for scraping the river bottom from the mouth of the Delaware Bay to the port of Philadelphia 100 miles to the north. 
 To accomplish this mammoth task, engineers will have to dredge mud and blast through bedrock in the most extensive project to take place on the Delaware since World War II, the last time the channel was deepened. Ultimately, the corps wants to deepen the river channel -- which cuts a swath from 400 to 800 feet wide -- to allow today's huge cargo ships and oil tankers a city block long to make the journey up the river.
Backers of the project, most notably Senator Arlen Specter, the Pennsylvania Republican, say the work will boost Philadelphia's once-thriving maritime industry and provide thousands of new jobs. But serious questions have been raised by legislators from New Jersey and Delaware as well as by environmental advocates who contend the project will be a waste of money at best and an environmental disaster at worst.
"We are putting one of the most important bays on the East Coast at risk here with an old project that had been mothballed for years," said David Conrad, a water resources specialist with the National Wildlife Federation. "This means dredging huge amounts of material, mountains of spoil, and threatening the recovery of oysters and a variety of fish and aquatic life, and for what? For traffic that will probably never materialize."
Like the arguments about a similar project at the Port of New York, those over the deepening of the Delaware have hardened -- in this case over the prodigious costs and the potential for endangering the wintering grounds of the blue crab as well as newly re-established oyster beds.
Once choked with industrial chemicals and heavy metals, the Delaware today is one of the great success stories of the federal Clean Water Act. Although the estuary is still polluted, the river has over the past 25 years been cleansed enough to see the return of short-nosed sturgeon and oysters, which had virtually disappeared.
Indeed, the restoration of the river is the main reason environmental activists strongly oppose the deepening the shipping channel from 40 to 45 feet. Nearly every organization in the area, from the Sierra Club to the National Wildlife Federation, fears that the work will endanger marine life and damage the freshwater aquifers that supply drinking water to South Jersey.
In addition, professors at the University of Delaware say they have found high levels of pollutants like mercury, PCB's and pesticides in shallow areas of the river that can contaminate the water if dredging is undertaken, and that the contaminants can pose problems for disposal of the sludge.
So far, the corps has not decided what to do with the 23 million cubic yards of sludge that will be dug up and dried, called dredge spoils. The Delaware River Port Authority says it is trying to find a use for the material -- like paving roads. If the port cannot find a use for the muck, the corps proposes dumping it in three landfills in Gloucester County -- one near Pedricktown, another near Raccoon Island and a third near the borough of National Park. After that, the port authority said it planned to grow vegetation at the sites and turn them into nature preserves.
For his part, Stephen M. Sweeney, director of the Gloucester County Board of Freeholders, was not won over. "This is an environmental nightmare," he said.
Mr. Sweeney, who is also a union officer with the New Jersey Ironworkers, said the dredging might bring some construction jobs to the area, but the potential damage to drinking water supplies, the fish population and farming irrigation far outweighed the benefits for the people of South Jersey.
"I don't believe it is going to add one more job, and all they want to do is dump toxic sludge on South Jersey," he said. "It is a waste of taxpayer money and there is no job creation or retention from it."
DESPITE these concerns, Senator Specter wants the deepening to proceed. "While some objections have been raised, there are a whole series of federal agencies that have signed off on this," he said in a telephone interview from his office in Washington. "It has been studied and restudied."
Still, the corps is not dealing from a position of strength these days. Only two weeks ago, the Army's inspector general made public a scathing report that said top officials in the corps had manipulated economic figures to support controversial dredging projects on the Mississippi River. The report concluded that the corps had "an institutional bias" that favored large, expensive projects regardless of the cost.
Earlier this year, the National Wildlife Federation and Taxpayers for Common Sense issued a list of projects -- undertaken and under consideration -- that they considered particularly troublesome; the deepening of the Delaware was No. 2 on the list.
Like all rivers, the Delaware is more than just a geographical feature but a living presence for the people who live along its banks. From its headwaters in the deep forests of the Pocono Mountains, the Delaware winds amid the farms and fields that make up much of New Jersey's western border. It flows past by the industrial piers of Philadelphia and Wilmington and merges with the sea among the marshes and tidal flats of South Jersey.
Both the corps and environmental activists agree that the work will pull the salt line -- where the sea water is balanced against freshwater moving downriver -- more than a mile upstream. However, the corps says the shift in the salt line will harm neither the sea life nor the drinking water supplies.
"The question has been addressed in the environmental impact statement," said Jeffrey Gebert, an oceanographer with the corps. "There is no adverse environmental impact expected from changes in salt distribution further down in the bay."
But Maya Van Rossum, the Delaware Riverkeeper, disagrees. "The salt line will move to the recovering oyster population, potentially harming if not decimating the oysters in the bay," Ms. Van Rossum said.
Opponents of the project have also questioned the economic justification for the work. The corps has estimated that 80 percent of the economic benefits will flow to the oil refineries clustered around Philadelphia, saving the petroleum companies an estimated $32 million a year.
Currently, the oil companies unload much of the petroleum from tankers at the mouth of the Delaware Bay. From there, barges and small ships carry the oil upriver to the refinery berths. The corps says a deeper channel will allow more heavily laden tankers to float up the river, leaving less oil to be transferred at sea and translating into millions of dollars in savings.
But to reap the rewards, the companies -- including Sunoco, Tosco Energy, Valero and Coastal -- must also deepen side channels that lead from the center of the river to the docks. And while the oil companies say they support the project, none have firmly committed themselves to perform the work.
A Sunoco spokesman, Gerald Davis, said in an interview that "based on preliminary studies and under the current economic conditions, it would be feasible" to dredge.
In an internal report in 1991, however, a corps engineer said that Sunoco, the largest refinery on the river, would face several problems if it tried to deepen its berth. One of its three refineries, for instance, sits on a granite ledge in Marcus Hook, Pa., just south of Philadelphia, that would have to be blasted. But Mr. Davis said Sunoco felt the project would be worthwhile even without the Marcus Hook refinery.
For now, the most serious obstacle to the project appears to be political. Although Congress has approved $40 million, the first round of financing, legislators from South Jersey and Delaware say they will try to block appropriations until government auditors review plans from the corps.
Financing is to be divided among the federal government, the Delaware River Port Authority and the states of New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Delaware. Pennsylvania has already approved $15 million, but Delaware and New Jersey have not authorized anything. Attempts to approve New Jersey's $13 million have been killed in legislative committees through the efforts of the New Jersey chapter of the Sierra Club and South Jersey legislators.
In addition, Delaware officials have demanded that the corps apply for state permits before beginning work, and New Jersey's ranking representative on the 16-member Delaware River Port Authority has said the state would not support the deepening unless Pennsylvania and Delaware accepted equal amounts of sludge.
Assemblyman George F. Geist, a Republican from Gloucester Township who heads the South Jersey delegation, said his constituents were opposed to dumping tons of dredged muck in the region.
Although the ports along the Delaware provided many jobs in municipalities like Gloucester, Camden and Salem, Mr. Geist said that too many questions remained. "Our Delaware ports are very important, but the original plan to just dump on us was not acceptable," he said.
Even without New Jersey's support, the corps has the money to begin dredging this summer, and engineers expect to start at the mouth of the river and in the bay.
One person in no rush to see the work begun is John M. Williams, an expert on the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal. In 1997, when Representative Wayne Gilchrest, a Maryland Republican, asked Mr. Williams, a retired chemical engineer and researcher for E. I. DuPont, to examine several water projects proposed by the corps, what he discovered disturbed him. In a computer simulation prepared for the river project, the corps concluded that the water in the canal, which connects the river and the Chesapeake Bay, generally flowed east to west. But in the same study, prepared for the canal's deepening, the corps concluded that the water generally flowed west to east.
"I said this is a problem, for them and for the rest of us," Dr. Williams said. "Something is really wrong about this, and I am going to have to raise it with them." Last February, he wrote the corps, expressing his concern over the differing conclusions.
Engineers for the corps responded by saying the study of the canal used a more detailed computer grid and looked at a different area to simulate the water flow; therefore, the results were different.
But Dr. Williams was troubled. "They said none of the conclusions reached by model would be altered in either case," he said. "They did not say this one is right, or this one is wrong."
Mr. Gebert, the corps' oceanographer, said the flow of water in the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal was difficult to ascertain because it switched back and forth four times a day as the tides changed. While noting that there was a slight difference in results between the two simulations, he minimized the implications.
"There is nothing about either the physical, environmental or chemical makeup of the Delaware Bay that relies on the net flow of the C and D Canal," he said.
Yet environmental activists say the inexact answers from the corps are worrisome. "The way the water is flowing is important, otherwise they would not have done it," said Ms. Van Rossum. "It has implications for toxins, for salinity and for wildlife impact."
M S. VAN ROSSUM, who has headed efforts to block the deepening, said the entire water flow analysis needed to be redone to address these questions.
"The answer on all of these questions has been, it does not matter," she said. "That is not an appropriate response. They don't know what the implications are because they have not really done the analysis."
Robert Calligari, chief of planning for the Philadelphia office of the corps, said that over the last several years, the project had been challenged by environmental groups as well as state and federal agencies. In each case, Mr. Calligari said, the corps was able to satisfy the objections by providing the data and evidence that proved the work would cause no damage.
Rick Greene, an environmental engineer with the state of Delaware, concurred, saying, "There are no environmental show stoppers that would kill the project."
But Mr. Greene added said the state wanted the right to monitor the work to ensure that the corps' measurements of toxic materials were correct.
"If this project ultimately does go, we are going to need verification that the predictions about potential impacts ultimately hold true," he said.
The corps responded by saying that the "hot" areas would not be dredged.
However, scientists at the University of Delaware asserted that the corps had underestimated the concentration of pollutants in the river bed. For its part, the corps responded by saying the scientists had counted areas that were not part of the dredging.
But the professors said the corps did not account for the fact that dredging would disturb sediment outside the main channel.
"When the dredging takes place, you are going to disturb the sediments all along, and you never know the mobilization of the sediments as well as what is on them," said Najid Hussain, a professor at the college of marine studies at the university. "They focused on the main channel and did not focus on the shallow areas."
The Delaware River Basin Commission -- a federal agency charged with managing the river's watershed -- found that current sludge disposal sites were leaking contaminants and questioned whether similar leaks could affect groundwater at the new disposal sites proposed in New Jersey.
The corps responded by contending that the data used for the commission's study was incomplete. Also, with larger sites, the corps said, the leaks could be reduced or eliminated -- an assertion with which the commission agreed.
"I think it is fair to say the past practices at some of these other sites could have been much better," said Thomas Fikslin, head of monitoring for the commission. "By managing these sites better they can minimize what goes back in the river."
For Manuel Stamatakis, chairman of the Delaware River Port Authority for the last six years, the reason to dredge the river is simple: The government says the project is safe, and thousands of jobs depend on it.
"If the rest of the world believes we are no longer committed to the infrastructure that makes our port competitive, we are going to lose the business," Mr. Stamatakis said. "We cannot afford to lose the jobs created by cargo movement."
When Gov. Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania asked him to be chairman of the authority, the project was stalled. Mr. Stamatakis, who has made millions in companies involved in celluar telephones, real estate development and employee benefits, breathed new life into a project he felt was vital for the port and the 54,000 jobs that depended on it.
The berths clustered along the southern reaches of the Delaware River, known collectively as the Port of Philadelphia, make up the second busiest cargo port on the East Coast after New York. More than 80 percent of the oil and gas in the Northeast is processed by refineries on the Delaware, and nearly all of the tropical fruit in its supermarkets passes through the refrigerated warehouses in the ports.
As international trade has increased over the last several decades, cargo ships have grown bigger -- and larger ships moves bulk goods more cheaply than small freighters. To match the growth in ships, ports have deepened berths and shipping channels. Mr. Stamatakis and several other experts have said that if Philadelphia did not deepen the river, modern cargo ships would begin looking for other destinations.
The standard depth of shipping channels is now 45 feet, and many ports -- including New York -- are deepening their approaches to 50 feet. Experts at the Delaware River Port Authority say there are several businesses, like iron ore shippers and steel companies, that are ready to expand at the port as soon as the channel is deepened.
"If the Port of Philadelphia does not do this, its competitive advantage goes out the window," said John Martin, a shipping consultant who has worked for the port. "They have no choice but to go to 45 feet."
But other experts disagree, contending that Philadelphia's primary cargo -- fruit, steel and cocoa -- is carried on smaller freighters that do not need a deep channel. According to a report prepared for the port, nearly all of the harbors in South America that ship fruit have shallower channels than Philadelphia does.
Moreover, officials at the Port of Wilmington are not sure they will need to deepen the berths even if the corps lowers the river channel.
"This is like building a stadium and hoping you find a team to play in it," said Theodore Prince, a transportation consultant who writes a column for the Journal of Commerce.
Mr. Prince said Philadelphia was not going to attract the huge freighters that called at New York or Los Angeles, and that the Delaware River Port Authority should concentrate on strengthening its ability to handle such specialty items as fruit.
AFTER a battle in the House this summer, Congress approved about $40 million of the $200 million the federal government plans to spend to deepen the Delaware. Supporters in Congress, including Representative Bob Borski, a Philadelphia Democrat, say the deal is set, since Congress rarely cancels large projects once the work has begun. But opponents say there is still a long way to go: most of the financing has not been approved and none of the states expected to help with the project have put up any money.
Representative Robert Andrews, a Democrat from Haddon Heights who has led the fight against the project, has vowed to keep trying to stop the financing in the spring, when Congress again takes up the budget.
Mr. Andrews says there are too many questions to allow the work to start, pointing specifically to what he calls unfounded economic assumptions.
"The people who are pushing this project are the ones that will economically benefit from it," he said. "And the people that will be affected by it will not."
Mr. Andrews, who has asked the General Accounting Office to review the project, says his main objection is that his constituents will have to accept the sludge but see little benefit.
In July, when Mr. Andrews tried to tie the financing to a review by the accounting office, the investigative arm of Congress, he won support from only 176 House members, well shy of the 218 needed to gain approval. In the Senate, there was also little opposition to the $300 million project, although Senator Robert Torricelli, a Democrat from New Jersey, and both senators from Delaware -- Robert Roth, a Republican, and Joseph Biden, a Democrat -- spoke against it.
Of the three states that that border the Delaware from the Port of Philadelphia to the bay, Pennsylvania seems to be the most committed to the work.
"It is a one-word answer," said Tom Charles, a spokesman for Governor Ridge. "As we understand it, 50,000 jobs will be affected by this project. It is important for the future of the port."
For its part, Delaware has demanded that the corps apply for state water quality permits before beginning work. Mr. Greene, the scientist for the state, said Delaware wanted to make sure it could monitor the work as the deepening progressed.
On the other hand, in New Jersey, a coalition of environmental advocates and state legislators in the south have beaten back three attempts to approve financing for the project.
Glenn Paulsen, New Jersey's senior representative on the port authority and vice chairman of the organization, said Governor Whitman would not commit any money unless the corps demonstrated that Delaware and Pennsylvania would accept an equitable amount of sludge.
"It has to be environmentally sound, and there has to be an equitable distribution," Mr. Paulsen said. "These things have to be taken care of, and the project will not move forward until these conditions are met."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Oil is unloaded from tankers and barged upriver. Maya Van Rossum, Delaware Riverkeeper, fears that deepening the channel will produce harmful sludge. (Photographs by Keith Meyers/The New York Times) (pg. 1); The Corps of Engineers want to use dredges like the one above, doing maintenance work in Marcus Hook, Pa., to deepen 108 miles of the Delaware River's shipping channel. (Photographs by Keith Meyers/The New York Times); Maya Van Rossum, in Philadelphia, left, points out an area filled with dredge spoils. Manuel Stamatakis of the Delaware River Port Authority says the dredging is safe. (David Hunsinger for The New York Times) (pg. 8)
 
Map of New Jersey/Pennsylvania border highlighting site of Delaware River dredging project (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (91%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%); NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION (54%); NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (91%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%); NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION (54%); NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE RIVER; PHILADELPHIA (PA); NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (95%); DELAWARE, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SHIPS AND SHIPPING; DREDGES AND DREDGING; TANKERS RIVERS (90%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (90%); MARINE TANKERS (90%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); ARMIES (90%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (86%); WILDLIFE (86%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (78%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MARINE & WATERWAY CONSTRUCTION (78%); BULK SHIPPING (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PESTICIDES (78%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (78%); WORLD WAR II (73%); NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); FISHES (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); WATER QUALITY (69%); PERSISTENT ORGANIC POLLUTANTS (66%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (64%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (52%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, JOHN ARLEN SPECTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



447 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 9; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY & CO.;
Up Against The Wall, Semi-Hero

BYLINE: By MARGO NASH 

DATELINE: BLOOMFIELD

 BODY:
Alan Levine guns his green minivan as he speeds through the Lincoln Tunnel for a showdown in Manhattan, where he hopes to get his hands on Batman and Robin.
Batman and Robin posters, that is. Mr. Levine, who lives in Glen Ridge, is one of the country's major dealers in movie serial and western movie posters. His inventory includes thousands of posters from such features as "Curtain Call at Cactus Creek" (1950), with Vincent Price; "Zombies of the Stratosphere" (1952), in which Leonard Nimoy plays second zombie in his first movie; and "Panther Girl of the Kongo" (1955), in which a girl fights with a monster that looks like a cross between an octopus and a rat. 
 Knowing what kind of monster will sell a poster is part of the business. "You have to have a sense of what's good and bad," Mr. Levine said, "and sometimes terrible is good."
Very good indeed. According to Big Reel, a magazine dedicated to movie collectibles, its readers spend $11 million annually on vintage films, autographs, movie posters, lobby cards (11-by-14-inch photos of movie scenes displayed in a case in the lobby) and assorted Hollywood tchotchkes. Some blockbuster posters, like the one from "King Kong" or Boris Karloff in "The Mummy," have gone for $300,000 to $400,000, Mr. Levine said.
His posters generally cost from $25 to $100, though some, like "Adventures of Captain Marvel" or Tom Mix, can also sell for $3,000 to $4,000.
Nostalgic collectibles is a recession-proof business, says Mr. Levine, who put it like this: "People always find the money to reclaim the childhood of their dreams."
Until the last few years, Mr. Levine sold his posters at about 30 collectible shows a year. But with the advent of such Internet businesses as eBay -- and his own Web site, www.alanlevine.com -- he now attends only about 10 shows a year. And a retail store he opened in Bloomfield in 1986 has basically become a warehouse.
A big portion of his customers are baby boomer professional men; posters are popular as office decor, which has the added advantage of making them a tax write-off, he said. The grandchildren of people who appeared in the movies are also among his clientele.
The most collected western posters, he says, depict the feature-length B-movie variety starring people like Tom Tyler, Buck Jones and Ken Maynard as well as Tom Mix. The posters were colorful, but the films tended to a certain sameness, he admits: "They shot and rode and rode and shot."
In all, Mr. Levine explained, there were about 250 movie serials, each with about 12 to 15 episodes. The most popular revolved around characters in the Sunday funnies, comic books and radio serials, like Captain Marvel, Superman, Batman and Flash Gordon.
"One of the charms of movie posters is that they are often much better than the movies they are advertising," said Michael Barson, a Glen Ridge author who wrote a book about movie posters called "Lost, Lonely and Vicious" (Pantheon, 1988). Mr. Barson cited a favorite movie poster showing two women fighting to the death in prison. "I got to see the movie for the first time, and it was so dull I fell asleep, and yet the poster in its own trashy way was so exciting."
The elusive posters of Mr. Levine's dreams are "The Shadow," "Mandrake the Magician" and "Terry and the Pirates." Each is probably worth more than $10,000, he says. Not that he is running out of movie posters. He has about 25,000, along with 5,000 movie magazines, 100,000 movie stills, autographs and assorted radio premiums like decoders and detective badges.
"I don't think anybody has as much material as he has collected over the years, especially western and serial-type posters," said Kevin Clement, producer of the Chiller Theater Expo, a science-fiction and horror collectibles show held twice a year in East Rutherford. "Alan Levine is the king."
Mr. Levine, 65, grew up in the midst of movies. His mother was the cashier of a movie theater in the Bronx, and in the early 50's he got a free look at perhaps three movies and 10 vaudeville acts each day. "You always knew that the hero was going to get out of it because there were six more chapters to go. You'd have a guy fall off a cliff and see him go down in the river, 1,000 feet below, and then next week you'd go and see he landed on a ledge," he recalled.
Like many of his customers, Mr. Levine has remained a fan of movie serials and westerns. That can be dangerous for a dealer, he says. "That's one disease that a lot of dealers have," he said. "They are more collector than they are dealer." As for himself, "For enough money, I'll part with these things."
He does not claim to customers that his items are good investments, as many dealers do. "The truth is that those people who bought with an eye to profits lost money," Mr. Levin said. "Those who bought what they liked, what may have meant something to them as a kid, made money because other people felt the same way."
Brian Bavosa, a 41 year-old Westfield resident who is one of Mr. Levine's clients, collects movie memorabilia. The serial posters he collects have to be from the serials he saw on television growing up. "They bring back childhood memories. It has to be 'Radar Men from the Moon,' a popular serial back in the 50's, or 'Spy Smasher,' where they used Beethoven's Fifth: dum, dum, dum, DUM."
Mr. Levine has his own favorite movies. Here are some, with his comments:
"The Queen of the Jungle," 1935. "The heroine walks through the jungle. She's blind from the water she drank. She's feeling her way along, but she knows enough to walk around the trees."
"Atom Man vs. Superman," 1950. "When Superman flies from place to place they make him into a little cartoon."
"Purple Monsters Strike," 1945. "It's about two Martians who have come down to earth to conquer Earth with the unlikely names of Martin and Marcia."
Serials like "The Phantom" (1942-43) have grown in popularity over the years, and Mr. Levine easily turns over items related to them. But his inventory is also filled with items much harder to get rid of. "I have about 50 pieces of 'The Nun and the Sergeant,' " he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Levine is a leading seller of posters from old westerns and other movie serials. The one he holds is from a 1950 serial. (Demitrius Balevski for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: BIG REEL (MAGAZINE)

ORGANIZATION: BIG REEL (MAGAZINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; COLLECTORS AND COLLECTIONS; POSTERS FILM (90%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (89%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (87%); FILM GENRES (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (70%); CHILDREN (67%); INTERNET & WWW (66%); RETAILERS (62%); RECESSION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: NASH, MARGO; LEVINE, ALAN VINCENT PRICE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



448 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 25; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 260 words

HEADLINE: High-Tech Is Thriving But Chemistry Is Not

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Although I read the excellent feature praising New Jersey's leadership in high-tech companies and the scientific community ("Call It Silicon Parkway," cover, Nov. 19), I could not help but think about the penalty we continue to pay in the loss of manufacturing. Our state was once a major center for heavy industry, foundries, machine shops, chemical and food processing facilities, high-volume metal, plastic, ceramics, electrical components and similar product-producing enterprises. Most were driven out by a combination of high taxes and good-intentioned health and safety environmental legislation. And the skilled labor forces needed for these industries were driven out with them. 
 Recent articles have pointed to the dwindling number of chemical engineers enrolled in our state and private universities, and the negative attitudes toward chemists and chemicals that colors the thinking of our educated populace. This, despite the fact that environmental considerations have made a chemical plant out of every office building, research center as well as every manufacturing facility and municipal water and waste treatment center. We may have lost the battle to keep alive good thoughts about manufacturing but I believe we can restore and build affirmative feelings about the value to our state of chemists and chemistry. After all, when each of us looks in a mirror, what we see is a magnificent chemical factory. Perhaps we should change the spelling of the word from chemistry to "chemystery".
 
GEORGE BLACK
Jamesburg 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CHEMISTRY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); CHEMICAL ENGINEERING (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (76%); TRENDS (72%); FOOD MFG (71%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (71%); MACHINE SHOPS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



449 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 49; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2045 words

HEADLINE: THE 43RD PRESIDENT: FOREIGN POLICY;
A Steady Advocate of American Caution, Powell Faces a Changed World

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 16

 BODY:
The personification of American military power in the early 1990's, General Colin L. Powell is certain to cut a forceful figure as secretary of state. Like his model, George C. Marshall, he will be able to use his soldier-statesman's stature to wield influence abroad and to command respect at home.
But the world has become no less messy since General Powell stepped down as a chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff seven years ago, and the question is whether his view has adapted to the new realities. 
 The seemingly invincible hero of the Persian Gulf war, who warned the Iraqi Army that "first we are going to cut it off, and then we are going to kill it," General Powell has always been more cautious behind the scenes. He was initially reluctant to go to battle over the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait and ultimately agreed to stop short of Baghdad.
For those who believe in American engagement around the world, the Powell doctrine -- that American military force should only be used in overwhelming strength to achieve well-defined strategic national interests -- translates into a nervous distaste for peacekeeping and small interventions. Some fear that it is a handy excuse for doing nothing.
How the new administration actually behaves will depend in part on how the general settles in as diplomat in chief, a different role than he held at the Pentagon.
General Powell may become a dominating secretary of state. But he will probably operate in tandem with his best friend, Richard L. Armitage, seen as a likely deputy defense secretary, and with his erstwhile civilian boss, former Defense Secretary Dick Cheney, as the virtual president of foreign policy within the White House. There, will also be Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser, who by virtue of long proximity to Mr. Bush will be a trusted coordinator of policy rather than the dominant force.
None of these people are keen interventionists, and what they do -- or don't do -- will stir heavy debate.
General Powell's early mentor, Frank Carlucci, who plucked him out of the ranks and placed him as a White House fellow at the Office of Management and Budget early in the 1970's, says that the team knows that "international engagement is a fact" and "will have to roll with the punches." Mr. Carlucci later became defense secretary.
But Leslie H. Gelb, the president of the Council on Foreign Relations, is not so sure how they will act when the United States' broad values, rather than its narrow security interests, are at stake. "Where there is genocide, the United States must -- given our values and interests -- take strong action. But our policy should be geared to preventing this and not arguing about intervention," Mr. Gelb said.
However General Powell might exercise power abroad, it is perfectly clear how he will exercise it at home. He will put the State Department back on the map. After 12 years of institutional neglect under Madeleine K. Albright, Warren Christopher and James A. Baker III, it is demoralized and underfinanced, rocked by security lapses and uncertain of its role.
The general sees himself as an experienced manager of large organizations, and has told people that he believes the department needs a top-to-bottom overhaul.
In some respects, people in the Bush camp say, General Powell's initial mission at the State Department will be familiar to him. When he became deputy national security adviser under Ronald Reagan, and then stepped up to the adviser's position, these people say, his main chore was to clean up the mess in the wake of illegal arms sales to Iran. Nothing illegal has happened at the State Department, but morale is low, as it was at the national security council then. Experienced foreign service officers believe they have been ignored in favor of a coterie of political appointees around Dr. Albright, and many diplomats are angered at her emphasis on security in the building.
Over and over again in his best-selling autobiography, "An American Journey," General Powell describes himself as a people person, a firm believer in self-improvement for himself and others, skills that he no doubt plans to exercise from the moment he steps in the front door of the State Department at C Street.
Since his retirement, General Powell has been in high demand as a motivational speaker. In recent years he has addressed dozens of seminars at which thousands of corporate employees gather to listen to advice on how to succeed. He will almost surely will become the chief spokesman for the new administration's foreign policy, using his forceful oratory as a contrast to the muted discussion of late.
He will also be using his persuasive powers in Congress, where he is expected to reap sorely needed funds for the State Department's foreign operations. But while he favors strengthening embassies abroad, he is probably unlikely to seek big increases for United Nations peacekeeping.
No doubt, diplomats say, General Powell, accustomed to the richly endowed military, will be shocked by the State Department's starved home base. Only last year, the department threw out the last of its 1970 Wang computers.
"He will want to get the money because he will want to be a successful secretary of state," said Richard Gardner, a former ambassador to Italy and Spain, who now specializes in State Department financing. "The Republican leadership has been the principal problem, but they will want a Bush administration to succeed and Colin Powell to succeed."
Moreover, his reputation as a political general who knows the innards of the bureaucracy could help him extract the $2 billion the department needs in an immediate supplemental appropriations bill, Mr. Gardner said.
But above all, General Powell's sheer stature will help rescue the State Department from the danger of irrelevancy in a world where the economists and businessmen at the Treasury and Commerce departments are as influential around the globe as the diplomats at Foggy Bottom, if not more so.
Mr. Armitage, who has been consulting feverishly with General Powell about the shape of the new foreign policy firmament, said: "Under a Powell State Department, you would return again to the secretary of state being the first among equals. No one in any of the cabinet positions will have his depth of experience."
The nature of that experience -- as national security adviser to President Reagan, then as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff for President George Bush and briefly for President Clinton -- came as the cold war was ending and a new world was being created.
In this period, General Powell was known as the "reluctant warrior," a label that he owns up to in his memoirs. "Guilty. War is a deadly game; and I do not believe in spending the lives of Americans lightly," he writes.
In the days leading up to the gulf war, General Powell says, he was not as eager as some of his colleagues, including President Bush, to push the Iraqis out of Kuwait. He wanted to draw the line at Saudi Arabia.
As chairman of the Joint Chiefs under President Clinton, where his authority inspired something akin to fear among the foreign policy newcomers, he argued forcefully against air strikes as a way of halting Serb aggression in Bosnia.
His opposition was so adamant that at one point Dr. Albright, then ambassador to the United Nations, asked: "What's the point of having this superb military that you're always talking about if we can't use it?"
Two years after General Powell retired, NATO unleashed sustained air strikes against the Serbs, which, in conjunction with the Croatian Army on the ground, led to the end of the war, a sequence of events that critics assert proved him wrong.
General Powell says in his book that he was not opposed to all limited missions, and that some successful ones, including protecting the Kurds in northern Iraq after the war, occurred under his watch.
But there was one foreign venture that was spectacularly unsuccessful during the general's tenure: the mission in Somalia that became synonymous with the notion that an intervention without a vital interest at stake can go badly awry.
General Powell says in his memoir that he and Mr. Cheney, the secretary of defense at the time, were skeptical of the initial mission of sending soldiers to alleviate famine in Somalia. But they did not fight the idea.
More disastrous was the subsequent nation-building effort in Somalia under President Clinton, which also occurred while General Powell was in charge and which resulted, three days after his retirement on Sept. 30, 1993, in the deaths of 18 American soldiers. Such missions were derided by George W. Bush during his campaign as exactly the kind of action that a new Bush administration would avoid.
How that mission went wrong was discussed by General Powell soon after it occurred, and by President Clinton recently. They put different emphases on what happened.
In an interview in the Oval Office this month, President Clinton told reporters for The New York Times that General Powell came to him "very near the end of his term" and said that American soldiers in Somalia were the only ones capable of capturing Muhammad Farah Aidid, the warlord responsible for the slaughter of United Nations Pakistani peacekeepers.
"I said: 'What are the chances of success?' " Mr. Clinton said he asked the general. "He said: 'I think we've got a 50-50 chance to get him, probably not more than a one in four chance to get him alive,' something like that."
Mr. Clinton continued: "But, he said, 'I think we ought to do it.' So I said, O.K. I asked him if he thought I ought to do it, and he said: 'Yes, I do. On the balance I think you should, because you just can't just walk away from the fact that these Pakistanis were murdered.' "
In an account he gave after the American soldiers were killed, General Powell stressed his contempt for nation-building in Somalia and his deep reservations about the dispatch of American special forces for the purpose of capturing Mr. Aidid.
"I always said that disarming the factions was stupid," General Powell was quoted as saying in a report by the chairman of the Armed Services Committee, Senator John W. Warner, Republican of Virginia, and the ranking member, Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan.
General Powell said he had sent the Rangers into Somalia after the deaths of the Pakistanis "with the greatest reluctance" and viewed the chance of success as "even less than 50 percent."
But the general's account makes clear he did not actively try to stop the deployment. He gave as the basis of his decision the "steady drumbeat" of advice from the field commanders, rather than his own belief, that it was necessary to arrest Mr. Aidid, as Mr. Clinton described.
In the end, though, he concluded: "The overall policy for Somalia should have been reviewed long before Oct. 3."
During his retirement, General Powell remained above the fray in foreign policy debates, choosing his shots carefully and concentrating instead on America's Promise, the organization he founded dedicated to improving the lives of disadvantaged children through volunteerism.
He criticized the Clinton administration's conduct of the war in Kosovo, saying that removing the threat of ground troops was a bad idea, and noted that soon after the air strikes started more than 800,000 Kosovar Albanians fled as refugees.
During the election campaign, he added to the credibility of Mr. Bush by standing along aside him -- with other Republican foreign policy grandees, including former Secretary of State George P. Schultz -- during a major speech on national missile defense.
Although he knew little about international economics or the dynamics of the new digital economy, General Powell joined the board of directors of America Online in September 1998. At the company's annual general meeting last year, shareholders swamped him, seeking his autograph. He was the only one of the directors, many of them stars in the business community, to snare such celebrity attention.
This gives a taste of what is ahead. His fame is such that Secretary of State Powell may well turn out to be treated as a head of state abroad, and nearly the same way at home.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: December 19, 2000, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about the foreign policy experience of Gen. Colin L. Powell misspelled the surname of the former secretary of state who stood with him and George W. Bush during a speech by Mr. Bush on missile defense. He is George P. Shultz, not Schultz.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gen. Colin L. Powell, speaking to soldiers during the Persian Gulf war as Dick Cheney looks on. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (92%); GULF STATES (88%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (57%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (57%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (57%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (92%); GULF STATES (88%); KUWAIT (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (57%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); ARMIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BUDGETS (73%); PEACEKEEPING (71%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); 

PERSON: POWELL, COLIN L (GEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); PERLEZ, JANE DICK CHENEY (78%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



450 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 64; Column 3; Classified

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
COLE, DOLI

 BODY:
COLE-Doli. Of Ridgewood, NJ. Daughter of Mireille Guzelbahar Axelrad of Boca Raton, FL and the late Robert Guzelbahar, wife of Morrill Cole and mother of Amy Ellen Cole of Cliffside Park and Robert Cole of Fort Lee, NJ died on Friday at Sloane Kettering Memorial Hospital in New York City. She is survived, also by her beloved grandchildren, Danielle and Adam, the children of Robert and Ronit Cole and by her sister, Emel Glicksman of New York City and her nieces, Cindy Touma of Tenafly, NJ and Sally Rosen and Nina Rosen both of New York City. A fashion designer and lifelong tennis player, she pioneered in the design of tennis apparel that combined a strong fashion statement with practical, active wearability in the movements of the game. She brought companies into the tennis wear business that had previously had no connection with the tennis world. She designed for Profile Skiwear, Spalding, Champion and other sportswear and hard goods companies. Her business, Lovestitch, printed a classic ALine tennis dress pattern on fabric that permitted the home sewer to cut and sew her own dress. The design and wearability of the dresses were so successful that her customers prevailed on her to go further and manufacture the finished dress for ready to wear sales. She was born in Istanbul, Turkey. In 1954, she participated in a Turkish government assignment as a translator and model on the Turkish good-will ship, the Tarsis, that travelled the Western Hemisphere to introduce modern Westernized Turkish culture and post war economic progress to the American marketplace. Her marriage to New Jersey attorney Morrill Cole followed her disembarkation in New York. Fluent in many languages, she was a graduate of Roberts College in Istanbul and attended the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York City. She was an active member of the Upper Ridgewood Tennis Club until her illness took her from the courts. She was a member of Honors, the bridge club in New York. Her family would appreciate contributions to the Evelyn Lauder Breast Center at Sloane Kettering Memorial Hospital, 205 East 64th Street, NY NY 10021 in honor of the pioneering and humane work of Dr. Larry Norton and his associate Dr. Pamela Munster. Funeral services will be held at Barnert Memorial Temple, Rt. 208 in Franklin Lakes on Monday, December 18 at 12 noon. The family will receive friends at the Cole home, 312 Highland Avenue, Ridgewood until Friday, December 22. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Paid Death Notice

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); TURKEY (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (86%); 

COMPANY: MEMORIAL HOSPITAL (57%); SLOANE KETTERING MEMORIAL HOSPITAL (64%); UPPER RIDGEWOOD TENNIS CLUB (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: SLOANE KETTERING MEMORIAL HOSPITAL (64%); UPPER RIDGEWOOD TENNIS CLUB (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); TURKEY (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (86%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); TENNIS (90%); SPORTS (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (75%); ATHLETES (75%); READY TO WEAR (75%); FASHION DESIGN (75%); FABRICS (75%); CARD GAMES (75%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (52%); 

PERSON: COLE, DOLI ROBERT COLE (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000



451 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 3563 words

HEADLINE: Kazakh Mastermind, or New Ugly American?

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON 

DATELINE: ALMATY, Kazakhstan

 BODY:
A DECADE ago, James H. Giffen was just another of the scores of American businessmen who trudged the dreary corridors of Soviet economic ministries, shopping press releases through dark Moscow winters to promote business deals for United States companies.
Today, as Russia's post-Communist economy has slumped into dysfunction, the fortunes of Mr. Giffen, a California-born lawyer, have soared. He has retooled and branched out, forging what has proved to be a highly profitable role as deal maker and all-purpose adviser for the oil-rich former Soviet republic of Kazakhstan. 
 But a shadow has fallen over Mr. Giffen's relationship with the leaders of this decade-old independent state. The Justice Department has opened a criminal investigation, based on information turned up in a Swiss inquiry, into whether Mr. Giffen violated federal law in his efforts on behalf of Kazakhstan.
The investigation centers on whether he helped funnel tens of millions of dollars from American oil companies through Swiss banks, Caribbean shell companies and Liechtenstein foundations to private accounts benefiting top Kazakh political figures, including President Nursultan A. Nazarbayev.
Mr. Giffen, 59, and his lawyers denied that he violated any American laws, saying he has acted only at the direction of senior Kazakh officials. They said Mr. Giffen, who has deep, longstanding ties in Washington trade and diplomatic circles, has worked hard to bring American-style business practices to a country that many Western observers regard as insular and authoritarian.
Kazakh opposition leaders say Mr. Giffen has redefined the image of the ugly American in the post-Communist era. They accuse him of using his business acumen to help a repressive government gain credibility in the West -- which values Kazakhstan's vast oil reserves and politically strategic location -- at the same time he was profiting personally from his connections.
Experts on Kazakhstan said Mr. Giffen filled a vacuum as Kazakhstan's inexperienced leaders scrambled to reinvent a government nearly overnight. "Giffen showed Nazarbayev and the Kazakh elite what kind of possibilities were available to leaders of oil-rich countries," said Martha Brill Olcott, a Kazakhstan expert at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, "and in return was able to develop a position of trust that was unprecedented for a foreigner."
In a country where horse-meat sausage and camel milk are traditional delicacies, along with cheap Caspian caviar, Mr. Giffen operates in a bubble of privilege -- with a Kazakh diplomatic passport, an armed bodyguard, a chauffeured Mercedes, a translator at his elbow and cell phones chirping as he shuttles between his offices here and the Manhattan headquarters of his company, the Mercator Corporation.
His official Kazakh title is counselor to the president, whom Mr. Giffen refers to as "the boss." Mr. Giffen is also a consultant to Kazakhoil, the state-owned energy company headed by his friend Nurlan Balgimbayev, whose white-stucco bungalow is next door to Mr. Giffen's nearly identical house in an American-style subdivision beneath the snow-capped Altai Mountains that dominate this city, the country's business capital.
With consultants he hires for geological, commercial and legal work, Mr. Giffen negotiates on Kazakhstan's behalf and provides strategic advice on major oil deals between Kazakhstan and American companies. After one long day of meetings last summer in Astana, the capital, Mr. Giffen boarded a creaky Russian airliner, settled into his seat and said with a smile, "I never cared about making money; I just love this stuff."
Yet he has become a controversial figure in the oil business, and in Kazakhstan's political life.
Akezhan Kazhegeldin, a former prime minister who is now a principal opposition leader, said in an interview that Mr. Giffen had gained a troubling hold over Mr. Nazarbayev's thinking.
"Giffen became less objective and began advising Nazarbayev on political matters, including appointments of government officials," said Mr. Kazhegeldin, who lives at an undisclosed location in Europe out of fear, he says, for his personal safety. "He then attempted to interfere with economic policies of the country."
Mr. Kazhegeldin says Mr. Giffen should get out of Kazakhstan. Mr. Giffen replies that he is answerable only to one person: Mr. Nazarbayev.
So far, the investigation has remained at low idle. American prosecutors have subpoenaed records from several oil companies that operate in Kazakhstan, including BP Amoco, Phillips Petroleum and ExxonMobil. None of the companies appear to be a focus of the inquiry and all have denied wrongdoing. Government documents in the case indicate that prosecutors are concentrating on Mr. Giffen and whether he violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which bars Americans from paying bribes overseas, and racketeering, conspiracy and money laundering statutes.
Law enforcement officials said federal authorities were also examining whether Mr. Giffen violated the United States trade embargo against Iran, through his role as an adviser to the Kazakhstan government over an oil swap between the two countries. Neither Mr. Giffen nor his lawyers would discuss the case.
But the principal question about Mr. Giffen is whether he has played what opposition leaders consider a fixer's role in the siphoning off of Kazakhstan's oil wealth by its autocratic rulers.
In legal documents asking Swiss authorities to freeze millions of dollars, some of it in numbered bank accounts, federal prosecutors have said they suspect that more than $60 million -- paid as "signature bonuses" for drilling, exploration and production-sharing agreements in Kazakhstan -- was transferred through a series of Kazakh government accounts into accounts controlled by individuals including Mr. Nazarbayev, Mr. Balgimbayev and Mr. Giffen himself.
The country's leaders have accused Western governments of meddling in Kazakhstan's internal affairs. The prosecutor general, Yuri Khitrin, said the accusations of wrongdoing were "unsubstantiated nonsense." Mr. Balgimbayev, too, denied that there had been any improper payments.
Mr. Nazarbayev, in the United States in September, appealed directly to Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright to unfreeze the funds. According to people familiar with that conversation, Mr. Nazarbayev said that Mr. Giffen had done nothing wrong, that the money in the frozen accounts belonged to Kazakhstan and that the United States lacked a basis for its investigation.
Dr. Albright, who met with Mr. Nazarbayev in New York as part of a series of brief sessions with foreign leaders during a United Nations conference, listened but made no offer to intercede, American officials said.
Mark J. MacDougall, a defense lawyer for Mr. Giffen, said the oil company payments were not under-the-table bribes but payments openly negotiated in contracts related to concessions in the rich offshore Caspian region.
"The Caspian transactions were documented in broad daylight by some of the most prominent law and accounting firms in America," said Mr. MacDougall, a partner at Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld, a Washington law firm.
Those transactions are at the core of oil development here, as Kazakhstan takes its place as a major oil-producing nation. In July, a group of oil companies announced that exploratory wells driven into the Caspian Sea bed had found heavy flows of oil and natural gas from Kashagan, 50 miles off the west coast of Kazakhstan.
Some estimates suggest that Kashagan could hold twice the reserves of Tengiz, the Kazakh onshore field that is one of the world's 10 largest oil deposits. Mr. Giffen said Kazakhstan, within 15 years, could be producing as much oil as Kuwait -- what he called a "staggering" production figure, 655 million barrels a year according to Oil and Gas Journal.
 
A Cram Course in Civics
"Over the years the president has told me, 'Look, you are my counselor,' " Mr. Giffen said. " 'You are supposed to tell me the truth, even if the news is unpleasant.' I have tried to do exactly that over the years, but I must tell you that delivering unpleasant information to a strong president who is impatient to build a nation is not for the faint of heart."
The two men met in the late 1980's, when Mr. Nazarbayev was in Moscow as a provincial Communist leader and Mr. Giffen was chasing deals throughout the Soviet Union. But they did not forge a close partnership until soon after Kazakhstan declared its independence with the demise of the Soviet Union in December 1991.
Mr. Nazarbayev, presiding over a new nation with vast natural wealth, initially relied on Mr. Giffen to negotiate favorable terms as Kazakhstan began forging deals with Western oil companies.
Mr. Giffen recounted the hours they spent discussing "basic civics" when Mr. Nazarbayev visited the United States in 1992 to get acquainted with American officials. "He had an insatiable appetite for information and a photographic memory," Mr. Giffen said. "We both smoked at the time, and all you could see was a gray cloud."
These days, Mr. Giffen has broadened his portfolio, advising the Kazakhs not only on oil matters, but also on economic planning, education, investments, health care, pensions and communications, often hiring consultants in areas in which he lacks expertise.
How well his lessons in Western ways are sticking is hard to say. Last year, human-rights monitors criticized a presidential election in Kazakhstan because the only credible opposition candidate was barred from running. The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe concluded that Mr. Nazarbayev, who won with a Soviet-style 80 percent of the vote, "staged a flagrantly flawed election which sullied his own reputation and set back the country's flagging democratization."
The transactions unearthed by Justice Department and Swiss investigators also raise questions about how the business of state is conducted in Kazakhstan. According to a formal request for assistance filed under a treaty between the United States and Switzerland, the Justice Department says that on March 19, 1997, Amoco Kazakhstan Petroleum, one of the companies involved in the big offshore project in the Caspian Sea, transferred $61 million from Bankers Trust in New York in two payments to account 1215320 at Credit Agricole Indosuez, a bank in Geneva. (The Amoco unit is now part of BP.)
Three days later, the document says, Mr. Giffen and Kazakh officials began a series of what the United States government says were illegal transfers from Kazakh treasury accounts into private accounts benefiting several Kazakh leaders.
On May 21 of that year, the document says that Mr. Giffen transferred about $34.5 million to a Swiss account of a company called Tulerfield Investment Inc. According to the filing with the Swiss, Tulerfield, a shell corporation registered in the British Virgin Islands, was established for the benefit of Mr. Balgimbayev, the head of the Kazakh state oil company.
About the same time, the document says, Mr. Giffen was the intermediary in the transfer of $29 million from a numbered account at Credit Agricole to another account at the bank set up for Hovelon Trading S.A., a company registered in the British Virgin Islands that the Justice Department said "appears" to have been established for the benefit of Mr. Giffen.
From that $29 million, the document says, Mr. Giffen authorized several other fund transfers:
* The account of a British Virgin Islands company called Orel Capital Ltd. received $12 million. The company, the document said, appears to have been set up for the benefit of Semrek, a Liechtenstein foundation whose "principal economic beneficiary" appears to be Mr. Nazarbayev.
* Orchard Holding Ltd., an account created for the benefit of Brisa Inc., a company it says benefited Mr. Balgimbayev's daughter, Samal, received $8 million.
* The account of Pio Ltd., a British Virgin Islands company established for the benefit of another Liechtenstein foundation, received $6 million. The document says the foundation appeared to benefit Mr. Kazhegeldin, the current opposition leader, who said he was forced from office as prime minister by Mr. Nazarbayev's allies in 1997.
Mr. Kazhegeldin said that neither he nor any member of his family had access to these funds. The money, he added, was placed in a standing account under his control only because he held the prime minister's title, and he tried to return it. Mr. Kazhegeldin said the transaction was an attempt by Mr. Nazarbayev's allies to entrap him in a corrupt scheme -- an accusation that Mr. Nazarbayev's followers dispute.
Mr. MacDougall did not deny that the transfers occurred, but said the government had misinterpreted them.
"The payments by U.S. oil companies were deposited into escrow accounts and disbursed solely at the direction of senior officials of the Republic of Kazakhstan," he said. "That money has not disappeared and was used to fund proper Kazakh government activities or is still on deposit in the banks in Switzerland."
Spokesmen for the oil companies would not discuss the transfers in detail. Some said the companies understood that their payments were made to Kazakh treasury accounts and were unaware of any subsequent transfers to private accounts.
According to bank records obtained by The New York Times, money from some of the accounts was used for what appear to be legitimate purposes, paying geologists, lawyers, public relations consultants and other American advisers to the Kazakh government.
Other financial records suggest that nearly $1 million was spent on personal items, although the records do not show who gave or received these items. Kazakh officials said many of the purchases were made by the government as official gifts for overseas dignitaries.
Mr. MacDougall said that neither he nor Mr. Giffen would discuss the details of these transfers.
 
The Growth of an Inquiry
The events that spawned the Justice Department investigation appear to have begun in 1999, when the Kazakh government itself began investigating Mr. Kazhegeldin, the former prime minister. Kazakh officials contacted the authorities in Belgium, where they apparently believed that Mr. Kazhegeldin had financial holdings, and Belgian investigators later sought the assistance of the Swiss, who froze more than $100 million in Kazakhstan-related accounts.
Swiss officials began their own inquiry. In January, they notified American prosecutors about what they regarded as a pattern of suspicious transactions involving American and European oil companies' dealings with Kazakhstan.
That prompted the Justice Department to start yet another investigation, which came to light in June, when federal prosecutors filed a formal request with the Swiss magistrate investigating the matter, Daniel Devaud. The United States request asked the Swiss to freeze certain bank accounts and turn over records about them.
To American law enforcement officials, the existence of off-the-books accounts and payments to offshore corporations and Liechtenstein foundations are glaring signs of possible corruption. Nonetheless, American officials and defense lawyers alike said that prosecutors might have problems ever bringing a case under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other statutes.
To do so, they said, would require proving that the oil companies, the Kazakh officials and Mr. Giffen all knew and had agreed that the payments were bribes tied to winning oil concessions -- a difficult evidentiary hurdle. Moreover, each of the oil deals at issue was monitored by lawyers at every stage, and the payment of signature bonuses -- as the transactions are described by all the parties -- is, indeed, customary practice in the oil business.
"If in fact Mr. Giffen is transferring funds at the request of a foreign government, it is hard to see how that kind of authorized conduct could violate the act, no matter who ends up receiving the funds," said Gregory Husisian, a Washington lawyer who has written extensively on the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
So far, the American investigation does not appear to have moved beyond an effort to analyze financial information about the transactions with Kazakhstan. Federal law enforcement officials said they were hunting for a breakthrough document or a witness willing to provide evidence of a violation -- without which there is unlikely to be a case.
 
Adapting to a New Era
Mr. Giffen's emergence as a powerful figure in Kazakhstan came after more than three decades of trying to promote American trade in the Soviet Union. He turned his thesis from the University of California at Los Angeles School of Law into a book, "The Legal and Practical Aspects of Trade with the Soviet Union," and began his international business career working for a minerals trading firm. By the early 1970's, he was a vice president of a subsidiary of Armco Steel, later bought by AK Steel, that sold oil-field equipment in Russia and other countries.
He soon emerged as a close associate of Armco's president, C. William Verity Jr., a longtime advocate of increased trade with the Soviet Union. In the late 1970's, Mr. Verity became chairman of the United States-Soviet Trade and Economic Council, a group that sought to persuade the governments of both countries to relax trade restrictions; a decade later, he served as commerce secretary in the Reagan administration.
The president of the trade council from 1978 to 1980, Michael V. Forrestal, also became Mr. Giffen's friend. (Mr. Forrestal, a senior partner at the Shearman & Sterling law firm in New York and a former member of the senior staff of the National Security Council, died in 1989.) Even today, the firm continues to benefit from the relationship, as one of Kazakhstan's principal legal advisers on oil and gas development deals.
Mr. Giffen's projects were buffeted by the ebb and flow of American-Soviet relations. In 1979, he was in Paris celebrating his biggest triumph, a contract for a $350 million steel plant in Russia, when President Jimmy Carter canceled the deal in reaction to the Soviet Union's invasion of Afghanistan.
But Mr. Giffen said he never abandoned his enthusiasm for global trade. "I was trying to change the world," he said.
His efforts brought him into frequent contact with Washington policy and intelligence circles. He helped the Carter administration enlist American companies to support Senate ratification of SALT I, the strategic nuclear arms reduction treaty. He got to know Robert S. Strauss, who later became the American ambassador to Moscow. After his tenure there in 1991 and 1992, Mr. Strauss returned to his position as a senior partner at Akin, Gump, the law firm that represents Mr. Giffen in Washington.
Like many other American executives overseas, he long maintained an informal relationship with the Central Intelligence Agency, mainly responding to inquiries about oil and gas matters, he said.
"Since I have become counselor to President Nazarbayev, I do not meet with U.S. government officials unless requested by the government of Kazakhstan," Mr. Giffen said. "Of course, I have met U.S. officials for years at functions where both government and private-sector representatives participate."
In May 1984, Mr. Giffen left Armco to open the Mercator Corporation; it started operations with a five-year contract with Armco. The board included Mr. Verity, the former Commerce Secretary Juanita M. Kreps and the former Treasury Under Secretary Robert V. Roosa.
Still trying to promote business activity, Mr. Giffen helped devise the American Trade Consortium and sought out Chevron and other companies, like Ford Motor, Johnson & Johnson and Kodak, to open new markets for United States companies in the Soviet Union.
That idea collapsed with the Communist regime, but Chevron did enter into a joint venture with Kazakhstan to develop the Tengiz oil field in 1993 -- an onshore project in western Kazakhstan that first vaulted this newly independent nation into Westerners' view. Even before that deal was completed, Mr. Giffen negotiated a fee from the company for what Chevron officials said was his early role in the Tengiz deal.
Under the terms of the agreement with Chevron, Mr. Giffen would no longer perform services for the company but would receive a small percentage per barrel of all of Chevron's oil pumped from the field for about a decade. Neither Mr. Giffen's lawyers nor the company would discuss details.
Today, signs abound in Almaty of Kazakhstan's opening to the outside world. Chevron, ExxonMobil and other companies support an American Little League here, managed by one of Mr. Giffen's chief lieutenants. Grocery store clerks swipe Visa cards at crowded checkout lines. The only time that an American executive is likely to see a yurt, the traditional banner-draped nomadic tent, is on a visit to the gleaming Hyatt Regency hotel, where one has been erected over the circular atrium bar.
It is a scene that gives great satisfaction to Mr. Giffen, who recalled forging his alliance with Mr. Nazarbayev by pledging to place his talents at Kazakhstan's disposal.
"I said, 'Let's go, boss; let's build a country,' " Mr. Giffen said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: December 24, 2000, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about James H. Giffen, an American businessman who advises the government of Kazakhstan, misstated the name of the mountain range that dominates the Kazakh city of Almaty. It is the Zailiski Alatau, not the Altai.

GRAPHIC: Photos: James H. Giffen, above, in his Manhattan office. He has become an adviser on business and political issues to Nursultan A. Nazarbayev, the president of Kazakhstan. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times); A western Kazakhstan oil field, above, and Almaty, below, the business capital. The oil industry has prospered in the post-Soviet era.(Photographs by Anatoly Ustinenko for the New York Times)(pg. 1); A drilling barge was towed this fall to the Kashagan field, off the Kazakhstan coast in the Caspian Sea. (Anatoly Ustinenko for The New York Times); Nursultan Nazarbayev, the Kazakh leader, met President Clinton at the White House in December 1999. (Reuters)(pg. 16)
 
Chart: "Kazakhstan at a Glance"
As of 1999, except as noted in parentheses.
 
Population: 15 million
Capital: Astana
Gross national product: $18.9 billion
G.N.P. per capita: $1,230
Annual inflation: 8.4%
Total external debt: $7.7 billion
Total direct foreign investment: $1.6 billion (2000 est.)
Trade as percent of G.D.P.: 43%
(Sources: World Bank Atlas, CIA-The World Factbook 2000)(pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KMG (LSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (60%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%); 

COUNTRY: KAZAKHSTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); LIECHTENSTEIN (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CASPIAN SEA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: MERCATOR CORP (60%); JSC KAZMUNAIGAS EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KAZAKHSTAN ; KAZAKHSTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); LIECHTENSTEIN (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CASPIAN SEA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MONEY LAUNDERING; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ETHICS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INVESTIGATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); LAWYERS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); ETHICS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); TRENDS (74%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ENDOWMENTS (72%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (70%); MONEY LAUNDERING (69%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (69%); SHELL CORPORATIONS (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (62%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); HORSE MEAT (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID; GIFFEN, JAMES H BILL CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



452 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1549 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living In/The East Village;
From Mean Streets to Cutting-Edge

BYLINE: By MAGGIE GARB 

 BODY:
IN 1967, when Tom Birchard started waiting on tables at Veselka, a Ukrainian diner on Second Avenue at Ninth Street, the East Village was a somewhat battered working-class neighborhood. On summer evenings, children played stickball in the street while adults sat on lawn chairs on the sidewalks or on stoops, chatting with neighbors. There was a club where reputed mobsters met, and there were pawn shops, Italian bakeries, Jewish delicatessens and car mechanics repairing tires and rebuilding motors on the side walk.
"It was pretty quiet during the day, since everybody went to work, but in the evenings there was a real street social scene," Mr. Birchard said. "All that has changed. It's almost a completely different place today." 
 Now an owner of Veselka, Mr. Birchard lives in the East Village with his wife, Sally Haddock, a veterinarian, and their three children. He is one of a handful of residents who has watched the tumultuous changes in the neighborhood that runs from the Bowery and Fourth Avenue to the East River between Houston and 14th Streets.
In the late 60's, rents in the East Village were cheap. Hippies, artists and musicians moved into run-down tenement apartments. Jazz clubs and coffeehouses sponsoring poetry readings and evenings of folk music began appearing. But by the mid-70's, as the city's economy bottomed out, the neighborhood fell on hard times.
"All that optimism disappeared, almost overnight," Mr. Birchard said. "The neighborhood became crime and drug ridden. It was a dangerous place for quite a few years."
Twenty years later, the neighborhood changed again as drug sales and crime disappeared and college students, followed by affluent young professionals, began renting and buying apartments.
"It's been a lot of years since I heard of anybody getting mugged, and the drug problem is vastly improved," Mr. Birchard said.
Though the Russian and Turkish Baths are still open on 10th Street, many of the old bakeries and Russian coffeehouses have been replaced by restaurants, bars and boutiques that cater to a younger, hipper crowd. Along the avenues and side streets there are tattoo parlors, cybercafes, vintage clothing stores and shops selling every style of lingerie.
The neighborhood continues to attract artists, actors and musicians. It is home to some of the city's cutting-edge performance spaces, including P.S. 122, the New York Theater Workshop and the WOW Cafe. St. Mark's Church-in-the-Bowery, the Episcopal church at the corner of Second Avenue and 10th Street, has provided a home for the experimental theater work of Richard Foreman since the late 60's. The church also provides office and performance spaces for dance and poetry organizations.
"The church is very supportive of the arts," said the Rev. Julio Torres, priest in charge at St. Mark's. "The space is constantly used for rehearsal or dance performances or poetry readings. The neighborhood has changed a great deal. It has grown much more expensive to live here, but the arts have stayed on."
In 1996, police removed about 100 squatters who had lived in long-neglected city-owned tenements on 13th Street for more than a decade. Such abandoned spaces would be hard to find today. Building owners, aware of the growing demand for apartments in lower Manhattan, began raising rents and converting tenements to co-ops and condominiums about five years ago.
Prices for co-ops and condominiums have quadrupled since 1996, said Jordan Gitterman, an owner of Magnum Realty, which specializes in East Village properties. Though most buildings in the neighborhood remain rental, condominiums are going on the market with prices ranging from $250,000 for one bedroom to $450,000 for three bedrooms.
"Before this big swing in the 90's, this was a pretty rough area," Mr. Gitterman said. "There are still some rough blocks, but it has changed from a low-income area to a trendy, hip area for young people."
One recent condo conversion is a 20-unit building on East Fourth Street, between Avenues B and C. The building's history encapsulates much of the neighborhood's last hundred years. Built as a church rectory in the early 20th century, the building was later sold and used as a yeshiva for Eastern European boys. It was vacated sometime in the late 60's, reopened as an arena for amateur boxing matches 10 years later and then was boarded up until it was sold to Urbatech Designers and Builders in 1989, said one of the company's owners, Yoram Finkelstein.
Urbatech renovated the building and put the apartments on the market in the early 1990's, but found no buyers. "We had an ad in the paper in the early 90's, and people would call and hear it was on Avenue C and they would just hang up," Mr. Finkelstein said.
AFTER renting the apartments for a decade, the company put the apartments on the market again in September and sold more than half in two months. Prices run from $340,000 for two bedrooms, to $380,000 for a one-bedroom unit with a roof terrace to $425,000 for a three-bedroom unit, he said.
Even more surprising to many longtime residents is the steep rise in rents in the last five years. Apartments that rented 10 years ago for $500 or $600 now go for two or three times that. Studio apartments rent for $1,300 to $1,400, one-bedrooms go for $1,700 to $1,800 and two- and three-bedroom apartments run as high as $3,000, said Jack Bick, owner of Charaton Realty.
"If you want to live in the East Village, you better be prepared to pay a lot of money," he said. "The only way to get anything for under $1,000 is to share a bedroom."
He and other area brokers attribute the rapid rise in rents to New York University students who began flowing into the neighborhood in the mid-90's. Most of the neighborhood's apartments fall under the city's rent regulation laws, which generally permit landlords to raise rent by 20 percent for new tenants, and the rapid turnover in student tenants has propelled rents upward. Since students tend to stay in apartments for just a couple of years, landlords can raise the rent when the students graduate and move on.
"By their third and fourth year in college, all the students want to live in the East village," Mr. Bick said. "And Mommy and Daddy say, 'O.K., we'll foot the bill.' "
N.Y.U. currently owns two buildings in the neighborhood: a large performance and classroom building on Second Avenue and a dormitory for 84 students on Seventh Street, said an N.Y.U. spokesman, John Beckman.
Not everyone is pleased with the changes in the neighborhood. Many longtime residents and recent immigrants are finding it difficult to find affordable housing in the East Village. Even some of those living in rent-regulated apartments are feeling the pressure.
"We've seen a lot of people who are priced out or pushed out," said Melissa Aase, program director for Project Home, a nonprofit housing advocacy group based at the University Settlement, a community center on Norfolk Street. "New landlords knowing they can get much higher rents are using extreme tactics to encourage people to leave regulated apartments."
Ms. Aase's organization has worked with tenants in 10 East Village buildings in the past two years. In each case, landlords were pressuring tenants to move out of rent-regulated apartments, she said. Sometimes the building owners withheld repairs, other times they turned off the heat, and some sued to evict tenants in Housing Court.
"An eviction case is the easiest thing," Ms. Aase said. "If people are Cantonese-speaking or Spanish-speaking, it's easy to take them to court. They often don't know what their rights are, and they don't have legal representation."
Until recently, the East Village's public schools were considered an obstacle to improving the community. The neighborhood falls within District 1, which is the smallest in the city. Its schools, built for the vast numbers of eastern and southern European immigrants flowing into the neighborhood in the early 20th century, were left half empty in the early 70's.
But a new district superintendent, the opening of a handful of charter schools and the arrival of some highly motivated educators have transformed several of the neighborhood's elementary schools. Among the standouts are the Children's Workshop School, founded by a group of teachers in 1993, which mixes students of different ages and abilities and uses literature instead of reading textbooks; the experimental Earth School, opened in 1992, where children learn, in the words of "The Parents' Guide to New York City's Best Public Elementary Schools," by Clara Hemphill, "ecocentrism, recycling, healthy habits and peace"; and the Neighborhood School, which uses no textbooks.
Ms. Hemphill also highlights P.S. 19, which features a variety of special programs in the performing and visual arts, along with an alternative program in which English- and Spanish-speaking students share a classroom and are taught intensely in both languages. All of the schools run from prekindergarten to grade six. None require entrance exams.
"We integrate the arts as a natural part of the school day," said P.S. 19's principal, Ivan Kushner. "This community has a lot of people who are interested in the arts, and so we use that in our program."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: December 24, 2000, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about living in the East Village misstated the name of a real estate agency. It is S. Charatan Realty, not Charaton.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Second Avenue between Seventh and Eighth Street in the East Village, which now draws a younger crowd.; The south side of Seventh Street between Avenue A and First Avenue; Tompkins Square Park; St. Mark's Church-in-the-Bowery. (Photographs by Frances Roberts for The New York Times); On the Market: 2-bedroom 625-square-foot co-op at 546 East 11th Street, $329,000.; 2-bedroom, 2-bath condominium at 217 East Seventh Street, $535,000.; 2-bedroom, 2-bath condominium at 175 East Second Street, $849,000.
 
Chart: "GAZETTEER"
POPULATION: 64,756 (1997 estimate).
AREA: 0.65 square miles.
MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $34,201 (1997 estimate).
MEDIAN PRICE OF A TWO-BEDROOM CONDOMINIUM: $450,000.
MEDIAN PRICE ONE YEAR AGO: $350,000.
MEDIAN PRICE FIVE YEARS AGO: $150,000.
MIDRANGE RENT ON A TWO-BEDROOM APARTMENT: $1,500.
MIDRANGE PRICE ONE YEAR AGO: $1,200.
MIDRANGE PRICE FIVE YEARS AGO: $900.
GOVERNMENT: City Councilwoman Kathryn E. Freed, Democrat.
CODES: Area, 212, 646, 917; ZIP, 10009.
STUYVESANT'S FARM: Much of the western section of the East Village was once a farm owned by Peter Stuyvesant, the Dutch director general of the New Netherland colony in the 17th century. A harsh and autocratic ruler, Stuyvesant surrendered the colony to England in 1664. According to the American Institute of Architects Guide to New York City, Stuyvesant's country house sat roughly at the intersection of 10th and Stuyvesant Streets. The Bowery -- or Bouwerie, Dutch for plantation -- ran along the southwestern edge of Stuyvesant's estate. Stuyvesant is buried in a vault in the cemetery of St Mark's Church-in-the-Bowery, which stands on the site of what once was the Stuyvesant family chapel at the corner of Second Avenue and 10th Street.
 
Map showing the location of The East Village.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (90%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ENGLAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (59%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (59%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; EAST VILLAGE (NYC); UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (90%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ENGLAND (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES REAL ESTATE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (87%); RETAIL BAKERIES (76%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (76%); RETAILERS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); DRINKING PLACES (71%); TATTOO PARLORS (71%); JAZZ & BLUES (71%); ORGANIZED CRIME (71%); MUSIC (71%); TRENDS (69%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (68%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (66%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (66%); POETRY (65%); THEATER (64%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (64%); THEATER & DRAMA (64%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (63%); 

PERSON: GARB, MAGGIE TOM BIRCHARD (80%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



453 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 2918 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE;
It's History Now, So Shouldn't Modernism Be Preserved, Too?

BYLINE: By HERBERT MUSCHAMP 

 BODY:
GOT solidarity? It can be useful. For example, you can prepare mailing lists. Meet interesting people. Enjoy scintillating conversations. Go on crusades. Wage wars. Offer hope to the despairing. Leave the world a better place. Build a Golden Age. And you will never feel lonesome again.
Many American architects yearn for a sense of common purpose beyond competing with one another for the next job. Or so they say. Many profess fatigue with spinning in isolation within their solipsistic spheres. Do they mean it, or are they just being sentimental? Quite a few look back with longing to the mid-20th century as a blissful time of shared conviction and optimism. But was the optimism of the Modern Movement soundly based? Is a return to shared conviction at all desirable? 
 An opportunity has arisen to examine the issue of solidarity among architects today. It is my pleasure to report on Docomomo, an international group of architects dedicated to conserving modern buildings and studying the ideas embodied by them. That description sounds innocent enough. Who's against preserving buildings and studying history? But in fact Docomomo is beginning to change the landscape of American architecture. It is forging a bond between two groups that up to now have been opposed: historic preservationists and enthusiasts of modernism.
Founded in 1990 in the Netherlands, Docomomo now has chapters in 40 nations. The name derives from "Documentation and Conservation of Buildings, Sites and Neighborhoods of the Modern Movement. There are chapters in New York, Chicago and San Francisco. Activities vary from chapter to chapter.
Early on, Docomomo was mainly concerned with preservation techniques. Modern buildings use innovative technology. Things break. Parts wear out. Materials age. Mechanical systems become obsolete.
Ideas wear out, too. The poor condition of modern buildings was not solely due to physical obsolescence. It also reflected the disarray of Modernism as a culturally progressive international movement. Should this be repaired as well? Is it possible to preserve individual buildings and ignore the ideas behind them?
It was a short step, in other words, from technology to ideology. Docomomo could not avoid taking it. Hubert-Jan Henket and other founding members of the group regard modern architecture as a living tradition within which they themselves practice. For them, modernism does not represent a style, a period or a formalist proposition. It represents the belief that buildings have an active role to play in shaping the cultural values of their time.
Docomomo is a grass-roots organization. It is mercifully untainted by formal affiliations with the schools, museums and other cultural institutions that in recent years have frozen the life out of architecture in the United States. The New York chapter, or working party, meets monthly at various locations. The chapter (its e-mail address is docomomo_ny@hotmail.com.) puts out a newsletter four times a year, alerting members to endangered sites and reporting on new books, lectures, conferences, exhibitions and other events. Members lobby building owners and public officials and are frustratingly unaggressive in seeking media coverage.
The group's international dimension is critical. In the last decade, Docomomo has sponsored international conferences every two years. The locations have included Stockholm, Brasilia and the Bauhaus in Dessau, Germany. For these events, members prepare and discuss papers on technical, aesthetic, social and ideological issues. The next international conference will be in Paris in 2002. The group maintains a register of landmark sites throughout the world. ("Docomomo: A Selection From the Register," edited by Dennis Sharp and Catherine Cooke, has just been published, in English, by 010 Publishers in Rotterdam.)
The main challenge facing Docomomo is public education. The group is not seeking to resurrect modern shapes, urban concepts or the modern infatuation with machines. It intends, rather, to restore the modern attitude that architecture is an art of saying serious things to thoughtful people: an art of relating the history of places to the history of ideas from a contemporary perspective.
In no other country does Docomomo face greater ideological obstacles than in the United States. This should not be surprising. In no other country has modern architecture been so thoroughly reviled as the enemy of history. At the same time, no other country holds history itself in greater contempt. There's a conflict here.
Never was the conflict more apparent than in the years when the United States skyline was dominated by postmodern architecture, preservation's wanton, illegitimate child. In the name of history, postmodern architects threw history out the window. In the name of tradition, postmodern architects shredded that, too. With what glee they toasted the demolition of the Pruitt-Igoe housing complex in St. Louis as the unofficial end of the Modern Movement. What the postmodernists were celebrating was not the failure of a particular project. They were proclaiming victory over history itself.
Docomomo is calling these folks to account. Across the country, American cities are beginning to reckon with the destructive consequences of the postmodern spree: The detachment of architecture from the realm of ideas. The subordination of architectural to commercial values. The transformation of cities into theme park versions of themselves. The good buildings that have gone unbuilt because preservation has absorbed much of the energy that once supported the idea of architecture.
YET it is thanks to preservation that the moment of reckoning has arrived. Many modern buildings have become eligible for landmark status in recent years. Their eligibility is compelling preservationists to open their minds to modern architectural values. In New York, the group of buildings singled out for additions, alterations or possible demolition includes the theaters and public spaces of Lincoln Center; the United Nations Headquarters; 2 Columbus Circle; the Hall of Science in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park; the Corning Glass Building on Fifth Avenue; Chatham Towers on the Lower East Side; and the Summit Hotel on Lexington Avenue at 51st Street. These buildings all fall within Docomomo's radar.
Informed decisions about their fate will require more than the usual factors considered in assessing buildings for landmark designation, like style, aesthetic merit or historical significance. They will have to be based in part on a fundamental rethinking of preservation itself. Preservationists will no longer be able to regard modern architecture as the enemy, the wrecking ball of all things lovely. Nor will they be able to regard their task as the conservation of objects and ideas distant from themselves.
Docomomo, itself a preservation group, seeks not only to protect modern buildings from being wrecked but to understand why these buildings were created. They ask us to reckon with the impact of the preservation movement, itself now an integral part of our history. And they invite us to consider how our relationship to the past has clouded our view of the present. Don't trust anyone who tries to tell you we're not entering new territory.
In October, I went to Chicago to speak on a panel organized by the local chapter of the American Institute of Architects. The event was called "Where in the World Is Chicago?" The subject was the state of architecture in a city beloved by all who care about that art form. I suspect that some A.I.A. members were counting on me to come in and make trouble -- belt out the famous Things Are Awful moan. But I couldn't get my heart into it. There are some terrific projects under way in Chicago, buildings by Gehry, Piano and Koolhaas. On top of that, I was staying at the most marvelous hotel.
You'll lose the blues at the Burnham. The hotel is in the old Reliance Building, across from Marshall Field's in the heart of the Loop. Designed by Daniel H. Burnham and completed in 1895, the Reliance is sometimes described as the world's first steel and glass skyscraper. The building's white terra-cotta facade, set to rhythm by bay windows, stares out from the pages of many books on architectural history. The windows are immense. On the ground floor, the reflections from glass panels two stories high put you into the picture.
Gunny Harboe, chairman of the A.I.A. chapter and vice president of Docomomo/ U.S.A., supervised the restoration of the Reliance, which was completed two years ago. Harboe is an architect with McClier, a Chicago firm specializing in the restoration of historic buildings. He'd suggested I stay at the Burnham but neglected to mention the landmark location. When my taxi pulled up, surprise, surprise.
It is awesome to check into a textbook illustration. This was the second Harboe restoration I've been privileged to see. Eight years ago, he completed work on the Rookery, an extraordinary office building designed in 1888 by Burnham's partner, John Wellborn Root. From the bay window of my eighth-floor room, I could see Louis Sullivan's Carson Pirie Scott department store, a block away. When a train rushed by on the elevated loop, it felt as if Chicago was running in my veins.
On a clear day, you can see modernity -- or much of it -- in quick flashes of time and space. The Burnham looks out on history, not just streets. The panorama sweeps from Joseph Paxton's Crystal Palace, built in London in 1851, to Toyo Ito's Mediatheque in Sendai, Japan, due for completion early next year. That's 150 tasty years. In London, the public eagerly embraces Paxton's industrial solution to the task of showcasing an industrial nation. In Japan, the public awaits Ito's showcase for the age of digital information.
If I were running this hotel, I'd put out a promotional brochure touting the modern views from the Burnham's windows, keeping in mind the contraction of distance and the acceleration of speed that modernity has brought about. They would include:
PARIS. As the art historian Linda Nochlin has observed, the aesthetic of modern architecture and design originated in the principles of 19th-century French Realist painting. Honesty, contemporaneity, truth, directness and authenticity: these are what Nochlin termed the Realist virtues. In 19th-century building, they appeared mainly in the form of engineering. They remain the core ideas for most architects throughout the world today.
VIENNA. The encircling Ringstrasse, a dazzling necklace of historicist paste, produced its own reaction. If ancient Greece, medieval Germany and Renaissance Italy had produced their own distinctive styles, shouldn't the modern era fashion one for itself? Vienna issued its version with the rational city plans of Otto Wagner, the dressed-down buildings of Adolf Loos.
BERLIN. The consolidation of the Realist virtues as an architectural aesthetic takes place here during the Weimar years. The aesthetic crystallizes within the walls of the Bauhaus in nearby Dessau, in a building designed by Walter Gropius and completed in 1926.
CHICAGO. Burnham did a bad, bad thing. After John Root's death in 1891, he turned his back on the native Chicago School and remade the city into a sweet shop for Beaux Arts candy. Louis Sullivan predicted that the 1893 Chicago World's Fair would set American architecture back by 50 years. If you buy this view, then salvation arrived in the person of Mies van der Rohe, who relocated to Chicago in 1938.
BRASILIA. Designed by Lucio Costa and Oscar Niemeyer and begun in 1956, Brazil's new capital city signified the triumphalist phase of the Modern Movement, the era that also produced such civic spectaculars as Chandigarh, India, and the United Nations headquarters. The exaggerated scale of these works enjoyed wide support through the influence of the Congres Internationaux d'Architecure Moderne (or C.I.A.M.), an organization founded in 1928 by Le Corbusier and others.
This heroic phase helped precipitate the collapse of the Modern Movement by detaching architecture from the history of places and isolating its practitioners within the world of ideas. An exciting variety of delightful excursions are available, including: Futurist Milan, Expressionist Berlin, Constructivist Moscow, Cubist Prague, Brutalist London and International Style Tel Aviv, Buenos Aires and Los Angeles. Inquire of the concierge.
This is Docomomo's map. It was initially charted by the architectural historian Nikolaus Pevsner, who first popularized the term Modern Movement in his 1936 book "Pioneers of Modern Design." The term gained even wider currency with two revised postwar editions.
Today, many academics and historians reject Pevsner's Route 66. They deride it as the master narrative of modern architecture, a history told by the victors. This is fair. The map shows how a victorious Modern Movement saw its place in history in the middle of the last century. Much is left out of the picture: vernacular building, residential interiors, military fortifications, prisons and other designs that create, perpetuate or mask hierarchical power relations.
In the United States, however, it is no longer possible to view modern architecture as victorious. Not with all those clouds of publicity stirred up over Celebration, Fla., and other suburban neotraditional towns. The master narrative thus has a new status. It is now a history of the losers. This is a more fascinating and even a more accurate way to look at the modern story. Each spot on the map can be seen as the site of a battle won by the side that lost the war.
SHIFT to immediate foreground. Time: the present day. A block away from the Reliance Building, someone has just put up a Disney replica of it, bay windows and all. Designed by the Chicago firm Booth Hansen, the building will serve as a dormitory for students at the nearby Art Institute.
The fake Reliance has a lineage, too, of sorts. It is neither long nor distinguished. In 1978, the Chicago architect Stanley Tigerman made a photo-collage that depicted Crown Hall, a Chicago masterwork by Mies van der Rohe, sinking beneath the waters of Lake Michigan. The collage was called Titanic. Crown Hall houses the School of Architecture at the Illinois Institute of Technology, where Mies taught after emigrating to Chicago. Mies regarded the steel and glass structure as the supreme embodiment of his aesthetic. For Tigerman, it was "Down With the Old Canoe!"
You had to laugh. At least Tigerman was up-front about his Oedipal ambitions. Alas, in the years that followed, Chicago architects treated their entire heritage as an old canoe. Period pastiche buildings cropped up all over town. The ill-conceived Harold Washington Library Center, for example, designed by Hammond Beeby & Babka, remains the great monument to Chicago's architectural suicide. With the library's completion in 1991, a great city sank.
The fake Reliance is a sign of Chicago's continuing disbelief in its tradition of creative regeneration. It represents an architecture that has been detached from the history of ideas and consigned to the history of commodities. There are many ways to relate the histories of places and ideas, but the fake Reliance happens not to be one of them.
The good news is this: Thanks to a preservation architect, we can appreciate the difference. The vice president of Docomomo made my modern panorama possible. Thanks to Harboe's intervention, I was able to stand inside my own history, a loser's or a winner's history as the case may be. Thanks to Docomomo, preservation is now nullifying the disconnect between past and present that it formerly reinforced.
This will change the context in which contemporary architecture will be seen. It will lend greater weight to the work of architects still working in the Realist tradition: Piano, Richard Meier, Claude Perrault, Rafael Vinoly, Richard Rogers and David Chipperfield, among them.. More important, the change in context will shed light on work by those who challenge that tradition in creative ways: Gehry, Peter Eisenman, Philippe Starck, Koolhaas, Diller & Scofidio, Zaha Hadid, Winka Dubbeldam, Bruce Mau and Greg Lynn. We will not have to trash history to clear the way for the Next Thing. History is rising to support today's risk-takers.
Above all, Docomomo has the potential to raise the public reception of architecture from the economic and political to the cultural plane. This is one of the major challenges now confronting American architecture. We live in relativistic times. And architecture is a deeply subjective matter. One of its glories is that even stupid people get to have an opinion about it. Nowhere is it written, however, that architecture must appeal to the lowest common denominator of taste. Or that there's no difference between an opinion and an informed opinion, educated and uneducated taste, a prejudice and an idea.
Preservation is now being called upon to assert the value of such distinctions. The past cannot provide criteria for judging the future. It does provide ample evidence that architecture is as much about ideas as it is about places, and that places exist in time as well as space. Until I began to learn about Docomomo, I could not have imagined that architectural preservation still had a constructive role to play in the future of the contemporary city. I've changed my mind about that.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: January 14, 2001, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Dec. 17 about the preservation of modern architecture misattributed the design of the Reliance Building in Chicago. It was begun by John Wellborn Root of Burnham & Root and completed after Root's death by Charles B. Atwood for D. H. Burnham & Company; Daniel H. Burnham, Root's partner, was not the designer.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gunny Harboe, an officer of Docomomo, a preservationist group, in front of the restored Hotel Burnham in the Chicago Loop. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times) (pg. 1); Postmodernists hailed the demolition of the Pruitt-Igoe complex in St. Louis as the unofficial end of the Modern Movement. (Associated Press); "The Titanic," Stanley Tigerman's 1978 photo-collage showing Crown Hall, a Chicago masterwork by Mies van der Rohe, sinking into Lake Michigan. For Tigerman, it was "Down With the Old Canoe!" (From "Chicago Architecture and Design, 1923-1993," edited by John Zukowsky (Prestel Publishing) ) (pg. 40)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); NETHERLANDS (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); LAKE MICHIGAN (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DOCOMOMO (ORGN) GOLDEN AGE FISHERIES (58%); MODERN MOVEMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: DOCOMOMO (ORGN) MODERN MOVEMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NETHERLANDS (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); LAKE MICHIGAN (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES HISTORY (91%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); HISTORIC SITES (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (72%); 

PERSON: MUSCHAMP, HERBERT

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



454 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 2;Page 1;Column 2;Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 2918 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE;
It's History Now, So Shouldn't Modernism Be Preserved, Too?

BYLINE: By HERBERT MUSCHAMP

 BODY:
GOT solidarity? It can be useful. For example, you can prepare mailing lists. Meet interesting people. Enjoy scintillating conversations. Go on crusades. Wage wars. Offer hope to the despairing. Leave the world a better place. Build a Golden Age. And you will never feel lonesome again.
Many American architects yearn for a sense of common purpose beyond competing with one another for the next job. Or so they say. Many profess fatigue with spinning in isolation within their solipsistic spheres. Do they mean it, or are they just being sentimental? Quite a few look back with longing to the mid-20th century as a blissful time of shared conviction and optimism. But was the optimism of the Modern Movement soundly based? Is a return to shared conviction at all desirable? 
 An opportunity has arisen to examine the issue of solidarity among architects today. It is my pleasure to report on Docomomo, an international group of architects dedicated to conserving modern buildings and studying the ideas embodied by them. That description sounds innocent enough. Who's against preserving buildings and studying history? But in fact Docomomo is beginning to change the landscape of American architecture. It is forging a bond between two groups that up to now have been opposed: historic preservationists and enthusiasts of modernism.
Founded in 1990 in the Netherlands, Docomomo now has chapters in 40 nations. The name derives from "Documentation and Conservation of Buildings, Sites and Neighborhoods of the Modern Movement. There are chapters in New York, Chicago and San Francisco. Activities vary from chapter to chapter.
Early on, Docomomo was mainly concerned with preservation techniques. Modern buildings use innovative technology. Things break. Parts wear out. Materials age. Mechanical systems become obsolete.
Ideas wear out, too. The poor condition of modern buildings was not solely due to physical obsolescence. It also reflected the disarray of Modernism as a culturally progressive international movement. Should this be repaired as well? Is it possible to preserve individual buildings and ignore the ideas behind them?
It was a short step, in other words, from technology to ideology. Docomomo could not avoid taking it. Hubert-Jan Henket and other founding members of the group regard modern architecture as a living tradition within which they themselves practice. For them, modernism does not represent a style, a period or a formalist proposition. It represents the belief that buildings have an active role to play in shaping the cultural values of their time.
Docomomo is a grass-roots organization. It is mercifully untainted by formal affiliations with the schools, museums and other cultural institutions that in recent years have frozen the life out of architecture in the United States. The New York chapter, or working party, meets monthly at various locations. The chapter (its e-mail address is docomomo_ny@hotmail.com.) puts out a newsletter four times a year, alerting members to endangered sites and reporting on new books, lectures, conferences, exhibitions and other events. Members lobby building owners and public officials and are frustratingly unaggressive in seeking media coverage.
The group's international dimension is critical. In the last decade, Docomomo has sponsored international conferences every two years. The locations have included Stockholm, Brasilia and the Bauhaus in Dessau, Germany. For these events, members prepare and discuss papers on technical, aesthetic, social and ideological issues. The next international conference will be in Paris in 2002. The group maintains a register of landmark sites throughout the world. ("Docomomo: A Selection From the Register," edited by Dennis Sharp and Catherine Cooke, has just been published, in English, by 010 Publishers in Rotterdam.)
The main challenge facing Docomomo is public education. The group is not seeking to resurrect modern shapes, urban concepts or the modern infatuation with machines. It intends, rather, to restore the modern attitude that architecture is an art of saying serious things to thoughtful people: an art of relating the history of places to the history of ideas from a contemporary perspective.
In no other country does Docomomo face greater ideological obstacles than in the United States. This should not be surprising. In no other country has modern architecture been so thoroughly reviled as the enemy of history. At the same time, no other country holds history itself in greater contempt. There's a conflict here.
Never was the conflict more apparent than in the years when the United States skyline was dominated by postmodern architecture, preservation's wanton, illegitimate child. In the name of history, postmodern architects threw history out the window. In the name of tradition, postmodern architects shredded that, too. With what glee they toasted the demolition of the Pruitt-Igoe housing complex in St. Louis as the unofficial end of the Modern Movement. What the postmodernists were celebrating was not the failure of a particular project. They were proclaiming victory over history itself.
Docomomo is calling these folks to account. Across the country, American cities are beginning to reckon with the destructive consequences of the postmodern spree: The detachment of architecture from the realm of ideas. The subordination of architectural to commercial values. The transformation of cities into theme park versions of themselves. The good buildings that have gone unbuilt because preservation has absorbed much of the energy that once supported the idea of architecture.
YET it is thanks to preservation that the moment of reckoning has arrived. Many modern buildings have become eligible for landmark status in recent years. Their eligibility is compelling preservationists to open their minds to modern architectural values. In New York, the group of buildings singled out for additions, alterations or possible demolition includes the theaters and public spaces of Lincoln Center; the United Nations Headquarters; 2 Columbus Circle; the Hall of Science in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park; the Corning Glass Building on Fifth Avenue; Chatham Towers on the Lower East Side; and the Summit Hotel on Lexington Avenue at 51st Street. These buildings all fall within Docomomo's radar.
Informed decisions about their fate will require more than the usual factors considered in assessing buildings for landmark designation, like style, aesthetic merit or historical significance. They will have to be based in part on a fundamental rethinking of preservation itself. Preservationists will no longer be able to regard modern architecture as the enemy, the wrecking ball of all things lovely. Nor will they be able to regard their task as the conservation of objects and ideas distant from themselves.
Docomomo, itself a preservation group, seeks not only to protect modern buildings from being wrecked but to understand why these buildings were created. They ask us to reckon with the impact of the preservation movement, itself now an integral part of our history. And they invite us to consider how our relationship to the past has clouded our view of the present. Don't trust anyone who tries to tell you we're not entering new territory.
In October, I went to Chicago to speak on a panel organized by the local chapter of the American Institute of Architects. The event was called "Where in the World Is Chicago?" The subject was the state of architecture in a city beloved by all who care about that art form. I suspect that some A.I.A. members were counting on me to come in and make trouble -- belt out the famous Things Are Awful moan. But I couldn't get my heart into it. There are some terrific projects under way in Chicago, buildings by Gehry, Piano and Koolhaas. On top of that, I was staying at the most marvelous hotel.
You'll lose the blues at the Burnham. The hotel is in the old Reliance Building, across from Marshall Field's in the heart of the Loop. Designed by Daniel H. Burnham and completed in 1895, the Reliance is sometimes described as the world's first steel and glass skyscraper. The building's white terra-cotta facade, set to rhythm by bay windows, stares out from the pages of many books on architectural history. The windows are immense. On the ground floor, the reflections from glass panels two stories high put you into the picture.
Gunny Harboe, chairman of the A.I.A. chapter and vice president of Docomomo/ U.S.A., supervised the restoration of the Reliance, which was completed two years ago. Harboe is an architect with McClier, a Chicago firm specializing in the restoration of historic buildings. He'd suggested I stay at the Burnham but neglected to mention the landmark location. When my taxi pulled up, surprise, surprise.
It is awesome to check into a textbook illustration. This was the second Harboe restoration I've been privileged to see. Eight years ago, he completed work on the Rookery, an extraordinary office building designed in 1888 by Burnham's partner, John Wellborn Root. From the bay window of my eighth-floor room, I could see Louis Sullivan's Carson Pirie Scott department store, a block away. When a train rushed by on the elevated loop, it felt as if Chicago was running in my veins.
On a clear day, you can see modernity -- or much of it -- in quick flashes of time and space. The Burnham looks out on history, not just streets. The panorama sweeps from Joseph Paxton's Crystal Palace, built in London in 1851, to Toyo Ito's Mediatheque in Sendai, Japan, due for completion early next year. That's 150 tasty years. In London, the public eagerly embraces Paxton's industrial solution to the task of showcasing an industrial nation. In Japan, the public awaits Ito's showcase for the age of digital information.
If I were running this hotel, I'd put out a promotional brochure touting the modern views from the Burnham's windows, keeping in mind the contraction of distance and the acceleration of speed that modernity has brought about. They would include:
PARIS. As the art historian Linda Nochlin has observed, the aesthetic of modern architecture and design originated in the principles of 19th-century French Realist painting. Honesty, contemporaneity, truth, directness and authenticity: these are what Nochlin termed the Realist virtues. In 19th-century building, they appeared mainly in the form of engineering. They remain the core ideas for most architects throughout the world today.
VIENNA. The encircling Ringstrasse, a dazzling necklace of historicist paste, produced its own reaction. If ancient Greece, medieval Germany and Renaissance Italy had produced their own distinctive styles, shouldn't the modern era fashion one for itself? Vienna issued its version with the rational city plans of Otto Wagner, the dressed-down buildings of Adolf Loos.
BERLIN. The consolidation of the Realist virtues as an architectural aesthetic takes place here during the Weimar years. The aesthetic crystallizes within the walls of the Bauhaus in nearby Dessau, in a building designed by Walter Gropius and completed in 1926.
CHICAGO. Burnham did a bad, bad thing. After John Root's death in 1891, he turned his back on the native Chicago School and remade the city into a sweet shop for Beaux Arts candy. Louis Sullivan predicted that the 1893 Chicago World's Fair would set American architecture back by 50 years. If you buy this view, then salvation arrived in the person of Mies van der Rohe, who relocated to Chicago in 1938.
BRASILIA. Designed by Lucio Costa and Oscar Niemeyer and begun in 1956, Brazil's new capital city signified the triumphalist phase of the Modern Movement, the era that also produced such civic spectaculars as Chandigarh, India, and the United Nations headquarters. The exaggerated scale of these works enjoyed wide support through the influence of the Congres Internationaux d'Architecure Moderne (or C.I.A.M.), an organization founded in 1928 by Le Corbusier and others.
This heroic phase helped precipitate the collapse of the Modern Movement by detaching architecture from the history of places and isolating its practitioners within the world of ideas. An exciting variety of delightful excursions are available, including: Futurist Milan, Expressionist Berlin, Constructivist Moscow, Cubist Prague, Brutalist London and International Style Tel Aviv, Buenos Aires and Los Angeles. Inquire of the concierge.
This is Docomomo's map. It was initially charted by the architectural historian Nikolaus Pevsner, who first popularized the term Modern Movement in his 1936 book "Pioneers of Modern Design." The term gained even wider currency with two revised postwar editions.
Today, many academics and historians reject Pevsner's Route 66. They deride it as the master narrative of modern architecture, a history told by the victors. This is fair. The map shows how a victorious Modern Movement saw its place in history in the middle of the last century. Much is left out of the picture: vernacular building, residential interiors, military fortifications, prisons and other designs that create, perpetuate or mask hierarchical power relations.
In the United States, however, it is no longer possible to view modern architecture as victorious. Not with all those clouds of publicity stirred up over Celebration, Fla., and other suburban neotraditional towns. The master narrative thus has a new status. It is now a history of the losers. This is a more fascinating and even a more accurate way to look at the modern story. Each spot on the map can be seen as the site of a battle won by the side that lost the war.
SHIFT to immediate foreground. Time: the present day. A block away from the Reliance Building, someone has just put up a Disney replica of it, bay windows and all. Designed by the Chicago firm Booth Hansen, the building will serve as a dormitory for students at the nearby Art Institute.
The fake Reliance has a lineage, too, of sorts. It is neither long nor distinguished. In 1978, the Chicago architect Stanley Tigerman made a photo-collage that depicted Crown Hall, a Chicago masterwork by Mies van der Rohe, sinking beneath the waters of Lake Michigan. The collage was called Titanic. Crown Hall houses the School of Architecture at the Illinois Institute of Technology, where Mies taught after emigrating to Chicago. Mies regarded the steel and glass structure as the supreme embodiment of his aesthetic. For Tigerman, it was "Down With the Old Canoe!"
You had to laugh. At least Tigerman was up-front about his Oedipal ambitions. Alas, in the years that followed, Chicago architects treated their entire heritage as an old canoe. Period pastiche buildings cropped up all over town. The ill-conceived Harold Washington Library Center, for example, designed by Hammond Beeby & Babka, remains the great monument to Chicago's architectural suicide. With the library's completion in 1991, a great city sank.
The fake Reliance is a sign of Chicago's continuing disbelief in its tradition of creative regeneration. It represents an architecture that has been detached from the history of ideas and consigned to the history of commodities. There are many ways to relate the histories of places and ideas, but the fake Reliance happens not to be one of them.
The good news is this: Thanks to a preservation architect, we can appreciate the difference. The vice president of Docomomo made my modern panorama possible. Thanks to Harboe's intervention, I was able to stand inside my own history, a loser's or a winner's history as the case may be. Thanks to Docomomo, preservation is now nullifying the disconnect between past and present that it formerly reinforced.
This will change the context in which contemporary architecture will be seen. It will lend greater weight to the work of architects still working in the Realist tradition: Piano, Richard Meier, Claude Perrault, Rafael Vinoly, Richard Rogers and David Chipperfield, among them.. More important, the change in context will shed light on work by those who challenge that tradition in creative ways: Gehry, Peter Eisenman, Philippe Starck, Koolhaas, Diller & Scofidio, Zaha Hadid, Winka Dubbeldam, Bruce Mau and Greg Lynn. We will not have to trash history to clear the way for the Next Thing. History is rising to support today's risk-takers.
Above all, Docomomo has the potential to raise the public reception of architecture from the economic and political to the cultural plane. This is one of the major challenges now confronting American architecture. We live in relativistic times. And architecture is a deeply subjective matter. One of its glories is that even stupid people get to have an opinion about it. Nowhere is it written, however, that architecture must appeal to the lowest common denominator of taste. Or that there's no difference between an opinion and an informed opinion, educated and uneducated taste, a prejudice and an idea.
Preservation is now being called upon to assert the value of such distinctions. The past cannot provide criteria for judging the future. It does provide ample evidence that architecture is as much about ideas as it is about places, and that places exist in time as well as space. Until I began to learn about Docomomo, I could not have imagined that architectural preservation still had a constructive role to play in the future of the contemporary city. I've changed my mind about that.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: January 14, 2001, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Dec. 17 about the preservation of modern architecture misattributed the design of the Reliance Building in Chicago. It was begun by John Wellborn Root of Burnham & Root and completed after Root's death by Charles B. Atwood for D. H. Burnham & Company; Daniel H. Burnham, Root's partner, was not the designer.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gunny Harboe, an officer of Docomomo, a preservationist group, in front of the restored Hotel Burnham in the Chicago Loop. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times) (pg. 1); Postmodernists hailed the demolition of the Pruitt-Igoe complex in St. Louis as the unofficial end of the Modern Movement. (Associated Press); "The Titanic," Stanley Tigerman's 1978 photo-collage showing Crown Hall, a Chicago masterwork by Mies van der Rohe, sinking into Lake Michigan. For Tigerman, it was "Down With the Old Canoe!" (From "Chicago Architecture and Design, 1923-1993," edited by John Zukowsky (Prestel Publishing) ) (pg. 40)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); NETHERLANDS (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); LAKE MICHIGAN (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GOLDEN AGE FISHERIES (58%); MODERN MOVEMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MODERN MOVEMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NETHERLANDS (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); LAKE MICHIGAN (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. HISTORY (91%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); HISTORIC SITES (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000



455 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMY & INDUSTRY;
Post Office Is Full of Ideas to Survive an E-Future

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
If snail mail is an endangered species, what happens to the post office?
That is a question that alarms the United States Postal Service, which is watching as the world of mail delivery is transformed before its eyes, thanks to the rapid spread of e-mail messages and other Internet transactions. 
 Its answer -- that the service will join the move to electronic commerce rather than fight it -- has already spurred opposition from some of its competitors in the worlds of postal delivery and electronic transactions. These competitors worry that the post office will use its status as a quasi-governmental body to unfair advantage.
But from the post office's perspective, not only is the move into electronic commerce driven by irresistible economic imperatives, it is as natural an evolution as abandoning the pony express for the mail train, the railroads for airmail.
At its heart, the post office's problem is this: the rapid growth of the Internet, electronic communications and electronic commerce is now eating into its core business, which is delivering first-class mail. The service expects the trend to accelerate, leading to substantial declines in first-class mail volume and huge losses in revenue.
The trend is largely to blame for the revenue shortfall this year, after five years of sound performance, which led the service recently to seek a penny increase in the price of a first-class stamp, to 34 cents. The increase is set for January.
Of the 880 million Social Security checks, tax refunds and other payments delivered last year, 68 percent were sent electronically, depriving the service of $180 million in revenue, according to a report published in September by the General Accounting Office, an investigative arm of Congress.
Mailings by banks to customers dropped 18 percent from 1996 to 1999, another big drain. And more consumers are paying their bills online every year. Bills and bill payments are the most common form of first-class mail, the type of mail the service handles most efficiently and profitably.
Offsetting the decline in first-class mail, online sales of merchandise are expected to increase substantially over the next few years, bringing about a big increase in parcel shipments, many of which could be carried by the post office as priority mail. But the service faces well-established competition from FedEx and United Parcel Service -- not to mention emerging competitors like local messenger and grocery delivery services.
Online sales notwithstanding, it seems likely that for many years at least a quarter of households in the United States will not have Internet access. As a result, the service, alone in the mail-delivery business, will be required to maintain universal first-class service.
Post office studies suggest that total mail volume, 207 billion pieces this year, will grow more slowly than the overall economy and will peak in 2003 at about 216 billion pieces. Then it will decline gradually because of a moderate shift to electronic bill payments and e-mail messages. But most outside experts, the service has reported, suggest a more rapid diversion, also affecting mailings like catalogs and junk mail, reducing total volume to as few as 188 billion pieces by 2008.
"This analysis suggests forces that could threaten the foundations of the business model on which the Postal Service has been built since 1970," the service said in its new five-year strategic plan, presented to Congress in October. "The potential loss of substantial first-class mail volume creates a daunting challenge."
The service is responding with a broad range of e-commerce activities, a few of which have been put in place. These offerings include:
*Electronic payments. A service called eBillPay lets consumers make payments to anyone in the United States, from paying bills to sending a check to a friend or a relative. Payments are scheduled in advance over the Internet, and the money paid is deducted from the consumer's bank account. The service costs $6 a month for up to 20 payments, plus 40 cents for each additional payment; or $2 a month plus 40 cents for every payment. New customers can try the service free for six months by registering at www.framed.usps.com /ebpp/welcome.htm.
*Online mailing. A service called NetPost, not yet ready, will allow mailers to electronically transmit documents, correspondence, newsletters and other mail, along with mailing lists, to the post office. Contractors will then print the documents, insert them in envelopes and mail them. Printing and mailing fees will provide revenue to the post office. Five hundred copies of a two-sided letter with color photographs can be printed and mailed for $900.
 *Electronic postmarks. This service creates a secure electronic time and date stamp for e-mail messages, showing proof that important financial, legal, medical, government and educational documents are delivered. Businesses use the postmarks and pay the post office fees.
 *Certified e-mail messages. This service will provide confidential, ensured delivery of electronic documents to the government, giving legal proof of filing. Organizations like law firms and corporations, which must file forms with the government, are likely to use it.
*Online postage. Stamps are now sold on the Internet. A "virtual store" is planned to sell items like phone cards and stamp albums.
*Shipping services. The post office is creating software to allow shippers to buy postage, make labels, order packaging and track express and priority mail shipments online.
So far, the service can only speculate about how these services will affect its bottom line. By law, the service is supposed to cover its expenses with fees.
This summer, the service told the General Accounting Office that its current e-commerce initiatives had brought in $41.8 million in revenue after expenses of $21.1 million and capital spending of $5.2 million. However, the accounting office said it doubted these estimates were accurate and complete.
But the private-sector purveyors of e-commerce services are not taking the post office's ventures lightly. The Computer and Communications Industry Association, which represents many e-commerce companies, has mounted a vigorous campaign against all government services that compete with its members' services.
The trade association even objected vociferously early this year when the service changed the address of its home page on the Internet from www.usps.gov to www.usps.com, a shift that implied to critics that the post office was masquerading as a private business instead of a government-supported one.
"This change follows their recent pattern of trying to leverage their postal monopoly into the world of e-commerce," said Ed Black, the president of the trade group. "They are in a state of denial that there are any restrictions as to what lines of business are appropriate for a government-sponsored agency." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (58%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (51%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: POSTAL SERVICE (US) UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (58%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (51%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (91%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: POSTAL SERVICE (US) UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (91%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: POSTAL SERVICE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SPECIAL SECTIONS POSTAL SERVICE (92%); POSTAL RATES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TRENDS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (77%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (77%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); TRAINS (68%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (65%); RETAIL SALES (60%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



456 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 23; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Latin America Is Priority On Bush Trade Agenda

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA 

 BODY:
He may not be comfortable discussing unrest in East Timor, or pronouncing the name of the leaders of Turkmenistan, but President-elect George W. Bush considers the rest of the Western Hemisphere "our backyard" and will have several opportunities in his first year in office to make Latin America a trade and foreign policy priority.
During the campaign, Mr. Bush said he would kickstart the stalled process of getting a free trade agreement of the Americas signed by 2005. The agreement would build on the North American Free Trade Agreement, which went into effect in 1994, and would unite 34 of the countries in North, Central and South America into what President Clinton once said would be "the world's largest market." 
 The first order of business would be a bruising battle in a divided Congress over fast-track authority, the legislative tool that Mr. Bush will need to negotiate a comprehensive trade deal. Under fast track, trade deals are brought to Congress for approval only when complete. Congress then votes on the agreement without having the chance to add amendments that suit the needs and wishes of individual members.
"I'd expect that within the first 100 days in office he'll propose approval of fast-track authority," said Sidney Weintraub, an economist at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and a former deputy assistant secretary of state for international finance and development.
Even though Republicans narrowly control the House of Representatives, Mr. Bush will need to reach across the aisle to Democrats for help in getting fast-track authority approved. Mr. Weintraub expects that the need for bipartisan cooperation will provide Democrats an opportunity to attach environmental and labor standards to the bill, although Mr. Bush has made it clear that he does not support such standards if they are too rigidly drawn.
In negotiating a trade deal, Mr. Bush would also have to heed strongly voiced opposition to such side agreements from some Latin American nations, led by Brazil, that fear that labor and environmental standards attached to a trade deal could be used as protectionist shields by American businesses that feel threatened by Latin American competition.
In a campaign speech in Miami in August, Mr. Bush said the Clinton administration dropped the ball on Latin America after losing the legislative battle to win fast-track authority. In the speech, he said that by the time the third Summit of the Americas meets, a fast-track bill will already have been introduced in Congress.
"When the next president sits at the Americas Summit in Quebec next April, other nations must know that fast-track authority is on the way," he said during the campaign.
Although Mr. Bush criticized President Clinton for stalling the drive for a free trade agreement of the Americas, the process has actually been chugging along, though largely out of sight. Negotiating teams have continued to work on technical details, and when trade officials gather in Quebec, a substantial framework for the trade negotiations leading to a 2005 deal will be in place.
"The 2005 date was set at the first Americas Summit in Miami in 1994 and reconfirmed at the second in Santiago," said Richard E. Feinberg, a former senior director of the National Security Council's Office of Inter-American Affairs under President Clinton and now a professor at the graduate school of international relations at the University of California in San Diego. "All the major players remain committed to the 2005 date."
During the campaign, Mr. Bush talked about developing a "special relationship" with Mexico, which is one of the few foreign countries he has ever visited. Referring more broadly to all of Latin America, he said he would "look south, not as an afterthought but as a fundamental commitment of my presidency."
As governor of a border state, Mr. Bush has had a front-row seat on the expansion of international trade, and the effect on Texas has been substantial. According to a recent study by the Council of the Americas, Texas exports to Mexico have more than doubled since Nafta came into force in 1994.
Mr. Bush will not have to worry about union opposition to new international trade deals as much as Vice President Al Gore would have, but there is a segment of the Republican Party that has become increasingly protectionist and could complicate any trade deal. That could force Mr. Bush to take a page from Mr. Clinton's playbook and cast increased trade in political and strategic terms, as Mr. Clinton did in winning a trade vote on China.
Mr. Bush had promised to meet with Mexico's president, Vicente Fox Quesada, even before Mr. Fox was inaugurated on Dec. 1, a signal that the administrations of both countries, starting at roughly the same time, would work in tandem to resolve common problems like illegal immigration, illicit drugs and environmental pollution. Because of the extraordinary delays in the American election, the meeting never took place, but Mr. Bush sent a congratulatory message to Mr. Fox on the day of his inauguration.
Mr. Fox has already taken a pre-emptive lead on some of these areas. During the summer he visited Mr. Clinton and both presidential candidates, and talked freely about his ideas for deepening Nafta and taking measures to reduce barriers that prevent Mexican workers from entering the United States to find work.
Mr. Fox's ideas were not warmly embraced by either Democrats or Republicans, and a close relationship with him and Mexico could put Mr. Bush into a difficult position with members of his own party.
"He will, as he said, have a 'special relationship' with Mexico, but the question now is what kind of relationship will it be," said Larry Birns, director of the Council on Hemispheric Affairs in Washington, who supported Mr. Gore. "Here is where a Bush presidency might run into real trouble."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: George W. Bush is expected to seek fast-track rules for trade bills from Congress. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (95%); TIMOR-LESTE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); TURKMENISTAN (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (90%); CANADA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA; LATIN AMERICA (95%); TIMOR-LESTE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); TURKMENISTAN (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (90%); CANADA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; SPECIAL SECTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); PROTECTIONISM (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); APPROVALS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (63%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (63%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); DEPALMA, ANTHONY GEORGE W BUSH (93%); BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



457 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: The End of the Imperial Presidency

BYLINE: By Michael Beschloss; Michael Beschloss, author of "Taking Charge," the first volume of a trilogy on the Lyndon Johnson tapes, is also writing a history of the Lincoln assassination.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Since the moment President-elect Bush finished his acceptance speech in Austin on Wednesday night, his allies and advisers have spoken frankly about the limits that the close election and a divided Congress may impose on the new leader's compassionately conservative agenda.
But there is another dimension to this historical moment. Election 2000 marks the end of what the great historian Arthur Schlesinger Jr. once called the "imperial presidency." 
 The grand age of presidential power began in the 1930's with Franklin Roosevelt and started to decline in the early 1970's with Richard Nixon. Although presidential power has been slipping for some time, whoever was elected the 43rd president would have been the first leader to govern fully out of the wake of the imperial age. George W. Bush's ability to navigate this new era could determine the success of his presidency.
The founders never intended to have an imperial president. Always worried about tyranny, they drafted a Constitution that gives a president limited authority and forces him to use his political skills to fight for influence as he squeezes laws out of Congress and prods the American people to think in new ways.
The age that brought us robust presidential authority in place of the arrangement envisioned by the founders was born of domestic crisis. The failure of Herbert Hoover and Congress to shake the Great Depression encouraged Americans to demand that Roosevelt assume unprecedented influence over economic and social affairs. The New Deal's relative success led to a national consensus for centralizing power, and as power flowed to Washington, the executive branch swelled. Before Bill Clinton proclaimed it dead in 1996, the era of big government was a boom time for presidential authority.
During World War II and the cold war, Congress ceded presidents a similar kind of power over our diplomacy and armies. After Pearl Harbor, Roosevelt came as close to being a king of the world as any president will probably ever get, at times exercising secretive and almost arbitrary control over military and diplomatic strategy. Presidents Harry Truman, Dwight Eisenhower, Lyndon Johnson and Richard Nixon managed to wage Asian conflicts without bothering to ask the House and Senate for declarations of war. With a clear and present danger looming over the globe, members of Congress were willing to give presidents the benefit of the doubt -- even though the Constitution told them that the power to make war was not theirs to give up.
Moreover, the cold war was a useful cudgel for presidents in their domestic battles with Congress. Eisenhower argued that an interstate highway system and federal aid to education were essential to national defense. John Kennedy warned that if we did not spend $20 billion (in 1960's dollars) to land an American on the moon, we might lose the cold war. Johnson said that if America did not integrate public accommodations, we would be a bad example to third-world nations in the process of choosing sides between the Americans and Russians.
Another foundation of the strong presidency was more sinister. Presidents routinely, if quietly, used federal agencies like the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Internal Revenue Service and the Central Intelligence Agency for partisan purposes. When Senator Huey Long was poised to challenge F.D.R. for the White House, federal tax agents appeared in Louisiana, ransacking files for compromising information. Eisenhower's chief assistant, Sherman Adams, asked the F.B.I. for damaging files on troublesome Democratic senators. And, during Richard Nixon's tenure, a newspaper columnist or member of Congress with a vulnerable tax return or private life might have thought twice before incurring his wrath.
Presidential power waned after Watergate. And by the time Bill Clinton ascended to the presidency, the office itself scarcely resembled the powerhouse of F.D.R. or L.B.J. Indeed, in 1995, after Mr. Clinton's midterm Congressional defeat brought him low, a reporter at a press conference forced him to tell the nation why he was still relevant.
Still, even Mr. Clinton experienced some of the vestiges of the imperial presidency. He came to power during an economic crisis and amid uncertainty over the fate of Russia. There was the lingering danger that a hard-line regime might take power in Moscow and resume at least a mini-version of the cold war.
George W. Bush arrives in a different historical atmosphere. He will take office without the shadow of domestic or international emergencies. This, of course, is good news. He will be the first incoming president in decades to inherit a surplus, and he will lead the world's only superpower. And although Republicans lost ground in the 2000 election, Mr. Bush will enjoy more party strength in Congress than any Republican president since Eisenhower in 1954.
Presidential strength may have often come from war or economic crisis during the last 70 years. But there are other ways to muster it. One hallmark of presidential effectiveness is how much the leader is in tune with his times. For example, America in the 1930's and 1940's demanded F.D.R.'s activism. In the 1950's, it craved Eisenhower's steadiness and judgment.
As the first truly post-imperial president, George W. Bush has the chance to demonstrate that his pledge to be a healing "uniter" -- made long before the nation experienced the 35 tortuous days that followed the election -- can help to overcome the divisions in Congress and the electorate, the poison in our politics and our rattled nerves.
If he does, he may prove himself a stronger president than anyone might have imagined.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Edel Rodriguez)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); CONSTITUTIONS; WATERGATE AFFAIR EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); COLD WAR (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); HISTORY (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); GREAT DEPRESSION (75%); ARMIES (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); 

PERSON: BESCHLOSS, MICHAEL BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



458 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMY & INDUSTRY;
A Decisive Time in Fights Over Sales Tax

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
The year ahead may well determine whether the state sales tax and its twin, the use tax, will get a makeover to become compatible with the digital economy or, after seven decades of reliably financing state and local governments, will prove to be too rigid to adapt to the changing economic environment. In that case, they may wither.
Sales taxes are the largest single source of revenue for state and local governments, the product of the Depression years when governments were desperate for a reliable source of revenue to pay for schools, policing and other services. Use taxes are the equivalent of sales taxes owed by people who order products from a company in another state that has no physical presence, like a store, in the state where the buyer lives. The selling companies rarely, if ever, notify customers that they owe the use tax, so it is seldom paid. 
 But this year the sales-and-use tax system came under assault from high-technology industries and Internet retailers who lobbied Congress to make the Internet a tax-free zone.
The Internet retailers say there are limits to how much disparity in tax systems they can easily program into their computers and that the disparity is much too great now -- given not only the differences between states but also between some cities and towns with varying rates and exemptions. They also say a tax-free zone is desirable because it will encourage growth of the Internet, which is, in their view, the engine of future prosperity for everyone.
Opposing them are the bricks-and-mortar retailers, who have joined forces with the National Governors' Association and organizations representing legislatures, cities, counties and other governments to seek what they call a level playing field so that the method of making a purchase -- at the cash register, by telephone or over the Internet -- is irrelevant to whether it is taxed. They reject the idea of a tax-free zone in cyberspace, saying that would represent a special-interest benefit for high-technology industries.
Leaders of these organizations also want an end to a system that taxes doughnuts bought one at a time but not when six or more are bought, or that designates a scarf as untaxed clothing in one state but a taxed accessory in another.
Over all, the sales and use tax laws reflect seven decades of tax competition among the states as they sought to gain advantages in economic development through tax rules intended to benefit home industries.
To deal with complaints that the separate state sales tax regimes are a significant burden on business, the National Governors' Association created the streamlined sales tax project. It is trying to set uniform definitions of products and services, rules to limit state sales tax audits and other rules to make individual state systems harmonious.
Harley Duncan, executive director of the Federation of Tax Administrators, an organization of state tax officials, said the issues were so difficult and the interests of the individual states so varied that "we would consider it a success if we could just get agreement among the state tax people in the room."
But success in the political world, he said, demands enactment of any agreement into law. So as early as next month perhaps a dozen state legislatures will be asked to adopt uniform definitions of products and services and make other changes that would start the process of simplifying the sales and use tax regimes of the 45 states that, along with the District of Columbia, impose these taxes.
The immediate goal, Mr. Duncan said, is to have five or six state legislatures act this year, including one or two of the most populous states. That, he said, "is how we have defined success, and we think the prospects for that are reasonable, though certainly not a lock cinch."
Jim Eads, a state tax specialist with Ernst & Young, said that if a few large states adopt streamlining language, others will follow quickly.
"Tax reform happens as a result of someone taking a bold step and the herd following along," he said.
But some business representatives are leery. Dan Kostenbauder, Hewlett-Packard's tax counsel, said at the streamline hearings in September that he feared the project's unspoken motto was "collect more revenue" through new tax rules instead of "simplification is its own reward."
The debate, in fact, is rich with oddities.
The leading advocates of making the Internet a tax-free zone also favor devolution, that is, the idea of reducing the scope of the federal government and relying more on state and local governments -- whose ability to pay for the services they provide depends primarily on sales taxes.
These advocates also support tax competition, but it is this competition that has made the sales and use tax system so complex.
Walter Hellerstein, a University of Georgia tax law professor who is an expert on sales taxes, said one of the project's goals was to "streamline and harmonize" so there was no longer any justification to exempt a merchant in one state from collecting taxes on a sale to someone in another state.
But even if all 45 states with sales taxes and the District of Columbia agree on definitions, that is just the beginning of a new era of problems, Professor Hellerstein said.
"Assume we can agree on uniform definitions tomorrow," he said. "The day after tomorrow we need to have a central organization, to which the states are accountable, to resolve new questions as they pop up about new products, new definitions."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Maybe Not So Inevitable "
Eight states exempt clothing from sales tax -- Connecticut, Massachusetts, Minnesota, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and Vermont. But the rules are so complicated that if you bought a pair of gloves with fur trim priced at $120, with the fur accounting for 55 percent of the value of the gloves, the gloves would still be subject to different treatment in these states.
 
MINNESOTA, PENNSYLVANIA -- Exempt, because fur content is below exclusion threshold.
NEW YORK, VERMONT -- Taxable, because price exceeds $110.
MASSACHUSETTS -- Exempt, because price is below $175.
RHODE ISLAND -- Exempts all clothing.
CONNECTICUT -- Taxable, because price exceeds $50.
NEW JERSEY -- Taxable, based on fur content.
 
(Source: Streamlined Sales Tax Project; Professor Walter Hellerstein, University of Georgia Law School)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; SPECIAL SECTIONS; SALES TAX; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; STATES (US) TAXES & TAXATION (93%); SALES TAX (92%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); RETAILERS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); INTERNET SALES TAX (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); TAX AUDITS (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); CITY LIFE (65%); CITIES (65%); EXECUTIVES (60%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, DAVID CAY DAVID S JOHNSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



459 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 16; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMY & INDUSTRY;
Car Dealers Learn to Tame the Web

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT

 BODY:
Just a year ago, traditional car dealers looked like some of the biggest potential victims of the Internet, a $600 billion slice of American retailing about to be transformed as automakers and Silicon Valley start-ups alike sought ways to bypass the middlemen and sell directly to consumers. But, in a striking example of the resurgence of the old economy, auto dealers have fought back and now increasingly control the selling of cars and light trucks on the Web.
The dealers have survived partly because customers still like to do test drives, partly because dealers were never as inefficient as they appeared and partly because dealers have used their formidable influence with state legislatures and regulators to limit or even shut down efforts to bypass them. 
 "The dealers in general have so much power in the states that they're not going anywhere," said Matthew Bibbo, the senior vice president for automotive operations at iDerive.com, an Internet company set up this year in New York.
The big question now is not who will bypass the dealers, but who will forge the closest alliance with them. Independent Internet companies and automakers are approaching this task with diametrically opposite strategies. Put simply, the Internet companies have good prices but sometimes few vehicles to sell, while automakers' sites have lots of vehicles but often higher prices.
Because of regulatory problems, most of the Internet companies are not trying now to sell vehicles. Rather, they refer customers to dealers and then try to collect a fee from the dealer for the sales lead. Yet many dealers have become reluctant to pay these fees, saying that the leads seldom produce sales. "We have learned that the closing rates on leads we get ourselves are higher," said Ben Hollingsworth, the chairman and chief executive of Group 1 Automotive Inc., a Houston-based chain of 55 dealerships.
As dealers' enthusiasm has waned, customers who come up with their ideal car at an online service often cannot find such a vehicle on dealer lots, Internet experts say.
In response, the Internet companies have been striking deals with established dealership chains. CarsDirect.com, for example, started a year ago as an ambitious effort to buy cars from dealers and resell them nationwide. But it sold a stake last summer to Roger Penske, who controls two big dealership chains, the United Auto Group and Penske Automotive. Those chains now provide many of the vehicles for the online business, which sells them below the sticker price. The automakers have been able to avoid the scourge of independent Internet companies -- inadequate inventory -- by providing online access to the inventories of thousands of dealers nationwide.
"They're able to fix one of the problems with online auto shopping, which is the disconnect between the imaginary vehicles you can configure online and real sheet metal on dealers' lots," said Baba Shetty, a senior analyst at Forrester Research Inc., a consulting company in Cambridge, Mass.
The bane of automakers has been persuading their throngs of dealers to agree on setting any online price for automobiles that is below the sticker price. Lower prices mean lower profit margins for dealers unless the volume of sales can compensate. Many dealers have been reluctant to take that chance, even though only luxury vehicles and a few popular mass-market models are actually sold for their sticker prices.
DaimlerChrysler and a variety of foreign automakers are mostly quoting sticker prices on their Web sites. General Motors and Ford Motor both announced plans last August for sites that would quote lower prices. But both plans, structured as joint ventures with the automakers' dealers so as to meet regulatory restrictions on direct sales by manufacturers, have become bogged down in bickering among dealers.
"We've got almost 8,000 dealers out there, and they've all got a position on it," said Mark Hogan, G.M.'s president for electronic commerce. "We're trying to drive as much consensus as we can."
A precipitous decline in the stock prices of Internet auto retailers, mirroring the broader fall in Internet stocks, has removed some of the sense of urgency about setting up the new venture. "The fact that some of these dot-coms have failed may lure one into a false sense of security," Mr. Hogan said. "There may be some dealers, and maybe some factory people, who believe this thing won't go as fast."
Ford announced in August that its nationwide auto retailing site would be up and running in September, but it was still struggling with regulators and its dealers this month. Randy Ortiz, Ford's executive director for e-business marketing and sales, said the company had calculated that the high costs of the technology made it uneconomical to open the site until it could operate in most states, and obtaining the regulatory clearances had proved slow even with the help of Ford dealers in each state. "It's more complex than most people would believe," Mr. Ortiz said. "None of the laws, either on a federal level or on a state level, were written for e-commerce."
Dealers, auto executives and Internet entrepreneurs say automotive retailing has improved because of the Internet, as dealers have become a little more open about which vehicles they have in stock and the prices they are willing to sell them for. But auto executives worry that the dealership industry is now settling into a contentment that might make it vulnerable to some new, Internet business model. "The unfortunate thing about that is the Internet is not waiting, the consumer is not waiting," Mr. Hogan said. "So we need to pick up the pace."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Simon Richter, left, bought a Toyota online at iDerive.com and picked it up at Sloan Toyota, a dealer in Glenside, Pa. He and Rick Robins, a salesman, examined the car. (Tim Shaffer for The New York Times)
 
Charts: "Just Looking"
Among the 54 percent of American households connected to the Internet, most people have been more willing to do online research on cars than to buy them.
 
Airline tickets
EVER RESEARCHED ONLINE: 35
EVER PURCHASED ONLINE: 19
 
Books
EVER RESEARCHED ONLINE: 31
EVER PURCHASED ONLINE: 30
 
Hotel reservations
EVER RESEARCHED ONLINE: 29
EVER PURCHASED ONLINE: 13
 
Computer hardware
EVER RESEARCHED ONLINE: 24
EVER PURCHASED ONLINE: 13
 
Automobiles
EVER RESEARCHED ONLINE: 31
EVER PURCHASED ONLINE: 1
 
(Source: Forrester Research mail survey in May 2000 of 90,000 online households)
 
Customers who researched automobiles online hesitated to buy them online for a number of reasons, the principal one being the inability to take a test drive.
 
REASONS GIVEN FOR NOT BUYING A VEHICLE ONLINE
 
No test drive: 62%
Uneasy about buying online: 57
Prefer dealer: 46
Service concerns: 38
Trade-in concerns: 26
Financing concerns: 12
 
(Source: Forrester Research Internet survey in August 2000 of 8,200 online households)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GPI (NYSE) (65%); FORR (NASDAQ) (60%); PAG (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS441120 USED CAR DEALERS (65%); NAICS441110 NEW CAR DEALERS (65%); SIC5511 MOTOR VEHICLE DEALERS (NEW AND USED) (65%); NAICS811111 GENERAL AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR (65%); SIC7538 GENERAL AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR SHOPS (65%); SIC5521 MOTOR VEHICLE DEALERS (USED ONLY) (65%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (60%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (91%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GROUP 1 AUTOMOTIVE INC (65%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (60%); PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (91%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING; ADVERTISING; SPECIAL SECTIONS NEW CAR DEALERS (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); STARTUPS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (88%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); SALES & SELLING (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); 

PERSON: ROGER S PENSKE (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



460 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 23; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Argentina's Economy Casts a Shadow

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO

 BODY:
Six years ago, the abrupt devaluation of the Mexican peso sparked what was quickly termed the tequila effect, a loss of investor confidence in all of Latin America. Then, early in 1999, a currency crisis in Brazil led to a phenomenon that some called the samba spillover, similarly affecting regional markets and exchange rates.
Now, there are fears that it may soon be "tango time." As the year ends and Argentina inches toward a bailout accord with the International Monetary Fund, expected to be signed before Christmas, investors and governments throughout the region are increasingly worried that continuing uncertainty about the stability of South America's second-largest economy threatens a remarkable comeback staged by the rest of Latin America and could usher in a new round of austerity and hardship during 2001. 
 Battered by weak growth and exports, the Argentine government has struggled in recent years to maintain the peso's one-to-one link with the American dollar, becoming the region's biggest borrower in the process.
But market pressures intensified when former President Raul Alfonsin suggested early last month that the country suspend repayment of its $123 billion foreign debt, nearly $20 billion of which is due next year.
"How wonderful it would be not to pay it," he said on a popular Buenos Aires radio talk show. "If we were given two years, those $20 billion could be invested, which would make it easier for us to honor our obligations."
Since then, Argentina's credit rating has been downgraded, and concerns about the government's ability to carry out the structural reforms that any I.M.F. accord will require have become epidemic. Combined with political scandals and a slow rebound from last year's recesssion, the result, after just a year in office for President Fernando de la Rua, has been doubts about governability and fears of a devaluation of the peso or even a debt default.
Already, both Brazil, Argentina's main partner in the Mercosur free trade union and by far the largest economy in the region, and neighboring Chile have been affected by the situation. Brazil has bounced back strongly from the crisis that led to its own $41.5 billion rescue agreement with the I.M.F. two years ago: last year it attracted more than $25 billion in direct foreign investment, and it expects to end this year with a growth rate of nearly 4 percent.
But Argentina's delicate situation has contributed heavily to a worrisome slippage of the Brazilian currency. The real has lost nearly 13 percent of its value against the dollar and has in recent weeks been trading at one 52-week low after another, which slows growth by driving up the cost of the imports needed to fuel the country's large and expanding industrial plant.
"We are confronting countervailing winds," Arminio Fraga, the president of Brazil's Central Bank, acknowledged in November. "Maybe next year we will be lucky and oil prices will fall and Argentina will recover." But, he continued: "I don't see agreeable moments for the Argentine economy next year. It's going to be a painful way out" of the crisis for the government, "but it's the only one available."
If Argentina were to try to resolve its situation by dollarizing, as some have suggested, it would be following in the footsteps of Ecuador, which decided in the midst of a severe exchange crisis early in the year to adopt the American currency as its own, in place of the sucre. Under more favorable circumstances but with similar hope of energizing a sluggish economy and attracting foreign investment, El Salvador decided last month to switch to the dollar, a policy that goes into effect on Jan. 1.
As Mr. Fraga indicated, the other big doubt in the region is the cost of oil. Granted, major exporters like Mexico and Venezuela have profited hugely from high prices that are only now beginning to taper off. Record oil revenues -- estimated to total $25 billion by yearend in Venezuela -- for instance, have led to a big turnaround of fortunes there. An economic contraction of more than 7 percent in 1999 in has been followed this year by a return to growth.
Smaller producers like Ecuador and Colombia have also benefited, but, for the rest of the region, oil at an average price this year of more than $30 a barrel has simply meant more problems, from a bigger balance of trade deficit to higher inflation. As a result, the strongest economy in Latin America continues to be Mexico, which benefits not only from increased oil revenues but from its partnership with the United States and Canada in the North American Free Trade Agreement.
Largely because of the possibility of downturns in both the United States economy and oil prices, Mexico's growth rate is expected to slip next year to 4 percent, compared with this year's eye-catching 7 percent. Nevertheless, Mexico's membership in Nafta provides the unfettered access to the American market that others in the region can only envy.
That, in turn, confers great importance on the negotiations between the United States and Latin America regarding the extension of free trade status to the rest of the hemisphere. President Clinton in 1994 pledged that a free trade area of the Americas would be in place within a decade, but even though talks with Chile about a bilateral accord began last week, the crucial regional bargaining will begin only after the Bush administration takes office on Jan. 20.
"The basic and essential issue for us is that all trade barriers be eliminated so that we can have unimpeded, preferential access to the markets of all countries in the region, starting with the American market," Luiz Felipe Lampreia, Brazil's foreign minister, said in an interview. "Without that, obviously, our capacity and willingness to open our own market is not going to increase."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A former president, Raul Alfonsin has spoken of suspending debt repayments. (Associated Press); Uncertainty in Argentina presents a challenge for President Fernando de la Rua. (Associated Press)
 
Graph: "In Many Latin Countries, a Return to Growth"
Real G.D.P. growth in many of the biggest Latin American economies is expected to be slightly higher in 2001 than it was this year.
 
Graph shows figures for Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela from 1996-2001.
(Source: Merrill Lynch)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (90%); 

COUNTRY: ARGENTINA (96%); BRAZIL (96%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (93%); CHILE (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND APCO ARGENTINA INC (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARGENTINA; LATIN AMERICA; ARGENTINA (96%); BRAZIL (96%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (93%); CHILE (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SPECIAL SECTIONS DEVALUATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); CHRISTMAS (70%); TRENDS (68%); POLITICS (67%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (50%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY RAUL CASTRO (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



461 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMY & INDUSTRY;
As Oil Prices Decline, Natural Gas Threatens to Upset the Trend

BYLINE: By NEELA BANERJEE 

 BODY:
How much longer will this go on? That seemed to be the question for everyone who felt the pinch of oil prices this year, as the cost of a barrel of crude shot past $30 in late winter. The price hit $37 in September, the highest since the Persian Gulf war a decade ago, and gasoline prices in the Midwest climbed to more than $2.50 a gallon, igniting consumer outrage and government inquiries. But the stubbornly high price has begun to slip, falling to less than $30 a barrel earlier this month, even with winter bearing down and stocks of heating oil in the Northeast still sharply below last year's levels.
Most analysts now expect the price to descend in the first half of next year, but few think it will slide far below $25. 
 The timing of the shift surprised analysts. "We were expecting the price weakness to come, but not so soon," said Leonidas P. Drollas, chief economist with the Center for Global Energy Studies. "We were saying for some time that the fall could occur at the end of December or the turn of the year. We want to see how long it will go on for."
The gradual, welcome decline in the price of oil could be halted and even reversed, however, by the continually rising price of natural gas. The price of natural gas has quadrupled in the last 18 months, through a combination of high demand and lagging supplies. It does not appear that demand will abate soon: natural gas is used to heat much of the West and Midwest, which are experiencing some of the coldest weather in years, and it will fuel most of the new power plants that are now being built. The federal government has forecast that residential consumers who heat with natural gas will face a 50 percent increase in their heating bills this winter.
As a consequence of the high natural gas price, many industrial consumers and utilities that can use either gas or fuel oil in their processes are switching to oil. Such a trend, if it spreads, may not propel the price of oil very high, but it could certainly buoy it at or near current levels.
The decline in oil prices that is otherwise expected has been months in the making, starting in March, when the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, under pressure from the United States, moved to increase production for the first time since late 1997. Over the year, OPEC raised production four times, lifting output by 3.7 million barrels a day.
But the increase took months to work its way through ports, pipelines and refineries and into inventories of gasoline and heating oil. The full impact of the production rise is only starting to be felt, analysts said. Although heating oil supplies are low, for example, they have been creeping up, which has calmed the oil markets somewhat.
A price dip should come as a relief to countries that consume the most oil. High energy prices have begun to pinch business, and there are indications they have slowed the world economy. When Americans should be splurging on holiday gifts, many are carefully watching their budgets, partly because of the high energy prices.
OPEC, despite relying almost exclusively on oil revenue to prop up its members' budgets, is not entirely against the idea of lower prices. The cartel's de facto leader, Saudi Arabia, has repeatedly stated that a price above $30 is too high and may threaten to set off a worldwide recession. If that occurred, oil demand would plunge and the one-note economies of OPEC would suffer.
But the vast rewards that high prices have rained on OPEC have made the notion of a high price for oil a moving target. Earlier in the year, OPEC oil ministers were saying they would like to see the price fall to $25 a barrel or so, but at the group's last meeting, in Vienna in mid-November, OPEC's secretary general, Rilwanu Lukman of Nigeria, said $30 a barrel was not dangerously high. "Developed countries can afford these prices fairly comfortably," Mr. Lukman said at the time. "This level of price is not exorbitant, nor is it destroying the world economy."
With demand for oil expected to take a seasonal dip in the spring, OPEC is concerned that its production increases this year could produce a glut of crude early next year and send the price tumbling below $25. OPEC's goal next year, as it has been much of this year, will be to keep prices at a level that fattens its economies without stifling demand elsewhere on the globe.
Toward that end, OPEC is likely to begin trimming daily production in 2001. The question of production cuts is expected to be on the table at the group's next meeting, in Vienna starting on Jan. 17. But oil prices are notoriously difficult to micromanage, and OPEC could bungle things badly by acting too quickly or slowly, cutting too much or too little. Experts have said that the traditionally fractious group has varying opinions about cutting production in January. It will still be the dead of winter in the biggest consuming countries. If supplies shrink as a cold snap strikes, the price of oil could skyrocket.
But some OPEC members may be itching to act because they remember what happened in Indonesia in late 1997. The group decided then to increase production, and the Asian financial crisis hit soon thereafter, sending oil prices tumbling. If OPEC acts in January, refiners and consumers will only begin to feel the reduced production in March. For the time being, the trick to keeping oil prices at an "acceptably high" level may rest outside the official framework of OPEC, said Lawrence J. Goldstein, president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation.
Saudi Arabia has taken the lead before to increase production above the official quota allotted to it at OPEC meetings to prevent prices from rising too high. Now "the Saudis will take a look at the market and see where prices are headed and act accordingly," Mr. Goldstein said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "High Oil Prices Start Another Decade "
Although the price of oil remained relatively steady for most of the last decade, it neared its Gulf war high this year.
 
PERSIAN GULF WAR
AUGUST 1990 TO MARCH 1991 -- Iraq invades Kuwait. Oil soars to $40.42 a barrel but falls back near $20 by the time the United States joins the war in January.
 
ASIAN CRISIS
JULY TO DECEMBER 1997 -- Beginning in Thailand, a currency crisis roils Southeast Asian countries, sending their economies reeling and depressing demand for oil.
 
OPEC CUTS PRODUCTION
MARCH 1999 -- Oil-producing nations, led by OPEC, cut production to bolster low prices even as the U.S. economy booms and Asian economies recover.
 
*Near-month futures price for domestic crude oils like West Texas Intermediate.cing nations, led by OPEC, cut production to bolster low prices even as the U.S. economy booms and Asian economies recover.
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets (oil price))

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (93%); ASIA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (93%); ASIA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); MIDWEST USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GAS (FUEL); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); HEATING; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; SPECIAL SECTIONS OIL & GAS PRICES (95%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); TRENDS (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); HEATING OIL (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (83%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (76%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (76%); DESERT STORM (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); POWER PLANTS (72%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (68%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (68%); EXPORT TRADE (50%); 

PERSON: BANERJEE, NEELA

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



462 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMY & INDUSTRY;
Troubles That Lurk Beneath Prosperity's Surface

BYLINE: By RICHARD STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The time to fix the roof, politicians of all stripes have been fond of saying the past few prosperous years, is while the sun is shining.
The sky is now getting a bit cloudy. And if a storm should hit, the economic house could well prove to be leaky. 
 The economy that George W. Bush will inherit when he takes the oath of office as president next month remains fundamentally solid, with low unemployment, relatively stable inflation, rising wages and the benefits of continued advances in technology.
Mr. Bush has an ambitious agenda that he intends to pursue right out of the blocks, including a package of tax cuts that he says could give the economy a boost and keep the slowdown from becoming a recession.
But beyond the ups and downs of the business cycle, Mr. Bush will also confront a number of structural or long-term challenges in the economy. None of them is easily addressed.
*As a nation, America does not save enough. The problem has been reduced in recent years by the emergence of huge federal budget surpluses. Running surpluses allows the government to begin repaying the national debt, which is a form of savings. But the budget surpluses are unlikely to last more than 15 years, if that long, say budget analysts. And in the meantime the personal savings rate has dropped to almost nothing.
*The population is about to become much older. Two factors -- the aging of the baby-boom generation combined with increases in life expectancy -- are about to lead to a surge in the number of retirees relative to the number of people of working age.
The shift will create immense budgetary pressures as the costs for Social Security benefits and Medicare health coverage spike up. It could lead to changes in investment patterns in the stock market as the baby-boom generation moves from saving for retirement into its retirement years. And with the working-age population carrying an ever-bigger economic load, it could make the economy's health even more reliant on continued advances in the growth rate of productivity, or output per worker.
*The country is running huge and growing trade and current account deficits. Although the deficits are in many ways the result of economic strength, they are unsustainable in the long run -- and if they are reversed abruptly, the fallout could include a collapse in the dollar, rising inflation and interest rates and a recession.
*The levels of education and skills possessed by much of the work force are not sufficient to meet the needs of many employers, particularly as companies reach deeper into the labor pool to find workers who do not already have jobs. Without improvements in schools and job-training programs, companies say the economy will be unable to take full advantage of the technological gains that have made the United States so competitive in the last decade.
Some of the issues, especially Social Security and education, were debated in the presidential campaign. Mr. Bush intends to proceed with his plan to create personal savings accounts within Social Security to help strengthen the retirement system's finances. And both parties are intent on providing more money for education, although they differ over how to do it.
None of the long-term problems facing the economy can yet be considered a crisis. Some economists do not even consider imbalances like the current account deficit -- now more than 4 percent of the gross domestic product compared with an average 1.7 percent from 1992 to 1998 -- to be a problem. They say the situation will work itself out as the United States slows to a more sustainable rate of growth and Europe and Japan crawl further out of the economic doldrums.
Likewise, these economists say, the personal savings rate will rise as the stock market cools. With Wall Street no longer viewed as a one-way bet, people will begin to salt away more money in more traditional ways rather than relying on anticipated capital gains for retirement, college tuition or the purchase of a home.
"I don't view low savings and the current account as structural problems, but as a function of prosperity," said James Glassman, an economist for Chase Securities in New York.
But to less sanguine analysts, the nation's long-term problems are real and, in some ways, inextricably linked. The solution, they say, starts with more saving, both by using as much of the projected budget surplus as possible for debt reduction and by encouraging more private savings.
"The public sector is doing most of our saving for us," said Robert E. Litan, director of economic studies at the Brookings Institution, a Washington research organization.
This leads naturally into the demographic challenge.
"If we spend too much of the surplus too soon, then not only will we be ill-prepared to deal with the retirement explosion, we will also perpetuate the chronic trade deficit," he continued. Saving the surplus is essential to minimizing the demographic hit down the road, and to minimizing the current account deficit and the problem we could have in the future with the dollar."
Some economists say the surplus is particularly important because there is no easy way to increase the personal savings rate. The traditional approach -- offering tax incentives, like individual retirement accounts -- has had a mixed record, with many researchers concluding that that approach merely leads to the shifting of existing savings to tax-advantaged accounts rather than to increases in savings.
Similarly, there is no easy way to deal with the trade and current account deficits. Increasing exports would help. But, economically, the more efficient solution would be to increase the pool of domestic capital available for investment -- that is, to save more.
"You want to be sure to pursue policies that maximize free trade, but most economists are more worried about the savings side of the equation," said R. Glenn Hubbard, professor of economics and finance at Columbia University's Graduate School of Business.
Improving the rate of savings is also at the heart of any solution to the costs of an aging population and to shoring up the Social Security and Medicare systems.
One area where policy at the federal and local level can have substantial economic effects is education, many economists say, although there is little agreement between the parties on what that policy should be.
"It's clear to me that if you don't have the skills you need in the work force, that's going to be an obstacle to growth and improving productivity," said Richard Berner, chief U.S. economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter and president of the National Association for Business Economics.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "A Dwindling Savings Rate . . ."
Personal savings, as a percentage of disposable personal income, fell sharply in the 1990's. This year, through October, the savings rate was zero.
 
Graph tracks personal savings from 1980-2000.
 
"An Aging Population . . ."
People age 65 and older will make up a bigger share of the population during the next two decades as the youngest age groups decline in size.
 
65 and over
2001 -- 12.6%
2011 -- 13.4%
2021 -- 16.9%
 
45 to 64
2001 -- 22.7%
2011 -- 26.7%
2021 -- 24.5%
 
18 to 44
2001 -- 39.2%
2011 -- 36.0%
2021 -- 34.8%
 
Under 18
2001 -- 25.4%
2001 -- 23.9%
2001 -- 23.8%
 
"And a Big Trade Imbalance"
The current account balance, a broad measure of the balance of trade and the flow of capital across borders, worsened significantly this year.
 
Graph shows figures from 1980-2000.
(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics; Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SPECIAL SECTIONS BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); INFLATION (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (87%); SAVINGS RATES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (72%); MEDICARE (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); US DOLLAR (71%); PRODUCTIVITY (71%); BABY BOOMERS (70%); AGING (69%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); STOCK EXCHANGES (68%); INTEREST RATES (65%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); STEVENSON, RICHARD GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



463 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 90 words

HEADLINE: 2000 HIGHLIGHTS;
The Fed at a Crossroads

 BODY:
As the year ends, the Federal Reserve is poised to change direction. The next move on interest rates is expected to be down, and the first cut could come as early as January. (Policy makers meet tomorrow but are expected only to shift to neutral their current bias toward higher rates.) Since June 1999, the Fed has raised its benchmark interest rate to 6.5 percent from 4.75 percent. But that was before the economy showed signs of slowing and the Nasdaq composite index fell almost 50 percent from its record high, reached in March.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Federal Funds Target Rate since Jan.
(Source: Federal Reserve)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (88%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; SPECIAL SECTIONS; INTEREST RATES US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); STOCK INDEXES (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



464 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 31; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY & MEDIA;
Rules for AOL Time Warner May Have Only a Narrow Impact

BYLINE: By SETH SCHIESEL 

 BODY:
Amid all the talk last week about how the government's restrictions on the merger of America Online and Time Warner would usher in new competition for high-speed Internet access, one salient fact seemed to be lost: only 12 percent of the nation's homes subscribe to Time Warner's cable service.
So anything that the AOL-Time Warner deal ushers in regarding high-speed Internet service will be directly relevant to fewer than an eighth of the nation's consumers. Anyone, therefore, who thinks that the AOL-Time Warner deal has set a pattern for the nation's broadband Internet industry may end up being rudely surprised. 
 Despite the sweeping predictions of consumer benefits from the Federal Trade Commission's ruling, many things about the future of the high-speed Internet business remain uncertain -- for regulators; for the nation's Internet, telephone and cable television companies; for consumers; and most definitely for AOL Time Warner.
"AOL's done a great job with its technology strategy and getting access to Time Warner's cable systems," said Brian Adamik, president of the Yankee Group, a technology research and consulting firm in Boston. "But they still have 88 percent of the problem to fix."
Scott Cleland, founder of the Precursor Group, an independent communications research firm in Washington, took a similar view. "This is a wedge, this is progress," he said. "But they still have a huge amount of work to do." Mr. Cleland's comments could very easily apply to regulators, as well.
The two main communications links into homes are telephone wires and cable television systems. Currently, the nation's big local telephone companies are required to sell piecemeal access to parts of their networks to other companies. That makes it relatively straightforward for other companies to provide high-speed data services over phone wires. But cable companies are not generally required to sell access to their systems. (The separation between the regulatory regimes for telephone and cable companies goes back decades and is largely a product of the old American Telephone and Telegraph Company's special position as a national monopoly.)
As it happens, it was AOL itself that did more than any other company to bring this regulatory discrepancy to light. After AT&T started gobbling up cable properties in the late 1990's, AOL pushed for new laws or regulations that would force AT&T to open its cable systems.
But without explicit legislation, federal regulators cannot simply tell cable companies to open their systems. What they can do is extract concessions in the context of a merger-approval process. That is the context of AOL and Time Warner's agreement to last week's conditions. And it is why AT&T agreed to allow other Internet providers onto its systems eventually, a policy AT&T announced about a year ago in its successful effort to win approval to acquire the MediaOne Group, a cable company.
But last week's concessions by AOL and Time Warner do not have some magical precedent-setting value that will somehow automatically bring the rules to bear on the other big cable companies.
That said, most of the other cable giants, like Cablevision, Charter, Comcast and Cox, will probably end up trying significant acquisitions of their own the next few years. And when they do, the regulators may very well be there waiting for them, expecting similar concessions -- unless the Bush administration decides that open access is no longer a priority.
The AOL-Time Warner concessions are "clearly a step in the right direction, and it is more than any other cable company has agreed to to date," said R. Steven Davis, senior vice president for law and policy at Qwest Communications International, which owns the former U S West Inc., the big Bell regional phone carrier. "It takes away that argument that it is not technically feasible for them to do this."
Meanwhile, AOL has considerable work ahead if it hopes to be anywhere as dominant as it has been on the Internet. The company has more than 25 million subscribers worldwide, almost all of whom now use standard modems. But within five years it is likely that most of its United States customers will be using broadband Internet links -- with or without AOL. So AOL needs to ensure it has broadband options nationwide, not just in the slices of the country served by Time Warner's cable systems.
"For this deal, the cable access question was a sideshow," Mr. Cleland said. "The main event is combining AOL's majority audience with Time Warner's content. That is a national model."
AOL still has to go out and negotiate access to other companies' cable systems and it is unlikely that the company would turn its back on any technology that would allow it to hold on to its customers as they migrate to broadband. The F.T.C. is requiring AOL to continue offering D.S.L. -- a high-speed phone line technology that competes with cable modems -- as a condition of approving the merger. But continuing to offer D.S.L. might be something AOL was inclined to do anyway.
In the end, it is difficult to avoid coming back to the 12 percent figure and reaching the conclusion that high-speed Internet access via cable was never a sufficient rationale for the AOL-Time Warner merger. But AOL's Internet services -- on Time Warner's system or anyone else's -- are a powerful distribution and promotion medium for Time Warner's old economy products: magazines, movies, music. And none of the F.T.C.'s vaunted conditions do anything to change that.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert Pitofsky, chairman of the Federal Trade Commission, right, described conditions last week for the AOL-Time Warner merger. Below, Stephen M. Case of AOL and Gerald M. Levin of Time Warner, announcing the deal at a January news conference. (Associated Press); (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Betting on Broadband"
GROWTH -- Projected number of U.S. households with broadband service at the end of each year.
 
MARKET SHARE -- Largest broadband providers, based on estimated number of U.S. households with service at the end of September 2000.
 
PRIMARILY CABLE
Excite@Home: 1.66
Roadrunner: 1.10
 
PRIMARILY DSL
Verizon: 0.35
Prodigy: 0.34
Qwest: 0.18
Earthlink: 0.14
BellSouth: 0.12
 
(Source: Yankee Group)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (96%); T (NYSE) (87%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (96%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (96%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (87%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (87%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (87%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AOL TIME WARNER AOL INC (96%); AT&T INC (87%); YANKEE GROUP (55%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: AOL TIME WARNER FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES INTERNET & WWW (92%); BROADBAND (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (89%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); INTERNET TELEPHONY (77%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); APPROVALS (73%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); 

PERSON: SCHIESEL, SETH STEVE CASE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



465 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 30; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: PATENTS;
Putting a Value on the Intangible

BYLINE: By SABRA CHARTRAND 

 BODY:
In the last few years, patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets have assumed an enormous role in the economy, where value consists of the assets that companies carry on their books. Until recently, that largely meant land, equipment and manufactured goods. Now, increasingly, those assets are information and ideas.
But how will such intellectual property be appraised impartially and calculated on a company's balance sheet? 
 For now, these intangible assets can be accounted for just about any way a company chooses. There are no rules for evaluating or reporting intellectual property, and that unnerves many business owners and corporate leaders, especially after the plunge since April in the stock values of so many companies built on precisely such intangible assets. Few people doubt that companies that rely on patents, trademarks and copyrighted ideas will continue to fuel the Information Age. So executives, economists and policy makers are eager to find ways to assign realistic worth to such property.
"Our capacity for tracking, measuring and reporting intangible assets is falling way behind where the economy is moving," said Margaret Blair, who recently was co-chairwoman of a Brookings Institution task force on intangible sources of value. "The economy has moved dramatically in the last five years, and intangible assets have taken on vastly more importance and now exceed tangible assets in terms of value."
Private businesses have already begun making their own internal policies for evaluating intangible assets -- including reputation, brands and customer loyalty as well as patents and copyrights.
In 1970, the Financial Accounting Standards Board said that costs and expenses associated with intangible assets should be recorded and amortized. But it offered no guideline on how to value intangible assets and it added this caveat: "Solving the problem is complicated by the characteristics of an intangible asset: its lack of physical qualities makes evidence of its existence elusive, its value is often difficult to estimate, and its useful life may be indeterminable."
So private companies have not developed universal standards, and all face a lack of information about what others are doing. The Brookings task force learned that businesses felt unable to approach the problem because there were no statistics.
In a report published in September, the task force recommended that the Bureau of Economic Analysis, a government agency that measures gross domestic product and other economic standards, should collect that information. But she said that last year Congress denied the bureau's request for money to collect information on e-commerce.
The task force also said that Congress should review American intellectual property laws so they match regulations in other countries.
Much of the patent system has been revamped recently to harmonize with laws in Europe and Japan, but the United States has failed for more than a decade to join an international treaty on trademarks, for example.
The task force also suggested that the Securities and Exchange Commission make it easier for companies to document investments in intangible assets. Most companies supported these ideas, though it was not always so.
"When we started, the corporate sector was split," she said. "The old-economy companies who felt they were undervalued by the market loved what we were doing because they wanted to be able to tell investors that they had intangible assets. But the high-tech sector wasn't as enthusiastic; they probably suspected they were overvalued by the market and didn't want to open that Pandora's box."
The split closed after the Nasdaq stock market began a significant decline last spring, she said. Now, she added, high-technology companies are eager to let investors know what they are doing.
"In this country, there are a lot of companies trying to develop ways of managing their intellectual property portfolios," Ms. Blair said. "It's going on big time in the corporate sector, there's tremendous money being thrown at consultants and Big Five accounting firms to help solve this problem."
The stakes are considerable. Combined, copyright industries like movies, television, books, music and home entertainment software now make up a larger share of the economy than manufacturing, chemical making, electronics or any other traditional industry does individually, according to the International Intellectual Property Alliance.
"Intellectual property is perhaps the hottest financial sector of the new economy," said Nir Kossovsky, co-founder of the Patent and License Exchange (www.pl-x.com), an online intellectual property brokerage firm.
"Monopolistic rights," he added, "are the only remaining form of sustainable competitive advantage. So from the point of view of business, intellectual property rights are the ultimate key success factor."
Still, putting a price on a patent can be tricky. One way is to measure the value of transactions that a property owner completes by using a patent or trademark, but that can understate the explosive growth of new markets and new technologies.
At the Patent and License Exchange, Mr. Kossovsky and his partners have developed a formula for appraising patents, a method they say is similar to a stock-market technique known as a call option.
But Mr. Kossovsky's method does not create the universal standards for assessing intellectual property that many business leaders would like and that Ms. Blair says may be necessary to prevent the economic turbulence that can result when companies are incorrectly valued.
. "Nobody wants to mess with a successful economy," she said, "but some of us are nervous about the increasing volatility of the stock market and the potential that what we are calling success is a bubble that could pop on us." As soon as possible, she added, executives, regulators and others need to cooperate on developing a standard acceptable to all.
"This report is our effort to get the policy-making community focused on this problem," Ms. Blair said of the Brookings task force's analysis. "Solving the problem will require significant rethinking at all levels. It's not a problem that business or government can solve alone." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING SYSTEMS INC (54%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: COPYRIGHTS; INVENTIONS AND PATENTS; TRADEMARKS AND TRADE NAMES PATENTS (90%); TRADEMARKS (90%); TRADE SECRETS LAW (90%); COPYRIGHT (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BRANDING (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); PATENT LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); ACCOUNTING (64%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (50%); 

PERSON: CHARTRAND, SABRA MARGARET BLAIR (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



466 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMY & INDUSTRY;
Among Wall St. Firms, the List of Those Left to Merge Shrinks

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN 

 BODY:
Was that the last wave?
Three multibillion-dollar buyouts shook Wall Street this year, fulfilling predictions that banks would rush to snatch the remaining independent securities firms. The deals narrowed the longstanding divisions between banks and brokerage firms and widened the gap between the global giants of finance and their regional competitors. 
 With the list of available firms on Wall Street whittled to a few, the endgame in the competition to provide financial services to the biggest corporations and wealthiest individuals has arrived. In 2001 and beyond -- with most Wall Street firms feeling the pressure from a slowdown in trading and new stock offerings -- the survivors are expected to concentrate more on honing their strengths than on bulking up through the sort of acquisitions that transfixed Wall Street this year.
Within several months, the Swiss bank UBS bought the PaineWebber brokerage firm for $12 billion; Credit Suisse bought the Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette investment bank for $13 billion; and then came the real stunner: Chase Manhattan agreed to buy the venerable J. P. Morgan for $32 billion, a deal that is expected to close before the end of the year.
There was a different strategic rationale behind each transaction, and each may have been possible without the legislative change late last year that repealed the Depression-era divisions between banks, investment banks and insurance companies that had been mandated by the Glass-Steagall Act. But a simple belief motivated each of the buyers: the view that size and global scale would be necessary to compete in a less-regulated financial services industry.
UBS, Credit Suisse and Chase Manhattan all want to be among the lasting group of global financial powerhouses, so they are bolstering themselves by paying big premiums for established competitors.
The three buyers each took advantage of the availability of an essentially freestanding firm, a dying breed on Wall Street. J. P. Morgan and PaineWebber were independent public companies and Donaldson's owner, the French financial conglomerate AXA, wanted to sell it.
"What we have seen is the last frenetic scramble for the big firms to position themselves as global top-tier companies," said Jerome Kenney, who plots corporate strategy for Merrill Lynch. Foreign banks rushed to capitalize on relaxed regulations about who could own what, and some American companies did not want to be left without a partner, he said.
"You can make a lot of money as a major investment bank, but the market can't support 50 of them," Mr. Kenney added.
Few analysts or financial executives think that the merger trend is over, but some say that they expect fewer marriages of convenience and more strategically focused transactions. They may be stating the obvious because, by most measures, only two major Wall Street firms of digestible size remain independent -- Lehman Brothers Holdings and the Bear Stearns Companies. But they argue that simply becoming bigger is not a panacea; what is more important is having a leading market share in core businesses.
"We're seeing a broad restructuring of the industry and the concentration on building critical mass, business by business," said Robert W. Stein, chairman of the global financial services industry practice at Ernst & Young. "We will continue to see financial services institutions positioning themselves to have a bigger presence in narrower and narrower markets."
Mr. Stein said the sale of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette was a prime example. Credit Suisse bought the firm, known as the leading underwriter of junk bonds, to broaden the offerings of its investment banking division, Credit Suisse First Boston.
Donaldson was on the block because AXA had decided to concentrate on the insurance and money management businesses and Donaldson "was not really compatible with them," Mr. Stein said. But that type of consolidation was not the focal point of the revision of the financial services law. That measure, known as Gramm-Leach-Bliley, was passed by Congress at the end of 1999 and paved the way for the convergence of various services, including banking, brokerage and insurance businesses.
In fact, the biggest convergence of all, the formation of Citigroup, was forged before the repeal of Glass-Steagall on the assumption that the repeal legislation would eventually pass. When Citicorp, the nation's biggest banking company, announced plans to merge with Travelers, a big insurance and brokerage company, many analysts heralded that deal as a sign of things to come in the consolidation of financial institutions. But, while there has been a rush to grab the remaining midsize firms on Wall Street, none of the transactions has much resembled the Citigroup deal.
"I don't see this as a race," said Rocco Maggiotto, head of strategic planning for PricewaterhouseCoopers. "At various times, the strategy, the available currency and the price come together."
Whether that confluence can continue with the financial markets in a pronounced slump is unclear, Mr. Maggiotto said. In a more uncertain economy, firms will probably be more inclined to test relationships through alliances and joint ventures before plunging headlong into a merger, he added.
As a example of such a relationship, he pointed to the nascent venture between Merrill Lynch, the nation's largest brokerage firm, and HSBC, the London-based banking company. They are joining forces to offer online banking and brokerage services in Canada and in several European countries.
Some analysts see the arrangement as a possible prelude to an acquisition of Merrill by HSBC, though executives of both companies have denied that. James Gorman, a former McKinsey consultant who is now a Merrill executive, said the joint venture represented the way financial services firms were going to do deals.
For its part, Merrill has sat out the latest round of the consolidation game. It has made acquisitions to strengthen its mutual fund and stock-trading operations but has not bought any banks or insurance companies and has rebuffed overtures from potential acquirers, like Chase Manhattan.
Mr. Kenney has been predicting for years that there will eventually be as few as seven global banking firms. After this year's mergers, he said, there will be eight: UBS, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, Citigroup, Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs, Merrill and the combined J. P. Morgan-Chase.
That group has formed around one of the main axes of financial services -- combining banking, securities and money management, Mr. Kenney said. Along the other axis are companies that will concentrate on insurance and asset management, like AXA and Allianz of Germany.
Citigroup looks more and more like an anomalous hybrid, with its emphasis on cross-selling to its various customers everything from life insurance to mutual funds to credit cards. Citigroup executives maintain that cross-selling is working, but many analysts now argue that the most successful approach will be to build lasting relationships with customers by providing what they want, how they want it.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Douglas A. Warner of J. P. Morgan, left, and William B. Harrison of Chase. (Reuters)
 
Chart: "A New Order"
When combined, J.P. Morgan and Chase will be the second-largest financial firm with a presence on Wall Street. Based on market capitalization as of Dec. 15.
 
MARKET CAPITALIZATION, IN BILLIONS
 
Citigroup: $241.9
J.P. Morgan and Chase*: 83.6
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter: 77.2
UBS: 64.0
Credit Suisse: 53.9
Merrill Lynch: 51.5
Deutsche Bank: 51.5
Charles Schwab: 39.8
Goldman Sachs Group: 39.4
Lehman Brothers: 14.6
Bear Stearns: 4.8
 
*Combined value of firms with merger pending.
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (91%); CS (NYSE) (91%); UBSN (SWX) (84%); UBS (NYSE) (84%); CS (PAR) (54%); AXJ (ASX) (54%); AXA (BIT) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (60%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (54%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (54%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (91%); UBS AG (84%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (60%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); AXA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; SPECIAL SECTIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); SECURITIES BROKERS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); MERGERS (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); TRENDS (74%); INSURANCE (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); 

PERSON: MCGEEHAN, PATRICK ROBERT W STEIN (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



467 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1811 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMY & INDUSTRY;
Exposing the Fraying Edges in the Fabric of the Economy

 BODY:
The American economic expansion, already the longest on record, is nearing its 10th birthday, and while growth has slowed, economists generally expect a "soft landing" that will avert a recession.
But the fact that things have gone so well for so long does not mean there are no risks. We asked the four people who rotate in writing the Economic Scene column that appears on Thursdays to ponder a simple question: What factors pose the greatest threat to our nation's prosperity in 2001? Their answers varied, ranging from worry over a possible decline in the dollar to concern about the potentially stifling impact that new regulations might have on growth. 
 Here are their responses:
 
HAL R. VARIAN -- Economics professor and dean of the School of Information Management and Systems at the University of California at Berkeley.
Economists aren't known for their optimism. We more often see clouds where others find the silver linings.
On the eve of 2001, I see four economic clouds facing the United States economy: the downward trend of the stock market; signs of less-than-robust retail sales; the overvalued dollar and the resulting current account deficit; and the high personal and corporate debt burden.
None of these is a big problem on its own, but the combination could be deadly. A pessimistic scenario begins with a plunge in the stock market, leading to a significant drop in consumer spending. Foreign investors liquidate their positions, causing a further fall in the stock market and precipitating a run on the dollar. Overextended consumers and corporate borrowers experience financial distress, damping down spending even more, which leads to a full-fledged recession.
That's the nightmare scenario. In truth, each of these risk factors does have a positive side. An optimist could argue that the market is simply coming back to reality after its high-tech binge. And retail sales may not be growing as fast as last year, but their growth is still significantly above long-term averages. The dollar does appear to be unusually strong, but, if it weakens, exports would become more competitive, improving the balance of trade and keeping unemployment down. Finally, some economists argue that the household savings rate is mismeasured since retained capital gains are not counted as part of savings; if you add them in, the private savings rate is quite high by historical standards.
The sole remaining cloud is corporate debt. Capitalist economies have a long history of overinvestment in hot new technologies. In the 1880's, more miles of railroad track were laid than in any other decade of American history. In the 1890's, the resulting excess capacity led to more miles of track in bankruptcy than in any other decade in American history. In the 1990's, we have seen huge investments in information technology, with much of the infrastructure investment being debt-financed. We are already seeing signs of excess capacity in long-haul fiber optics. Will telecommunications infrastructure suffer the same fate as the railroads?
 
ALAN B. KRUEGER -- Bendheim Professor of Economics and Public Affairs at Princeton University and editor of The Journal of Economic Perspectives.
The United States economy has performed extraordinarily well the last nine years, and the most plausible forecast is for continued growth, albeit at a slower pace. Nevertheless, there are two main potential threats to economic prosperity, one gradual and the other sudden. The gradual threat is a return to the slower productivity growth of the 1970's and 1980's; the sudden one is a loss of foreign investor confidence.
Due to the wonders of compound interest, in the long run productivity growth is virtually everything. The United States economy has boomed because output per hour worked grew 3 percent a year since 1995 -- twice as fast as in the preceding 20 years. Despite claims about oil shocks causing the 1970's slowdown and information technology causing the 1990's boom, no one knows for sure the origins of either. Productivity growth could slow again. If it grows by 1.5 percent a year over the next decade instead of 3 percent, national income will be nearly 20 percent less.
Not only banana republics can suffer sudden losses in investor confidence and sharp swings in exchange rates. The current account deficit -- the net flow of trade and investment income to the United States -- surged past 4 percent of gross domestic product this year, a record level. Foreign investors financed our $400 billion current account deficit. Hardly anyone believes this situation is sustainable.
Economists Maurice Obstfeld of the University of California at Berkeley and Kenneth Rogoff of Harvard sketch out what would happen to the dollar if the current account deficit returned to balance, and the results are not pretty. The dollar could fall by as much as the Mexican peso did in 1995. And in our case, the downside could be even greater because there is no international monetary authority that is large enough to bail us out. Inflation would rise and output contract.
What could precipitate such an event? President-elect George W. Bush could try to unite the country after the divisive election by delivering a large tax cut and expensive prescription drug plan, shattering the budget discipline of the late 1990's.
Although a sudden withdrawal of foreign investment is unlikely, a lesson of the Long-Term Capital Management collapse in 1998 is that nine standard deviation events -- that is, statistical long shots -- do sometimes occur.
 
VIRGINIA POSTREL Editor at large of Reason magazine and author of "The Future and Its Enemies: The Growing Conflict Over Creativity, Enterprise and Progress."
The economy is slowing, with consumer spending, stock prices and new-economy hype all down from their recent highs. The question is whether this slowdown represents an inevitable correction -- a healthy pause before another upward trend -- or the beginning of a serious slump.
Both long-term productivity growth and short-term resilience depend on how creative and adaptable private enterprises are. This is partly an issue of management. Executives shaped by good times have different skills and instincts from those who developed during downturns, and it is often difficult to adapt to new circumstances.
The range of available options also matters, however, and here government policy makes a tremendous difference. Regulatory mandates, often passed in good times, bite more when economic growth slows. And they, in turn, reduce growth-enhancing investment, feeding a vicious cycle.
A $1 minimum wage hike passed when business is booming and labor is short throws few people out of work. But when the time comes for belt-tightening, the extra $40 a week, plus related payroll taxes, will lead to layoffs and aggravate the slowdown.
Similarly, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration's controversial new ergonomics regulations will divert billions of dollars into redesigning work spaces and buying new equipment. The $20 billion that United Parcel Service estimates it will have to spend upfront to comply will not be available for new trucks, planes or tracking systems or for employee raises. If the law requires people to worry about ergonomics instead of sales or service, they will do so, but productivity will inevitably be hurt.
Year-end wrangling between Congress and the White House has blocked the latest minimum wage hike, although several states have passed their own. Opponents are challenging the OSHA standards in court. It's possible, though unlikely, that neither will survive. Economic downturns exercise a powerful check on regulatory overreach.
In a sunnier economic scenario, we will see conflicts between new business models -- representing growth rather than belt-tightening -- and existing or proposed regulations. Already, Internet businesses have collided with state restrictions on competition in businesses from optometry to auto sales. The Federal Trade Commission is under increasing pressure to impose a single regulatory standard on data gathered online. And we can expect continued culture wars over biotechnology.
Whether setting limits on growing new businesses or restricting struggling old ones, regulatory expansion poses the greatest long-term threat to economic prosperity.
 
JEFF MADRICK -- Editor of Challenge Magazine and adjunct professor of social sciences at Cooper Union.
Despite rapid growth over the past five years, we are often told these days that the American economy is remarkably well balanced. What this usually means is that, in contrast to the 1980's, federal and local government spending has been held well within the nation's means to pay. But such an analysis has an eye cast dangerously to the past.
Odds are still that America will survive 2001 without a recession. But make no mistake about it: there are economic imbalances that could turn a slowdown into a more painful downturn.
There are two related concerns. Because we save so little and borrow so much, America has become dependent on a high value for the dollar in order to attract needed capital. The high dollar also helped keep inflation down by keeping import prices low. A new study by the New York Federal Reserve Bank finds that the subdued level of inflation in the late 1990's, in fact, was largely due to low import prices.
But if the economy slows and stock prices continue to perform poorly, investors may withdraw their capital and sell the dollar. Under such circumstances, the Federal Reserve, fearing that a falling dollar will provoke higher inflation even as the economy is slowing, may keep interest rates higher than it otherwise would in order to attract dollar buyers. Just when we need lower interest rates to stimulate the economy, the Fed might well find its hands tied. The dollar fell by 40 percent in the 1980's.
The second problem is that while the federal government is generating budget surpluses, both individuals and corporations are borrowing in record amounts. This has provided the stimulus to consumer demand and capital investment that has allowed the economy to grow so rapidly. But if personal income and profits grow more slowly, and if interest rates rise, the proportion of funds that must be allocated to debt service will rise. This will leave less to spend and invest.
Given falling stock prices, higher oil prices and tightened credit, a significant slowdown in economic growth is a growing likelihood. At such a point, the economic imbalances, so easily dismissed in a time of prosperity, could take a serious toll. The last five years have provided one pleasant surprise after another, but the economy in 2001 is likely to be highly delicate. Managing it will be more difficult than in the recent past.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Virginia Postrel; Jeff Madrick; Alan B. Krueger; Hal R. Varian

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SPECIAL SECTIONS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); SAVINGS RATES (89%); HISTORY (88%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); TRENDS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); LIQUIDATIONS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (71%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (69%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (68%); RETAIL SALES (66%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); 

PERSON: VARIAN, HAL R; KRUEGER, ALAN B; POSTREL, VIRGINIA; MADRICK, JEFF

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



468 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 26; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1529 words

HEADLINE: REFLECTIONS;
From Well-Wired Offices, Musings on Tomorrow's Technologies

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
These people see the future every day.
For the most part, they are quite young. They are universally precocious. And their very livelihoods revolve around reading, thinking and talking about stuff most of us might consider fanciful, bordering on incomprehensible. 
 So when they were asked to finish the thought, "I can't wait for the day when . . .," some of the responses were far from prosaic. Others qualify as laments for remedies to life as we know it.
Here is a sample of what a group of America's best and brightest young business types are hoping for.
 
ERIC E. SCHMIDT -- Chief executive of Novell Inc.
At age 45, Eric E. Schmidt is hardly over the hill. But his body is talking to him.
"I can't wait until I can replace all these aging body parts," he said. "And if you look at organ cloning, it is reasonable to expect that in the next 20 to 30 years we will be able to do that."
Dr. Schmidt, who presides over the software company Novell from its headquarters in Provo, Utah, also talked about something he said would happen much faster.
"I can't wait for the day when there are 50,000 video channels on the Internet and I don't have to have a television and a personal computer on at the same time," he said. "That is a viable possibility next year."
 
LARRY PAGE -- Chief executive of Google.
As co-founder and head of Google, the soon-to-be public Internet portal company based in Mountain View, Calif., Larry Page, 27, said, "I spend a lot of time thinking about what should be, as an inventor."
In a sense, what Mr. Page can't wait to happen is already taking place.
"As computers get faster and faster, the effect that will have on the world will be pretty extreme," he said. "The complete readout of a person's DNA will fit on a CD-ROM."
At Google, "we already have 100 times the disk space to store what is on the World Wide Web," he said. "That is sort of mind-boggling to me. As computer capacity and speed increases, they will have the ability to do more and more things."
 
JIM BREYER -- Managing partner of Accel Partners.
Accel Partners, a venture capital firm based in Palo Alto, Calif., receives 25,000 business plans a year. But Jim Breyer, its 39-year-old managing partner, has a fairly straightforward vision.
"I can't wait for the distinction between the old economy and the new economy to disappear entirely," he said. "I live in a world that is ground zero of the Internet. And in the past three years we have lived in pretty frothy times. But the real power of the Internet is when it is married to the very best of the old economy."
Education and entertainment are two areas where the marriage between the old and the new is likely to be consummated quite soon, Mr. Breyer said.
"The music and entertainment businesses are being fundamentally transformed by the Net," he said. "Napster and RealNetworks are doing this."
"In the newspaper, publishing and magazine world, the marriage of the Net with the old economy provides fundamentally better and more interesting information to consumers than either can individually.
"I also look forward to the day when investors believe there are good businesses to be built to improve the education system. I am looking forward to a decade when people look at investing in education the way they invested in health care in the 1980's. Old economy and new economy ideas can fundamentally target the education system and improve the education experience in this country."
 
DONNA M. IUCOLANO -- Executive vice president of the Scholastic Internet Group.
In her capacity as an executive with the online division of the New York-based Scholastic Corporation, the world's largest publisher of children's books, Donna M. Iucolano has personal and professional hopes for the not-too-distant future.
"I can't wait for the day when you hit the submit button on an Internet order and the U.P.S. man is almost instantaneously on the porch," she said.
Ms. Iucolano, 37, has a more realistic professional aspiration.
"From a Scholastic point of view, I can't wait for the day when every child has a computer on their desk," she said.
"I would love to think that is going to happen in the next year or so, but three years out is a more realistic target."
Ms. Iucolano acknowledged that universal access to computers would not be a panacea for the educational system's shortcomings. But she said it would transform the educational experience in important ways.
"It will allow for a lot more collaboration in learning, through Intranet activities and through the Internet, not only locally but around the world," she said.
"Peer-to-peer activities can happen much more in real time or as a natural part of the day as opposed to now, when there is a designated time to use the computer."
 
GEOFFREY BAEHR -- Chief network officer for Sun Microsystems.
Geoffrey Baehr is suffering from data overload.
"I can't wait for the day when there are tools to sift, analyze and adapt the data to my job, my function, my life," said Mr. Baehr, 43, the chief network officer at Sun Microsystems of Palo Alto, Calif. Sun is a leading provider of hardware, software and services that power the Internet, and Mr. Baehr, as chief network officer, is in charge of the company's computer networks. At the moment, "the signal-to-noise ratio is going down precipitously," he said.
"I can't wait for the day when there is a relevancy test on the data that I get. I think 5 percent of the data floating around the world is valuable, and the rest is junk."
 
JUDY NEUMAN -- Operating partner of Maveron L.L.C.
Judy Neuman is a thoroughly modern executive who dearly wants to simplify her life as an operating partner at Maveron, a venture capital firm based in Seattle.
"I can't wait for the day when I have one device that is fully voice-enabled so I never have to look at a phone number to make a call, a machine that could provide real-time e-mail, wireless access to the Web, be a cell phone and come with all the accouterments of a Palm Pilot or Blackberry," she said.
"Clearly, people are trying to get there. But in the meantime my purse -- and my life -- is complicated because I have all these technological accouterments."
Ms. Neuman, 43, said she expected a device that could do all this to be available on a limited basis "within no more" than 18 months. "It is a race to see who comes up with this first," she said. "This device would transform a consumer's life."
 
JONATHAN M. ROTHBERG -- Chairman and chief executive of CuraGen.
The 37-year-old head of CuraGen, a genomics company based in New Haven, said he could not wait for the development of drugs that will wipe out a number of deadly diseases. That will start to happen in five to seven years, he said.
"We feel confident that over that time frame we will be marching through the genome and pulling out cures for unmet needs, developing protein drugs and antibody drugs that can knock out diseases like cancer and late-onset diabetes. The hint of that reality is on us right now."
"The first drugs will be proteins right from our bodies," he said. "And in the next five to seven years we will have them. It is different, and it will be a big deal."
 
CYRUS L. HARMON -- General manager of Affymetrix.
The first two items on Cyrus Harmon's wish list are a bit removed from his professional life at Affymetrix, a Santa Clara, Calif., genomics company where he is vice president for computation genomics as well as the general manager.
"I can't wait for the day when we have a cell phone that works everywhere in the world, one with one number that can be reached anywhere. That would be great."
Addressing a quality-of-life issue also ranks high. "I am waiting for the day when we recognize as a society what a destructive force traffic is and build a transportation system that deals with it," said Mr. Harmon, who just turned 30. "In the Bay Area, the problem has gotten worse and worse."
Like Dr. Rothberg, Mr. Harmon sees big things coming from the mapping of the human genome.
"We have been traveling down the curve in the progression of medicine from art to science since the time of the Greeks," he said. "The pace toward science has been accelerating rapidly over the last 25 years. Computing power, communications and information in the genome are seeing another re-acceleration along that curve.
"In the next three to five years, we will be able to measure every single cell in a human and understand what is going on in those cells. Once we have this, we will be able to utilize it to better stratify disease."
Mr. Harmon is also excited about nanotechnology, manufacturing things on a molecular basis. "People are now figuring out how to make gears, levers and motors and bearings on a scale that is infinitesimally small," he said. "Medical devices are straightforward applications, machines that target cardiac muscle cells. But even outside the medical realm, it will revolutionize a lot of products we manufacture. But that is too far out. Thirty years from now we will look back and see how nanotechnology has changed the world."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Donna M. Iucolano; Eric E. Schmidt (Reuters); Geoffrey Baehr; Jim Breyer; Cyrus L. Harmon; Jonathan M. Rothberg; Judy Neuman; Larry Page

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); PROVO, UT, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: NOVELL INC (84%); GOOGLE INC (83%); ACCEL MANAGEMENT CO INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); PROVO, UT, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INTERNET & WWW (87%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INTERNET VIDEO (70%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (66%); NEW ECONOMY (65%); VENTURE CAPITAL (50%); 

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (90%); LARRY PAGE (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



469 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2081 words

HEADLINE: REFLECTIONS;
Brooding Over Shifts On Main Street and Wall Street

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
THE world of business has changed remarkably in the past quarter century. AT&T is preparing its third split-up, while the government seeks to break up Microsoft, a company that did not even exist then. The Internet has opened vistas for business that no one saw even a decade ago, and the United States is in its longest period of economic expansion ever.
But amid the progress, what has been lost that was worthwhile? We asked several people who used to be at the heights of different aspects of business to assess what they regretted most about the changes that have occurred. They singled out situations ranging from the new "villainy" of globalization to the lack of real thoughtfulness now given to investments. 
 Following are their responses:
 
RICHARD J. MAHONEY -- Former chief executive of the Monsanto Company; now Distinguished Executive in Residence, the Weidenbaum Center, Washington University.
Americans doing business in developing countries in the 1970's, 1980's and even into the early 1990's were generally welcome partners. We brought the desired technology, market access, management skills and money for investment. I recall being the subject of local newspaper photo-ops to celebrate the opening of a new facility or the establishment of a technology collaboration with a local partner.
As the 1990's progressed, however, the headlines changed from collaboration to exploitation with the appearance of a villain called globalization. To be sure, the business parties and government officials still found the agreements attractive, but opposition emerged, particularly in the "have" countries among groups protesting the exploitation of the "have nots."
Facts were not necessarily important; appearance was -- the appearance of exploitation, whether in local wages paid, farm-cropping practices exported, Western culture "imposed" or a host of other issues that were embodied at the wild gathering of international trade protesters during the W.T.O. meeting in Seattle last year.
In the early 1990's, I received an award and an ovation following a speech I made describing the promise of agricultural biotechnology to feed the world. My successor as C.E.O. in the late 1990's received a pie in the face from a protester at a similar forum. What a difference those few years have made.
No doubt we paid too little attention to potential public reaction as we in the industry made our program more international, urged on by our trading partners in the developing world. Perhaps we should have seen that the same technology that brought instantaneous trading around the world would foster instantaneous "anti" communication and organizing.
Whatever the cause of the rise of opposition, it is here to stay, a cynic would say, as long as strong economies and rising living standards provide the luxury of protest. But I think it will be even longer than that.
Still, one yearns to return to a time when enlightened self-interest -- doing well by doing good in helping to raise living standards -- was considered progressive instead of profligate. A time when the results of world trade were considered glorious rather than globaloney. Alas.
 
ROBERT L. CRANDALL -- Retired chairman of American Airlines; now board member of American Express and Celestica.
The thing I miss most today is political civility. Twenty or 25 years ago, political conversation tended to be a good deal more issues-oriented and much less partisan and much less personally bitter.
The acrimony and the incivility and the outright dishonesty that is beginning to characterize political life is causing the American public to lose faith in its government. I think that's a great loss. We need to believe what our government officials say. They need to be both a good deal more forthright and more forthcoming.
I don't know when it really started. I certainly think Watergate was a seminal event. But the lack of civility is now affecting every aspect of American life. It affects the business climate and endangers important issues -- the status of Social Security, the status of Medicare, the real need for a certain level of taxation. These are things about which we have to make decisions that have very long-term implications for the economy and, thus, for the business community, and we are no longer capable of having the kind of public debate in the examination of these issues that we had in years past.
I'm not talking about moderating the level of competition. I think vigorous competition is a good thing. I don't think airline executives are any more uncivil; in fact, the business community as a whole, I think, continues to have a much greater ability for civilized dialogue than does the political community.
We've got to get back to circumstances where we can have an intelligent, civil dialogue about major public policy issues.
 
WALTER B. WRISTON -- Retired chairman of Citibank; now a private business consultant.
What one longs for is the return of trust, trust in our government, trust in the judicial system, trust in what we read in the paper, hear on the radio and see on television. Today the old newspaper mantra of who, what, when and where in many cases has been replaced by a little editorial built into each story reflecting the political or social bias of the reporter. While we are overwhelmed by information from the media, our trust in its accuracy is diminished.
A similar situation occurs when the spin doctors of all political stripes inform us of their version of events and the spins are picked up and magnified by the media until many Americans simply tune out. While political hyperbole is not new, its volume and quantity have eroded public trust.
Trust is the glue that holds society together, and when it is lost strange things happen, none of them good. True, politics has always engendered the spurious statement, but never on the scale of today's outpouring. Consider just one example: Social Security is going broke; Social Security is in great shape until 2030; Social Security will not be paid to our children; and so on. The elderly become frightened and the young believe they will never see a benefit. After a while, people cease to listen, which in a republic like ours is a dangerous thing.
Trust can be reclaimed, and I have no doubt that over time it will be. But in the meantime it is much missed.
 
PETER S. LYNCH -- Former manager of the Fidelity Magellan Fund; now vice chairman, Fidelity Management and Research Company.
There was a time when people were more careful with their investments. Of course, there have always been some who gambled and speculated, maybe by buying options or trying to guess the market's direction.
But I miss the time when people really thought they bought Dow Chemical or Kodak or Johnson & Johnson. They planned to hold on, not pig-headedly but because they thought the company over time would be great. That method was a winning formula 50 and 20 years ago -- and I think it would still be 20 years from now.
Part of the reason this has changed is that people who choose to use a broker often do not take full advantage of the broker's knowledge. There was a time when people treated their stockbroker like they treated the doctor, the lawyer, the accountant. They would come in with a harebrained idea and he would tell them so.
But many people buying stocks now are not giving quality time to their portfolio. The fact that brokerage commissions have gotten so cheap may contribute to this. But it may also work the other way, providing less incentive for some brokers to develop sound relationships with customers.
Stocks are not lottery tickets. If companies do well, you'll do well. My best stocks have been ones that performed solidly in the third, fourth or fifth years I've owned them, not in the third or fourth days or weeks. People today are trying for too much; they're saying, my gosh, this is Wednesday and I haven't bought anything yet this week.
You ought to be able to explain to a third grader why you own a company. Do the same research as you would when you buy a house or car. And with all this technology, especially the Internet, it's never been easier to do the research. People ought to use the technology to enhance their knowledge of what they own and why they own it, whether they invest online or with a broker. But a lot of people use the Internet to buy 10 stocks a day and sell 10 stocks a day, becoming day traders. And you get the same results you would get at a casino -- with more paperwork.
 
JOAN GANZ COONEY -- Co-founder and former chief executive of the Children's Television Workshop; now chairman, executive committee, Sesame Workshop (formerly CTW).
There was a period in America not so long ago when American corporations were very much a part of our daily lives, not just their products but their names. It was during the 1950's and early 1960's, and the medium that made corporate names literally household words was television.
In those days, there were only two networks that really mattered, NBC and CBS, and there was no cable. A single sponsor brought into the home most of the quality drama as well as music shows and comedy hours. There was the U.S. Steel Hour, Kraft Theater, Westinghouse Presents Studio One, Philco Playhouse, Firestone Music Hour, Colgate Comedy Hour, Texaco Star Theater with Milton Berle and many more. The names of major corporations were on the lips of everyone who watched television -- as in, "Did you see Armstrong Circle Theater last night?"
In that time, corporate C.E.O.'s were also far more active in public policy than today. They felt they had a public duty to be involved in national or civic matters. John McCloy at Chase, for instance, had been High Commissioner of Germany. Charlie Wilson at General Motors told senators that "What was good for our country was good for General Motors, and vice versa." Ben Fairless at US Steel was an iconic figure.
Today, I don't think the average citizen knows very much about the corporations and their C.E.O.'s, except perhaps about Bill Gates of Microsoft. For one thing, so many C.E.O.'s are replaced quickly if they don't produce results. Corporations, meanwhile, lost the cachet that came from sponsoring a television show when multiple sponsors became the norm and such an endeavor became prohibitively expensive.
In the '50s, there was almost a small-town quality to the country in which individuals felt a connection to the nation's corporations, a sense of community with them. That has gone, and I miss it.
 
BOONE PICKENS -- Founder and former chairman of Mesa Petroleum; now chief executive, the Pickens Fuel Corporation and Mesa Water.
After 50 years in the oil and gas business, I'd like to reminisce about America's comprehensive energy policy. Sadly, I can't recall what's never been.
Although we've had a couple of attempts, specifically misguided programs during the Carter administration and global strategies that were good for the country but bad for the industry in the Reagan years, over all this nation has wallowed in energy policy rhetoric for decades.
Meanwhile, its dependence on foreign oil has skyrocketed. In 1973, the United States relied on foreign sources for 36 percent of its oil; today, that figure is 56 percent, the highest ever and climbing. We remain particularly vulnerable because our two primary suppliers of oil, the Middle East and Venezuela, are relatively unstable. The Saudis, in particular, do not have the production capacity to effectively serve as a swing producer to the extent they have in the past. That leaves Iraq with a trump card over world market stability.
Separately, our infrastructure needs are changing. This country continues its transition to a service- and technology-based economy. Electricity fuels the superhighways of this new economy. While base demands are shifting, the oil and gas industry remains as important as ever.
In short, America must shape a coherent national policy. Develop an accelerated program for pipelines to bring abundant natural gas supplies from the Arctic coastal plains through the Northwest Territories, allot significant government research funds for alternative fuel development and institute more aggressive conservation efforts.
Granted, this is prickly political ground. Democrats and Republicans alike have failed to address this issue, but neither party can afford to any longer.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard J. Mahoney (Tim Parker for The New York Times); Robert L. Crandall; Peter S. Lynch (Librado Romero/The New York Times); Joan Ganz Cooney (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times); Walter B. Wriston (Bill Cunningham); Boone Pickens and his wife, Nelda (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (69%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (69%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (69%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (69%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO (69%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SPECIAL SECTIONS GLOBALIZATION (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (72%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (71%); LIVING STANDARDS (71%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (63%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%); 

PERSON: WRISTON, WALTER B; COONEY, JOAN GANZ; MAHONEY, RICHARD J; LYNCH, PETER S; PICKENS, BOONE; CRANDALL, ROBERT L PETER L LYNCH (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



470 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMY & INDUSTRY;
Few Banks or Insurers Capitalize on Their New Freedom to Merge

BYLINE: By RIVA D. ATLAS 

 BODY:
It is hard to remember now, but one of the driving forces behind the financial services overhaul bill that Congress passed in November 1999 was the $70 billion merger between Citicorp and the insurer Travelers Group to form Citigroup. The deal, which closed in 1998, involved a successful bet that mergers between insurance companies and banks, prohibited under the Glass-Steagall Act, would soon be allowed.
A year later, however, no large United States banks or insurers have teamed up to create their own version of Citigroup. Most insurance companies are too small to try acquisitions themselves. More important, the overhaul of financial services came amid a slump in bank stocks, denying banks the currency to finance deals. 
 Bank stocks have been volatile this year and, even with some recent gains, are now down more than 10 percent from their highs in April 1999, according to a Keefe, Bruyette & Woods index.
Some analysts question just how attractive a business underwriting insurance is for banks. "Banks think of life insurance as a slow-growth, low-return-equity business, and the property-casualty underwriting business is too volatile," said Ronald Mandle, an banking analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. "If banks were going to buy something, it would be in asset management and capital markets because those are closer fits with their existing businesses."
It is important to remember, Mr. Mandle added, that when Travelers merged with Citicorp, insurance was only part of its business mix; it also had a brokerage division in Salomon Smith Barney and an asset-management business. Today, insurance accounts for just 20 percent of Citigroup's profits over all.
Clearly, many banks have other priorities these days, as a downward shift in the credit cycle has hurt their core business. The Bank One Corporation, struggling to overhaul its banking and credit card franchises, acquired a small insurance company, Congress Life Insurance, in November. But near term, Bank One, which will underwrite just $300 million and sell $2.4 billion in insurance this year, will generally offer only a select number of insurance products to its correspondent banks or to small companies that do business with it.
To engage fully in the insurance business, Bank One would need to ask the Federal Reserve to regulate it as a financial holding company, as opposed to its current status as a bank holding company. Such a change is not a priority right now, said Thomas Kelly, a Bank One spokesman. "We've got bigger issues," he said.
Still, as their stocks recover, some of the larger banks are expected to take an interest in life insurance, which, through the sale of annuities, provides a backdoor way into money management.
Some might want to follow the lead of ING Group, the Dutch financial services company, which has been one of the few companies to undertake sizable insurance acquisitions this year. In May, ING bought the ReliaStar Financial Corporation, the eighth-largest publicly traded insurer, for $6.1 billion, and announced in July that it was buying Aetna's financial services and international units for $7.7 billion. The deals made ING the 11th-largest asset manager worldwide, according to company figures, up from 19th.
"Virtually all the deals we've seen so far have been by foreign acquirers," said H. Rodgin Cohen, chairman of the law firm Sullivan & Cromwell, which has been active in financial services deals.
Their stock prices have also held up better: ING is trading at 20 times this year's estimated earnings, compared with price-to-earnings multiples in the low teens for banks in the United States. There is also a scarcity value to the life insurance business. There are only six publicly traded life insurers with market capitalizations of $5 billion or greater that could be acquired, according to Ronald McIntosh, an analyst following the life insurance industry at Fox-Pitt Kelton, a brokerage firm specializing in financial services.
Insurance companies, meanwhile, have been making tiny inroads into the banking business, mostly by starting banks from scratch. Forty insurance companies have been granted savings and loan charters since 1997, according to the Office of Thrift Supervision, with five more applications pending.
But one insurance company is likely to be an active acquirer, said Mr. McIntosh. MetLife Inc., which went public in March and has a market capitalization of $26 billion, announced earlier this year that it planned to get into the banking business, either by acquisition or by building a new operation. "They are the only one big enough to survive" any takeover attempt, Mr. McIntosh said, "and they will undoubtedly get bigger."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Volatility in Bank Stocks"
The legislative overhaul of financial services came amid a slump in bank stock prices, denying some banks the ability to finance deals.
 
Graphs shows Standard & Poor's 500, Philadelphia Stock Exchange/Keefe, Bruyette & Woods and Index of 24 U.S. Banks.
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (86%); JPM (LSE) (86%); 8634 (TSE) (86%); INGA (BIT) (74%); INGA (AMS) (74%); ING (NYSE) (74%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (86%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (86%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (86%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (74%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (74%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (74%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (74%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (74%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (74%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (59%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (86%); ING GROEP NV (74%); KEEFE BRUYETTE & WOODS INC (56%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (59%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; INSURANCE; LIFE INSURANCE; SPECIAL SECTIONS INSURANCE (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING LAW (90%); MERGERS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INSURANCE UNDERWRITING (89%); LIFE INSURANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (72%); ANNUITIES (72%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (57%); 

PERSON: ATLAS, RIVA D RONALD MCINTOSH (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



471 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 23; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Weak Since Birth, the Euro Seems Poised for a Growth Phase

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT

 BODY:
Finally, after two years of nearly nonstop decline, Europe's fledgling unified currency may now be coming into its own. But will the same be true for Europe itself? Forecasting a recovery for the euro has thus far been the monetary equivalent of waiting for Godot. Since it was adopted as a common currency by 11 nations on New Year's Day 1999, the euro has lost about one-quarter of its value against the dollar and even more against the Japanese yen.
Now the winds are shifting. Amid evidence that the United States faces what could be a sharp slowdown in economic growth, many economists said they believed that European and American growth rates would be more or less on par with one another for the first time in many years. If one believes the most recent economic forecasts, growth is likely to settle in around 3 percent on both sides of the Atlantic. That would be a big slowdown for the United States, but a solid year for Europe. 
 The euro is already showing signs of new life. It climbed nearly 5 percent in early December, after new data showed American growth might be slowing much more abruptly than previously expected. And while the euro may slip a few more times, most analysts are now convinced that it is poised for at least a partial rebound.
A big part of the euro's decline stemmed from the much faster growth rate in the United States, which made the nation a magnet for international investment. The huge net capital flows into the United States overwhelmed virtually all efforts by the European Central Bank to shore up its beleaguered currency.
Now, the United States growth suddenly looks more dubious and the euphoria about Internet and technology stocks has soured. Beyond simply worrying about an American slowdown, some analysts say that investors are backing away from riskier investments over all. And that means pulling back from a broad spectrum of dollar investments, from dot-com stocks to high-yield junk bonds.
"It's not so much that Europe is cheap," said Jesper Dannesboe, chief currency analyst at Dresdner Kleinwort Benson in London. "It is that people are becoming more risk averse."
The challenge for European countries this year is to keep growing even if its rival on the other side of the Atlantic threatens to become seriously winded.
It will not be easy. European industrial confidence, an important leading indicator, has declined for the last several months. In Germany, Europe's biggest economy, industrial production appears to be slowing down. The stock markets, another important leading indicator, have fallen almost as sharply here as in the United States.
In another disconcerting echo of past patterns, European growth remains dependent on exports.
Thanks to high oil prices and high taxes, consumer spending continues to be lackluster in many countries. If foreign demand for heavy industrial equipment declines sharply, as it did during the Asian crisis, recent hard-won gains in job creation could easily disappear.
And there have been significant gains in jobs. Unemployment across Europe has dropped from about 12 percent in 1997 to 9 percent at the end of 2000. Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands and Ireland are acutely short of workers in many areas. French unemployment has dropped from more than 12 percent two years ago to less than 10 percent. Germany is now recruiting skilled workers from India, though unemployment is nearly 8 percent in western Germany and more than 15 percent in the east.
There are other reasons to be optimisticabout the longer term. Europe is undeniably changing in fundamental ways, and most of those changes are good for long-term economic growth -- and for the euro. European conglomerates are putting themselves through remarkable restructuring efforts -- buying and selling businesses to focus their strategies, setting more ambitious goals for profitability and making themselves much more responsive to outside shareholders.
Europe's labor markets, which have been criticized for years as overpriced and rigid, have changed as well. Even though demand for workers has increased sharply, real wages have remained flat or even declined in some areas. And though Europe still looks like a bastion of strong unions and tough job-protection rules, temporary and part-time workers now occupy about 30 percent of jobs in the private sector.
"The fact here is that, despite the reluctance of most governments to liberalize their domestic labor markets, economic forces have done the job on their behalf," Eric Chaney, an economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in London, wrote in a report in late October.
Political reform has been much slower than corporate reform, but here, too, there are changes. Germany, France and Italy have both pushed through significant tax cuts that will leave a little more money in people's pockets next year. Though tax rates in Europe will remain far higher than in the United States for a long time to come, the trend is toward relief.
Among corporations, the trend toward greater openness is unmistakable. Many of Europe's biggest companies -- from Deutsche Bank and DaimlerChrysler to BASF -- are now listed on the New York Stock Exchange and report their earnings in conformance with generally accepted accounting principles or international accounting standards.
European companies that once raised working capital by getting loans from their local banks are now selling bonds to international investors. That, in turn, means that companies are opening themselves up to the scrutiny of international rating agencies like Standard & Poor's and Moody's.
The number of European industrial corporations rated by Standard & Poor's has climbed 38 percent since the spring of 1999.The volume of European corporate bonds has more than doubled, from $96.6 billion for all of 1998 to $207.7 billion in the first nine months of 2000.
"We are seeing a standardization in the quality and quantity of information," said Agnes de Petigny, head of corporate ratings in Europe for Standard & Poor's. The move to bonds forces companies to be more transparent.
"It is one thing to talk to a few banks, and another to talk to several hundred investors you don't know at all," she added. "That really has forced European companies to talk to ratings agencies, to go out on road shows and to meet with investors."
In pursuit of greater focus and fresher strategies, companies have also been overhauling their corporate structures at a remarkable pace. Almost all the old chemical and pharmaceutical conglomerates have been selling off businesses that do not fit well while buying others that do. Thanks to deregulation, Europe's telecommunications companies and electric utilities are becoming steadily more competitive as they attack each other's territories and look for new areas of expansion.
European companies are also investing more heavily in technology. Jean-Francois Mercier, an economist at Salomon Smith Barney, estimates that European companies increased their spending on new equipment by as much as 8 percent last year and will increase it by as much as 5.5 percent next year.
None of that means that either Europe or the euro have been liberated from the past. But the combination of changes has made at least some analysts more confident.
"The U.S. is likely to be more volatile that Europe," said Holger Schmieding, Merrill Lynch's head of European economics in London. "Europe just isn't as vulnerable as it was in the past."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Ending the Year With Hope"
The euro tumbled in value this year but it began to rise earlier this month.
 
Graph tracks Euro in dollars since Jan.
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (81%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (81%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (81%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

COMPANY: COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (81%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SPECIAL SECTIONS CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); EURO (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); BONDS (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (66%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



472 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1319 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMY & INDUSTRY;
The Challenge for Utilities: Increase Capacity and Efficiency

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER 

 BODY:
The nation hit its biggest pothole yet on the long road to deregulation of the utility industry this past summer when electricity shortages in California sent wholesale power prices soaring.
Stunned consumers revolted as the local utility in San Diego passed the costs on to them, and other utilities in the state sought permission to do the same in their areas of service. Politicians blasted the industry, and regulators were plunged into what promises to be a lengthy battle over proposed price controls and other measures to ease the pain. 
 The controversy intensified in recent weeks when prices soared again and the state faced blackout threats, driven in part by reduced supplies when some power plants closed for seasonal maintenance and others were shut down to comply with air pollution regulations. The crisis threatened to spill into the Pacific Northwest when California, in a contrast to past years, was unable to send power north to help meet the demand for electric heat.
"California has slowed deregulation in all the states that haven't gone through it yet," said Andrew Levi, who follows the industry for Credit Suisse First Boston. "California is somewhat of a unique situation, but it doesn't bode well for the rest of the nation."
Such comments reflect Wall Street's view that any attempt to shield consumers from market forces sends the wrong signal to both consumers and investors and can only delay the investments needed to bolster supplies. But even backers of deregulation acknowledge that California's deregulation plans, like many others, had assumed that there would be enough electric power around for prices to fall. They admit that too little thought had been given to what would happen with shortages.
Thus, many analysts expect deregulation advocates to pay more attention to consumer protection measures for the next couple of years. Such measures could include offering homeowners and small businesses contracts similar to those in the home-heating market where fuel oil companies guarantee prices for the coming winter in return for prepayments. Others might tie pricing to varying levels of service, allowing consumers to pay lower bills in return for accepting the utility's right to cut off air-conditioning or other appliances when power supplies are tight.
The deregulation movement may also become bogged down next year in continued uncertainty about how to handle the transmission grid. The core of the grid is a huge network of high-voltage lines that was built to bolster local power reliability but is now the interstate highway for trading vast amounts of power.
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission has ordered all utilities that own transmission lines to come up with plans to put them under control of regional transmission authorities to ensure open access, but details of how the grid will be administered and improved are very much up in the air.
One reason for the uncertainty is that the commission itself may undergo big changes next year. The term of its chairman, James J. Hoecker, a Democrat, ends June 30. One commissioner's spot is vacant and one is already in Republican hands, so analysts are calculating that Republicans will have a majority on the five-member commission by next July and will possibly revise a number of the commission's current policies.
Whatever happens, analysts anticipate relatively high prices for consumers and, despite higher fuel costs, strong returns for most utilities for the next year or two. Thus, while 2000 was the first year since the early 1990's that the utilities as a group outperformed other stocks, analysts expect a repeat performance in 2001.
The hottest growth is coming outside of their traditional business. In addition to generating power that is wholesaled to other utilities, power companies are also investing in a wide range of unregulated activities from energy trading to telecommunications to energy management consulting.
Some, like Enron, have become big investors in overseas energy projects. Analysts project that the $218 billion industry's revenues from unregulated activities will exceed regulated revenues in 2001 for the first time.
Deregulation has also turned the once-staid sector into a playground for mergers and acquisitions specialists and the investors drawn to such transactions. Activity was down to about $90 billion this year from 1999, when a record $120 billion in utility assets changed hands, but investment bankers like Robert Hoglund, an energy industry expert at Salomon Smith Barney, expect it to bounce back to about $100 billion next year.
"There were about 150 public gas and electric companies in 1995," Mr. Hoglund said. "Consolidation has brought it down to about 100 now, and it's headed toward a couple of dozen by the end of the decade."
While such consolidation is intended to make the industry more efficient, it does not directly attack the most pressing challenge, namely bolstering the nation's capacity and its ability to efficiently move what energy it does produce from areas where there are extra supplies to those where there are shortages.
California currently has the most pressing problems, with demand next year expected to exceed capacity by 5,000 megawatts, the equivalent of five large power plants or enough to power five million homes. "Even normal weather will bring higher prices in California," said Richard Priory, chief executive of Duke Energy, one of several companies racing to expand generating capacity in the state. Expansion of its power plant at Moss Landing, Calif., will be one of the few projects to be completed next year.
But analysts say several other regions, especially the upper Midwest and the Northeast, are very likely to encounter price surges and possible blackouts if there are any severe heat waves next summer.
Thanks to deregulation, help is on the way, according to industry groups that track the state of the utility grid and investments in new generating capacity. The so-called merchant sector of the industry, in which Duke Energy and other companies generate power to sell to other utilities, is growing rapidly through both acquisition of existing power plants and construction of new ones.
About 20,000 megawatts of new capacity came on line this year and, according to the Electric Power Supply Association, more than 230,000 megawatts of new capacity has been announced for the next four years. No one expects all the announced plants to be built. Nevertheless, capacity additions are finally increasing faster than demand after years of decline, and industry officials expect the overall reserve margins to increase over the next few years.
The electricity wholesalers include the deregulated arms of well-known utilities like Duke Energy, based in Charlotte, N.C., and American Electric Power, based in Columbus, Ohio, plus new companies that are strictly merchant generators, like Calpine, based in San Jose, Calif., and AES in Arlington, Va. The Electric Power Supply Association estimates that merchant generators will control 25 percent of the nation's capacity by the end of next year, double the level of 1998.
The same forces encouraging the merchant generators are increasing interest in alternative energy-generation technologies, including solar, wind, fuel cells and small gas or diesel-fired turbines. Analysts like Hugh F. Holman, who follows such companies for CIBC World Markets, say that the new technology sector is prone to volatility and disappointments as individual companies miss development targets but that the overall outlook is strong for next year and 2002. And Masroor Siddiqui at Goldman, Sachs said up to 30 new power-related companies will go public or be spun off from companies like General Electric, Enron and the United Technologies Corporation in 2001.
"The universe of investment plays should expand," Mr. Siddiqui said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Duke Energy is expanding a power plant in Moss Landing, Calif., a state where demand is likely to exceed capacity in 2001. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Racing to Meet Demand"
Based on announced plans for new power plants, the margin of generating capacity over peak summer demand is expected to widen through 2004. After that, demand will still grow but reported capacity additions will dwindle.
 
Graph tracks demand from 1999-2009.
(Source: North American Electric Reliability Council)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; SHORTAGES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) DEREGULATION (92%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (91%); WHOLESALERS (90%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); AIR POLLUTION (69%); HVAC SYSTEMS (67%); HOMEOWNERS (67%); SMALL BUSINESS (62%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



473 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMY & INDUSTRY;
The Year That European Corporate Acquirers Invaded America

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN 

 BODY:
The business-class cabin on British Airways' Flight 183 was packed to the last sleeper seat with investment bankers for much of this year. That is the airline's last flight out of Heathrow Airport in London bound for Kennedy International Airport in New York every night. It became so frequently packed with wheeling-and-dealing bankers -- negotiating $263.9 billion worth of trans-Atlantic mergers so far this year -- that it was dubbed the Deal Express by some of the flight's crew members.
By almost any measure, 2000 was the peak of Europe's corporate invasion of the United States. What began with the Daimler-Benz acquisition of Chrysler in 1998 got into full swing this year with a raft of deals in almost every sector. In the third quarter alone, European companies initiated North American acquisitions worth a total of $124 billion, easily topping the previous quarterly record of $98 billion set in the first quarter of 1998, according to Thomson Financial Securities Data. Since Jan. 1, European companies have bought almost 800 American concerns worth $263.9 billion -- about 10 percent above last year's pace. 
 The value of domestic mergers was effectively flat for the year with the exception of the $111 billion combination of America Online and Time Warner, which raised the total value by about 10 percent.
Globalization prompted the boom in trans-Atlantic transactions, said Steven Koch, chairman of Credit Suisse First Boston's mergers and acquisitions group. "Capturing market share in new geography is a prime motivator," he said.
Most of the action this year was east to west because Europeans realized that to be a serious player throughout the world they needed to be a serious player in the world's largest single market, the United States.
European companies were particularly eager to negotiate big trans-Atlantic deals using their highly valued stock because, in at least part of the year, their stocks were trading at significantly higher multiples than those of their counterparts in the United States.
Vivendi, the French water and utility company turned entertainment and telecommunications conglomerate, agreed to buy the Seagram Company and its Universal movie and Polygram music units for $34 billion in stock. (It was poised to sell Seagram's wine and spirits business to Diageo P.L.C. and Pernod-Ricard S.A.) And Terra Networks, the Spanish Internet company seeking to expand its virtual reach, swallowed up Lycos, of Cambridge, Mass., for $12.5 billion in stock.
Deutsche Telekom offered more than $50 billion in stock for VoiceStream, of Bellevue, Wash., to gain its first substantial foothold in the United States. Unilever, the Anglo-Dutch consumer products group, acquired Bestfoods, of Englewood Cliffs, N.J., the maker of Knorr soups, Skippy peanut butter and Hellmann's mayonnaise, for about $20 billion in cash.
Even the banks arranging some of these takeovers were not immune from being taken over. UBS, the giant Swiss bank, bought PaineWebber, while Credit Suisse Group agreed to acquire Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette for cash and stock.
There are signs the trend may wane soon. Several bankers said that "deal flow" has slowed significantly since September because, with stock markets on both sides of the Atlantic gyrating, companies are less eager to buy or sell. European telecommunications companies have also been hurt by the extraordinary cost of mobile phone licenses in Britain, Germany and elsewhere. Britain alone received $35.5 billion for five licenses sold at its auction in April. That has crimped the financing of telecommunication companies, which just six months ago were expected to buy chunks of the American telecommunications market.
Europeans' ambitions in America have also been hampered by the market's reaction to earlier deals. Some analysts contend that the Daimler-Benz acquisition of Chrysler faltered simply because it was a trans-Atlantic deal.
Many American shareholders have been wary about owning foreign stock, in part because of currency risks and because some fund managers are forbidden to own foreign stocks. As a result, many shareholders sold their stock once the transaction was completed, driving down the share price and leaving German investors owning more than two-thirds of the combined DaimlerChrysler. The share price was also pounded because, being foreign, it was removed from the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, causing funds that track the index to sell the stock.
Bankers call this "flowback" -- because when American investors balk at owning foreign stock, most of the shares flow back to the country of the acquiring company. The phenomenon has affected most trans-Atlantic stock-for-stock deals this year.
"For a European company to buy in to the U.S., flowback is a huge issue," said Mr. Koch, the Credit Suisse First Boston banker. "Most of the deals will be done in cash."
Cash, though, presents its own problems for European acquirers, beyond its scarcity following the mobile phone license auctions earlier in the year. European currencies -- whether euro, pound or Swiss franc -- have weakened appreciably against the dollar this year, raising the relative cost of American companies by 10 percent or more.
That shift, however, may open up opportunities for new trans-Atlantic deals -- in the other direction. Depressed European currencies could let Americans buy European concerns on the cheap, analysts said.
That, in turn, could maintain the premium on business-class seats on British Airways Flight 183 well into the new year.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (James Kaczman)
 
Chart: "Buying American"
European companies aggressively acquired North American companies this year, initiating a number of significant multibillion-dollar deals.
 
ACQUIRER: Deutsche Telekom
ACQUIRER'S HOME COUNTRY: Germany
COMPANY ACQUIRED: VoiceStream
DEAL VALUE IN BILLIONS: $50.7
 
ACQUIRER: Vivendi
ACQUIRER'S HOME COUNTRY: France
COMPANY ACQUIRED: Seagram
DEAL VALUE IN BILLIONS: 34.0
 
ACQUIRER: Unilever
ACQUIRER'S HOME COUNTRY: Britain, Netherlands
COMPANY ACQUIRED: Bestfoods
DEAL VALUE IN BILLIONS: 20.3
 
ACQUIRER: Credit Suisse
ACQUIRER'S HOME COUNTRY: Switzerland
COMPANY ACQUIRED: Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette
DEAL VALUE IN BILLIONS: 12.8
 
ACQUIRER: Terra Networks
ACQUIRER'S HOME COUNTRY: Spain
COMPANY ACQUIRED: Lycos
DEAL VALUE IN BILLIONS: 12.5
 
ACQUIRER: UBS
ACQUIRER'S HOME COUNTRY: Switzerland
COMPANY ACQUIRED: PaineWebber
DEAL VALUE IN BILLIONS: 12.0

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RI (PAR) (81%); DGE (PAR) (62%); DGE (LSE) (62%); DEO (NYSE) (62%); CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); DTE (FRA) (55%); DTE (BIT) (55%); AOL (NYSE) (54%); VIV (PAR) (52%); VIV (BIT) (52%); UNIA (AMS) (50%); UNA (BIT) (50%); UNA (AMS) (50%); UN (NYSE) (50%); ULVR (LSE) (50%); UL (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (81%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (81%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (63%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (62%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (62%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (55%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (54%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (52%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (93%); SWITZERLAND (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); SPAIN (79%); NETHERLANDS (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (91%); PERNOD RICARD SA (81%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%); SEAGRAM CO LTD (63%); DIAGEO PLC (62%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (55%); AOL INC (54%); VIVENDI (52%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (93%); SWITZERLAND (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); SPAIN (79%); NETHERLANDS (57%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; SPECIAL SECTIONS AIRPORTS (91%); AIRLINES (90%); MERGERS (90%); ACQUISITIONS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (71%); MARKET SHARE (66%); INTERNET & WWW (65%); DRESSING & SAUCE MFG (61%); NUT & PEANUT BUTTER MFG (61%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (53%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (50%); 

PERSON: SORKIN, ANDREW ROSS

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



474 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 19; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1797 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
In Japan, an Established Company Is Transformed

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM 

DATELINE: NAGOYA, Japan

 BODY:
Akio Toyoda is Japan's Willliam Clay Ford Jr. Widely regarded as the heir to the throne at the Toyota Motor Corporation by virtue of both his bloodlines and his experience, he seems well on his way to taking over one of Japan's most distinguished and financially sound companies.
But Mr. Toyoda has chosen a somewhat unorthodox means of proving himself: he has set out to demonstrate that even a bastion of the economic old guard known as Japan Inc. can make waves in the new economy. 
 His pet project, a Web site called Gazoo.com, is widely regarded as evidence that Japan's corporate monoliths will find it far easier to thrive and compete in an information-technology-enriched economy than many experts originally imagined.
Gazoo is helping Toyota speed up the disposal of used cars, cutting the time between orders placed and payment received and providing a treasure trove of customer data. It is also enabling the company to retain young, restless employees who might otherwise strike out for Bit Valley, Japan's version of Silicon Valley.
"The big companies were slow to move at first, but now everyone is incubating new businesses inside of them," said Joichi Ito, president and founder of Neoteny, an incubator backed by Whitney & Company. "Their delay has actually become an advantage because they have all of the cash and the markets are cheap right now."
Similarly, the corporations' reluctance to cut jobs, long criticized as a major drag on the Japanese economy, is also now working to their benefit, Mr. Ito said. "The brains are still at the big companies," he said. "They've never quit or been pushed out, so all the good new economy people are still sitting in the old economy companies."
Thus, Toyota's Web venture is thriving, and Fujitsu and the NEC Corporation are locked in a fierce battle to determine which of them will be the America Online of Japan. Even N.T.T., the former government telephone monopoly whose high prices make it the new economy's worst enemy, is embracing new technology that is likely to make it the leading provider of low-cost, high-speed Internet connections and sophisticated telecommunications services. That shift will be much to the chagrin of several small, new companies that have been counting on N.T.T. to be too big, too dumb and too slow to compete in new markets.
To the extent that Japan's economy is a reflection of the efforts of companies like these, their metamorphoses suggest there are reasons for optimism despite statistics indicating that growth over the short term may be stagnant at best, and despite fears that the financial sector is lurching toward another crisis -- still plagued by too much bad debt. Japan's big companies, only recently dismissed as the brontosauruses of the global economy, are reinventing themselves to stay competitive, and therein lies hope for the economy.
To be sure, not all Japanese companies understand the need to transform themselves, and even those that do are moving cautiously. Gazoo -- the name is derived from the two Japanese characters for "visual," celebrating the site's ability to bring the showroom to the customer -- was started as a venture business inside Toyota, largely to retain young employees chafing at the seniority system of advancement.
The company has been up and running for the last two years, but planning for it began about five years ago. "The directors thought Gazoo was just a hobby for young kids," said Mr. Toyoda, who is 44 and the only son of Shoichiro Toyoda, the company's honorary chairman. "So we didn't get any money to develop it."
When the Gazoo team wanted to buy a computer to test its online venture in a dealership in Shikoku, the smallest and least populated of Japan's four main islands, the board turned down the request for money. So Mr. Toyoda put up a little less than $2,000 of his own money to buy components, and the team assembled a computer. "We did it at less than one-third of what it would have cost to buy the same thing," Mr. Toyoda said proudly.
Maintaining the computer was a frustration. During a meeting in Hokkaido, Mr. Toyoda received an urgent call on his cell phone from the dealer in Shikoku, complaining that it had crashed and asking him to please send someone immediately to repair it. A Gazoo team member was hastily dispatched, only to discover that the plug had been pulled out of the socket. "That cost me 80,000 yen," Mr. Toyoda said. "Not cost-efficient."
One might even assume that Toyota had it out for Gazoo. The company housed its fledgling Web business in a brand new office building, but on the 42nd floor -- a floor that companies in this country traditionally shun because the number 42 is read "shi ni," which means "death" in Japanese.
A Toyota spokesman insisted, however, that the floor number said nothing about corporate sentiment toward Gazoo. "The rent was cheap because of the floor number," he said. "That's what we care about at Toyota."
However skeptical headquarters may have been, the company now appears fully committed to Gazoo. In June, Mr. Toyoda -- who studied business at Babson College in Wellesley, Mass., and has worked in various parts of the company since 1984 -- was named to Toyota's board, an unusual appointment for one so young. Also this year, Gazoo was officially placed into a separate division, along with some of Toyota's other businesses related to venture capital. The action was regarded as a sign of commitment to them. "Top executives have supported us," Mr. Toyoda said.
They had to. Autobytel and Carpoint, two purely online car-sales ventures, had aimed to put an end to Toyota's tight grip on its dealerships. Honda dealers and Nissan dealers leapt at the chance to participate in the independent online-sales ventures.
But Toyota's dealers were harder to convince because Gazoo provides them with all of the benefits of an Autobytel or Carpoint, but none of the costs. Gazoo, with 660,000 members and more than 60 million Web page views a month, gets more hits than either Autobytel or Carpoint and has proved so attractive to Toyota dealers that Carpoint's sales team has stopped trying to recruit them.
Gazoo was clearly a case of the empire striking back. By offering its dealers an attractive alternative to other online car sales services, Toyota, which controls about 30 percent of the total car market, expects effectively to shrink the potential market for Gazoo's competitors by one-third.
"It's part of the Toyota nature," Mr. Toyoda said. "Toyota is the kind of company that wants to do things by itself."
Indeed. While other Japanese companies are busy disengaging themselves from their keiretsu -- the clusters of suppliers and financial institutions linked by mutual shareholdings that have long stifled competitions and innovation -- Toyota has moved in the opposite direction, increasing its stakes in suppliers and building a financial services business.
Gazoo is playing a big role in that effort, serving as a sort of glue binding the dealerships and customers to Toyota. For instance, Toyota owners can receive online repair and service estimates, features likely to increase that more profitable business, and much of the cumbersome paperwork associated with buying a car here can be completed in advance over the Web.
Once Toyota puts its financing capabilities online next spring, analysts say it will be hard to beat. "The addition of automobile insurance and loans, as well as cash management account services and varied financial products provided by Toyota Financial Services, could turn Gazoo into a full-service Web site for the total range of Toyota products," two analysts, Christopher Redl and Keith Truelove, predicted in a recent report from UBS Warburg. For the moment, the two ascribe a value to Gazoo of about 2 percent of Toyota's stock price.
The data Gazoo generates may eventually lead to the development of a new car, Mr. Toyoda said. It has already taught Toyota invaluable lessons about the used-car business, which is picking up in Japan. For instance, customers online are telling Toyota that the used car they would most like to purchase is three years old. The automaker combs through its databases for customers with three-year-old Toyotas, and dealers dispatch salesmen to approach those people about trading in their cars.
"It's just a suggestion," Mr. Toyoda said. "They don't automatically agree, but it gets them thinking, hey, with 1.5 million yen, I could buy this or I could buy that. Eventually, some of them convince themselves that the salesman was right, it is time to trade in their old cars."
He acknowledges that not all those customers trade in their old Toyotas for new ones. But the Gazoo-inspired pitch may ensure that they sell their old cars to a Toyota dealer rather than trading them to a Honda dealer for a new car, and that helps keep more Toyota business within the family.
Mr. Toyoda also sees opportunities for Gazoo to link some of Toyota's more disparate businesses, like telecommunications and housing development, which have thus far been disappointing investments. "Young people are willing to pay 20,000 yen a month for a cellular phone, but they don't want to pay 5,000 yen a month in car payments," he said, his exasperation clear in his voice. "So, fine. We could sell them mobile phone services and add a Toyota car to the package as a sort of bonus on the side."
Gazoo's offerings also extend beyond the Toyota family. Gazoo sells 1,000 to 2,000 used books every day, according to Mr. Toyoda, through its association with the Bookoff Web Corporation, an online bookseller that is owned by a former Toyota employee. Gazoo employees spent three months establishing a distribution center for Bookoff based on Toyota's famous production methods.
By comparison, Kinokuniya, a bookstore that has an impressive online service, estimates that it sells about 3,500 new books a day.
"Customers don't shop every day for a car, so we had to find a way to increase traffic and give people a reason for revisiting the site," Mr. Toyoda explained.
Gazoo has also found a way to reach consumers who do not have Internet access over a computer, perhaps because Internet access charges in Japan are still relatively high by global standards. It is installing freestanding multimedia terminals that offer Gazoo's services in 13,000 convenience stores throughout the country, giving users the ability to download music onto minidiscs, make travel arrangements, process digital photos and, of course, buy cars.
"It always seems like Japanese are less connected to the Internet than Americans," Mr. Toyoda said. "But if you include access to the Net over cell phones and multimedia stations, I think the numbers are much more similar."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Akio Toyoda, the force behind Toyota's Web site, Gazoo.com, explained that the name derives from Japanese characters for "visual" to signify Internet shopping. (Stuart Isett for The New York Times)(pg. 19); Freestanding multimedia terminals like this have been placed in 13,000 convenience stores around Japan. (Stuart Isett for The New York Times)(pg. 22)
 
Chart: "Well-Connected"
A breakdown of online usage from home, by country, for October 2000.
 
Average daily users, in millions
U.S.: 31.6
JAPAN: 8.5
CANADA: 5.1
GERMANY: 4.2
BRITAIN: 3.6
BRAZIL: 0.6
 
Average days online a month, per user
U.S.: 12.6
JAPAN: 14.7
CANADA: 12.8
GERMANY: 11.4
BRITAIN: 9.0
BRAZIL: 10.7
 
(Source: Media Metrix)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (94%); TM (NYSE) (94%); 7203 (TSE) (94%); 6701 (TSE) (84%); FUJ (LSE) (56%); 6702 (TSE) (56%); AOL (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (52%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CHUBU JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP; GAZOO.COM TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (94%); NEC CORP (84%); FUJITSU LTD (56%); AOL INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP; GAZOO.COM

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (99%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CHUBU JAPAN (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SPECIAL SECTIONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET NEW ECONOMY (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (75%); LAYOFFS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (66%); GLOBALIZATION (60%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE ANN LIVERMORE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



475 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1644 words

HEADLINE: TALKING BIOTECHNOLOGY WITH: George Rathmann;
An Industry Patriarch at the Forefront As Genomics Science Comes of Age

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK 

 BODY:
After years in the doldrums, biotechnology became a glamorous investment in 2000. Excited by the sequencing of the human genetic code, announced in June, investors poured far more money into biotechnology this year than in any other year in history. And dozens of companies took advantage of the open spigot to go public.
But the ride was not straight up. Biotechnology stocks plummeted in March and again toward the end of the year as investors got the jitters. Is genomics really the start of something new? Or will the biotechnology companies crash like the dot-coms did before them? 
 If anyone in the relatively young biotechnology industry has the long-term perspective to address such questions, it is George B. Rathmann, one of the industry's patriarchs.
Mr. Rathmann in 1980 became the first chief executive of Amgen Inc., which he turned into the nation's largest biotechnology company. In 1990, he was a co-founder of the Icos Corporation and served as chief executive through most of the 1990's. The company, based in Bothell, Wash., is now testing what could be a potent competitor to Pfizer's impotence treatment, Viagra.
Now, at age 72, Mr. Rathmann is still on the industry frontier. In February, he left Icos to become chairman, and subsequently chief executive, of Hyseq Inc., a Silicon Valley genomics company. This could be his greatest challenge yet. Hyseq's stock, which reached a high of $139.50 in February is now at $16.50 and Mr. Rathmann personally extended a $20 million line of credit to the company in November.
In a recent interview, he discussed where the biotechnology industry has been and where it's going in the year ahead.
Following are excerpts from that conversation:
 
Q. What would you say were the highlights for the biotechnology industry this year?
A. The highlights come very close to the lowlights. I think the accurate prediction that genomics is going to change the world was why stocks were driven up suddenly. And then, when people began to appreciate that it wasn't going to happen overnight, a lot of the stocks, including ours, plummeted.
Q. Over all, though, biotech stocks are up strongly this year. Are we still in for more of a dot-com-like crash?
A. I don't think so. I don't think it really was a dot-com situation anyway. I think it was a different set of parameters, but it certainly had a parallel. I don't think there's that much fluff left in anybody's stock that they are going to see a further crash. But it might be a long time before we hit the peaks we hit in March.
Q. What will be the key trends and developments in 2001?
A. I think it will be the arrival of the genomics age in reality rather than in theory. You're going to begin to identify real progress with discoveries that were made by simply sequencing genes.
But we won't be telling people that it's a shortcut through the F.D.A. I think some people had the feeling that because you're doing genomics, you're going to see products popping out in a year or two. It's still going to take the 10-year cycle to get a product out into treating patients.
Q. A lot of the companies that have gone public this year offer technology for use by drug companies in testing genes or discovering lead compounds. Is that enough to sustain a business, or does a company have to develop drugs?
A. A year ago, I would have said unquestionably you can't sustain this without developing drugs. The reason I modify it a little bit is there have been a few organizations that look like they're awfully sustainable today that haven't developed any drugs.
But I do think that most companies are saying, "Hey, to be sure I've got a future, I'm going to develop drugs, too." I can't see any of these companies saying we absolutely are not going to develop drugs.
Q. Do you think that applies to Celera Genomics the company founded by J. Craig Venter that sequenced the human genome and says its business will be selling genetic information ?
A. You bet I think it applies to Celera. It doesn't look like it right now, I have to admit. But I don't think there's any doubt. He is too smart to not take the next step.
Q. We've heard for years that the biotechnology industry is about to undergo a wave of mergers and consolidation. Do you see that happening?
A. The thing that makes you feel it's still true is that the gigantic companies have not slowed down in their efforts to get together with each other. So any one of us would be pretty smug to say, "Well, SmithKline Beecham wasn't big enough and Glaxo wasn't big enough, but we're big enough."
So I'd say the consolidations will continue, and I would imagine they'll accelerate. And yet I would imagine that five years from now there are going be more biotech companies than there are today because they are being spawned at a pretty good pace.
Q. What impact will genomics really have on drug development?
A. It opens up horizons. If you were to look at what happened when we first started in biotech, it seemed like you had infinite horizons. We could make any human protein in a reactor. In 1987, I listed 15 proteins that were likely to be useful, and they all got on the market eventually. If you knew 15 in '87 you would have figured that probably there would be a steady stream of these over the next 10 years. But, actually, even the largest companies didn't make a proportionate number of discoveries. In fact, if you calculate the money that was being spent from 1990 to 2000, you'd have to say, "Wow, diminishing returns." Amgen would end up with a billion-dollar budget, and we had a $20 million budget when I was there. And yet they weren't getting 50 times as much stuff out. What it meant was we had exhausted the supply of well-defined proteins.
And then all of a sudden we see these new horizons created by the fact that we're going to find genes randomly rather than finding the ones that people have already thought about. And so suddenly you have 10,000 genes. That's just got to look like a more fruitful field to play in than where you look and look and find one in a year. And so I think the payoff from genomics is going to be maybe lower-quality leads but so many of them that the overall opportunity is far in excess of what it was.
Q. Many experts say that by analyzing a patient's genes it will be possible to tailor medicines, increasing effectiveness and avoiding side effects. But others say that personalized medicine will not be attractive for drug companies because it will require more drugs with smaller sales for each. What's your view?
A. Those two positions are both correct. I think pharmacogenomics is here to stay and has got some enormous benefits. But I'm not sure that in the limit the industry's going to prosper by having an Andy Pollack version of this drug and a George Rathmann version. On the other hand, when we go into the clinic and we find out that 30 percent of the patients don't respond, if we can find out what the genetic link is, wow! You take a study of 10,000 patients that might be required when you've got a 30 percent noise level, and you can get it down to 500 patients, very likely. And that is going to happen.
Q. The big issue next year in Washington is expected to be high and rising drug prices. Is biotechnology contributing to high prices?
A. You bet it's going to be contributing to the cost of pharmaceuticals. But unfortunately the equation is never worked out as fully as it should be. If you find out that you've avoided hospitalizations, you can in many cases establish that there's been an economic gain, not an economic loss.
Q. Should there be some sort of pricing restraint by biotech companies?
A. We ran that experiment in 1994. We were talking to the Hillary task force, and some pretty smart guys said to us: "Look, we have to have price controls. Congress will not buy national health care on the risk that costs are going to go way out of sight."
And what did it do? We just about drove every biotech company out of business. Our stock dropped by 82 percent in a six-month period.
Companies are not going to be able to fund the research and development to make new drugs. It's not so clear for the pharmaceutical industry. You don't know, if they have a windfall from a big successful product, that they necessarily are going to put it back into R & D. In fact, the favorite criticism by congressmen is that they put it back into advertising. So you have all of this castigation of the industry. But I know where biotech puts it. We won't survive. You can't do R & D without investment that believes there's going to be a return.
Q. Do you see any resolution of the controversy about genetically modified foods?
A. I'm not very well informed there. The problem up until now has been that the benefits, which eventually accrue to the consumer, are still kind of trickle-down. I'm doing something that's going to be good for the farmer. But it's not something so tangible as saving your mother's life, which is what biopharmaceuticals have done. And as a result a certain amount of concerns were generated. Why should I be subjected to this for the benefit of the farmer or middleman?
Q. Do you see this controversy spilling over to the medical area?
A. Not at all. In fact, it will be snuffed out in those areas where you say, "Look, if I had this rice instead of the old rice, I could prevent thousands of cases of vitamin deficiency." Once you start having products like that, they'll be insulated from this kind of concern because the consumer is seeing a benefit.
Q. Most people at 72 would be retired, not running a start-up. Why are you doing it? Do you have any plans for retirement?
A. Well, I've had a lot of plans for retirement. But I don't take them very seriously. If you really think you're doing something useful, that's where you want to be.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Geroge B. Rathmann, the chief executive of Hyseq Inc., says genomics opens new avenues for drug company product development. (Jenny Thomas for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "For Large Biotech Stocks, A Rather Good Year "
Biotech stocks have been volatile, but as a group they fared well this year.
 
Graph tracks Amex Index of 17 Biotechnology Companies and Nasdaq Composite for the year.
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

TICKER: AMGN (NASDAQ) (91%); ABIO (NASDAQ) (67%); PFZ (LSE) (55%); PFE (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (91%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (83%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (83%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (55%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (55%); CALIFORNIA, USA (54%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: AMGEN INC (91%); ICOS CORP (83%); ARCA BIOPHARMA INC (67%); PFIZER INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (55%); WASHINGTON, USA (55%); CALIFORNIA, USA (54%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; SPECIAL SECTIONS; BIOTECHNOLOGY; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); GENETICS AND HEREDITY BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (95%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); GENOMICS (90%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INTERVIEWS (88%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (78%); EXECUTIVES (73%); SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION (66%); 

PERSON: RATHMANN, GEORGE; POLLACK, ANDREW JOSEPH C PAPA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



476 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1347 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMY & INDUSTRY;
H.M.O.'s Are Pressed on Many Fronts to Reinvent Themselves

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM 

 BODY:
The managed care industry can hope to be reasonably prosperous next year, but many critics both in and outside the industry say H.M.O.'s will soon have to reinvent themselves, or perish.
Bigger premiums next year should provide bigger profits for many. But higher costs in a number of areas -- in installing high-technology equipment, paying for new drugs and modernizing facilities -- are taking their toll. Hospitals and physicians are also rebelling against what they consider inadequate payments, and employers are railing against rate increases. Add to this legislation in Congress that supports patients' rights, and it becomes clear that the industry is under great pressure to re-evaluate its operations on many fronts. 
 "The very model that the health plans function on is being called into question by the plans themselves," said Kenneth A. Tannenbaum, a health care consultant in Atlanta with Tillinghast-Towers Perrin, the benefits consulting firm.
Taking advantage of the still-vibrant economy and tight labor market that has stoked demand for employee health coverage, insurers raised premiums 8 and 9 percent for large companies for 2001 and as high as 20 and 30 percent for small concerns.
With profits improving at many for-profit health maintenance organizations, their stock prices have rebounded from the lows of the last few years. But smaller managed care plans are in danger as they scramble to merge and come up with financing for new information systems. More than half the health plans reported losses for 1999.
The industry's main concerns, said Leonard D. Schaeffer, chief executive of Wellpoint Health Networks, one of the strongest health insurers, include assessing the costs and efficacy of changing new technology, especially expensive new drugs. The industry must also meet the growing needs of aging baby boomers and keep on the right side of employers who may be reluctant to cover growing health costs if the economy falters.
Michael Barrett, a senior analyst at Forrester Research in Cambridge, Mass., said that "a real collision is brewing" for managed care companies. "Employers don't want to see a return to double-digit rate increases," he said. "Doctors and hospitals are getting higher reimbursements, and consumers are not inclined to play patsy for cost shifting."
He said many H.M.O.'s will need a significant amount of money for improvements in information systems to keep customers happy and try to keep costs in line. But with profit margins slim, "they do not have any ready means of raising it."
Managed care companies have also been fighting a raft of lawsuits from patients whose lawyers are seeking class-action status and charging that the system does not deliver the quality of care that it says it does. The companies have won several rounds in federal appeals courts. On another front, a bill that would make it easier to sue H.M.O.'s for medical malpractice is now moving through Congress. It was passed last year by the House and has been stuck in the Senate, but the new Congress may be more receptive to the legislation after the defeat of several senators who had opposed it.
Finding that their attempt to manage costs by delaying and denying payments for care has broken down in the face of consumer resistance, some health plans are planning to give consumers more choices of coverage and follow up with close attention to preventive measures, which they hope will safeguard the health of those at risk of contracting expensive illnesses.
Industry experts say the insurers must shift to policies that permit consumers to put together their own customized health plans and offer help to them in deciding what to do. Insurers are also beginning to provide consumers with personalized Web pages to see how their medical claims are being handled, said Jeff Goldsmith, a health care economist who is president of Health Futures, an independent consulting firm in Charlottesville, Va.
As they adopt sophisticated new strategies, the health plans must spend heavily to "Web-enable" their communications with providers and consumers of care and payers, said Mr. Tannenbaum of Tillinghast-Towers Perrin.
"Health plans are trying to control costs by delivering information online," said Jack Reichman, director for health insurance at Standard & Poor's, the credit rating agency. "The new systems cost $200 million to $300 million," he said.
But there is little choice. "Those that don't invest will ultimately have higher costs," Mr. Reichman said. And all health plans must comply with new federal regulations requiring standardized computer language and privacy and security measures to protect patients.
The federal requirements will cost 20 to 30 percent more than last year's multimillion-dollar outlays that prepared computer systems for Year 2000 problems that largely failed to materialize, Mr. Tannenbaum said.
If the economy sours, the pressures will only increase. "When corporate employers' cash flow begins to decline significantly, the plans will be in serious trouble," Mr. Goldsmith said. When consumer prices and wages are rising at low single-digit rates, employers will reject big increases for health care, he said.
Mr. Schaeffer of Wellpoint added: "If the economy slows even a little bit in 2002, the chief financial officers will come out of their offices. Right now, the sales guys are in charge."
Mr. Reichman said 10 to 15 percent of employers might turn to "something like defined contributions" next year, rather than swallow further rate increases. Under defined contributions, individual members of health plans have to make their own money stretch to cover costs, instead of having a commitment from their employer or an H.M.O. to cover their medical needs.
Many hospitals, meanwhile, have been aggressively demanding higher payments after years of being squeezed by the health plans. Some strong hospitals have refused to do business this year with insurers who squeezed too hard. Both hospitals and physician group practices are avoiding the risks of accepting capitation arrangements, in which they receive low monthly per capita payments for groups of health plan members, many of whom may need expensive care.
"Physician enterprises are in a serious mess," Mr. Goldsmith said at Health Futures. "In the West, a lot of health plans drove them into bankruptcy." More than 100 medical groups in California have filed for bankruptcy protection the last three years.
For-profit hospital chains were among the first to increase their revenues and earnings by making their operations more efficient. Share prices of HCA Healthcare, Tenet Healthcare and other big chains have soared this year. But the picture is still mixed as the industry lobbies vigorously for restoration of federal budget cuts.
"A third of the 4,800 hospitals are doing real well," said Rick Wade, a senior vice president of the American Hospital Association, a Washington trade group. "About a third have taken it on the chin from the balanced budget act cuts and state Medicaid cutbacks, and the rest are in the middle with profit margins of 1 to 5 percent, not enough to go to the bond markets with," he said.
Most hospitals need big amounts to modernize buildings that were put up with liberal federal help under the Hill-Burton act after World War II. Some are seeking financial help from local governments, businesses and philanthropies, to make up for cutbacks by managed care and Washington.
Nurses and other hospital workers are in short supply, and unions regard health care as "the last great frontier" for them to organize, Mr. Wade said. There have been strikes around the country but he said the hospitals "do not have a lot of options for coming up with the money."
"This industry has been in a recession for two years," Mr. Goldsmith said. Now hospitals are beginning to cut administrative costs, eliminate highly paid administrators and consolidate departments, he said.
"I'm cautiously optimistic for next year about both hospitals and health plans," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Ever Higher "
The average gross health care cost per employee -- measuring the employee's annual payroll contribution plus the employer subsidy -- is projected to grow by double digits next year.
 
1997 -- $3,676
 
1998 -- $3,794
Change from previous year: +3.2%
 
1999 -- $3,999
Change from previous year: +5.4%
 
2000 -- $4,408
Change from previous year: +9.3%
 
2001 *Projection -- $4,915
Change from previous year: +11.5%
 
(Source: Hewitt Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TW (NYSE) (56%); FORR (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (56%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (56%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: TOWERS WATSON & CO (56%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; SPECIAL SECTIONS; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); HEALTH INSURANCE HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (95%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (93%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); INSURANCE (89%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); LAWYERS (69%); BABY BOOMERS (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); COMPANY PROFITS (64%); CLASS ACTIONS (62%); LITIGATION (62%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT KENNETH A TANNENBAUM (56%); TILLINGHAST-TOWERS PERRIN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



477 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMY & INDUSTRY;
Airlines Wait to Learn The Fate of the Big Deal

BYLINE: By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
The coming year will be a landmark for the domestic airline industry. Or it will not be.
That is the consensus of airline executives, analysts and consultants as they all await the outcome of the $4.3 billion bid by the UAL Corporation, the parent of United Airlines, to acquire US Airways. 
 The conventional wisdom is that if the deal is consummated as proposed, it will precipitate a consolidation frenzy within the industry that will quickly reduce the top six airlines to three giants that will control 85 percent of domestic air traffic.
But the belief is just as strong that the Justice Department's antitrust division, which has taken a hard line against the big airlines in recent years, will not allow the deal to be completed, or at the very least will demand radical changes that could divide US Airways' assets among several competitors.
The endgame may be near. United and US Airways have already presented the Justice Department with all the documents that have been requested. The two sides will probably engage in behind-the-scenes negotiations in an effort to reach some mutually agreeable settlement. The election of George W. Bush as presidentn could complicate matters, but United and US Airways still predict that the deal will be completed early next year.
There is little doubt that the size and scale of the merger and its long-term effect on the industry presents the Justice Department with its most important decision since the industry was deregulated in 1978.
After United, the world's largest airline, and US Airways, the country's sixth largest, announced their deal in May, talks sprouted among American Airlines, Delta Air Lines and Northwest Airlines, the three largest carriers behind United.
The most plausible combinations, given antitrust obstacles, have American buying Northwest and Delta buying Continental. But talks between American and Northwest stalled earlier this year after Northwest demanded a high price and showed little interest in selling. And Continental, which recently negotiated to buy back most of a controlling stake held by Northwest, wants to stay independent.
Indeed, none of the airlines, with the exception of United, seem to relish the idea of a merger. Combining airlines is a notoriously messy affair. Only a few deals in modern history have turned out to be profitable. American, for instance, became embroiled in a costly battle with its pilots last year after it agreed to buy tiny Reno Air. A merger with Northwest would be much more disruptive.
But airline executives say privately that they would have no choice if United succeeded in swallowing US Airways. The deal as proposed would give United by far the biggest domestic route network, filling the large gap it now has in the Eastern United States. American and Delta, which are now roughly the same size as United domestically, would find it hard to compete for contracts that make them the preferred airlines for large corporations, their bread-and-butter business.
That is one of the concerns that the Justice Department is likely to raise, antitrust experts say. United and US Airways counter that the two have few overlapping routes and that the merger would increase competition and lower air fares.
But United's credibility in Washington, which was already low when the deal was announced in May, has plunged. A summer slowdown by its pilots and machinists forced United to cancel more than 20,000 flights. Its on-time performance fell to 40 percent from about 70 percent.
Many senators and congressmen wondered aloud how much worse the situation would have been had United owned US Airways. James L. Oberstar, the ranking Democrat on the House Transportation Committee, has written to the Justice Department twice urging it to reject the merger.
United and US Airways recognize that their combined share of the market in Washington is a problem. They have proposed spinning off most US Airways assets at Reagan National Airport in Washington to a new airline called DC Air to be owned by Robert L. Johnson, the founder and chairman of Black Entertainment Television and a US Airways director.
That has opened the door to the possibility that the Justice Department will demand larger divestitures. One course short of full consolidation among the big six carriers would have United gaining some of US Airways East Coast routes with the remainder being divided among American, Continental and Northwest.
In that case, said James M. Higgins, an airline analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston, American and Delta might try to buy smaller airlines, like Alaska Airlines and America West, to fill out their route networks and keep up with United.
Mr. Higgins also said that the election of George W. Bush as president might not bode well for United. While a Republican administration is normally seen as hands off when it comes to antitrust enforcement, Mr. Bush's home state of Texas is also the home of American and Continental, the two airlines most eager to see the deal fall apart.
Finally, if the stock market is any guide, the chances that the deal will go through are slim but improving. UAL offered $60 a share for US Airways. For most of the summer, US Airways stock traded at about $30 a share, an indication that few investors believed that the deal would be completed. But in recent weeks, US Airways shares have risen, closing on Friday at $43.75 a share.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: United and US Airways announced their deal in May. They predict that the merger will be completed early next year. (Agence France-Press)
 
Chart: "Buying a Companion Ticket"
Many airline industry analysts believe that if the United-US Airways merger is approved, the other big carriers will follow, leaving three giant airlines.
 
MARKET SHARE -- Based on 2000 revenue passenger miles through October.
 
AMERICAN/NORTHWEST: 30.2%
UNITED/US AIRWAYS: 26.6%
DELTA/CONTINENTAL: 26.3%
OTHER AIRLINES: 16.9%
 
STOCK PRICE -- United's stock has been cut in half by investors this year, while US Airways shares have risen.
 
Graph shows United and US Airways.
(Sources: Company reports, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (93%); LCC (NYSE) (92%); DAL (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (93%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (93%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (70%); 

COMPANY: UAL CORP; UNITED AIRLINES; US AIRWAYS UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (93%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (70%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UAL CORP; UNITED AIRLINES; US AIRWAYS US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (70%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; SPECIAL SECTIONS AIRLINES (92%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); MERGERS (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (75%); HISTORY (73%); 

PERSON: ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE GEORGE W BUSH (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



478 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 22; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
A New Horizon for China in Trade

BYLINE: By CRAIG S. SMITH 

DATELINE: SHANGHAI

 BODY:
Liang Bingjun, chatting on his mobile telephone, is one reason the West ought to be excited about China joining the World Trade Organization next year.
A quarter of every dollar spent on the phone by Mr. Liang and other mobile phone owners in China could belong to a foreign company as soon as China joins the W.T.O. That's not small change. With more than 65 million cell phone users, China is already the world's second-largest wireless market and is expected to surpass even the United States by the end of next year. 
 Telecommunications is just one way in which China's trade organization membership will make an immediate splash. While reams of questions remain about what will happen after the world's most populous country joins the global trading club, there are some reasonable certainties about instant changes that will alter the global market forever. Others will happen gradually over five years.
China's W.T.O. membership will not change everything: the country will continue to protect many of its sectors from foreign competition. But joining the organization will force open the nation's economy more in the first five years than during the previous 20 years of reforms. Some of the biggest changes will come on the first day.
Tariffs are set to fall on a wide range of products. On the first day of China's W.T.O. membership, for example, the import duty on some automobiles will drop to 63.5 percent from 80 percent now, the first step in a five-year decline that will bring all car duties down to 25 percent.
Finance companies like GMAC, meanwhile, will be allowed to offer car loans, putting millions of Chinese consumers within sudden reach of buying an imported car.
And China has promised to scrap the murky, politicized process by which it decides what companies have access to its market.
Insurers, for example, will no longer wait years to hear if they are among the anointed ones. The day after China joins the W.T.O., the country's insurance regulator is supposed to have applications on hand for qualified companies that want to sell insurance in the country. And, under W.T.O. rules, the regulator will have to act on the applications within a set period of time, giving a written explanation to companies whose applications are turned down. That will be a relief to insurers that have spent millions of dollars waiting for word from the regulators with no information at all.
Insurers are eager to start: China's entire insurance market is still smaller than Taiwan's, but the government expects it to expand at a double-digit rate for at least the next decade.
"With incomes rising, there's little doubt the market will grow quickly," said Patrick Cranley, the Cigna Corporation's representative in Shanghai and the chairman of the American Chamber of Commerce here.
As a W.T.O. member, China won't be able to arbitrarily limit the number of foreign insurance companies operating here.
Other foreign services will become immediately legal. Foreign law firms, which have operated in a gray area for years, will at last be allowed to counsel clients on Chinese laws and rules related to commercial transactions, though they will not yet be allowed to argue cases before Chinese courts.
In some cases, China is already amending those laws and regulations to comply with W.T.O. standards. The country's legislature has drafted amendments that will lift burdens from foreign investors setting up factories in China. Those amendments will take effect when they are approved by the full legislature, a largely rubber stamp body, at its next session early next year.
Among other changes, foreign companies will no longer be required to use a certain amount of local materials or components in the products they make in China. And factories that are 100 percent foreign-owned will no longer be required to export at least half their China-made goods. Nor will licenses for wholly foreign-owned manufacturers be granted based on the level of technology they bring to China.
"That should make it easier for foreign companies to invest," said Patrick Norton, a Shanghai-based lawyer with the American law firm O'Melveny & Myers.
Few of the immediate changes will be as momentous as the opening of China's telecommunications industry, though, which itself is on the verge of explosive growth. Upon China's joining the W.T.O., foreign companies will be allowed to buy up to 25 percent of Chinese mobile telephone networks, and up to 49 percent within three years.
Foreign telecommunication giants are already jostling for position: Britain's Vodafone Group paid $2.5 billion for a 2 percent stake in China's biggest mobile telephone company, China Mobile Communications, earlier this year and has said it is ready to buy more. Hong Kong's Hutchison Whampoa holds a 2 percent stake in China Unicom, China's second mobile telephone operator, which is shopping for a still larger strategic investor. And there may also be more mobile telephone licenses issued in China after the country joins the W.T.O.
Mr. Liang, 25, who keeps his cell phone glued to his ear at a coffee shop on Shanghai's bustling Nanjing Road, said he was happy about the changes W.T.O. entry will bring. "If there are foreign companies in the market, there will be more competition and prices will come down," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A mobile phone billboard in Beijing. When China joins the World Trade Organization, the nation's telecommunications market will be opened wide to foreign companies. (Agence France-Presse)
 
Chart: "China's Import Picture"
Imports are already on the rise in China, even before it joins the World Trade Organization and import duties fall on many products.
 
Graph tracks Dollar value of Chinese imports from 1990-2000.
 
Top six imports in 1999.
Plastics and related products: $11.6 billions
Mineral fuels, lubricants, asphalt, wax: 8.9
Iron and steel: 7.2
Organic chemicals: 5.5
Paper, paperboard and paper products: 4.0
Aircraft, spacecraft and parts: 3.2
 
Largest suppliers in 2000, through September.
IN BILLIONS
 
Japan -- $30.0
Taiwan -- 18.6
South Korea -- 17.0
United States -- 16.2
Germany -- 7.6
Hong Kong -- 6.8
Russia -- 4.3
Malaysia -- 3.9
Australia -- 3.7
Singapore -- 3.7
 
(Sources: China State Statistical Bureau; China Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CI (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (82%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (82%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: EAST CHINA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%); 

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (78%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION CIGNA CORP (82%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (94%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (94%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); GERMANY (79%); EAST CHINA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (78%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; SPECIAL SECTIONS INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (75%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (69%); CONSUMER LENDING (68%); INSURANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (67%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (67%); 

PERSON: SMITH, CRAIG S

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



479 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 22; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Southeast Asia Braces For More Economic Pain

BYLINE: By WAYNE ARNOLD 

DATELINE: SINGAPORE

 BODY:
For the last two years, international lenders and economists have been warning Southeast Asia to learn the lessons of its financial crisis, use its rebound as an opportunity to sweep out old-economy cobwebs and reduce the region's reliance on exporting to the United States.
Time's up. 
 With oil prices still high and evidence mounting that demand from United States consumers and companies is slackening, especially in the once-feverish electronics sector, economists now predict that Southeast Asia's economic growth rates will cool significantly in 2001.
"Asia is going to feel a bit more pain," said William C. Belchere, head of fixed-income research at Merrill Lynch.
Vexing to investors, slowing growth in Southeast Asia presents a potentially more serious challenge to political leaders expected to produce livelihoods for a population whose average annual income is just a little more than $1,000 and one-third of whom are under the age of 14.
But many of those same political leaders have become distracted with problems of their own. Corruption scandals, impeachment bids and campaign challenges in Southeast Asia's three functioning democracies have left two-thirds of the region's citizens without the kind of leadership needed to push through the difficult reforms that economists say might have better prepared them for a slowing economy in the United States.
For the most vivid illustration, look no further than the Philippines, where the impeached president, Joseph Estrada, is defending himself in the country's Senate against charges of taking kickbacks from illegal gambling operations.
Mr. Estrada's trial is expected to drag on until February, but economists and analysts say that no matter what the outcome, there is little sign that the country's political establishment has the kind of financial discipline needed to rein in a ballooning government deficit.
"The budget deficit remains a key constraint to growth and stability in the economy," said Desmond Supple, a director at Barclays Capital in Singapore. "Estrada or his successor won't be able to escape that."
The trouble, economists say, is that Estrada is just one man in a corrupt and inequitable system. Removing Mr. Estrada will do little, for instance, to end widespread tax evasion by the country's business elite, the same class now leading calls for his ouster. Nor will it address the fact that, while poverty levels are declining, the gap between the rich and poor is widening and much of the country still belongs to the very rich.
"A few families have a huge portion of the national land -- peasants are controlled by landlords," said Takahira Ogawa, director of sovereign ratings at Standard & Poor's in Singapore. "They need agricultural land reform."
Mr. Estrada's impeachment trial, meanwhile, has diverted the Senate from passing legislation that would privatize the deeply indebted national utility, a step deemed imperative by both the Asian Development Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
The result: a loss of investor confidence that has sapped the currency, the peso, battered the stock market and sent interest rates soaring.
A similar scenario is being played out in Thailand, Malaysia and Indonesia, confounding predictions a year ago that foreign investors would plow money back into Southeast Asia to capitalize on the region's recovery. On the contrary: concerns about corruption and poor corporate governance have prompted a stampede by foreign investors, helping to send the region's leading stock indexes down 30 percent and more.
Hastening the exodus are foreign fund managers, who often calibrate their investments to match the relative size of the world's markets. The smaller Southeast Asia's markets become, the more these fund managers sell to adjust their exposure.
Slumping stock markets have also closed an important avenue for the region's corporations and new-economy entrepreneurs to tap Southeast Asia's prodigious savers, something economists have advocated as a way of reducing the region's reliance on borrowing from banks.
But the region's banks are still preoccupied with digging their way out from under the loans that went sour during the financial crisis of 1997 and 1998. In Thailand, for example, banks have managed to reduce the level of nonperforming loans to 25 percent of all loans from 45 percent, but this hasn't been compensated by new loans to Thailand's hungry economy.
Some Thai companies have been able to sell bonds to the public to raise operating cash, but for the most part, economists say companies are relying on their own sales revenues, especially their exports.
America's high-tech slump is likely to have the biggest impact not in Thailand, however, but in the region's electronics powerhouses, Malaysia and Singapore. Electronics exports account for about two-fifths of Malaysia's economy and roughly three-quarters of Singapore's. J.P. Morgan predicts that Singapore's economic growth will taper to 4 percent in 2001 from roughly 10 percent this year and Malaysia's to 3 percent from 9 percent.
Some economists warn that Southeast Asian nations need to do more than put each of their own houses in order. To increase the region's allure as a market and export base, tangible progress needs to be made, they say, toward pledges of greater economic integration and free trade. China's eventual membership in the World Trade Organization, they warn, will make it a tougher competitor.
The urge to protect domestic industries has held up such efforts so far, but China represents a greater potential threat, warns Mr. Ogawa at Standard & Poor's. "They have to unite and come up with some kind of countermeasures," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Slackening Seen in Export Growth "
Demand on the part of the United States and other large economies for exports from Asian nations is expected to slow next year.
 
Chart lists Export growth for China, Hong Kong, South Korea, Taiwan, Indonesia, Malaysia, Phillippines, Singapore, Thailand and India.
 
(Source: Merrill Lynch)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (90%); MER (NYSE) (90%); 8675 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (97%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); SINGAPORE (94%); PHILIPPINES (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); THAILAND (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; ASIA (97%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); SINGAPORE (94%); PHILIPPINES (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); THAILAND (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%); CHINA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SPECIAL SECTIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) RURAL DEVELOPMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (88%); CORRUPTION (87%); IMPEACHMENT (87%); EXTERNAL DEBT (86%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRENDS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (74%); TAX FRAUD (74%); FOREIGN LENDING (73%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%); SCANDALS (72%); ELECTRONICS (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (69%); SOVEREIGN RISK (67%); LEGISLATION (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); FARM LABOR (62%); BUDGET DEFICITS (62%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); GAMING (50%); ILLEGAL GAMBLING (50%); 

PERSON: ARNOLD, WAYNE JOSEPH ESTRADA (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



480 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 19; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 137 words

HEADLINE: 2000 HIGHLIGHTS;
A New Era for U.S. and Vietnam

 BODY:
President Clinton opened a new chapter in relations with Vietnam in November by spending three days in the country. It was the first visit by an American president since the end of the war 25 years ago. Mr. Clinton gently but insistently urged Vietnam to set aside its fears and join the global marketplace of trade and ideas, though some Vietnamese leaders did not seem at all sure that they wanted to. Ordinary people were an easier sell: Mr. Clinton was thronged and cheered wherever he went. The president's visit came shortly after the two former adversaries signed a trade agreement that, if carried out, may tear down many of the walls Vietnam has erected around its economy and society. The accord, Mr. Clinton said, will promote "a more open, sophisticated free market, based on international rules of law."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: VIET NAM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIETNAM; VIET NAM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SPECIAL SECTIONS US PRESIDENTS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (85%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); TRENDS (66%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



481 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1401 words

HEADLINE: Despite Turkish-Greek Thaw, Cyprus Quarrel Is Not Melting

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS FRANTZ 

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, Dec. 17

 BODY:
Accelerated by "seismic diplomacy" as they helped each other through devastating earthquakes, and soothed by Greece's agreement to Turkey's desire to join the European Union, the traditionally thorny relations between Turkey and Greece have improved rapidly in the last 18 months.
A dispute during NATO exercises in October that could have turned nasty was swiftly defused without lasting damage to the reconciliation; tourism will double this year and two-way trade will vault to $1 billion from $630 million. Educators, judges and business groups have all held rare and productive exchanges. 
 But that, it turns out, was the easy part. Progress made by the two countries' foreign ministers, and brought to the popular level when first Turkey, then Athens, suffered bad earthquakes in 1999, was maintained by concentrating on incremental matters and shelving the tough questions.
In the end, the historic enmity between Greece and Turkey -- awkwardly locked into the same defense alliance, NATO -- can be turned into durable peace only if the two countries can agree on the fate of Cyprus and settle territorial disputes in the Aegean Sea.
Interviews with both foreign ministers, Ismail Cem of Turkey and George Papandreou of Greece, and with other diplomats and officials in the two countries revealed that despite unanimous optimism about short-term prospects, the new relationship remains fragile. Substantive differences still separate two of the most important countries in a region of strategic significance to the United States and Europe.
Sitting in his ornate office in Athens earlier this month, Mr. Papandreou sounded convincing when he said that the countries were closer than at any time in 40 years and that he expected more progress. But at some point, Mr. Papandreou made clear, there must be a solution on the divided island of Cyprus.
"There are big issues that have not been solved and it's going to be painful," he said. "Issues like Cyprus will either unite us or divide us."
A few days later, overlooking the Bosporus at the Ciragan Palace Hotel in Istanbul, the Turkish foreign minister, Ismail Cem, was equally upbeat in his prognosis. But he rejected his Greek counterpart's stance on Cyprus, saying the island's ultimate fate should be determined by the Greeks and Turks who live there in an uneasy peace.
"Cyprus is an issue that has to be dealt with primarily by the two parties on the island," Mr. Cem said. "I told the Greeks at the start that Cyprus was not an issue that I would address with them."
The ministers were similarly divided on resolving the quarrel in the Aegean, where the ownership of hundreds of islands is in dispute and Greece says its continental shelf extends 12 miles. Greece insists that the matter be handled by mediation and the International Court of Justice at The Hague, while Turkey maintains that there are other international and Greek-Turkish mechanisms.
The fact that Mr. Papandreou and Mr. Cem differ on these important issues is significant, for these two men almost single-handedly provided the spark and momentum to bring their countries closer together.
Mr. Cem began the process with a letter to Mr. Papandreou in June 1999. Since then, they have negotiated a pragmatic course forward, navigating past obstacles like the botched NATO exercise in October and the flare-up last month over Greek insistence that Turkey resolve the Cyprus and Aegean issues before joining the European Union.
"They have made a strategic decision for rapprochement and I think that decision holds today, despite the problems of the last two months," R. Nicholas Burns, the American ambassador in Athens, said in an interview. "What we've seen now is what you often see in diplomacy -- it takes more than a year and a half to bridge profound historical divisions."
The question is, how much time do Mr. Papandreou and Mr. Cem have? The history of conflict between Greece and Turkey dates back centuries and includes 400 years of Ottoman occupation of Greece. But for Turks and Greeks alike, history is not only what is read in books. It is present, it is personal and it is recent.
In 1974, Turkish soldiers invaded Cyprus after a coup by military officers favoring union with Greece. The Turkish prime minister who ordered the intervention, Bulent Ecevit, is the country's current leader.
Just four years ago, Greece and Turkey narrowly averted going to war over two rocky Aegean outcroppings. Despite the recent progress, diplomats and businessmen in both countries worry that a single incident could resurrect old hatreds.
The question of time is more crucial for Mr. Papandreou, who must guard against appearing to give up too much without substantive returns and is constrained by lingering domestic suspicions that Turkey remains a potential neighborhood thug.
Mr. Papandreou is a member of the socialist party Pasok, which won re-election last April by a single percent. While Prime Minister Costas Simitis has been credited with improving the economy, Greece remains the poorest country in the European Union and the government has been criticized for corruption and the slow pace of privatization.
The main opposition party, the center-right New Democracy, also has hammered away at Mr. Papandreou over what it sees as his dovish attitude toward Turkey. They say he has received nothing of substance despite allowing Turkey to become a candidate for the European Union.
"It is a unilateral concession policy," Costas Karamanlis, the opposition leader, contended earlier this month.
The government clearly expected progress by now toward its goal of a unified Cyprus, but Mr. Papandreou accurately said reconciliation remains popular among the Greek people. He also said bringing Turkey into the European club will be as beneficial for Greece as for Turkey.
But he acknowledged that his advocacy carries political risks, particularly for someone often mentioned as a future prime minister.
"As foreign minister, I am identified with this policy," he said. "I am judged. I hope to see results in the next four years."
Thanos Dokos, an official with a foreign policy foundation in Athens, was more blunt. "If things go wrong, his political career is going to be wrecked," he said.
The stakes are not as high for Mr. Cem, though he is also regarded as a potential prime minister. Turkey is much larger, with a population of 65 million compared with 10 million in Greece, and its foreign policy interests stretch from the Middle East and Russia to Central Asia and the Caucasus.
Indeed, Mr. Cem sees Turkey's regional role as the chief reason his country will ultimately join the European Union and he said the candidacy approved at the Helsinki summit meeting a year ago reflected Turkey's progress, not Greece's acquiescence.
"The timing was right for many reasons," he said. "Greek relations had improved. Terrorism within Turkey was under control. The government was stable. The economy was growing smooth. Democratic improvements were taking place. It became in the interest of Europe as a whole to bring Turkey into the club."
When it comes to Greek relations, Mr. Cem seemed content with the pace of progress. "If we allow what is taking place to go smoothly, it will be a major accomplishment," he said.
Mr. Cem's contention that Cypriots must determine whether the island becomes a confederation of equals or a unified state avoids the reality that Turkish Cyprus is a client-state of Turkey. The government in Ankara is the only one that recognizes the Turkish Cypriot government, 30,000 Turkish troops are garrisoned there, and Turkey provides $100 million a year in aid.
Still, Mr. Cem must also contend with sometimes-tumultuous domestic politics and a virulent Turkish aversion to any policy that appears to give up sovereignty. Neither man could probably withstand a headline in his country's lively national newspapers saying that he had given away Cyprus, which embodies too much of the past for both peoples.
"History is not over and the reference point with Cyprus goes back through the whole gamut of the Turkish-Greek relationship," said Ahmet Evin, a dean at Istanbul's Sabanci University who is working on a conflict resolution project with Greek and American academics. "Memory is opened every time there is friction between the two countries and it will take time and work to heal."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Turkish foreign minister, Ismail Cem, left, and his Greek counterpart, George Papandreou, have worked hard at reconciliation between their two countries, which have centuries of bitterness behind them. (Associated Press); (Staton R. Winter for The New York Times)
 
Map of Aegean highlighting Greece, Turkey, and Cyprus: There is little agreement on how to resolve the division of Cyprus.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: TURKEY (99%); CYPRUS (96%); GREECE (94%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (92%); ATHENS, GREECE (92%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CYPRUS; GREECE; TURKEY; TURKEY (99%); CYPRUS (96%); GREECE (94%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (92%); ATHENS, GREECE (92%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%); 

SUBJECT: GREECE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-TURKEY INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: FRANTZ, DOUGLAS; CEM, ISMAIL (MIN); PAPANDREOU, GEORGE (MIN) GEORGE PAPANDREOU (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



482 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: THE 43rd PRESIDENT: THE VICE PRESIDENT-ELECT;
Cheney Says Bush Administration Will Move Rapidly on Issues Central to Campaign

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 17

 BODY:
The incoming Bush administration signaled today that it would make education its first legislative priority after taking office next month, and pledged to move rapidly on the other main pieces of its campaign platform, including a big tax cut and overhauls of Social Security and Medicare.
In appearances on Sunday television news programs, Vice President-elect Dick Cheney and Andrew H. Card Jr., who has been designated as the new White House chief of staff, said they had no plans to scale back the conservative agenda on which President-elect George W. Bush ran. 
 In Austin, Tex., today, Mr. Bush reiterated his support for a $1.3 trillion tax cut over 10 years despite Democratic opposition.
"I campaigned on a tax relief package that I firmly believe -- believed then and believe even more now -- is important as an insurance policy against any economic downturn," Mr. Bush said.
Mr. Cheney said on the CBS News program "Face the Nation": "As President-elect Bush has made very clear, he ran on a particular platform that was very carefully developed; it's his program and it's his agenda and we have no intention at all of backing off of it. The suggestion that somehow, because this was a close election, we should fundamentally change our beliefs I just think is silly."
Democrats warned that Mr. Bush risked spoiling whatever chance he had of cultivating bipartisanship should he fail to reach out to them from the start.
"You can't start with the hard-core right-wing base," Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader in the Senate, said on the ABC News program "This Week." "You can't start with the hard-core left-wing base. We've got to find common ground in all of these proposals."
Mr. Cheney said Mr. Bush intended to talk with Congressional leaders this week about how best to win approval of his entire $1.3 trillion package. Neither Mr. Cheney nor Mr. Card ruled out trying to pass the tax bill in pieces, as many Republicans in Congress would prefer. But they said that with the economy slowing they would like to see quick action on the biggest component of the tax plan, an across-the-board reduction in income tax rates.
Mr. Cheney said Mr. Bush would have breakfast in Washington on Monday with Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, to talk about the economy and the proposed tax cuts.
Mr. Daschle said he could not "think of anything that would divide this nation more quickly, right off the bat" than for Mr. Bush to press immediately for his full tax package. He said Democrats were willing to consider a tax cut in the range of $500 billion over 10 years.
Mr. Cheney suggested that Mr. Bush would do what he could to attract Democratic support for his proposals on a case-by-case basis, but indicated that he was not going to start off by giving ground.
"I think what you'll find in the way President-elect Bush likes to operate is that he is prepared to work on putting together coalitions to pass legislation," Mr. Cheney said. "What he's not willing to do is compromise on principle."
Education is shaping up as an early test of how both sides will handle the close division of power in Congress and the lingering ill will from the presidential election.
Although efforts to write legislation updating federal education programs bogged down in Congress this year, there is considerable common ground between the parties.
But there is also a deep rift between them over whether the federal government should provide vouchers to parents of children in school districts that are judged to be substandard, to subsidize private school tuition. Voucher programs were rejected this year by voters in Michigan and California, and a program in Cleveland was struck down last week by a federal appeals court. Most Democrats oppose vouchers.
But Mr. Card said Mr. Bush would stick with the voucher plan in his package of education measures.
"We will be talking about some kind of vouchers or opportunities for public schools that are not living up to their expectations to be challenged by the private sector, if you will, to make sure no child is left behind," Mr. Card said on the NBC News program "Meet the Press."
In interviews last week, Democrats in Congress said there was plenty of opportunity for Mr. Bush to get much of what he wants in education, particularly in granting states more flexibility in how they use federal money in return for greater accountability. But they said that if Mr. Bush insisted on vouchers there would be little hope of a deal.
"If he goes a bridge too far and puts vouchers in the equation, he risks having the whole enterprise collapse," said Senator Evan Bayh of Indiana, a centrist Democrat.
Democrats said they would also be watching carefully to see how Mr. Bush approaches the two most popular provisions in his tax-cut proposal, the repeal of the federal estate tax and a reduction in taxes for many married couples.
Democrats moved significantly toward the Republican position in Congress this year. If Republicans are serious about bipartisanship, Democrats said, the legislation addressing the estate tax and the so-called marriage penalty will provide plenty of opportunity to compromise.
"They can probably be bipartisan in symbolic ways and marginally successful in the beginning," said Representative Tim Roemer, a Democrat from Indiana. "Or they can be genuinely bipartisan and lay the groundwork for success beyond some individual tax measures."
Beyond education, Mr. Bush is likely to push fairly quickly for at least one component of his Medicare plan. It would provide $48 billion over four years to help states pay the costs of prescription drugs for low-income retirees.
The proposal is intended to ensure that people being hit hardest by the rising cost of prescription drugs get some immediate help while Congress and the new administration work out a more comprehensive approach to overhauling Medicare and adding drug coverage.
The Bush camp has not yet decided how to advance Mr. Bush's proposal to add individual investment accounts to Social Security. Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the majority leader, said today that he was considering calling in coming weeks for the creation of a bipartisan commission on Social Security, a step Mr. Bush is also contemplating.
But Mr. Bush could face legislative fights from the beginning that upset his efforts to approach his agenda in an orderly way.
Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican, has pledged to bring up his proposed overhaul of campaign finance law as quickly as possible after the new Congress convenes early next month. Mr. Bush opposes the bill that Mr. McCain has co-sponsored with Senator Russell D. Feingold of Wisconsin, a Democrat.
There is also a possibility that social conservatives in Congress will move quickly to pass a bill banning a type of late-term abortion that its opponents call partial-birth abortion. "If it passes, it will be signed," Mr. Cheney said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: DICK CHENEY -- "The suggestion that somehow, because this was a close election, we should fundamentally change our beliefs I think is just silly." (Reuters); TOM DASCHLE -- "You can't start with the hard-core right-wing base. You can't start with the hard-core left-wing base." (Agence France-Presse); ANDREW H. CARD JR. -- A call for "public schools that are not living up to their expectations" to be "challenged by the private sector." (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (65%); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (65%); MEDICARE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); TEXAS, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ELECTION ISSUES; HEALTH INSURANCE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); MEDICARE (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); POLITICS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); INSURANCE (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); INSURANCE POLICIES (68%); APPROVALS (61%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); CHENEY, DICK; CARD, ANDREW H JR DICK CHENEY (92%); TOM DASCHLE (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); ALAN GREENSPAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



483 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1588 words

HEADLINE: THE 43rd PRESIDENT: THE SECRETARY OF STATE;
A Higher Threshold for U.S. Intervention Means Adjustments Abroad

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia, Dec. 17

 BODY:
In his first remarks as the designated secretary of state, retired Gen. Colin L. Powell spoke on Saturday with force and eloquence. But General Powell made few binding commitments, discussing the future foreign policy of a Bush administration with broad strokes, promising study and consultation.
The world's reaction to his appointment shares the same slightly hopeful fuzziness, with relief that President-elect George W. Bush has chosen a secretary of state with experience, standing, caution and knowledge of alliance politics. 
 Mr. Bush's commitment to a missile-defense system for the United States is going to be among the most controversial goals of his presidency, presaging fierce disputes with Russia, China and Europe, and probably involving the abrogation of the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty of 1972.
But even on this issue General Powell was careful, promising a hard look at the state of the technology to accomplish an effective missile defense. Similarly, while General Powell did not dissent from a Bush campaign promise to try to extract American troops from peacekeeping duties in the Balkans, he vowed study, assessment and consultation, the emollient words that NATO allies are happy to hear.
General Powell was most specific about his intention to "re-energize those sanctions" against President Saddam Hussein in Iraq, the country against which he commanded the successful Persian Gulf war in 1991. The sanctions have been collapsing, with at least eight European countries authorizing flights and humanitarian aid to Baghdad. Iraq's reaction today to General Powell's threat was dismissive.
In general, the world seems not unhappy with the idea of a less interventionist United States -- or, perhaps more accurately, a United States with clearer thresholds for the use of military force that have more to do with national and security interests than with ill-defined "humanitarian intervention," as in Somalia and Kosovo.
And a President Bush with a divided Congress and a wafer-thin electoral triumph is understood to be less likely to make big ideological shifts or to ignore the views of moderate Democrats on any issue, from trade policy to NATO.
For China, which Mr. Bush and the Republican Party have identified as Washington's main security challenge in the future, there is concern over a missile-defense system and Taiwan. But General Powell is seen as less interested than Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright in issues of human rights and democratization.
"This team seems more military oriented, and I predict that political disputes, such as human rights and democracy issues, will be moderated while military disagreements, on issues like Taiwan and missile defense and arms control, will become more intense," said Yan Xuetong, executive director of the Institute of International Studies at Qinghua University in Beijing.
China, with only 18 long-range nuclear missiles, considers itself the main target of an American missile-defense program, and would like to avoid the expense of building more weapons to be able to overwhelm any new defensive system.
But with Mr. Bush's commitment to press ahead with a missile-defense program, Mr. Yan said, "it appears that the only thing that could prevent" eventual deployment was "a technology obstacle," which would strain relations.
The problem would be worse, Mr. Yan said, if a Bush administration offered nuclear defenses to other areas of the world, and included Taiwan under that protective umbrella. That, he said, would only intensify the move toward independence on Taiwan. Mr. Bush's intentions to increase the sale of sophisticated arms to Taiwan already promised new problems with Beijing and would, Mr. Yan said, "seriously affect U.S.-China relations."
There is also concern in the region that like Dr. Albright, neither General Powell nor Condoleezza Rice, a Russian scholar picked today for the job of national security adviser, knows much about Asia or economics.
Ms. Rice describes herself as a "Europeanist," but in Europe, too, there is unease about the potential for a further rift between the European Union and Washington over issues like missile defense and the relationship between NATO and a nascent European rapid-reaction force.
Foreign Office Minister Peter Hain of Britain said today that his government recognized American concerns over nuclear threats by so-called rogue states, but hoped the new administration would heed allied angst and go slow on missile defense.
"What we don't want to see is any unilateral steps by Washington which could breach the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty, especially in terms of Russian interests," Mr. Hain said.
That is a view shared by Germany, said Karl Kaiser, a government adviser and an analyst of American-German relations. But there are more pressing issues. Noting that Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen spoke recently about the danger of NATO becoming "a relic" if the new European force was planned independently of NATO, Mr. Kaiser urged talks with General Powell.
"It is very urgent that we have a real dialogue on how the U.S. and European roles are redefined," Mr. Kaiser said. "The beginnings of an estrangement have been visible lately, and Powell must engage quickly to head this off."
Berlin, far more than Paris, wants to keep NATO healthy and the Americans deeply engaged in Europe, but the Germans are as committed as the French and the British to a more effective European defense identity lending plausibility to a European Union foreign policy.
There is also some concern about Ms. Rice's suggestion that the Europeans can do peacekeeping in the Balkans while the Americans reserve their military for fighting wars. NATO is all about collective sharing of risk, and to undermine that could also start a crisis.
While Bosnia is essentially stable, Kosovo is more explosive with the fall of President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia and pressure for independence from the majority ethnic Albanians, who trust Washington more than they trust Europe.
The man who succeeded Mr. Milosevic, Vojislav Kostunica, said he welcomed a less interventionist Washington and thought that a Republican administration would not have gone to war over Kosovo.
The Republicans "always had an isolationist wing," Mr. Kostunica said, "which is strictly against American interference in disputes in certain parts of the world, and which is against the thinking that protection of American interests demands a presence in the Balkans or bombing like the one last year against Yugoslavia."
Given General Powell's doctrine of using force only when there is a clear goal, popular support, an exit strategy and overwhelming numbers, many wonder whether he would have supported a Kosovo war.
As Mr. Kaiser put it: "Powell still has to demonstrate that he is able to integrate a military and foreign-policy approach. The world does not consist of situations where you can apply the Powell doctrine, where you gather the force, know what to do, apply that force and get out. In politics, you need allies, institutions and multilateral approaches, not merely American power."
On the Middle East, little substantial change is expected under Mr. Bush, who was said by a Jordanian official to have spoken by telephone on Saturday to King Abdullah of Jordan. The official said his country, which refused to join the American-led coalition against Iraq in the gulf war, respected General Powell.
In Israel, Prime Minister Ehud Barak, who has known General Powell for more than a decade since visiting Washington as an Israeli military strategist, spoke with him today, Mr. Barak's office said. There was no indication as to whether General Powell endorsed the latest, last-ditch effort for a Middle East peace deal under President Clinton.
Italy, one of NATO's most reluctant participants in the war in Yugoslavia, greeted the Powell appointment with some satisfaction. The headline in the Italian daily Corriere della Sera on an article about General Powell's foreign policy read: "His doctrine: more diplomacy, less intervention."
There was a similar sentiment in the Chilean paper El Mercurio: "There is the hope that Washington will initiate an era of moderate diplomacy on the world scene."
Lucio Caracciolo, editor of Limes, an Italian foreign-policy journal, said Europeans trusted General Powell as a reluctant warrior. "He would prefer to only fight wars that are already won," Mr. Caracciolo said dryly.
Unlike many German analysts, Mr. Caracciolo does not view the withdrawal of American troops from the Balkans with alarm. "The only way Europe will ever develop its own security policy is if it weans itself from Mother America," he said. "This could help Europe face its own responsibilities."
Predrag Simic, a Serbian analyst with the Institute of Foreign Policy in Belgrade, said he regarded the American presence in Kosovo as crucial, at least for now. "American troops should leave," Mr. Simic said, "but only when new institutions are built in the Balkans, and that won't be for some years. Security depends on a U.S. military presence in the region."
To fight over Kosovo and then abandon it too soon, Mr. Simic said, would be irresponsible. Still, given the anger of the Serbs over the bombing, "with a new administration we're allowed to start from zero, so we're now at a new beginning in both countries," with a chance to re-establish good relations of the kind that dominated the last century, before Mr. Milosevic.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lt. Gen. Shaheen Yassin, commander of Iraq's air defenses, yesterday dismissed General Powell's warnings on sanctions against Iraq. (Reuters); Gen. Colin L. Powell, skilled in alliance politics, will run President-elect George W. Bush's foreign policies. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (94%); IRAQ (94%); SERBIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); TAIWAN (92%); KOSOVO (79%); SOMALIA (79%); GULF STATES (55%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (76%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (69%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (94%); IRAQ (94%); SERBIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); TAIWAN (92%); KOSOVO (79%); SOMALIA (79%); GULF STATES (55%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (76%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (69%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (89%); POLITICS (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PEACEKEEPING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); ARMED FORCES (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); DESERT STORM (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); POWELL, COLIN L (GEN) (RET); ERLANGER, STEVEN GEORGE W BUSH (91%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



484 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2260 words

HEADLINE: THE 43rd PRESIDENT;
Remarks at the Announcement of Appointments to White House Posts

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from remarks by President-elect George W. Bush yesterday in Austin, Tex., naming Condoleezza Rice as national security adviser, Alberto R. Gonzales as White House counsel and Karen P. Hughes as counselor to the president, and excerpts from the nominees' responses as recorded by The New York Times:
 
President-Elect Bush
Good afternoon. Thank you all for coming. I'm looking forward to my trip up to Washington today. Got a full day tomorrow, part on Capitol Hill, partly to interview folks for my cabinet. I look forward to my visit with the president and the vice president on Tuesday. 
 Before I departed Austin I thought it'd be important to continue announcing those who are going to serve in my administration. Today I have the honor and privilege of naming three such persons, starting with Dr. Condoleezza Rice, who is going to be my national security adviser. Dr. Rice is not only a brilliant person, she is a experienced person. She is a good manager. I trust her judgment. America will find that she is a wise person, and I'm so honored you're joining the administration.
Secondly I'm proud to announce that Al Gonzales, Supreme Court justice of Texas, has agreed to become my White House counsel. I understand how important it is to have a person who I can trust and whose judgment I trust to serve as the White House counsel. I know firsthand I can trust Al's judgment because he was my first counsel as governor. I then named him secretary of state of Texas, where he did a fantastic job. And then he became a Supreme Court judge. Al is a distinguished lawyer. Al is a man who has only one standard in mind when it comes to ethics, and that is the highest of high standards. So I'm honored you're back with me, counselor, and look forward to working together.
And finally, as counselor to the president, Karen Hughes. I've known Karen for a long, long time. I -- we knew each other when the definition of a motorcade was one car. She has been at my side and I trust her a lot. She is going to help us in the White House with strategic planning. She is a woman who is frank, straightforward. She has got enormous judgment as well. So it's a huge honor to have these three citizens agree to go to Washington, D.C., to make a big sacrifice on behalf of our country, and America will be better off that these three have agreed to serve. And so what I thought I would do is ask Condi and Al and Karen to say a few remarks, and then I'd be glad to answer a few questions. I emphasize a few because I've got to go upstairs and pack for the trip up to Washington. Condi?
 
Ms. Rice
Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. President-elect. I am absolutely delighted and indeed, honored -- in fact, humbled -- that President-elect Bush has asked me to serve as his national security adviser. It's a wonderful time for the United States in foreign policy because it's a time when markets and democracy are spreading, when our values are being affirmed around the world, and yet it's a time of great challenge. And there is one thing that I know, after having worked with Governor, now President-elect, Bush for the last 18 months, and that is that he is a man of tremendously good judgment, with strong values and principles. I know that he is tough. I know that he cares about America and that he knows what makes America great in the world. He will conduct a foreign policy that combines humility with strength, and I very much look forward to being a part, with the foreign policy team, of shaping that foreign policy and carrying it out on his behalf. It's a great foreign policy team that he is putting together. Many of us have worked together before, and I know that it will be a team that will advance his agenda.
I also look forward to working with the very fine White House staff that Andy Card is assembling, because it is, after all, the role of the White House staff to make certain that the president's agenda is advanced in Washington and abroad as well.
If I may close with just a personal note, this is an extraordinary time for America because our values are being affirmed, and it's important to always remember what those values are at home. And I grew up in Birmingham, Ala. I did not go to integrated schools until I was in 10th grade and we moved to Denver, Colo. And there's very often a lot said about whether we've made any progress as one America. I think that you will see in the presidency of George W. Bush recognition of how important it is that we continue the last 30-plus years of progress toward one America; that he will have an administration that is inclusive, an administration that is bipartisan, and perhaps most importantly, an administration that affirms that united we stand and divided we fall, and I'm very proud to have a chance to be a part of it. Thank you very much.
 
Mr. Gonzales
Mr. President-elect, this is the fourth time in six years that I've had the opportunity to say thank you. Thank you for giving me another opportunity to serve.
I have the great privilege currently of serving on the Texas Supreme Court, and it's been a tremendous honor to serve the citizens of Texas and to work with this particular group of justices. But working with the president-elect for three years as his general counsel gave me the opportunity to get to know the type of man that he is, how he makes decisions, what kind of information's important to him in making those kinds of decisions.
And in him I saw a man of unparalleled integrity and judgment. And quite frankly, Mr. President-elect, I could not pass up the opportunity to come serve with you again, and I'm very grateful. Thank you.
 
Ms. Hughes
Well, Mr. President-elect, it's been an amazing six and a half years since I first went to work for you. I have worked with Governor -- President-elect and Mrs. Bush -- I'm still working on that -- President-elect and Mrs. Bush for the last six and a half years. And I can -- we've been through a lot of good times and some difficult ones. And I can honestly say that I respect and admire both of them more today than on the day I went to work for them six and a half years ago. And I -- given all we've been through I think that's an enormous compliment.
I am honored to be a part of the president-elect's team. I'm honored to serve my country. I am the granddaughter of a coal miner and my grandpa . . . didn't want his boys to grow up working in the coal mines, so he emphasized the importance of education.
And my uncle became a superintendent of schools and my dad was a major general in the United States Army. And every day of his life my grandfather . . . was filled with a sense of awe and amazement and a deep humility and gratitude to God that we are blessed with an enormous sense of possibility here in America.
And I hope that my son and all the children of our country grow up understanding that that same sense of possibility and opportunity is available to them.
I'll work to serve you faithfully, sir. And I promise I will always give you my unvarnished opinion.
 
Questions and Answers
Q. Tomorrow, Mr. President-elect, you're having breakfast with Alan Greenspan?
MR. BUSH -- Yes, I am.
Q. Do you think the Fed chairman shares your view that there's an -- a recession on the horizon?
MR. BUSH -- I think it's best for him to -- for he and I to have our discussion first. And I look forward to it. He's -- I've always admired Alan Greenspan. He's got good judgment. He is -- and I really do, I can't wait to hear what he has to say. And I'll let him speak for himself.
One of the things I'm certain that I should not do as president-elect is to try to put words in the mouth of Alan Greenspan. Yeah?
Q. Mr. President-elect, in the last two days you have appointed two women, two African-Americans, a Hispanic-American. Aside from the fact that these are incredibly competent, qualified people, is there another message that you're sending to America with these first choices?
MR. BUSH -- You bet. That people who work hard and make the right decisions in life can achieve anything they want in America. And I think of my friend Al Gonzales, who is a great lawyer, but his background is such a compelling story.
And -- let me first say that he wouldn't be standing here if I knew he couldn't do the job. But he's a guy who grew up in a two-bedroom house, his mother and daddy working as hard as they possibly can to bring up six brothers and sisters?
MR. GONZALES -- I have seven siblings.
MR. BUSH -- Seven siblings. Eight in the family. And now he's going to be sitting at the right hand of the president of the United States.
To me these appointments -- and each person has got their own story that is so unique, stories that really explain what America can and should be about. And so I welcome them. I can't tell you how good of folks they are not only in terms of the jobs they'll have but just in the quality of character.
Q. Mr. President-elect, you're about to go to Washington to try to reach out to the other party and unify the nation. You face a very divided Congress. And yet you and your top advisers have talked about not compromising at all on the $1.3 trillion tax cut. Today some Democratic leaders have said that would be the most divisive thing that could happen, not compromising. Is there no room for compromise here? Or -- and do you think this is the right signal to send as you begin this peacemaking trip to Washington?
MR. BUSH -- Well, Tom, I campaigned on a tax relief package that I firmly believe -- believed then and believe even more now -- is important as an insurance policy against any economic downturn.
And I look forward to discussing my vision of tax relief with the parties. I mean, it doesn't seem to make much sense for people to be drawing lines in the sands until we've had a chance to discuss things.
And so I'm going to go to Washington and be able to say to people this is what I, this is what I told the people. And explain why I told them what I told them. And I think it's a little early in the process for -- for people to be, you know, declaring -- making judgments on our plan before they've had, given me a chance to explain it.
Secondly I think we have a unique opportunity to make the tax code more fair. And I know you've heard the story innumerable times, you probably still dream about this -- single mother with two children. But the code is unfair for people at the bottom end of the economic ladder.
And one of the reasons to cut marginal rates is to encourage economic activity. Another reason to affect marginal rates, particularly at the bottom end of the ladder, coupled with an increase in the child credit, is to make the code more fair for those who struggle to get into the middle class.
And so I -- but I understand the process. And I'm looking forward to making my case and visiting with as many members of both parties as I can. And it's going to be an interesting -- it'll be an interesting couple of days but it's the beginning of a relationship where they're going to find out about me. That I'll tell them what I believe and I'll listen to what they believe. And I'll talk about what I intend to do and they'll talk about what they intend to do.
And it's the beginning of a dialogue that is crucial in order to get some positive things done not only in tax relief but on education reform and Social Security reform and Medicare reform, the need to strengthen the military. And I'm very optimistic.
Q. The last time you were in Washington, I believe, was six months ago when you were still a candidate for the White House. As you're flying into Washington tonight as president-elect, is there some special feeling that you'll have?
MR. BUSH -- I'm sure there will be. Probably not quite as special as it'll be right before the inauguration. But it'll be special, it's going to be -- it'll be a unique moment, or a series of unique moments. Starting with sitting down and talking to Alan Greenspan, who America knows to be a distinguished, thoughtful economist. Then I look forward to going to the Hill, and then I'm very much looking forward to talking to the vice president and to the president. And it's going to be a, I'm confident, a memorable trip.
Q. Just one last thing.
MR. BUSH -- Sure.
Q. You spoke before of making the national security adviser a cabinet post. Is that still -- ?
MR. BUSH -- No, I've decided not to do that. Of course, I want Condi to come to every cabinet meeting. But I think it's best that she not be a member of the cabinet. I think it's best that she be a equal partner of the senior team in the White House.
Having said that I can assure you that she and I will be spending an inordinate amount of time with each other. I'll be seeing her on a daily basis and being briefed on the -- Yes . . .
Q. Mr. President-elect, can you tell us when you might start putting together your economic team?
MR. BUSH -- Pretty soon. I've got some interviews to do and some further deliberations. I've got some people in mind, but I'm not quite ready to tell you who they are yet.
Q. On the defense secretary, General Powell said yesterday that the issue had been resolved. Have you in fact selected a defense --
MR. BUSH -- No, I think what he meant by the issue being resolved was the issue is resolved of who gets to pick the defense secretary. No, I haven't yet.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President-elect.
MR. BUSH -- Thank you all for coming. Look forward to seeing you in Washington.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Condoleezza Rice, President-elect George W. Bush's choice for national security adviser, with Gen. Eric Shinseki, Army chief of staff, in November. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text; Interview

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); TEXAS, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICS (73%); ETHICS (73%); JUDGES (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); LAWYERS (68%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (58%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); RICE, CONDOLEEZZA; GONZALES, ALBERTO R (JUSTICE); HUGHES, KAREN P GEORGE W BUSH (92%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (91%); ALBERTO GONZALES (90%); ERIC K SHINSEKI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



485 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1414 words

HEADLINE: 2015 Outlook: Enough Food, Scarce Water, Porous Borders

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 17

 BODY:
In a sweeping projection of what the world will look like in 2015, the intelligence community has concluded that issues like the availability of water and food, changes in population and the spread of information and disease will increasingly affect the national security of the United States.
The assessment, contained in an unclassified report called "Global Trends 2015," also makes a number of predictions about the political landscape of the world. 
 Russia, for example, will continue to become weaker -- economically, militarily and socially, the report predicts. China will be faced by political, economic and social pressures that will "increasingly challenge the regime's legitimacy, and perhaps its survival." And Israel "at best" will conclude a "cold peace" with its adversaries.
In addition, the report lays out a number of what it calls unlikely but nevertheless "possible" scenarios.
One is that strategically important countries like Iran and Nigeria and even strategic allies of the United States like Israel could fall victim to internal religious or ethnic divisions, "and crisis ensues." Another is that China, India and Russia "form a de facto geo-strategic alliance in an attempt to counterbalance U.S. and Western influence."
In terms of global resources, the report concludes that by 2015, nearly half of the world's population -- more than three billion people -- will be in countries lacking sufficient water, and that even more genetically modified crops or projects to desalt sea water will not substantially help.
The 70-page report is one result of an unusual 15-month collaboration between the National Intelligence Council, a sort of analytical think tank of senior intelligence officials that works alongside the C.I.A., and dozens of outside scientific, diplomatic and corporate experts. It is not a traditional intelligence report based on classical intelligence sources and methods.
"This was a serious effort to provide a context to discuss opportunities as well as threats to the U.S. national security community," said John Gannon, chairman of the National Intelligence Council, in an interview. The purpose, he said, is to get policy makers to focus on long-term global trends and to think beyond the ordinary concerns of the intelligence community.
An advance copy of the report, which will be released on Monday, was made available to The New York Times. Copies of the report were delivered late last week to the White House, other agencies of government and members of the team of President-elect George W. Bush.
Some intelligence officials are concerned that persuading the Bush national security team to look beyond traditional threats will be particularly challenging.
In an article in Foreign Affairs, written during the campaign, Condoleezza Rice, who will be Mr. Bush's national security adviser, argued, for instance, that "national interest" was too often replaced by "humanitarian interest" or the interests of "the international community."
Instead, she suggested, the United States should promote what is in its own interest -- democracy or free trade, for example.
But other intelligence officials say a greater problem is that the structure of the national security bureaucracy leads it to look at the world first country by country and then in terms of geographical regions.
"You try to tell people that disease is rising in four out of five continents -- well, the regional assistant secretaries have to be persuaded to put it on their agendas first," said one senior intelligence official.
Although the conventional wisdom in Washington, particularly on Capitol Hill, is that China will become more of a regional military threat, the report concludes that modernization of the country's agricultural and national infrastructure will be higher priorities than military investment.
"The evidence strongly suggests" that China's new leaders "will be even more firmly committed to developing the economy as the foundation of national power and that resources for military capabilities will take a secondary role," it says.
Despite all the intelligence resources devoted to China, the report states repeatedly that it cannot say with any certainty what the Chinese state will look like in 15 years.
While most of those taking part in the study concluded that economic growth would continue, the report acknowledges that it will be difficult to meld the openness that growth requires with political control. "Estimates of developments in China over the next 15 years are fraught with unknowables," the report bluntly states.
The outlook for Russia, particularly its economy, is bleak. "Besides a crumbling physical infrastructure, years of environmental neglect are taking a toll on the populations, a toll made worse by such societal costs of transition as alcoholism, cardiac diseases, drugs and a worsening health delivery system."
The Russian population, which will become more sickly, may shrink in size from 146 million to 130 million in 15 years, the report says. Even under a best-case scenario of 5 percent annual economic growth, Russia would attain an economy less than one-fifth the size of the United States'.
In the Middle East, by 2015, there will be a Palestinian state, the report says, but "Israel will have attained a cold peace with its neighbors, with only limited social, economic and cultural ties."
A key driving trend for the Middle East in the next 15 years will be population pressures. Even now, in nearly all of the Middle Eastern countries, more than half of the population is under 20 years of age. "In much of the Middle East, populations will be significantly larger, poorer, more urban and more disillusioned."
The report concludes that the population of the world will grow from the current 6.1 billion to 7.2 billion by 2015. Ninety-five percent of that growth is expected to occur in the developing world, and nearly all of it in rapidly expanding urban areas.
"Megacities" of more than 10 million people will continue to grow, straining or even crippling roads, bridges and sewerage and electrical systems. The population of Jakarta will more than double, from 9.5 million to 21.2 million; Lagos will double from 12.2 million to 24.4 million.
The good news is that there will be enough energy resources in 2015, despite a 50 percent rise in global demand, the report says. It also predicts that there will be enough food to feed the world's growing population, although "poor infrastructure and distribution, political instability and chronic poverty" will lead to malnutrition in parts of sub-Saharan Africa.
The main resource problem will be water, the shortages so acute that they could cause regional instability. Problems could include Turkey's construction of new irrigation projects on the Tigris and Euphrates, which would reduce the water flowing into Syria and Iraq, and ambitious projects in Ethiopia and Sudan that could divert water from the Nile and reduce the flow into Egypt.
In terms of disease, the report underscores earlier intelligence projections that AIDS and tuberculosis are likely to account for the majority of deaths in most developing countries in 15 years. In some African countries, average life spans will be reduced by as much as 30 to 40 years, leaving more than 40 million children orphaned and contributing to poverty, crime and instability.
In many cases the report makes stark predictions without offering specific evidence or footnotes. These are some of its other judgments:
*Japan will have "difficulty" maintaining its current position as the world's third-largest economy.
*India "most likely" will expand the size of its nuclear-capable force.
*Pakistan's nuclear and missile forces will continue to increase.
*Russia will not join the European Union.
*The very concept of "belonging" to a particular state will probably erode.
In one of its most sweeping conclusions, the report says governments will have less and less control over flows of information, technology, diseases, migrants, arms and financial transactions, whether legal or illegal, across their borders.
"States with ineffective and incompetent governance not only will fail to benefit from globalization," it says, "but in some instances will spawn conflicts at home and abroad, ensuring an even wider gap between regional winners and losers that exists today."
Globalization, the report said, "will not lift all boats." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); ISRAEL (92%); CHINA (92%); NIGERIA (79%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); ISRAEL (92%); CHINA (92%); NIGERIA (79%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOOD; WATER; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; POPULATION WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); FOOD SECURITY (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); TRENDS (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLITICS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (67%); INTERVIEWS (66%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (64%); AGRICULTURE (64%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (57%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE GEORGE W BUSH (71%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



486 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: Barak and Arafat Will Send Aides to Talks in Washington

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG 

DATELINE: GAZA, Dec. 17

 BODY:
Reclining in an embroidered armchair in his beachside compound, Yasir Arafat sent his two hands sailing toward each other until the fingertips just barely touched.
"Palestinians and Israelis, we are not like this," he told eight leftist Israeli lawmakers who came to see him this morning to break the ice after 11 weeks of violence and separation. 
 Then Mr. Arafat enlaced his fingers and gripped tightly. "But we are," he said, "like this."
As Mr. Arafat's emphatic geniality toward the Israeli legislators suggested, the sands are shifting swiftly now. For the first time since the violence erupted in late September, Israeli and Palestinian officials are dropping their conditions for resuming negotiations and starting to talk while the shooting continues.
Skepticism about the possibility of a peace agreement remains high. But Mr. Arafat announced today, and the Israelis later confirmed, that both sides' negotiators would go to Washington on Monday for separate meetings with American mediators early this week.
And Mr. Arafat said, although without great enthusiasm, that he was open to a substantive session with Mr. Barak if the groundwork was fully prepared.
"If it is necessary, why not?" Mr. Arafat said in English as he faced a barrage of Israeli and Palestinian cameramen who were back together in full jousting competitiveness for the first time since the violence began. "But we have to prepare for this meeting, to have a strong foundation."
After almost three months of violence and more than 330 deaths, the Americans and the Israelis are trying to imbue the Palestinians with a sense of deadline pressure. President Clinton's days in office are numbered, and Prime Minister Ehud Barak is competing for re-election against all odds.
Few expect Mr. Barak to win in the early February elections if he does not achieve some kind of peace deal now. And if Mr. Barak loses, few expect his rightist opponents to rush to negotiate, just as few expect President-elect George W. Bush to hurl himself immediately into the maelstrom of the Middle East's central conflict.
"My sense is that given the timeline, Arafat is ready to give it a try," said Uri Savir, a Center Party lawmaker who was in today's delegation. "It depends on the situation on the ground. What seems to be irritating the Palestinians is they feel that they are negotiating in the morning and that they are being killed in the night -- or in the afternoon, as happened today."
That is the mirror idea of what some Israeli Army officials are saying. Maj. Gen. Amos Malka told the Israeli cabinet this morning that the Palestinians "talk and shoot, talk and shoot -- that's their method," Israel Radio said.
During Mr. Arafat's meeting with the Israelis, in a sitting room dominated by an outsized photograph of the Jerusalem skyline, an aide popped in and handed him a note: two more Palestinian martyrs, it said. Israeli troops had shot and killed two Palestinians near the Gaza border crossing with Egypt.
Israeli Army officials later said they had returned fire at Palestinian gunmen who had been shooting at a military base. Palestinian witnesses said the men had been trying to evacuate a third Palestinian who had been shot and wounded near the border fence; six were seriously wounded in the incident, they said.
The shootings followed an explosion that killed a senior member of Mr. Arafat's Fatah organization in the West Bank. Israeli officials said it seemed likely that the Fatah leader had blown himself up while preparing a bomb. But Palestinian officials called it an assassination and said it was the ninth deliberate murder of a Palestinian militant by the Israelis in recent weeks.
At the meeting with the Israelis, Mr. Arafat strongly criticized Lt. Gen. Shaul Mofaz, the Israeli Army chief of staff, for pursuing a "private strategy."
And Muhammad Dahlan, the Palestinian chief of preventive security, complained about what he called the army's new liquidation policy.
He said he would take responsibility for a full cease-fire if the Israelis stopped their targeted killings, pulled their tanks and troops back to where they were on Sept. 28 and ended the blockade of the Gaza Strip and of West Bank towns.
A full cease-fire no longer appears to be an Israeli condition for restarting talks. Mr. Barak has quietly accepted starting negotiations under fire, for which he is being excoriated by Israeli rightists.
They say that having resigned last week, he has no mandate to make peace. David Levy, Mr. Barak's former foreign minister, criticized the prime minister for seeking a deal "at any price."
Gilead Sher, Mr. Barak's chief of staff, defended the prime minister, saying he was willing to pay a "very dear political price and a very dear personal price in order to exhaust the possibility of reaching peace."
The Israelis have sealed off the Gaza Strip since the violence started, keeping Gazans in and Israelis out. But today the government allowed the contingent of eight lawmakers -- from the Labor Party, the Center Party, the leftist Meretz Party and the Jewish-Arab Hadash Party -- to visit Mr. Arafat.
They were met at the Erez checkpoint by Hebrew-speaking Palestinian officials and escorted by Palestinian security forces through the clogged streets of Gaza City, as people there stood and stared.
Some Israeli journalists were nervous that the bus was not armored. But Muhammad Barakeh, an Israeli Arab lawmaker who was sitting in the front, told them not to worry.
"I'm your window display," he said.
Naomi Chazan, a Meretz lawmaker, sighed as she looked out at the window at the ubiquitous murals of Palestinians killed in the recent violence. "What a mess," she said. "On every level -- diplomatic, political, economic, psychological, you name it -- this is a real big mess."
All the legislators who made the trip belong to the Israeli peace camp, which was shattered by the complete breakdown in Israeli-Palestinian relations this fall. Now, many find themselves caught between two worlds, angry with Mr. Barak, fearful of a right-wing resurgence in Israel and concerned about the new power of the anti-peace opposition in the Palestinian world.
Before Mr. Arafat entered the sitting room, Palestinian officials made polite chat with the Israelis. "How is the health of our friend, Yossi Sarid?" the Palestinian Authority's justice minister, Freih Abu Medein, asked, referring to the leader of Meretz.
"His health is good, but his political mood is not so great," said Avshalom Vilan.
Mr. Arafat entered through a sliding door and shook their hands warmly.
Each Israeli lawmaker gave a brief statement, some insisting that the talks should begin despite the violence, some emphasizing that the Palestinians deserved a "just peace," some expressing their concern that there were too many Palestinian casualties and too little communication between the two sides.
Colette Avital, a Labor legislator, said she was afraid of what might happen if no agreement was reached.
"I think it became clear to us after this that there's a half-extended hand out for continued negotiations," Ms. Chazan said. "And Arafat sent a green light to the Palestinians that it's O.K. again to meet with Israeli leaders, to be photographed with Israeli leaders, to be public about peace."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yasir Arafat and Avshalom Vilan, one of eight leftist Israeli legislators who met with him yesterday in Gaza. (Reuters)(pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: ISRAELI ARMY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ISRAELI ARMY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; ISRAEL (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; ELECTIONS; PALESTINIANS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); SHOOTINGS (76%); PEACE PROCESS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); RIOTS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); POLITICS (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); ARMIES (50%); 

PERSON: ARAFAT, YASIR; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BARAK, EHUD (PRIME MIN); SONTAG, DEBORAH EHUD BARAK (89%); BILL CLINTON (68%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



487 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: Early Bargains Aren't Enticing Many Shoppers

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN 

 BODY:
This year, Sears is throwing its after-Christmas sale before Christmas. The Gap has already slashed the prices of much of its signature leather collection in half. At Bath and Body Works, shower gels and bubble bath in this holiday's scents of Mulberry Spice and Candy Apple are on sale 3 for $24. And J. Crew stuck an insert into its catalogs that offered 50 percent off much of its fall merchandise to customers who shopped its Internet store.
Like radio stations' endless replays of Bruce Springsteen's version of "Santa Claus Is Coming to Town," last-minute sales at stores are an ingrained holiday tradition. But in previous seasons, sales were largely a strategic game merchants played. Those enticing, seemingly last-minute, discounts had probably been planned all along. This year, a confluence of factors resulting in a sudden and steep loss in consumer appetite has made these sales an increasingly desperate gambit. 
 Across the nation, vendors of everything from diamonds to underwear are slashing prices to get rid of unanticipated excess inventory, industry analysts said. "It is roughly 35 percent more promotional than last year," said John D. Morris, an analyst with Gerard Klauer Mattison, who keeps a holiday sales-rack index. "And it is going to be the most promotional Christmas since we began keeping track in 1996."
And while that is grim news for retailers, the analysts say it is hard to remember a holiday season that offered bigger bargains to the savvy shopper. "Given the stock market slide, the prolonged election, and the sudden drop in consumer demand, this is going to be a very special year for the consumer," said Dr. Anthony Liuzzo, professor of business and economics at Wilkes University, in Wilkes-Barre, Pa.
At Denver's upscale Cherry Creek mall, Kathy Berumen, 46, a controller for a construction company, was luxuriating in the deals. Already loaded down with three shopping bags, she perused a rack of Ralph Lauren fashions marked another 25 percent off already discounted prices at Lord & Taylor's. "I'm saving 50 percent on some items," she boasted. "I think I'm spending less this year and getting the same amount. Just about everything seems to be on sale, so I'm pleasantly surprised."
Unfortunately for the nation's merchants, though, for every shop-happy Ms. Berumen, there are others still holding back despite the early, substantial discounts. For months leading into the holiday season, merchants reported that consumer spending was gradually slowing. Yet most executives and analysts still expected a solid Christmas with sales growth of 3 to 4 percent over all.
It has not turned out that way so far, at least.
Despite strong sales reported the day after Thanksgiving, sales at specialty stores in the nation's malls are down 6.2 percent for the season as of Dec. 10, according to the International Council of Shopping Centers, a trade group. In the second week of December alone, purchases sunk in almost every category, from apparel (down 8.9 percent), to jewelry (down 12.9 percent), to music, video and home entertainment (down 21.3 percent).
The problems first became apparent last month as the sales trend abruptly turned from tepid to weak. Many of the chains that had been most successful during the country's sustained economic boom reported a steep drop in November sales that seemed to take them by surprise. Even at the normally infallible Victoria's Secret, customers seemed unimpressed by what the company was pushing as its key item: seamless cleavage-enhancing satin lingerie in crimson and royal purple. Or perhaps they had already bought their fill of liquid miracle bras, because store sales declined 2 percent compared with last November's. The company had estimated sales would grow by 5 percent. Among the retailers hardest hit by recent consumer skittishness are those selling luxury goods. In news that should make many a chinchilla sleep easier, Neiman Marcus saw sales decline 2.5 percent over last November's. Jewelers like Tiffany's do not report monthly changes in rates of sales, but clearly the fact that the Lexus set is spending with less carefree abandon has got to hurt.
All that Christmas inventory is like a ticking time bomb in the pockets of retailers. In theory, the stores have another full week to sell merchandise, and have lucked out this year with a weekend right before Christmas that is expected to bring two banner sales days. But in reality, many retailers are worried that if they do not cut prices before then, they will lose out to rivals or possibly to a sudden winter storm.
"We know business will come later," said Richard Baum, a retail stock analyst with Credit Suisse First Boston, "but it takes a cast-iron stomach not to blink first and slash prices."
At the malls, many retailers are already offering their second and even third round of markdowns, said Mr. Morris of Gerard Klauer Mattison, and he predicts there is more to come.
Of particular concern in the price-cutting area are Wal-Mart and Target, the giant discounters that are the 800-pound gorillas of holiday sales.
Both chains have had lower than expected sales for the first two weeks of December. Wal-Mart has told analysts that it wished it had ordered 10 percent less of some seasonal products that it received from overseas -- including electronics, toys and clothing -- that it had to order months ago when everyone was a lot more optimistic. A Wal-Mart spokesman denied that the company was overstocked.
The danger for retailers is that if Wal-Mart significantly cuts prices before Christmas, its reach is such that it could undercut entire swaths of the retailing market by stealing market share or forcing involuntary price cuts by competitors.
"Wal-Mart's inventory position is important to watch, because if Wal-Mart gets promotional, clearly it is not good for margins across the industry," said Shari Schwartzman Eberts, an analyst with J.P. Morgan Securities, who is tracking the behemoth with some dread.
Many retailers counter that they are not panicky. Many, like the Gap, Victoria's Secret, Zale's and Tiffany's, would not comment at all on their sales strategy. Most of those who did talk insisted that all the discounts customers have seen as of this last week were planned. Sears, Roebuck & Company said its decision to move its after Christmas sale to before Christmas was made months ago. J. Crew said the same of its 50 percent off Internet sale.
"We plan our promotions months in advance and we have not varied from the plan," said Patty Morris, a Target spokeswoman. "It is a question of how quickly are you able to implement additional campaigns and is it worth the money to do that."
Still, however much retailers hope to stick to their plans, if shoppers do not start buying in earnest soon companies will have little choice but to offer enticements above and beyond what is already out there.
Last week, the Magnificent Mile in Chicago was a sea of red and white. White with the first blizzard of winter, and red with the big sale signs stuck in almost every retailer's windows. But neither the 50 percent off signs, like those at Kenneth Cole, nor the potential reprieve from the snow-blown streets seemed to lure many customers into the stores. Gunson Scott, a British Airways pilot on a layover in Chicago, glanced at the signs and kept moving. "The sales are enticing, but not that enticing," he said.
Even those who ventured inside to warm themselves were not buying. At Express, two racks of leather jackets, pants and skirts hung under a 40 percent off sign. But Cydney McCabe, 48, did not purchase anything for her leather-crazed 15-year-old daughter. "I'm looking for an even better deal," said Ms. McCabe, "like 50 percent off on top of that."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Across the nation, stores like Lord & Taylor's are piling markdowns on top of sale prices, hoping to get rid of unanticipated excess inventory. (Bloomberg News); Holiday sales, like this one at the Hugo Boss store on the Magnificent Mile in downtown Chicago, have not yet proved a strong lure to shoppers. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times)(pg. A24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC7231 BEAUTY SHOPS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (78%); COLORADO, USA (68%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (68%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: BATH & BODY WORKS LLC (58%); LORD & TAYLOR LLC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (78%); COLORADO, USA (68%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%); DENVER, CO, USA (68%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); HOLIDAY TRADE; CHRISTMAS RETAILERS (91%); PRICE CUTTING (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); TOILET SOAPS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (74%); THANKSGIVING (73%); INTERNET RETAILING (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); 

PERSON: KAUFMAN, LESLIE RALPH LAUREN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



488 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: THE 43rd PRESIDENT: NEWS ANALYSIS;
A Dual Path In Diplomacy

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 17

 BODY:
Is Gen. Colin Powell planning to tear up eight years of foreign policy and head off in a distinctly new direction? Or is he adjusting the course just slightly, with a few tweaks here and there, adding the luster of new management and a greater ring of authority?
In his opening gambit, General Powell, the secretary of state-designate, gave a sense both of continuity and a break with the Clinton administration. 
 There were two parts to General Powell's re-entry to the public stage in the elementary school in Crawford, Tex., where his boss, President-elect George W. Bush, stood silently by as the general delivered a discourse on what is in store.
First, General Powell gave what appeared to be prepared remarks that dwelled on the benefits of the blaze of democracy and free-market economies around the world since the end of the cold war.
In tones not unlike those of President Clinton and his national security team, General Powell struck an unrelentingly optimistic note. Sounding like a convert to globalization, he stressed that unimagined "opportunities" awaited the United States because of the triumph of democracy.
He promised that there would be no retreat into Fortress America but rather engagement with allies and the strengthening of alliances.
But in the second portion of his presentation -- answers to questions from reporters assembled among the local Texas crowd -- General Powell gave a vision quite distinct from that of the Clinton administration on specific issues that have the potential to blow up into crises.
Most strikingly, General Powell said the new Bush administration would forge ahead with a national missile-defense program, stating the pledge so forcefully that he made it sound as though a cut in offensive weapons and the building of a defensive system was a given. "We're going to go forward," he said, plainly.
He did not hide behind words like "assessment" or "review," saying rather that time would be spent discussing the plans with allies and those countries that "don't yet understand our thinking with respect to national missile defense." These negotiations would be "tough," he said.
General Powell was among the Republican foreign policy advisers, including former Secretaries of State Henry A. Kissinger and George P. Shultz, who stood alongside Mr. Bush in May when he made a major campaign statement on his plans for a missile defense.
In that proposal, Mr. Bush outlined a more ambitious missile defense than Mr. Clinton's limited version and said he would consider unilateral reductions in the American nuclear arsenal. In so doing, Mr. Bush was throwing out the long-held principle of "mutual assured destruction" that has governed strategic doctrine.
General Powell reinforced that plan on Saturday, saying it was time that the world understood it was possible to "move in the direction where we can take away the currency associated with strategic offensive weapons and the blackmail that is inherent in some regime having that kind of a weapon and thinking they can hold us hostage."
On the presence of American troops in the Balkans, General Powell gave a quite different view than the Clinton administration, which sent peacekeeping troops to Bosnia and Kosovo as part of a NATO force and insists that it is necessary for them to remain for the foreseeable future.
On this subject, General Powell did use the word "review" but the message seemed to tilt strongly toward replacing American troops with an international police organization or other units. There are about 7,000 American soldiers in Kosovo and about 4,300 in Bosnia.
As Mr. Bush said many times during his campaign, General Powell said that American armed forces were "stretched rather thin" and that he would be looking for ways to make the Balkans deployments "less of a burden."
When Condoleezza Rice, who was nominated by Mr. Bush as his national security adviser today, made such suggestions several months ago, alarm bells went off in European capitals about the United States refusing to live up to its NATO responsibilities.
But a Republican orthodoxy, outlined by General Powell, is fast developing on the responsibilities of the Europeans in their own backyard. If Europe is serious about developing a European defense initiative that can send troops to hot spots for peacekeeping purposes, why not start with the Balkans, runs the argument.
General Powell's notion is likely to run into strong opposition among those who worry about the future of NATO and its essence as a trans-Atlantic military alliance. "If NATO is not going to do these peacekeeping tasks, what will NATO do?" asked Ivo Daalder, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, in a preview of the likely objections.
On President Saddam Hussein of Iraq, against whom General Powell led the Persian Gulf war in 1991 but whom he declined to dislodge from power, the general sounded something of a familiar message.
He described Mr. Hussein as "sitting on a failed regime that is not going to be around in a few years' time." Whether General Powell meant that the Iraqi leader's tenure was going to implode from within or crumble under sanctions that the general pledged to "re-energize" was not clear. And how the new Bush administration would stiffen the sanctions, given the opposition of some Europeans and the Russians, was not spelled out.
When General Powell and President George Bush decided against pushing all the way to Baghdad to topple Mr. Hussein, they hoped, according to accounts from the period, that the Iraqi leader would be defeated from within. In a diary entry, the day after he declared the end of the war, President Bush noted about Mr. Hussein: "He's got to go, and I hope those two airplanes that reported to the Baghdad airport carry him away."
But with Mr. Hussein still in power, and perhaps getting bolder from increased oil revenues, General Powell will be facing his old enemy. Some have theorized that just as President Bush handed the Iraqi leader on to President Clinton and now Mr. Clinton is handing him on to Mr. Bush's son, it will be up to the new secretary of state to deliver the final blow.
There was no hint of such frontal action in the general's words on Saturday, but rather something between the almost laissez-faire attitude of the Clinton administration of the last few months and a very hard line favored by more interventionist members of the Bush camp.
"I think it is possible to re-energize those sanctions and to continue to contain him and then confront him should that become necessary again," General Powell said.
On the Middle East, General Powell said he expected the region to be a "major priority" for himself and the State Department. He did not expand on whether this would involve more attention to the Persian Gulf and the moderate Arab states as some have surmised.
Nor did he address how he might approach negotiations between the Palestinians and the Israelis if no agreement was reached between them before the Clinton administration expires in January.
But as General Powell spoke, negotiators from Israel and the Palestinian Authority were preparing to come to Washington to see if there was one last possibility to reach an accord under the auspices of President Clinton. The hurry was based on the fear that under a Secretary of State Powell there might be less inclination than with President Clinton to delve into the unfinished business between the two warring sides.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President-elect George W. Bush met in May with George P. Shultz, left, and Henry A. Kissinger, second from right, former secretaries of state, and Gen. Colin L. Powell, right, to discuss plans for a missile-defense system. (Associated Press)(pg. A20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (86%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COLD WAR (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (73%); POLITICS (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (66%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (63%); 

PERSON: POWELL, COLIN L (GEN) (RET); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); PERLEZ, JANE GEORGE W BUSH (91%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



489 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10
 
Mideast Clashes Continue; Talks Set in Washington
Negotiators for the Israelis and Palestinians will go to Washington today for separate meetings with American mediators, officials from both sides said. For the first time since the violence erupted in late September, Israeli and Palestinian officials are dropping their conditions for resuming negotiations and starting to talk while the shooting continues. A1
 
World's Greatest Threats
In a sweeping projection of what the world will look like in the year 2015, the intelligence community has concluded that issues like the availability of water and food, changes in population, and the spread of information and disease will increasingly affect America's security. A6 

Shortages Imperil Sudan
More than 3.2 million people in Sudan are facing serious food and water shortages because of the combined disruptions of a civil war and a widening drought, said Catherine Bertini, above, the director of the United Nations World Food Program. A5
 
Cuban Nuclear Plant Scuttled
Russia and Cuba have agreed to abandon an incomplete nuclear power station at Juragua on the southern coast of the island, Russian officials said. A10
 
Beverage Deal Predicted
Diageo P.L.C. of Britain and partner Pernod-Ricard S.A. of France are poised to acquire Seagram's wine and beverage business for about $8.2 billion, beating out a rival consortium, people involved in the negotiations said. Diageo, the world's largest beverage company, and Pernod were said to be preparing to sign a deal as early as today. A7
 
SCIENCE/HEALTH
 
Report on Modified Food
A biotechnology committee formed by the United States and the European Union is expected to recommend that Washington strengthen regulation of genetically modified foods and move toward mandatory labeling, according to some panel members. The report, to be made public today at a summit meeting in Washington between President Clinton and leaders of the European Union, says that consumers should have the "right of informed choice" about what they eat. A7
 
NATIONAL A12-24
 
Priorities Foreshadowed As Bush Assembles Team
President-elect George W. Bush named his longtime foreign policy tutor, Condoleezza Rice, to be his national security adviser. Advisers said they expected him to name Dan Coats, a former senior member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, as his defense secretary. The selection of Mr. Coats for the top Pentagon job would complete a foreign policy troika with Ms. Rice in the White House and retired Gen. Colin L. Powell, who was named secretary of state Saturday. Mr. Bush also named Karen P. Hughes, his longtime top press aide, as a counselor to the president, and announced that Alberto R. Gonzales, a Texas Supreme Court justice, would be general counsel in the Bush White House. A1
 
The incoming Bush administration signaled that it would make education its first legislative priority after taking office, and pledged to move rapidly on the other main pieces of its campaign platform, including a big tax cut and overhauls of Social Security and Medicare. A21
 
In his first remarks as the designated secretary of state, General Powell spoke with force and eloquence, but made few binding commitments on foreign policy, promising study and consultation. The world's reaction to his appointment shares the same slightly hopeful fuzziness. A20
 
Mr. Bush has emerged from the presidential election with a bare majority of support, and Americans, while welcoming his tax cut proposal, have other priorities, according to a CBS News poll. A22
 
Bilingual Struggle in Arizona
Arizona educators are wrestling with how to dismantle bilingual education by next fall, after the passage five weeks ago of a statewide referendum outlawing it. A12
 
ARTS E1-12
 
Houston's Work of Art
There was a time when the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston was viewed as little more than a place where art lovers might briefly stop on their way to more imposing collections. Now the museum's administrators want to make it a prime destination. The most visible symbol of their goal is an $83 million new building, which covers a city block. It has made the institution the country's 6th largest art museum, a grand leap from its previous place as 30th. The administrators have also formed a partnership with the Pushkin Museum of Fine Arts in Moscow. E1
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
Decision Is Expected Soon On Meadowlands Project
A decision by the Army Corps of Engineers is imminent on a Virginia-based developer's proposal to build a $1 billion collection of stores, movie theaters and hotel rooms on 204 acres of Meadowlands swamp in Carlstadt, N.J. Environmentalists are pressing to have the entire 32 square miles of the Meadowlands, a watery quilt of marshland and mud flats five miles from the Empire State Building, designated a federally protected preserve. B1
 
A Dash of Weather Wizardry
Dying autumn enveloped the Northeast with a bizarre combination of record high temperatures, bullying winds and pounding rains that delayed travelers, caused widespread flooding and power failures. It then left a rare double rainbow arching, Oz-like, over Midtown. States of emergency were declared in 10 communities in upstate New York. B1
 
Fire Safety Measure Criticized
Officials say a poster that is to grace the doors to more than two million New York City dwellings by Jan. 31 will save lives, but critics say it is an eyesore they can live without. B1
 
Neediest Cases B4
 
EDUCATION
 
Suburban School Debate
Charter schools, paid for with local tax dollars but run independently, were largely an urban answer to bad city schools. But they are spreading into the suburbs, in part because some suburban parents say they, too, deserve a choice of public schools, and in part because for-profit education management companies are seeking settings likely to produce good results. The expansion has touched off bitter disputes in communities proud of their schools. A1
 
SPORTSMONDAY D1-12
 
OBITUARIES A25
 
Charles P. Issawi
An Egyptian-born authority on Middle East economics and history who taught at Princeton and Columbia, he was 84. A25
 
Lori Ledis
A New York City art dealer and producer of concerts and music documentaries, she was 40. A25
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-38
 
Softening the Slowdown
As the new economy enters its first slowdown, many executives swear they will still invest in the innovations that define it. If they do, their investments will likely buffer the economy, softening a recession. C1
 
President-elect George W. Bush will inherit an economy that is fundamentally stable, but he will also be confronted by structural or long-term economic challenges that will not be easily addressed. C3
 
Protection During Deregulation
Analysts expect advocates of utility deregulation to pay more attention to consumer protection measures for the next couple of years. C6
 
Endgame on Wall Street
With the list of available firms on Wall Street whittled to a few, the endgame in the competition to provide financial services to the biggest corporations has arrived. C14
 
A Switch for Microsoft
This will be remembered as the year Microsoft abandoned its PC-centric view of the world. C25
 
Television Reality Check
For the network television business, the year 2000 was almost too good to be true. And 2001 is likely to prove it. C34
 
EDITORIAL A26-27
 
Editorials: Mr. Bush's environmental choices; mayoral control of the schools; the strained European Union.
 
Columns: William Safire.
 
Bridge E5
Public Lives A12
Crossword E10
TV Listings E11
Metro Diary B2
Weather B7
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: RI (PAR) (83%); DGE (PAR) (82%); DGE (LSE) (82%); DEO (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (83%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (83%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (82%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (82%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); SUDAN (92%); EUROPE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PERNOD RICARD SA (83%); DIAGEO PLC (82%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); SUDAN (92%); EUROPE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); EUROPEAN UNION (87%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (87%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (75%); FOOD SECURITY (75%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); BEVERAGE MFG (71%); LAWYERS (70%); FOOD CHARITIES (70%); ISLANDS & REEFS (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (69%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (67%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (67%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (66%); PRODUCT LABELING (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (60%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (60%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (53%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%); BILL CLINTON (53%); ALBERTO GONZALES (50%); DAN COATS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



490 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1788 words

HEADLINE: Shops vs. Swamps In the Meadowlands;
Debate Over a Huge Shopping Mall Marked by Rival Claims and Spin

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS 

DATELINE: CARLSTADT, N.J., Dec. 14

 BODY:
For more than three centuries, man has tried his best to obliterate the watery quilt of marshland and mud flats that sits five miles from the Empire State Building. Long viewed as a mosquito-breeding wasteland, these 32 square miles of salt hay and swamp have been drained, dammed and piled high with mountains of trash, making the Hackensack Meadowlands the nation's most famous garbage dump.
But somehow, nature has found a way to survive. In the years since the 1972 Clean Water Act ended unfettered dumping, all but one of the Meadowlands' 21 commercial landfills have been shut down, a few dried-out marshes have had their tidal waters restored and, to the surprise of naturalists, wildlife has returned. These days, state researchers say, more than 260 species of birds, 11 of them threatened or endangered, feed or nest in the Meadowlands. 
 Now, at the same time that environmentalists are pressing to have the entire Meadowlands designated a federally protected preserve, a decision is imminent on a Virginia-based developer's proposal to build what would be the region's biggest shopping complex, a $1 billion collection of stores, movie theaters and a hotel surrounded by a savanna of paved parking lots. In its current incarnation, Meadowlands Mills, as its sponsors call it, would rise atop 204 acres of reed-packed swamp in Carlstadt. "We haven't seen a proposed fill of this size in at least 15 years," said Joseph J. Seebode, chief of the regulatory branch of the United States Army Corps of Engineers. Environmentalists say that if built, the project would destroy more wetlands than any project since the Clean Water Act was enacted almost three decades ago.
This is not an old-fashioned battle between environmental issues and economic ones. Instead, it reflects the way such struggles have evolved into more ambiguous struggles characterized by competing scientific claims and sophisticated spin. So while opponents portray the project as a titanic setback of environmental progress, the developer says its proposal respects nature, and even improves it.
The situation is compounded by the critical role being played by the Army Corps of Engineers, which is expected to decide next month whether the project will move forward.
The corps' own environmental study found little threat to the area's ecology, a sharp contrast to the federal Environmental Protection Agency and the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, both of which have urged the corps to deny a fill permit. The corps is set to rule at a time when it is under fire for being overly sympathetic to massive construction projects. A report released by the Pentagon two weeks ago said that corps officials manipulated a study to justify projects along the Mississippi and Illinois Rivers, and that the corps had a systematic bias in favor of large development projects.
Although the E.P.A. can veto such decisions, it has overruled the corps fewer than a dozen times on the 200,000 permit decisions that have been rendered in the last two decades. And even if its current proposal is rejected, the company can reapply with a scaled-back project.
Advocates of restoring the Meadowlands say the mall would destroy precious habitat. "Plopping a mega-mall in the middle of wetlands would be laughable if it weren't so awful," said Carolyn Summers, a project director at the Natural Resources Defense Council.
The developer, the Mills Corporation, disagrees. It says the tract is ecologically moribund, the victim of a 1930's mosquito-control campaign that employed berms and canals to sever the land from the tidal reach of the Hackensack River. These days, the parcel is thick with phragmites, a photogenic, fluffy-headed reed that some ecologists say crowds out all other forms of life. David Charette, an environmental consultant who studied the parcel on behalf of the Mills Corporation, said the density of phragmites has reduced the parcel's value as a habitat for birds and mammals.
"We've found some possum, rats, pheasants and rabbits," he said. "And that's about it."
Mr. Charette and Mills Corporation executives say that rather than being viewed as an engine of destruction, Meadowlands Mills should be seen as a force for renewal. The project, they point out, includes a $30 million restoration component that will clear out the invasive phragmites, reintroduce native plants and bring back the natural flow of water to the 335 acres that will remain undeveloped. "We're talking about recreating a functioning wetlands, one that the general public can enjoy," said David D'Onofrio, a company spokesman. "That costs a lot of money."
But opponents, including the E.P.A., have described this proposed restoration as little more than a series of ditches that will collect water, not to mention motor oil and trash that drains from the parking lots. "Sure, they will be wet, but they will be filled with polluted storm water," said Mary Mears, a spokeswoman for the agency. "As it stands now, the project is absolutely unacceptable."
In the last century, the Meadowlands found its calling as America's largest garbage dump. From tons of deadly mercury to common household refuse, the Meadowlands hosted as many as 300 active landfills, not to mention raw sewage from adjacent municipalities. Pieces of the old Pennsylvania Station were dumped here, as were chunks of London destroyed during the Blitz (the rubble came over as ship ballast). In 1959, an editorial in The New York Times cried out for reclamation and development. "The city and its environs are bursting at its seams," it said. "The Meadows must go."
Much of it is gone. More than half of its original 21,000 acres have given way to truck depots, outlet centers and the massive sports complex that bears its name. Railroad tracks, highways and a natural gas pipeline crisscross the remaining 8,500 acres; many stretches are fouled by a century's worth of industrial effluent and the goo of rotting garbage.
In the years since the Clean Water Act ended the free-for-all dumping, life has gradually returned to the area's estuaries and creeks. According to federal officials, its waterways now provide a nursery for 75 percent of the mid-Atlantic's commercial fish.
One day in October, Bill Sheehan, executive director of the Hackensack Riverkeeper, an environmental group, steered a pontoon boat through Saw Mill Creek. Mr. Sheehan, 51, who grew up with the marshes as his front yard, pointed out a black crown night heron and a pair of snowy egrets wading through tufts of spartina grass. As the sound of whooshing cars mingled with a fading choir of cicadas, fiddler crabs danced along the edge of a mud flat and diamondback turtles sunned themselves against the chilly fall air. The crowns of the World Trade Center peered over the reeds.
Mr. Sheehan, who leads ecology tours of the area and frequently fishes its waters, believes that the Meadowlands are slowly healing themselves. "After 250 years of public abuse, the Meadowlands need to be taken care of," he said. His dream of federal wildlife status remains elusive. The Department of the Interior, citing huge land acquisition costs and lingering contamination, rejected a request by environmental organizations last year.
There are, however, other possibilities, including state and federal open-space grants that could be used to assemble a Meadowlands park. But the land, within the most populous and affluent corridor in America, does not come cheap -- as much as $250,000 an acre -- a figure that will remain high as long as there is the potential for development.
Which is all the more reason environmentalists see the Mills project as their Waterloo. Defeating the mall, they say, would chill the prospect of future development, push down the price of land and make the creation of a Meadowlands preserve more affordable.
But the Mills Corporation is pushing ahead with its mall, which would be its 12th retail complex nationwide.
The company, which spent $40 million for the development rights, has been working on the plan since 1984. Ground could be broken sometime next year, assuming that the necessary approvals are received.
Meadowlands Mills is supported by a number of elected officials, including the mayor of Carlstadt, an erstwhile opponent who was won over by the estimated 12,000 retail and 6,000 construction jobs, and the $24 million in taxes the borough would receive during the mall's first decade. Mills has also retained the state's best-connected lobbyist, the GluckShaw Group, and parceled out $140,000 to New Jersey lawmakers in recent years. Gov. Christie Whitman, known for her environmental initiatives, has yet to weigh in on the project.
The Hackensack Meadowlands Development Commission, the state agency that has jurisdiction over the area's zoning, has a somewhat ambiguous position. Although its director, Alan Steinberg, says he is committed to saving the Meadowlands, calling it "a national treasure," he insists that the high cost of restoration and acquisition means that some development will have to be allowed. "If a wetland has lost virtually all of its function and there is no public money for restoration, we will consider development on a site as long as a developer is committed to a mitigation strategy," he said. "Our goal is one of balance."
Many environmentalists criticize the commission's conflicted mission, noting that it will continue to encourage development as long as its budget comes from application fees paid by those seeking to build here. The proposed Mills project, for example, has brought the agency $300,000. "For them, development is a matter of self-preservation," Mr. Sheehan said.
If anything, the decade-long fight over the proposed mall has generated newfound appreciation for these forsaken swamps. Private marinas, a waterfront park and a public boat launch that recently opened in Secaucus have brought many residents out to the marshes for the first time in their lives. George Fosdick, the mayor of Ridgefield Park, a village surrounded on three sides by water, said he has seen a shift in sentiment.
"People are starting to realize that you don't have to go down the shore to put your boat in the water," said Mr. Fosdick, 59.
An opponent of the project, Mr. Fosdick said many people in Ridgefield Park see the mall as a threat to the Meadowlands and to the village. They worry about potential traffic jams, the result of an estimated 25,000 cars that would come to the mall each day, the competition that might kill off local businesses and the increased flooding that could result from the loss of wetlands.
"We have enough malls already," he said. "What we need is a place to breathe."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Wildlife has returned to the Meadowlands, once dismissed as a vast soggy wasteland. But commerce is never far away. A Virginia developer wants to build a mall on a 204-acre parcel, below. (Photographs by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)
 
Map of New Jersey shows the location of the Hackensack Meadowlands: The mall's developer says the project would restore wetlands. (pg. B6)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLS (NYSE) (79%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); 

COMPANY: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS; MILLS CORP; ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY; FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE EMPIRE STATE BUILDING CO (58%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS; MILLS CORP; ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY; FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEADOWLANDS (NJ); CARLSTADT (NJ); NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); 

SUBJECT: WETLANDS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; WILDLIFE SANCTUARIES; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; BIRDS; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES; LANDFILL; SHOPPING CENTERS LANDFILLS (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); ARMIES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (89%); WETLANDS (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); BIRDS (77%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); WATER QUALITY (75%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (74%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); RETAIL PROPERTY (72%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (51%); 

PERSON: JACOBS, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



491 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1705 words

HEADLINE: THE 43rd PRESIDENT: THE WHITE HOUSE STAFF;
Bush Adviser Gets National Security Post

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. with FRANK BRUNI 

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex., Dec. 17

 BODY:
President-elect George W. Bush today named his longtime foreign policy tutor, Condoleezza Rice, to be his national security adviser and made two other key staff appointments before flying to Washington tonight with a list of potential cabinet nominees in hand.
Two advisers to Mr. Bush said they expected him to name Daniel R. Coats, a former Republican senator from Indiana, to be his defense secretary, although Mr. Bush said he had not made the final decision. The selection of Mr. Coats, a former senior member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, for the top Pentagon job would complete a foreign policy troika with Ms. Rice in the White House and Gen. Colin L. Powell, who was named on Saturday as secretary of state. 
 As Mr. Bush prepared for his first visit to Washington since winning the election, one Bush adviser said he also expected that Donald L. Evans, Mr. Bush's campaign manager and a Texas oil and gas executive who is perhaps Mr. Bush's closest friend, would soon be named commerce secretary.
He also said Mr. Bush would have lunch on Monday with Paul H. O'Neill, the chairman and chief executive of Alcoa, who has emerged as the top contender to become treasury secretary.
Speaking at a ceremony at the Governor's Mansion here, Mr. Bush introduced Ms. Rice, a political science professor and former provost at Stanford University, who said she would work to promote Mr. Bush's vision of combining "humility with strength" around the world.
Mr. Bush also named Karen P. Hughes, his longtime press aide, as a counselor to the president and announced that Alberto R. Gonzales, a Texas Supreme Court justice who was Mr. Bush's first general counsel in Texas, would be general counsel in the Bush White House.
For the next two days, Mr. Bush will meet with Congressional leaders in both parties, as well as with President Clinton and Vice President Al Gore. His campaign also announced that he would meet with Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board.
Mr. Bush and Mr. Cheney spoke today about several of their economic priorities, with Mr. Bush saying he planned to seek the full tax cut that he had promised in the campaign.
Mr. Bush is expected to move swiftly on the appointments to top economic slots, but his lunch with Mr. O'Neill was said to be an opportunity to get to know the aluminum executive, who has a master's degree in public administration from Indiana University and has also done graduate-level work in economics.
Although there are other candidates, Mr. O'Neill "ended up ahead of the pack because the more traditional Wall Street candidates lacked a strong public-policy background," a Bush adviser said.
"He has the right combination of skills, experience and personality to navigate the rough political waters of an aggressive tax-cutting proposal and the vagaries of the international financial market," this adviser said. Also mentioned as contenders were Walter V. Shipley, former chairman of the Chase Manhattan Corporation; Donald B. Marron, chairman of the Paine Webber Group and John M. Hennessy, former chairman of Credit Suisse First Boston.
A Bush adviser said a leading candidate for the job as secretary of housing and urban development was Mel Martinez, the elected chief executive of Orange County, Fla. Mr. Martinez also serves as chairman of the Growth Management Study Commission for Gov. Jeb Bush, a brother of the president-elect.
Among others mentioned for defense secretary are Tom Ridge, the Republican governor of Pennsylvania, whom General Powell was said to favor, and Paul D. Wolfowitz, a former Pentagon official under Mr. Cheney.
"But Coats had the strongest support outside the inner circle, among the senators and congressmen in the national security area, and Powell's strong backing of Ridge, and Cheney's obvious mentoring of Wolfowitz, created a situation in which neither choice was acceptable to the other," the Bush adviser said. "Cheney didn't want Powell's guy; Powell didn't want Cheney's guy."
This afternoon, General Powell met with Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright at her Georgetown home for three hours, a State Department spokeswoman said. Dr. Albright declined to talk about the substance of the session but said it was an "excellent meeting," the spokeswoman said.
None of the appointments announced today were unexpected. Coming a day after naming General Powell secretary of state, the appointments, Mr. Bush said, were partly intended to send a signal about his commitment to diversity. Like Mr. Powell, Ms. Rice, 46, is black. Mr. Gonzales, 45, is Hispanic. So is Mr. Martinez, who went to Florida as a young refugee from Cuba. And another person high on the list of candidates for important administration positions is Richard D. Parsons, president of Time Warner Inc., who is black. One Bush adviser said Mr. Parsons was being considered for United States trade representative.
As Texas governor, Mr. Bush has voiced support for enlarging the Republican tent to include the widest cross-section of people. But polling showed that he lost the black vote by an overwhelming margin in November, and some black leaders were angry at what they called the disenfranchisement of many black voters in Florida.
Many of Mr. Bush's other appointees are expected to be white, and Mr. Bush was asked by reporters today whether his decision to first name two women, two blacks and a Hispanic to his administration was a part of a "message that you're sending to America?"
"You bet," Mr. Bush replied. "That people who work hard and make the right decisions in life can achieve anything they want in America."
Flanked on his right by Mr. Gonzales and on his left by Ms. Rice and Ms. Hughes, Mr. Bush first introduced Ms. Rice, who served as a senior Russian-affairs staff adviser on the National Security Council under former President George Bush.
For the past two years, Ms. Rice has spent much of her time educating the former president's son about world affairs and has essentially played the role of quarterback on his team of campaign foreign-policy advisers. She is considered to be no fan of United States military intervention, particularly when done for humanitarian reasons, and she has suggested that American action abroad needs to be more closely linked to what is in the best interests of the United States.
In contrast with Saturday's ceremony in Crawford, Tex., where General Powell was nominated, Ms. Rice spoke only briefly today and unlike Mr. Powell did not comment on any foreign-policy specifics.
"It's a wonderful time for the United States in foreign policy," Ms. Rice said, "because it's a time when markets and democracy are spreading, when our values are being affirmed around the world, and yet it's a time of great challenge."
She spoke of her segregated upbringing in Alabama, and said, "I think that you will see in the presidency of George W. Bush recognition of how important it is that we continue the last 30-plus years of progress toward one America."
In his introduction, Mr. Bush praised Ms. Rice as "not only a brilliant person, she is an experienced person," and he said he had decided against making her job a cabinet position, describing her instead as an "equal partner of the senior team in the White House."
During the ceremony, Mr. Bush took issue with comments by some Congressional leaders that a centerpiece of his campaign -- a $1.3 trillion tax cut -- is unlikely to win quick approval. Democratic leaders have criticized the measure, and even J. Dennis Hastert, the speaker of the House, said that though he supported the Bush plan overall he preferred to start by passing tax cuts on a piecemeal, step-by-step basis.
But Mr. Bush stood firm today, saying, "It's a little early in the process for people to be making judgments on our plan before they've given me a chance to explain it."
"I campaigned on a tax relief package that I firmly believed then and believe even more now is important as an insurance policy against any economic downturn," Mr. Bush added. "It doesn't seem to make much sense for people to be drawing lines in the sand until we've had a chance to discuss things."
In appointing Ms. Hughes, 43, and Mr. Gonzales to senior staff jobs, Mr. Bush was naming advisers who have been with him from the beginning of his political career and who are known for their discretion and loyalty.
Ms. Hughes, a former television reporter and executive director of the Texas Republican Party, signed on with Mr. Bush in his successful 1994 race to unseat Gov. Ann Richards, a Democrat, and has served as his top spokesperson and as a close adviser. In the White House, she will counsel Mr. Bush on communications, policy and legislative issues, and will oversee the press, communications and speech writing offices.
Ms. Hughes has been at Mr. Bush's side at virtually every important public appearance during his administration in Texas. At the governor's news conferences in Austin, it was not uncommon for Mr. Bush to turn for help to Ms. Hughes, who could at times be more sure-footed addressing questions. Mr. Bush has been known to explain to reporters who have had arguments with Ms. Hughes that she will go out of her way to defend him. Ms. Hughes was also one of very few Bush aides who knew before it was publicly revealed that Mr. Bush had once been arrested for drunken driving.
Ms. Hughes pledged today: "I'll work to serve you faithfully, sir. And I promise I will always give you my unvarnished opinion."
Mr. Bush replied, "No question about that."
Mr. Gonzales has also been with Mr. Bush since the start. He left his job as a partner at Vinson & Elkins, a Houston law firm, to become Mr. Bush's first general counsel in 1995. In that role, he advised Mr. Bush on many delicate matters, including death-row clemency requests and Mr. Bush's legal fight over fees paid to the Texas tobacco trial lawyers. Mr. Bush later appointed him Texas secretary of state, and two years ago, Mr. Bush named him a justice on the Texas Supreme Court, to which he won re-election in November.
"Mr. President-elect, this is the fourth time in six years that I've had the opportunity to say thank-you," Mr. Gonzales joked.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President-elect George W. Bush with his new appointees, Alberto R. Gonzales, Condoleezza Rice and Karen P. Hughes. At right are members of the Gonzales and Hughes families. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (55%); AA (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (55%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (55%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (54%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (54%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (79%); EXECUTIVES (79%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LAWYERS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (69%); TAX LAW (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); RICE, CONDOLEEZZA; HUGHES, KAREN P; GONZALES, ALBERTO R (JUSTICE); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); OPPEL, RICHARD A JR; BRUNI, FRANK GEORGE W BUSH (93%); ALBERTO GONZALES (90%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (90%); BILL CLINTON (74%); AL GORE (59%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



492 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: METRO BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled by Steve Strunsky

 BODY:

NEW YORK
 
MANHATTAN: SUSPECT SHOT IN ARREST
A narcotics detective working undercover in the East Village on Saturday night shot a man who tried to rob him at knifepoint while steering him to a drug sale, the police said. The man, Oswaldo Vasquez, 43, was in stable condition at Bellevue Hospital Center with a gunshot wound to the chest. He was charged with attempted robbery and criminal possession of a weapon, the police said. The police said the shooting, which happened in front of 226 East Third Street at 9:30 p.m., appeared to have been justified. The police said the detective, whose name was not released, was not hurt. Elissa Gootman (NYT)
 
BRONX: GUNMAN WHO SHOT HIMSELF DIES
A former domestic-violence counselor who the police say shot himself in the head on Saturday after fatally shooting his former girlfriend and her new boyfriend on a crowded Midtown street the day before died yesterday from his wounds, a hospital administrator said. The gunman, Daniel Sanders, 51, died at 5 p.m. at Jacobi Medical Center in the Bronx, said Cynthia Balot, the administrator. Mr. Sanders had lingered for about 40 hours in critical condition. On Friday afternoon, the police said, Mr. Sanders fatally shot his ex-girlfriend, Doris Coleman, 40, and her new boyfriend, Lawrence Feaster, 41, near West 39th Street and Fifth Avenue. Then, early on Saturday morning, Mr. Sanders walked up to two detectives outside a Bronx police station and shot himself once in the head, the police said. Edward Wong (NYT) 

MANHATTAN: BIRD COUNT RESULTS MIXED
Despite the rain, 35 volunteers for Central Park's 101st annual Holiday Bird Count yesterday tallied more birds than were counted last year, said Henry J. Stern, the parks commissioner. But while the total of 6,649 ducks, doves and other birds counted was 191 greater than last year's total, the number of insect-eating birds like tufted titmice declined, Mr. Stern said. One possible reason, he said, was the mosquito spraying to contain the spread of West Nile virus, which is both carried by and kills birds. (NYT)
 
MANHATTAN: POE HOUSE ARREST
A man leading a protest outside a house in Greenwich Village where Edgar Allan Poe once lived was arrested about 10 p.m. Saturday because he did not have a sound permit, the police said. The man, William Tallen, 50, and others were reading "The Raven" over a hand-held microphone to more than 100 people who had gathered at the Poe House, on West Third Street between Thompson and Sullivan Streets, to protest New York University's plan to demolish part of the block -- including the historic red-brick home -- to make way for a law school building.He was arrested about 10 p.m., soon after he finished the last line of the poem and said, "Thank you for not arresting me," said the police and a witness, Peter Rooney. Edward Wong (NYT)
 
MANHATTAN: SCHUMER URGES BIPARTISANSHIP
Senator Charles E. Schumer of Brooklyn called on President-elect George W. Bush to make good on his bipartisan campaign theme yesterday by supporting state and national "nonideological measures." Mr. Schumer, a Democrat, said Mr. Bush could help New Yorkers by supporting a rail link between Grand Central Terminal and Pennsylvania Station, and by defending homeowners against Indian land claim suits. On a national level, he urged Mr. Bush to create a bipartisan energy commission, support campaign finance reform, increase access to generic drugs and make college tuition tax-deductible. Susan Saulny (NYT)
 
QUEENS: CADET KILLED IN CRASH
A new police cadet died early yesterday after he lost control of his car and drove into a tree, the police said. The authorities said the cadet, Peter Radske, 20, was blocks from his family's home in Middle Village when he swerved to avoid another car while westbound on Juniper Boulevard South at 3:30 a.m. He was appointed a cadet on Dec. 8. Elissa Gootman (NYT)
 
NEW JERSEY
 
PLAINSBORO: STUDY ON UNINSURED
The nation's biggest health care charitable foundation plans to spend $3.7 million on a study of the social and economic impact of the lack of health insurance among 43 million Americans. The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation is financing a three-year research project that will be conducted by the Institute of Medicine, which is part of the National Academy of Sciences, a private advisory group chartered by Congress. (AP)
 
HAMMONTON: STUDENTS BUILDING PLANE
Fifth graders at Warren E. Sooy Elementary School are building an airplane, which their adviser, a retired exterminator with a pilot's license, said he planned to fly. The adviser, Rick Trader, 50, of Elwood, is helping students construct the plane, a Revelation kit plane, in a school storage building. The fifth graders will do 90 percent of the construction work on the life-size aircraft, said Mr. Trader. (NYT)
 
CONNECTICUT
 
BRIDGEPORT: POLICE SHOOT SUSPECT
The Bridgeport police wounded a man suspected of murder after a shootout at a city intersection on Friday, the police said. The man, Clifford Brown, 27, of Bridgeport, was shot in the leg Friday night after he pointed his gun at an officer, the police said. Mr. Brown was charged with murder, attempted murder and unlawful discharge of a firearm. The police said the victim, Evon A. Brown, 24, of Bridgeport, had been stopped at an intersection when he was shot several times. The two Browns were not related, the police said. (AP)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES SHOOTINGS (95%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); BIRDS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (78%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (78%); HOSPITALS (77%); DEATHS (74%); HOUSE ARREST (73%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (73%); ROBBERY (72%); POLICE FORCES (72%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (69%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (67%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (65%); WEST NILE VIRUS (64%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (63%); LAW SCHOOLS (60%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); VIRUSES (50%); 

PERSON: DANIEL SANDERS (65%); GEORGE WALKER BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



493 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 29; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY & MEDIA;
With a Key Growth Engine Stalled, Newspapers Worry a Bit

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER 

 BODY:
When Gateway Inc., the computer giant, announced unexpectedly slow sales over Thanksgiving weekend, it confirmed something many newspaper advertising managers already knew: they could not count on retail advertising for computers and electronics, which had leaped upward by increments of about $500 million in both 1998 and 1999.
On the other hand, they always considered it possible that maybe, just maybe, the electronics retailers would expand their advertising budgets to get their wares off their shelves. After all, for the first three quarters of this year retail electronics advertising had remained robust. 
 But in these newly uncertain times, newspaper executives and industry analysts seem to be picking up every new piece of economic information and flipping it like a coin: heads, it's good for us; tails, it's bad.
For instance, six months of news about the contraction of Internet businesses could be read two ways: it might cost newspapers dot-com advertising -- but any advertisers who had Internet stars in their eyes might now return to print.
Or, the erosion of newspaper circulation, particularly on advertising-rich Sundays, may be troubling -- but in an era of increasingly fractionalized media, newspapers have actually done a decent job of holding on to a mass audience.
The varying possibilities make industry executives, analysts and consultants wary for the near future but less apprehensive about the latter part of 2001. The prospect of another newsprint price increase and the earnings warnings by major advertisers like Motorola are unsettling, but newspaper companies have had to pick their way through a swampy economy before. Few new electronic rivals can say the same.
Miles Groves, an industry economist with the Barry Group, a Maryland-based marketing consulting firm, says he believes that "a slowdown will help clean the house of a lot of electronic competitors."
While venture capitalists cooled on Internet investments, leaving dot-com companies with severe cash- flow problems, newspaper companies have generally been throwing off lots of excess cash, even allowing for the late-year advertising downturn. Some of the cash has been used in investor-friendly share repurchase plans. It has also helped propel extraordinary consolidation.
The Gannett Company now publishes 99 dailies. This year it bought Central Newspapers -- owner of The Indianapolis Star and The Arizona Republic -- and picked up 19 of the dailies of Thomson Newspapers Inc.
Now that the Tribune Company has added The Los Angeles Times, Newsday and five other Times-Mirror dailies to its stable of 4 newspapers, 22 television stations, 4 radio stations and two dozen or so Web sites, it hopes its strategy of joint newspaper-television-Internet advertising sales will accelerate what has been sluggish revenue growth in its core properties.
But smaller companies, like Pulitzer Inc., publisher of The St. Louis Post-Dispatch, have little geographic diversity and thus may be more susceptible to economic downturns.
Analysts remain dubious about how much the industry as a whole can increase profits in the near term. "I think it's very fair to say that the beginning of the year is going to be very tough," said Douglas Arthur, a newspaper analyst for Morgan Stanley. "It is much less clear what the second half will look like when the comparisons are easier, the Fed will have eased interest rates and the money supply will have grown."
There are troubling realities: newsprint prices, unusually low in 1998 and 1999, increased 18 percent in 2000; newsprint producers are warning of another price increase of $50 a metric ton in March, which would bring the price to $660. Efforts to reduce the dimensions of most newspapers are far along, but newsprint is still the industry's second-biggest fixed cost, after labor.
Revenues could also be hurt by another trend. Some big retailers have taken their ads out of pages within the newspaper and moved to inserts. Since many buy their own newsprint, price increases could further dampen their ad spending.
As for newspapers in smaller markets, competition from an old rival -- radio -- is likely to intensify, according to Mr. Groves. In a column for the Web site of the International Newspaper Marketing Association, he wrote that newspapers' share of all advertising was down "due to losses in local advertising share that is clearly a material decrease."
But the new competition and the continued softening of retail advertising will, Mr. Groves says he believes, encourage a search for alternatives. In smaller markets, he said, the most likely prospects are the often-overlooked mom-and-pop advertisers. In larger markets, national advertising may help fill holes. In all markets, he said, classified advertising is a crucial engine of profitability, as the incursions of dot-com competitors have not yet inflicted serious damage.
Retail advertising no longer accounts for 60 percent of newspaper advertising, as it did in 1975; it fell to 45 percent in 1999, according to the Newspaper Association of America. Sometime within the next few years, classified ads are likely to replace retail ads as the industry's richest revenue stream.
The one development of 2000 that may replicate itself in 2001 is the free newspaper distributed in a mass transit system or at commuter hubs. With such newspapers now offered in Philadelphia, New York and Toronto, there is much speculation about what city will be next. Will the new product be homegrown, or created by a distant corporation?
This kind of product, according to some, could be a shock absorber if the four-lane highway of economic growth turns into a dirt road. Earl J. Wilkinson, the executive director of the marketing association, said that now that the dot-com ad blitz was over and newsprint prices were up, the industry's saving grace may be its new conviction "that brands actually have the ability to be extended from one core print product" -- and not just onto the Internet either. Many newspapers are returning to old formulas -- foreign-language versions, for instance, like the Vietnamese-language edition of The San Jose Mercury News or commuter newspapers.
Heads, the industry will do fine.
Tails?
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Classified Gains Ground"
Spending on classified advertising in daily and Sunday newspapers lagged retail spending by a significant margin 25 years ago. That gap has been closing.
 
ADVERTISING SPENDING IN NEWSPAPERS: 1975
NATIONAL: 13.5%
RETAIL: 60.3%
CLASSIFIED: 26.2%
 
ADVERTISING SPENDING IN NEWSPAPERS: 1985
NATIONAL: 13.3%
RETAIL: 58.2%
CLASSIFIED: 28.5%
 
ADVERTISING SPENDING IN NEWSPAPERS: 1995
NATIONAL: 11.8%
RETAIL: 50.1%
CLASSIFIED: 38.1%
 
ADVERTISING SPENDING IN NEWSPAPERS: 1999*
NATIONAL: 14.5%
RETAIL: 45.2%
CLASSIFIED: 40.3%
 
TOTAL ANNUAL SPENDING
1975: $8.23 billion
1985: $25.17 billion
1995: $36.09 billion
1999: $46.29 billion
*Preliminary figures
 
SPENDING IN NEWSPAPERS AS A PERCENT OF ALL U.S. ADVERTISING SPENDING
1975: 29.5%
1985: 26.6%
1995: 22.2%
1999: 21.5%
 
(Source: Newspaper Association of America)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GCI (NYSE) (84%); MSI (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (95%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (95%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: GATEWAY INC (95%); GANNETT CO INC (84%); PULITZER INC (84%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (80%); THOMSON NEWSPAPERS INC (62%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPERS; INDUSTRY PROFILES; ADVERTISING ELECTRONICS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); PRINT ADVERTISING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PUBLISHING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); CASH FLOW (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (78%); RETAILERS (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); BUDGETS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); THANKSGIVING (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); NEWSPRINT (64%); VENTURE CAPITAL (62%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (60%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (50%); 

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY MILES GROVES (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



494 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 28; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: NEW ECONOMY;
'Software Gap' Solution: Tools and Technology

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
As Internet technology spreads across the economy, the pace may be uneven and the impact uncertain for companies large and small. Yet at least one thing is certain: there will be a huge demand for more software and more reliable software.
Given that writing software remains as much art as science -- irritatingly immune to the automation that computing itself has brought to other endeavors -- the looming software challenge is stirring concern. 
 In a report in 1999, an early warning of the coming "software gap" came from a presidential advisory group composed of leading computer scientists from companies and universities. "Software is the new physical infrastructure of the information age," they wrote in framing the issue. "It is fundamental to economic success, scientific and technical research, and national security."
So what is the answer to the software challenge?
The two main answers, according to computer scientists, are new tools that will make programmers more productive and new technology that will enable more people who use software to program for themselves. And simple economics should speed the process along, they predict, because there could be a handsome payoff for any solutions.
In the long term, the computer scientists agree, the nation's software challenge is not a body-count issue. The continuing public debate surrounding the "software gap" has mainly been focused on the practice of recruiting foreign programmers, who are issued visas for skilled workers, instead of trying to retrain American workers for those jobs. But that is likely to be a short-lived phenomenon, according to the experts.
As the Internet makes it easier to share work around the world, software will be increasingly procured from a global market, just as sophisticated manufactured products are now. A personal computer is made of components from dozens of countries. And there is not a lot of silicon being baked in Silicon Valley anymore, though the Valley remains a hub of innovation for the chip industry. Software, experts say, will probably follow the same pattern with much research, design and early-stage development centered in America but production shifting overseas. The outsourcing of software today from places like India is just the beginning, they predict. The trend will be accelerated by the spread of high-speed Internet connections internationally and the growing share of the world's programmers trained abroad.
Irving Wladawsky-Berger, an I.B.M. software executive who is a co-chairman of the president's information technology advisory committee, estimates that by 2005 the software-dependent technology in use will be 100 times the amount today because the plummeting cost of computing devices, all connected to the Internet, will make them more widespread.
Yet Mr. Wladawsky-Berger also sees several forces that should work to close the gap. One is the shift from software's being a physical product that is shipped to software's becoming a continuous service, delivered over the Internet. The latter approach -- combined with the trend toward making software programs from building blocks of code, or objects -- will enable companies to order up software services tailored to their requirements, reducing their need to have armies of in-house programmers to make customized software.
Another tool that should reduce the strain on programmers, according to Mr. Wladawsky-Berger, is the rise of more common software standards, a trend led by the Internet and the Web, with its open communications protocols and software interfaces. The trend is being supplemented by the rise of open-source software, like the Linux operating system and the Apache Web server. The underlying code for open-source software is distributed freely, rather than being owned by a single company.
With traditional proprietary software, programmers spend much time writing software applications to run on a particular vendor's software platform, like Microsoft's Windows, Sun Microsystems' Solaris or I.B.M.'s AIX. "We have this horrible tower of babble in software, and the more we move to standards, the less we are fragmenting the labor of the programming community," Mr. Wladawsky-Berger said.
Internet computing has also cast old software issues in a new light. In the past, software quality was a constant problem, but in most cases flawed software was a nuisance rather than a catastrophe. Internet commerce, however, depends on reliable systems that are up and running around the clock. And while a flaw that may crash a desktop PC is an irritation, a flaw in a program on the Internet could have severe economic or security consequences.
So there is suddenly a surge of research interest in software quality. "Now it's become a very interesting problem," said Amitabh Srivastava, a senior researcher at Microsoft. Indeed, the National Science Foundation and the Defense Department earmarked grants last September totaling $3.5 million for a three-year research program, the Open Source Quality Project, led by Alex Aiken of the University of California at Berkeley.
The software gap has also brought renewed interest in an old vision, that of making everyone a programmer. The idea is to simplify things enough so that nonprofessionals can program. A computer program, after all, is merely a rule-based set of instructions, not all that different, some say, from following a recipe to bake bread. There have been partial steps toward the democratization of programming, from Visicalc, the first electronic spreadsheet, to the hypertext markup language, or HTML, the simplified English-laden computer language used to make Web pages. The reason there are billions of Web pages is because they are easy to build.
"Bringing the computer science down to end users so they can do some simple application development themselves is an incredibly attractive proposition, " said Ken Kennedy, a professor at Rice University, who is conducting research on the subject.
Yet Mr. Kennedy, who is also a member of the presidential advisory committee, said all the suggested answers to the "software gap" were likely to be merely positive steps rather than silver-bullet solutions.
"I venture to say that 20 years from now we'll be talking about the software gap," Mr. Kennedy said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: December 19, 2000, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
A chart in the special Outlook issue of Business Day yesterday showing the largest providers of high-speed Internet service omitted one big provider of digital subscriber lines, or D.S.L. SBC Communications Inc. has 517,000 D.S.L. subscribers.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Irving Wladawsky-Berger is co-chairman of a technology advisory committee. (Susan B. Markisz for The New York Times); Ken Kennedy, a Rice University professor, researches application development.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SOFTWARE COMPUTER SCIENCE (90%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (86%); ELECTRONICS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); TRENDS (76%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (72%); OUTSOURCING (71%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (69%); FOREIGN LABOR (69%); FACTORY WORKERS (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE ANN LIVERMORE (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000



495 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 3; Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Is Asked to Ban Beluga Caviar Imports

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
With the holidays at hand, the fanciest emporiums, restaurants and hotels around the United States and Europe are laying in fresh stocks of beluga caviar, briny silver-gray sturgeon eggs that burst on the tongue like tiny $100-an-ounce flavor bombs.
But the sturgeon that are the source of this prized roe face extinction if the unfettered, and largely lawless, harvest of these ancient fish is not halted -- at least for a while -- in the Caspian Sea, the heart of their range. 
 Citing precipitous drops in beluga catches and the low number of large, sexually mature females in the Volga and other rivers entering the Caspian, several conservation groups last week petitioned the United States Fish and Wildlife Service to halt beluga caviar imports by adding beluga to the list of species protected under the Endangered Species Act. (The law allows listing of species that do not live in the United States.)
About 14 tons of beluga caviar were imported into the United States last year, representing the eggs of about 1,600 female fish, according to several recent studies.
"At a time when every fish matters, this level of importation poses a threat to the continued existence of the species," said the petition, which was written by the Natural Resources Defense Council, the Wildlife Conservation Society and SeaWeb, a fisheries conservation group.
Also last week, a new scientific report commissioned by the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species, or Cites, concluded that beluga and five other imperiled sturgeon species from the Caspian were not being adequately protected under the terms of the 27-year-old treaty, which governs commerce in rare wildlife. The list included sturgeon that produce two other well-known premium caviar varieties: sevruga and osetra.
But the situation of beluga was particularly grave, according to the report, which was written by fisheries experts from Traffic, a program monitoring wildlife trade that is run by the World Conservation Union, an intergovernmental organization, and the World Wildlife Fund, a private group. The report was presented at a meeting of a scientific committee advising the 145 countries bound by the Cites treaty.
At the meeting, in Shepherdstown, W.Va., Fish and Wildlife Service officials concluded there was enough evidence of a population crash to justify adding beluga and a lesser known sturgeon, kaluga, to the treaty's critical list -- the province of the giant panda, blue whale and other creatures near extinction's brink. Under the terms of the international treaty, this would ban all trade until populations begin to recover.
But the Cites committee said it was still too soon to take that step, mainly because of the economic disruption it would cause.
In session talks, the owners of some businesses importing beluga or those working to establish sturgeon hatcheries around the Caspian opposed a ban, which they said could bankrupt hatcheries trying to bolster wild populations and raise females in captivity for egg harvesting.
They said a better approach would be to sharply lower quotas granted to exporting countries and to increase patrols and penalties for poaching, which has been rampant around the Caspian's shores since the collapse of the Soviet Union. Over all, there was agreement that something must be done to save the most imperiled species, particularly beluga.
Meanwhile, some conservation groups have begun a campaign to persuade American epicures to try species other than beluga, the caviar with the highest profile, the greatest cachet and the most problems.
"These high-end consumers are eating the eggs of an endangered species and that's just not in good taste," said Dr. Ellen K. Pikitch, marine conservation programs director for the Conservation Society.
That group and the others that joined it in filing the petition with the Fish and Wildlife Service have created a Web site, www.caviaremptor .org, urging connoisseurs to change their habits.
The beluga sturgeon, Huso huso, is the largest fish species found in fresh water. In decades long past, some reached lengths of 20 feet and lived more than 100 years. But that was before dam construction sharply curtailed the fish's access to the Volga and other spawning grounds, before pollution reduced fertility and before the Soviet Union collapsed and strict control gave way to rampant poaching.
"If you were found dipping your finger in the Caspian Sea you were sent to Siberia," said Eve Vega, executive director of Petrossian Inc., which was the sole supplier of Soviet caviar in those days.
Now there are five countries around the Caspian, most with broken economies, hungry villagers and runaway organized crime.
The result has been a flood of black market caviar heading to the United States and other countries. Earlier this year, executives from U.S. Caviar, a Maryland company, pleaded guilty to buying and importing tons of it. Just in 1998, according to court documents filed by the Department of Justice, that company bought more than five tons of illegally harvested beluga caviar -- more than the entire amount allotted under Cites rules to the supposed country of origin, Russia.
"The illegal trade has just spiraled out of control," said Michael Sutton, the director of the sustainable fisheries program of the David & Lucile Packard Foundation, which supports a variety of environmental projects.
Normally, he said, as numbers of a harvested species of fish or other wildlife plunge, and catches become progressively more scanty, it loses its commercial allure long before it approaches biological extinction. But in this case, Mr. Sutton said, biological extinction and commercial extinction appear to be happening simultaneously. "Caviar is so valuable that the last beluga will be the most valuable beluga," he said.
The picture is not all bleak. Iran, according to many sturgeon experts, has for decades managed its sturgeon harvests well. And there is a growing effort to raise a variety of sturgeon in fish farms, with some harvesting eggs from mature females using surgery akin to a Caesarean section.
Still, though, at least for now, Mr. Sutton said, more must be done to cut demand as well as control supplies.
"In that sense," he said, "it's just like the war on drugs."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fishermen on the Volga River in Russia, working the nets that have yielded few beluga sturgeon this year. (Tom McHugh/Photo Researchers inset ; Patrick E. Tyler/The New York Times above ); (Susan Farley for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Beluga Sturgeon Threatened"
Spawning beluga sturgeon populations, the source of beluga caviar, have plummeted in recent years, mainly as a result of overfishing and habitat destruction from dams. The Volga River, which feeds into the Caspian Sea, is the principal river for sturgeon spawning.
 
Graph shows the Beluga sturgeon spawning in the Volga River from 1961-1997
(Sources: Natural Resources Defense Council; Wildlife Conservation Society; SeaWeb)
 
Map of Russia and the Caspian Sea shows the location of the Volga River.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

STATE: CASPIAN SEA (93%); 

COMPANY: WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (82%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (82%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (82%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (82%); US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (56%); US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (82%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (82%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (82%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (82%); US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (56%); US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); CASPIAN SEA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); FISHES (90%); FISHERIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (86%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (86%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); MARINE MAMMALS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (76%); NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (74%); MAMMALS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); SMUGGLING (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2000



496 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: In Maya Ruins, Scholars See Evidence of Urban Sprawl

BYLINE: By JOHN NOBLE WILFORD

 BODY:
Long before there were places like Scarsdale and Scottsdale, Paoli and Palo Alto, the ancient Maya of Central America appear to have had cities with their own version of suburbia. Archaeologists have uncovered what they say is a prime example of Maya suburbs in the ruins of Caracol in Belize.
Excavations by Dr. Diane Z. Chase and Dr. Arlen F. Chase, archaeologists at the University of Central Florida in Orlando, have revealed that beyond the grand palaces at the core of Caracol, one of the largest Maya cities, lay crowded settlements of workshops and modest dwellings of poor construction. They likened this to the poor neighborhoods and industrial zones that surround the centers of modern cities. 
 The surprise came when the archaeologists investigated the land immediately beyond this and found evidence of Caracol's wider urban sprawl.
Suburbs of more substantial houses were set among terraced fields and reservoirs. Here and there stood markets and government buildings around open plazas, which the archaeologists contended were not unlike today's strip malls.
"Both the 'malling' and 'suburbanization' of modern society appears to be reflected within the Caracol data," the Chases reported recently at a conference of anthropologists in Spain. "The similarities in growth patterns between ancient Maya and contemporary urban forms are striking and suggest that similar societal stimuli may have been operating in the past."
The Chases, a husband-and-wife team, have spent 16 years studying the Caracol site. They had earlier challenged the conventional wisdom that the Maya had an invariably simple social structure divided sharply between the rulers and nobles on top and the multitude of poor working peasants.
In the tombs and other ruins of Caracol, they found evidence of a growing middle class in Maya cities.
The findings dispute another commonly held idea, which is that the Maya organized their cities so that the richest lived at the core and the poorest on the outside. This traditional model stemmed from the 16th century ethnohistory written by Diego de Landa, a Spanish bishop.
Like other Maya specialists, Dr. Joyce Marcus of the University of Michigan said the research on the dispersed settlement patterns of Caracol was "highly interesting and important" and represented an overdue extension of Maya urban studies beyond the elite city centers.
"For the first 100 years of Maya archaeology, we concentrated on the downtowns," Dr. Marcus said. "We are just beginning to explore the peripheries, and it's a new frontier, literally."
Dr. Arthur Demarest, a Maya archaeologist at Vanderbilt University in Nashville, said that he tended to agree with the Chases' thesis.
"Caracol's dispersed parts do appear to be more economically integrated than those in most Maya centers," he said.
Archaeological evidence shows that people lived at the Caracol site from about 600 B.C. through A.D. 1050, a period that included the Maya civilization's ascendancy. The city reached the peak of its power in the southern lowlands between A.D. 560 and 680, when its population may have grown to as much as 140,000. Only Tikal in Guatemala and Calakmul in southern Mexico rivaled Caracol's size in this period.
From ground surveys and satellite photography, archaeologists mapped a system of roads over causeways radiating from the city's center like the spokes of a wheel. These were the ties, the Chases argued, that bound the outlying settlements into an integrated urban whole.
These roads were raised above the generally low-lying terrain to guarantee travel in the rainy season. They were for travel by foot, there being no horses or other beasts of burden in pre-Columbian America. Some of the roads ended at plazas about a mile and a half from the center, out in the nearest zone of suburbia. Branch causeways led from the plazas to high-status residential settlements.
A few of the main roads extended beyond to another distinct band of suburbs, between three and five miles out. Here the Chases found several clusters of nonresidential buildings -- the strip malls of antiquity. In at least two cases, they said, the roads seemed to end at plazas centered around pre-existing settlements, perhaps early examples of urban sprawl engulfing once independent communities.
Dr. Diane Chase saw in this pattern an ancient corollary to the modern phenomenon described by Joel Garreau, an urban theorist, in his 1991 book, "Edge City."
Edge cities are suburban communities where people not only live in the shadow of a larger city but also have developed additional means of creating wealth outside the direct influence of the central city. These places build their own retail, corporate and administrative infrastructure, becoming smaller epicenters within a larger megalopolis.
Such a suburban pattern came into focus about three decades ago with the first new clusters of high-tech commerce and residential complexes along Route 128 in the Boston environs.
"Data on the layout of Caracol and on the growth of the city suggest an unplanned development similar to that of contemporary urban edge cities, but with a scale more appropriate to foot travel rather than to wheeled carriage or automobile travel," the Chases concluded in their report.
Other Maya specialists, asked to comment on the suburbs thesis, said the most critical issue concerned just how closely integrated the fringe settlements were into the economic life of the city center. If their economic ties were strong, this may indeed have been an example of suburbia in a more or less modern sense. Otherwise, these were simply neighboring but probably independent communities.
"The Chases see Caracol integrated by the system of causeways, and that probably justified their thinking of it in terms of suburbs," Dr. Demarest said.
In the past, archaeologists have mapped causeways leading out from the heart of several Maya cities. They have usually been interpreted as roads for regal processions leading from the central palaces and temples to outlying ritual centers.
"I tend to agree with the Chases," Dr. Demarest said, "that the causeway system at Caracol is extensive, more than if it was just for ritual purposes, and so was probably a multifunctional road system with what might be called economic traffic."
The social status of people living in different parts of the city was inferred from the size of residential buildings, the quality of stonework, the distribution of prized objects like jade and mirrors and the bones of those buried there.
An analysis of their bones provided clues to the diets of the people. Dr. Christine White and Dr. Fred Longstaffe of Western Ontario University, in London, Canada, found that people ate best in the palaces at the city center and ate worst in the settlements just beyond the core, the Maya equivalent of the slums of modern cities. Then the diets improved in the suburbs, where increased physical space between families may also have led to healthier living.
How typical Caracol's suburbia was of other Maya cities remains beyond current knowledge.
Dr. Marcus, who has excavated at Calakmul and specializes in Mesoamerican urban settlement patterns, said that archaeologists lacked sufficient mapping and other data from other sites to judge whether the apparent suburbs at Caracol are typical or rare in the Maya civilization.
Typical or not, Dr. Arlen Chase said, the suburbs at Caracol appear to have been more durable than the city center.
Excavations this year uncovered evidence that Caracol was in the midst of a new building boom when it collapsed suddenly in 895, probably the result of an invasion. The society's elite abandoned the city center, but life continued in the suburbs.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The largest complex in the former city center of Caracol was Caana, which contained a combination of palaces and ritual rooms that were accessible by a central summit stairway. (Diane Z. Chase); The archaeologists Arlen and Diane Chase at the excavation of a residential building outside the city center of the former Caracol settlement in Belize. The Chases spent 16 years studying the Caracol site. (J. Klein)(pg. F5); Archaeologists have partially excavated this palace and temple compound in Caracol. They believe it was inhabited by members of the ruling elite. (Diane Z. Chase); (The New York Times/Illustrations by Michael Rothman)(pg. F1)
 
Chart: "Maya Suburbanites"
Archaeologists believe that the Maya city Caracol grew outward in a pattern similar to contemporary cities since it appears to have had a network of roads connecting it to rings of suburbs.
 
Caracol
Population peak about 140,000, A.D. 560 - A.D. 680
 
Inner ring of suburbs
Outer ring of suburbs
Each dot is a small cluster of structures.
Each square is an area checked for structures.
 
INNER RING
About 1.5 miles from Caracol, buillt around A.D. 600
 
INNER RING MAYA SUBURBS
Communities like Puchituk, shown below, were newly built on vacant land as Caracol spread outward.
 
Elite houses and temples.
 
Residential family units.
 
Caretaker housing, maintenance of plaza
 
Causeway leading back to Caracol.
 
Residential family units.
 
Large plaza surrounded by structures for administrative and economic purposes.
 
OUTER RING
About 4 miles from Caracol, reached around A.D. 630 by Caracol's growth
 
OUTER RING MAYA SUBURBS
Independent suburban communities like Retiro, shown below, were engulfed by Caracol as it grew.
 
Causeway leading back to Caracol
 
Administrative buildings built after Caracol took control, probably including a marketplace
 
The complex at bottom of hill was the original center of Retiro before Caracol's sprawl reached it. The larger structures were probably temples.
 
Map of Massachusetts shows the location of Boston: The suburban pattern exemplified by the Route 128 corridor around Boston was described by Joel Garreau in his book "Edge City." (pg. F5)
 
Map of Belize shows the location of Caracol. (pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BELIZE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); SPAIN (76%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CENTRAL FLORIDA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CENTRAL FLORIDA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CENTRAL FLORIDA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CENTRAL FLORIDA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BELIZE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); SPAIN (76%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ARCHAEOLOGY (95%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (93%); SUBURBS (91%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); CITIES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); RETAILERS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2000



497 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES

 BODY:

CRUDE OIL RISES. Heating fuel prices rose, pulling crude oil higher, on expectations that cold weather will reduce inventories. In New York, crude oil for January delivery rose 89 cents, or 3.1 percent, to $29.76 a barrel.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since June 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CRUDE OIL STORAGE CO LTD (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; HEATING OIL; WEATHER; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); HEATING OIL PRICES (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); FUTURES (89%); HEATING OIL (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2000



498 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

YEN GAINS. The yen rose on concern that the currency may have fallen more quickly than warranted by recent signs of slowing Japanese economic growth. In New York, the dollar settled at 112.07 yen, down from 112.46.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Japanese yen to the dollar, since July 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).
 
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS JAPANESE YEN (91%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%); TRENDS (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2000



499 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 35; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
The Powell Perplex

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
Watching George W. Bush nominating Colin Powell for secretary of state, I had mixed feelings. One was relief: Mr. Powell's answers to reporters' questions demonstrated a sharp and intuitive grasp of global issues. Whether you agree with him or not, this is a serious man. My other feeling, though, was: I sure hope Colin Powell is always right in his advice to Mr. Bush -- because he so towered over the president-elect, who let him answer every question on foreign policy, that it was impossible to imagine Mr. Bush ever challenging or overruling Mr. Powell on any issue.
Mr. Powell is three things Mr. Bush is not -- a war hero, worldly wise and beloved by African-Americans. That combination gives him a great deal of leverage. It means he can never be fired. It means Mr. Bush can never allow him to resign in protest over anything. It will be interesting to see who emerges to balance Mr. Powell's perspective. 
 Indeed, I would have felt better if Mr. Bush -- who at age 54 has barely traveled abroad -- had interviewed other candidates for secretary of state. A Jack Welch from General Electric, for instance, or a veteran U.S. diplomat like Stapleton Roy, or maybe someone at a smart NGO, like the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights -- just to get a feel for other serious people's perspectives on the great trends in the world today. If I'd never driven a car before, I'd want to test-drive a few before I bought one.
After all, a lot has changed since the Bushies were last in office eight years ago. The world has moved from a cold-war system, in which our biggest threats and opportunities flowed from whom we were divided from and which was symbolized by the Berlin Wall, to a globalization system, in which our threats and opportunities now tend to flow from whom we're connected to, and which is symbolized by the World Wide Web.
In this new system, states, and the balance of power between them, still matter -- whether it is America balancing China or NATO balancing Russia. But now there are more actors to balance. In addition to states, there are the "supermarkets" -- the 25 largest global financial markets -- and the "super-empowered people," from terrorists like Osama bin Laden to activists like Jody Williams, who organized a global ban on land mines using e-mail.
"We know that the Bush team will be serious about what the Clinton team was not serious about, which is about intervening militarily," said the Johns Hopkins foreign policy expert Michael Mandelbaum. "But what we don't know is how the Bush team will deal with what the Clinton team was serious about, which was intervening financially and diplomatically to stabilize markets when they threatened the international economy."
One of the biggest threats to global stability in the last eight years came when the supermarkets melted down Mexico in 1995. The Clinton administration met that crisis with the Mexico bailout, which was largely opposed by Republicans. That bailout turned out to be exactly right. What does the Powell Doctrine say about such market interventions, which many of our allies might demand of him one day?
Also, the last time the Bushies were in office their main preoccupation was managing the strength of Russia, China and Japan. Today they will find themselves managing the weakness of Russia, China and Japan. As all these countries go through the wrenching adjustment to the globalization system, they are much more likely to threaten us by their economic collapse, corruption or loss of control over nuclear materials than by launching a missile at us.
If you don't think it's a new world, think again: When George Bush Sr. left office in 1993, there were roughly 50 pages on the World Wide Web. Today there are a billion or two. When George Bush Sr. left office, virtually no one you knew had e-mail and most people thought the Internet was something used to catch fish with on the Nile. Today your grandmother has e-mail, not to mention every terrorist group in the world, and Internet access is considered an entitlement.
Every administration gets tested by an unanticipated crisis. My guess is that the test for the new Bush team will come from this whirlwind of rapid change -- both the enormous pressure it puts on new democracies and the backlash it produces from traditional societies. Mr. Bush has appointed serious people to wrestle with this. Their serious test awaits. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%); HUMAN RIGHTS FIRST (54%); HUMAN RIGHTS FIRST (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT HUMAN RIGHTS FIRST (54%); HUMAN RIGHTS FIRST (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); COLD WAR (75%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); LANDMINES (69%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (65%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); TERRORISM (60%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; POWELL, COLIN L (GEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (55%); JACK WELCH (50%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2000



500 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: Fed to Focus on Controlling Slowdown

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 18

 BODY:
More than a decade after the start of the last recession, the Federal Reserve will meet on Tuesday to debate how to keep the current slowdown from deteriorating into a downturn.
Though it has come more abruptly than almost anyone anticipated, the slowdown is exactly what the Fed was trying to accomplish by raising its benchmark interest rate by 1.75 percentage points in six steps between June 1999 and May 2000. 
 With the economy having decelerated, apparently to a rate well below what most economists consider to be the point at which it tends to generate inflation pressures, the Fed is all but certain to state after the meeting that it no longer sees inflation as being the primary threat.
Fed officials have signaled in the last several weeks that they are shifting their sights to the possibility of an interest rate cut, if not on Tuesday then at one of their next two meetings in the new year. The next meeting is scheduled for Jan. 30-31.
Focusing on the likelihood of a friendlier interest rate environment, investors sent the Dow Jones industrial average up 210.46 points today, to close at 10,645.42. The Nasdaq composite index fell 28.75, to 2,624.52, in part because of continuing concerns about the profit outlook for technology companies.
Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, met today with President-elect George W. Bush to discuss the economic outlook and Mr. Bush's call for a tax cut. Mr. Greenspan made no public comment on either topic.
Analysts said the odds still favored no rate cut at the Fed meeting on Tuesday. Instead, they said, the Fed is likely to issue a statement saying that the risks are at least starting to tilt toward the economy's stalling.
The central bank's benchmark federal funds target rate is 6.5 percent, where it has been since May.
"They're going to be easing in the first half of next year," said Mickey D. Levy, chief economist at Banc of America Securities. "As far as the outcome of this meeting, the highest probability is to change from a bias against higher inflation to say the risks are now neutral or for slower growth. I'd put a low probability on them easing."
Some economists said the Fed could afford to wait for now because the interest rates that matter most to consumers and businesses, which are set in the market, have fallen in anticipation of a rate cut by the Fed. Mortgage rates, for example, have been declining.
"The issue from the Fed's perspective is to ratify what the markets are doing without necessarily easing at this stage," said Patrick Jilek, director of economics at Credit Suisse First Boston, the investment firm. "They don't need to ease at this point because the markets are already doing it."
After several years in which the economy has surged at a remarkable pace, Mr. Greenspan and his colleagues at the Fed are trying to guide the economy onto a path of slower but still healthy growth.
The signs so far are encouraging. The inflation rate, although higher now than a year ago, is relatively stable. The unemployment rate is edging up and job creation is slowing, but jobs remain plentiful.
Some sectors of the economy, like manufacturing in general and automobile production in particular, have been hit hard, but other sectors, including technology, remain relatively robust.
"When you're going from growth rates above 5 percent to the neighborhood of 2 to 3 percent, people worry about it, but 2 to 3 percent isn't bad," said Frederic S. Mishkin, a former Fed official who is an economist at Columbia University's Graduate School of Business.
But fine-tuning the economy is a tricky business. History suggests that it is difficult to keep a slowdown from gathering momentum, especially if confidence among investors and consumers begins to crumble. Central banks have frequently overshot, leaving interest rates high for too long or continuing to raise them until it is too late to avert recession.
There is also the possibility that factors like high energy prices and low unemployment could set off an inflationary spiral in prices and wages even as overall economic growth slows. That combination would put the Fed in an excruciating position.
The Fed has not had to confront a recession since 1990, just after the start of the Persian Gulf war. The economy has changed substantially since then, becoming far more technology-driven, more productive and more sensitive to the ups and downs of the stock market.
Mr. Levy of Banc of America Securities said the Fed should be careful not to assume that holding rates steady would leave the economy on an even keel. With growth slowing and expected rates of return on investments declining, the interest rate level at which the economy remains in equilibrium will also decline, he said.
As a result, Mr. Levy said, the Fed will eventually have to cut rates if it does not want the economy to continue decelerating.
"In this environment of decelerating growth and weakening capital spending, the Fed effectively tightens by keeping the funds rate where it is," Mr. Levy said. "The market cannot ease for the Fed. Using that kind of framework is what leads the Fed to fall behind the curve and make the classical central banking error."
Mr. Greenspan also faces a difficult balancing act when it comes to the stock market. The tumble in many stock prices since their highs earlier this year has removed one source of upward pressure on economic growth. Any interest rate reductions could ignite the markets again, shifting the economy back into overdrive.
On the other hand, allowing the stock market to continue to sink holds the risk of igniting a downward spiral in business investment, profits and consumer confidence. Some analysts see the beginning of such a spiral in the woes of the Nasdaq index, similar to what happened in Japan when its stock and real estate bubble burst a decade ago.
"Official economic data tell a story of a rapid slowdown," Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at Hoenig & Company, an investment firm, told clients in a report today. "Company commentary over the past few weeks speaks of a darker picture. The bubble has burst and the economic consequences are now coming into view."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Investors, optimistic that interest rates could soon be lowered, helped the Dow Jones industrial average rise 210.46 points. Traders worked on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange yesterday. (Associated Press)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (53%); BAC (LSE) (53%); 8648 (TSE) (53%); CSGN (SWX) (53%); CS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM BANK OF AMERICA CORP (53%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (53%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; TAXATION STOCK INDEXES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INFLATION (90%); RECESSION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); MORTGAGE RATES (71%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); TAX LAW (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); STEVENSON, RICHARD W GEORGE W BUSH (79%); ALAN GREENSPAN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2000



501 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: THE 43RD PRESIDENT: THE BACKDROP;
A Signal to Greenspan: No Scores Left to Settle

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 18

 BODY:
Given Alan Greenspan's stature as master of the economy, it was not surprising that sitting down with him was George W. Bush's first order of business today on Mr. Bush's first trip here as president-elect.
But their meeting was not just an opportunity for Mr. Bush to get an update on the economic slowdown and to brief Mr. Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, on his plans for a big tax cut. 
 It was also a chance for Mr. Bush to exorcise a family ghost.
Mr. Bush's father, or at least the Bush administration, had a relationship with Mr. Greenspan that was strained at best, leaving behind questions about whether any grudges would carry over to the son's presidency.
That administration at times pressured the Fed to cut interest rates, prompting a public rebuke from Mr. Greenspan, who among other things is a fierce defender of his institution's independence.
The elder Mr. Bush's treasury secretary, Nicholas F. Brady, cut off regular meetings with Mr. Greenspan. And after his defeat by Bill Clinton in 1992, President Bush put some of the blame on Mr. Greenspan, saying the Fed had not acted aggressively enough to bring the economy out of the recession that ended in 1991, a downturn that Mr. Clinton exploited skillfully.
The younger Mr. Bush did not allude today to his father's history with Mr. Greenspan. But in meeting with Mr. Greenspan before doing much of anything else in Washington, and in praising him effusively, the president-elect clearly signaled a desire for a fresh start.
"I talked with a good man right here," Mr. Bush said, clapping his hand on Mr. Greenspan's shoulder after a breakfast meeting of nearly an hour at the Madison Hotel. "We had a very strong discussion about my confidence in his abilities."
Mr. Greenspan's relationship with the Clinton administration, whose eight years have been a period of unbroken prosperity, has been especially positive. With things going well and Mr. Greenspan making all the right calls, President Clinton and his team have in large measure refrained from any public criticism or jawboning of the Fed on interest rates.
Mr. Clinton's treasury secretaries -- Lloyd Bentsen, Robert E. Rubin and Lawrence H. Summers -- all worked closely with Mr. Greenspan and successfully handled a number of complex issues with him, including two international financial crises and an overhaul of federal banking legislation.
Mr. Greenspan also helped shape Mr. Clinton's approach to fiscal policy by stiffening his resolve to reduce the federal budget deficit and later encouraging him to use the surplus to pay down the national debt. In turn, Mr. Clinton reappointed Mr. Greenspan twice.
George W. Bush could have his differences with Mr. Greenspan, whose current term runs until June 2004.
The Fed chairman has repeatedly stressed his preference for using the budget surplus to pay down the debt rather than for tax cuts or new spending. Mr. Bush is intent on pushing through his $1.3 trillion tax cut, in part to give a boost to the economy at a time when it appears to be slowing abruptly. And Mr. Bush's leading choice for treasury secretary, Paul H. O'Neill, chairman of Alcoa, is an advocate of low interest rates.
But in meeting with Mr. Greenspan today, Mr. Bush seemed intent on reassuring the public and the financial markets that he recognizes the long-term benefits to the economy of giving the Fed leeway to make tough calls about interest rates, even if they are politically painful in the short run.
"The cooperation between the Fed and Treasury has been extraordinary in the last eight years and has been one of the linchpins of this expansion," said one former Fed official, Frederic S. Mishkin, an economist at Columbia University's Graduate School of Business. "One of the key things going forward in promoting continued economic success is to keep that relationship going."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President George Bush announcing in 1991 that he would name Alan Greenspan, sometimes a nemesis, to a second term as Fed chairman. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: LAWRENCE H STEIN (51%); FED&TREASURY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: FED&TREASURY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); INTEREST RATES (68%); BUDGET DEFICITS (62%); BANKING LAW (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); ALAN GREENSPAN (93%); BILL CLINTON (92%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2000



502 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: Data Hint Crime Plunge May Be Leveling Off

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD 

 BODY:
Serious crime declined in the first six months of 2000 compared with the same period in 1999, but only by three-tenths of 1 percent, the smallest decrease since the nation's crime rate began falling in 1992, according to a report released yesterday by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
The report also found that while the number of murders fell 1.8 percent nationwide in the first half of the year, many cities, led by New York, Los Angeles, Dallas and New Orleans, had an increase in murders for the first time since the early 1990's. 
 The statistics raised some concern among law enforcement officials and criminologists that the enormous crime drop of the past eight years might be ending. "We seem to have hit bottom," said James Alan Fox, the Lipman Family professor of criminal justice at Northeastern University in Boston.
"To some extent, we are victims of our own success," Professor Fox said. "With eight straight years of declining crime rates, we are at a level that is difficult to continue and certainly hard to improve upon."
Since 1991, when serious and violent crime peaked, the drop in the crime rates has averaged about 7 percent a year. So the three-tenths of 1 percent decline for the six-month period seems particularly small, several experts said.
But they cautioned that a half-year was too short a period to draw firm conclusions, and that some of the figures in the report were fragmentary and contradictory. Also, virtually all the measures that contributed to the drop in crime are still in place: more criminals in prison, innovative police strategies, intense community efforts to work with troubled young people, a waning of the crack cocaine epidemic and a strong economy providing more jobs in poor neighborhoods.
The bureau's report, known as the Uniform Crime Report, is based on arrest figures supplied by local police forces and measures four violent crimes -- murder, robbery, rape and aggravated assault -- and four property crimes -- burglary, petty theft, motor vehicle theft and arson. It does not include drug arrests.
While murder was down 1.8 percent in the first half of 2000 and robbery was down 2.6 percent, rape and aggravated assault were both up seven-tenths of 1 percent. Burglary decreased 2.4 percent in the first six months, and arson was down 2.7 percent, but petty theft was up one-tenth of 1 percent and motor vehicle theft was up 1.2 percent. Crime fell in the Northeast, the Midwest and the West but rose in the South by 1.2 percent.
Among those cities with more murders in the first six months of 2000 were New York, with 344, compared with 335 in the first half of 1999; Los Angeles, with 247, up from 196; Dallas, with 115, compared with 88, and New Orleans with 117, up from 86.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (51%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; DALLAS (TEX); NEW ORLEANS (LA); LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (51%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS CRIME RATES (95%); VIOLENT CRIME (90%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); STATISTICS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); MURDER (89%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); BURGLARY (89%); MISDEMEANORS (89%); LARCENY & THEFT (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ROBBERY (88%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); CRIME STATISTICS (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); VEHICLE THEFT (78%); PROPERTY CRIMES (78%); ARSON (78%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (78%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (77%); POLICE FORCES (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); VANDALISM (69%); COCAINE (63%); 

PERSON: BUTTERFIELD, FOX R ALAN FOX (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2000



503 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Financial Shares Increase, But Technology Still Falls

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Optimism that interest rates might soon be lower sent blue-chip stocks soaring yesterday, while earnings worries again dogged the technology companies.
Financial stocks surged on speculation that the Federal Reserve would cut rates more quickly than expected. But technology stocks fell, unable to overcome Wall Street's doubts about their profitability in the slowing economy. 
 "Tech stocks don't seem to have found a bottom yet," said Steven Goldman, market strategist at Weeden & Company. "We're in the midst of what could be a reversal of these high interest rates, and they're still not ready to stabilize. The market thinks at least some of them are still overvalued."
The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 210.46 points, or 2 percent, at 10,645.42. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 10.59 points, or 0.8 percent, to 1,322.74.
The rally did not extend to the Nasdaq composite index, which fell 28.75 points, or 1.1 percent, to 2,624.52.
Blue-chips' strength yesterday appeared predicated on hope that the Fed would act more aggressively than expected at its regular meeting today, urged on by recent economic data showing growth is slowing.
"There's growing optimism that the Fed will act sooner rather than later to cut rates," said Alan Skrainka, chief market strategist at Edward Jones of St. Louis. "If they don't cut rates Tuesday, they'll send a very strong message that rate cuts are coming."
Although few actually expect a rate cut this week, Mr. Skrainka said, many people expect that the Fed "is going to be pretty unambiguous in saying the risk has shifted from inflation to recession."
Financial institutions, which would benefit from an interest rate cut, moved up. Shares of J. P. Morgan rose $6.63, to $166.63, as did American Express, up $2.13, to $56.75.
Technology stocks fell, though, on continued investor fears that their performance would not justify high stock prices. Intel rose 81 cents, to $33.25, but Microsoft slipped $1.38, to $47.81, and Cisco Systems fell $5.23, to $42.94.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasuries Waiting for Fed
By Reuters
Treasury bond prices were mixed yesterday as investors awaited a possible move by the Federal Reserve to adopt a more aggressive stance to ensure that an economic slowdown does not turn nasty.
The 10-year Treasury note was unchanged at 104 11/32. The note's yield was unchanged at 5.17 percent.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 11/32, to 111 25/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.44 percent from 5.42 percent on Friday.
 
Results of yesterday's Treasury auctions of 3-month and 6-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.541	97.139	High Rate	5.77%	5.66%	Investment Rate	5.93%	5.90%	Low Rate	5.70%	5.58%	Median Rate	5.75%	5.64%	Total applied for	$25,666,226	$21,235,277	Accepted	$12,005,789	$10,000,277	Noncompetitive	$1,335,561	$1,493,204	
Both issues are dated Dec. 21, 2000. The three-month bills mature on March 22, 2001, and the six-month bills mature on June 21, 2001.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (58%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); WEEDEN & CO LP (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (84%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (51%); 

PERSON: ALAN SKRAINKA (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2000



504 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Plans Billions in Aid to Argentina

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 18

 BODY:
The International Monetary Fund and private banks today promised as much as $39.7 billion to help Argentina reduce its growing debt burden, pep up its economy and stem a crisis of confidence that some economists worry could spread through Latin America.
The package, which is much bigger than expected, will help the government manage a foreign debt burden that has weighed heavily on the economy. President Fernando de la Rua had called the loan negotiations possibly "the last chance" to restore faith in the nation's economic prospects. 
 The money could help calm fears that the region's relatively robust performance after the emerging-market turmoil of the late 1990's could prove short lived. The I.M.F. acted shortly after it provided $7.5 billion in new loans for Turkey, which experienced a banking crisis that at least temporarily undermined confidence in that economy.
Argentina, which depends heavily on international debt markets to finance government operations, had faced the possibility of a debt default without coordinated help from multilateral financial institutions and private creditors.
Brazil, Chile, Mexico and other Latin economies do not face a crisis of that kind. But they are all wary of slowing growth and slumping stock markets in the United States, the locomotive for the region.
"This eliminates any doubts about the Argentine economy," Mr. De la Rua said in a ceremony at the presidential residence. The president, who staked the credibility of his centrist Radical Party on successful loan talks, added that the money made clear that Argentina was not "condemned to economic stagnation." The economic problems threatened throughout the year and were magnified in October.
Economists hailed the commitments, but warned that Argentina still faced a delicate task of raising government revenues while stoking growth.
"They are basically calling a timeout on their debt," said Sebastian Edwards, a Latin America expert at the University of California at Los Angeles. "But it is not a long timeout, and if they don't get their house in order it's a waste of time and money."
The package is considerably larger than the market had anticipated and would be the largest rescue effort by the fund since it shored up Brazil in 1998, at the end of the Asian currency crisis. But the financing is not a traditional bailout, as it requires hefty participation by the private sector and Argentine government agencies.
The $39.7 billion includes $12 billion in new loans from official international agencies, including the I.M.F., the World Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank and the government of Spain, people involved in preparing the package said. An additional $7 billion consists of a pre-existing credit line from the fund for Argentina.
Much of the rest of the package, which took nearly a month to negotiate, consists of commitments by Argentine and international private banks, which have pledged to maintain credit lines, extend new loans or exchange debt. The value of those commitments was put at $17 billion. The pension authority of Argentina has agreed to contribute $3 billion to the financing requirements.
The managing director of the International Monetary Fund, Horst Kohler, insisted that Argentina extract commitments that banks take part in the financing before seeking approval of the I.M.F. board for the fund's increased loans, people involved said. The fund has been under pressure to make sure that it does not effectively bail out private investors when it helps nations in emergencies.
"This should improve the investment climate, and together with enhanced domestic and external confidence, lay the ground for sustained economic growth in Argentina," Mr. Kohler said in a statement.
To qualify, Argentina agreed to adopt measures to restrain spending and try to restore the government's financial health. It promised to freeze spending for five years and limit transfers from the central to local governments. The goal is ambitious, to reduce government debt to zero by 2005.
Argentina also said it would deregulate Social Security, seen as a way to reduce spending while reducing red tape for companies and, potentially, reducing unemployment.
The goals are conditions for the aid, and failure to adopt the changes could lead to a suspension of the emergency financing.
The nation has $123.5 billion in outstanding debt, a ratio of debt to gross domestic product of 51 percent. The ratio is considered high for an emerging market nation, and much of it was taken on when Argentina was growing relatively rapidly in the 1990's.
Argentina keeps its currency pegged one to one to the dollar. That has contributed to monetary stability. But as the dollar has risen sharply in value against other currencies, it has caused Argentina's exports of beef, grain and manufactured goods to slump, reducing foreign currency earnings and making foreign debt harder to repay.
The financing package seems to ensure that Argentina will not devalue it currency anytime soon, officials of the International Monetary Fund have said.
Barring a fresh recession, the money is seen as sufficient for Argentina to afford $14.3 billion in debt repayments due over the coming year.
But Argentina still has to perform an economic double play by igniting its listless economy while reducing government spending to meet the goals specified in the loan accords. The economy shrank 3.1 percent last year, and it is growing at an estimated rate of 0.2 percent this year. In addition, consumer and business confidence has been low.
One way to stoke growth, economists say, is to reduce high taxes. But that potentially reduces government income and the ability to repay debts. As a result, the nation has to reduce taxes and spending, which is proving politically difficult.
"If they just try to weather the storm here with the new financing," Mr. Edwards said, "it's a recipe for disaster."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IDB (ASX) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (84%); 

COUNTRY: ARGENTINA (98%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (92%); MEXICO (79%); SPAIN (79%); CHILE (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (95%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (95%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARGENTINA; LATIN AMERICA; ARGENTINA (98%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (92%); MEXICO (79%); SPAIN (79%); CHILE (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); FOREIGN LENDING (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); CURRENCIES (60%); 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH; DE LA RUA, FERNANDO (PRES)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2000



505 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Burmese Sales To the PX Are Provoking Rights Protest

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
A Pentagon agency that runs stores on American military bases imported $138,290 in clothing made in Myanmar at a time when the Clinton administration had banned new investments in that country, documents show. While such purchases are not illegal, they violate the spirit of the administration's economic sanctions, critics in Congress and in human rights groups are saying.
Shipping documents show that the agency, the Army and Air Force Exchange Service, imported the clothing from Myanmar, the former Burma, in October when the administration was stepping up its criticism of human rights violations by the country's military government. 
 Human rights groups, labor activists and Cynthia A. McKinney, a Georgia Democrat on the House Armed Services Committee, have criticized the agency, saying that its imports of goods helped prop up Myanmar's military.
"This is obscene," said Maureen Aung-Thwin, director of the Burma Project at the Open Society Institute, a New York-based foundation pushing for democracy in Myanmar. "For the Pentagon to support this illegitimate military junta is absurd, especially when the nation's official foreign policy is to help end the repression there."
But Fred Bluhm, a spokesman for the Army and Air Force Exchange Service, which had $7.3 billion in sales last year at its 1,400 stores, said: "We're aware of the sanctions against Burma, but they have nothing to do with the sale or purchase of goods or services. What they have to do with are new investments, which we're not involved with."
In 1997, President Clinton announced a ban on new investment in Myanmar, following a law that required sanctions if the military there engaged in "large scale repression." The Clinton administration has not prohibited trade with Myanmar although it has often discouraged Americans from doing business with that country.
In obtaining goods from Myanmar, the Army and Air Force Exchange Service followed a strategy embraced by many American apparel companies, which, seeking to benefit from low-wage labor, have greatly increased imports from that country. Some studies have found that Myanmar's apparel workers earn just 8 cents an hour, making them among the world's lowest paid manufacturing workers.
In the first nine months of this year, American apparel companies imported $308 million in goods from Myanmar, more than double the level in the same period a year earlier.
An administration foreign policy official criticized the exchange services' imports from Myanmar, saying, "It's not consistent with the spirit of the administration's policy, which is very confrontational toward the regime."
The documents showing that the Army and Air Force Exchange Service imported goods from Myanmar were obtained from the National Labor Committee, a New York-based labor rights group that seeks to improve factory conditions overseas.
The documents show that the exchange service had about 10,000 pounds of garments made by the Newest Garment Manufacturing Company sent from Yangon, formerly Rangoon, to Los Angeles, arriving Oct. 19. The documents did not specify what garments had been sent.
When President Clinton announced the ban on investment, he said he was seeking to deny any economic support to Myanmar's regime. The military refused to recognize the 1988 election victory by the opposition party and its leader, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the Nobel Peace Prize winner, who has been under house arrest for 6 of the last 11 years.
Two weeks ago, the president awarded the nation's highest civilian honor, the Medal of Freedom, to Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi. Her son accepted the award.
Several days earlier, four Senators -- Jesse Helms, Republican of North Carolina; Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky; Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa; and Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont -- wrote to President Clinton to urge him to ban all apparel imports from Myanmar as a way to advance Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's efforts to restore democracy.
They wrote, "The 1997 U.S. sanctions law on new investment in Burma primarily was clearly intended to deprive the Burmese military junta of funds with which to perpetuate human rights abuses and ethnic cleansing campaigns and to pressure the junta into commencing a dialogue with Suu Kyi's political party and ethnic minorities. Unfortunately, the new surge in apparel exports to the U.S. undermines the spirit of that law, allowing the regime to enrich itself and take advantage of unsuspecting American consumers."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MYANMAR (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: OPEN SOCIETY INSTITUTE (56%); OPEN SOCIETY INSTITUTE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: OPEN SOCIETY INSTITUTE (56%); OPEN SOCIETY INSTITUTE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MYANMAR; MYANMAR (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; APPAREL; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MYANMAR-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; APPAREL; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET HUMAN RIGHTS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ARMIES (90%); CLOTHING LABELS (89%); AIR FORCES (89%); APPAREL MFG (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); FACTORY WORKERS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); SALES FIGURES (70%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GREENHOUSE, STEVEN BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2000



506 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
Time Warner Scales Back Its Forecast

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT 

 BODY:
Time Warner scaled back its financial forecast yesterday, sending its shares and those of its merger partner, America Online, plummeting by more than 13 percent.
The announcement, coming only a few days after Time Warner won approval from the Federal Trade Commission for its merger with AOL, stirred investors' concern about the growth prospects for the combined company. 
 Time Warner's shares fell $9.47 a share, to $63.25. AOL dropped $6.72, to $42.24.
"This is not a striking surprise," Bruce Greenwald, a professor of finance and economics at Columbia Business School said of Time Warner's news. "When companies seek to create shareholder value with far-fetched strategic mergers, it almost always masks shortcomings in their underlying businesses."
Some analysts had already been wary of Time Warner's financial reporting, based on disputes over figures for previous quarters. For such analysts, Time Warner's revision yesterday raised some questions about the company's credibility.
Instead of the cash-flow growth of 13 percent or more for this year that Time Warner had been predicting for months, the company said yesterday that the figure would be only about 11 percent.
One analyst, speaking on condition of anonymity, said, "Any time you revise an estimate, people look back and say, 'Why didn't you tell me sooner?' "
Time Warner also said yesterday that it was increasing its controlling ownership stake in the Roadrunner high-speed Internet service by buying out shares owned by AT&T, Compaq Computer and Microsoft. And to meet the conditions of the F.T.C.'s merger approval, Time Warner said it would give other Internet service providers access to the Roadrunner systems.
But analysts paid more attention to Time Warner's lowered cash-flow forecast. Cash flow -- which in Time Warner's case measures earnings before interest, taxes and amortization -- is the standard performance gauge for media companies. That is because media companies have large noncash charges for assets that do not depreciate over time. (In terms of conventional profit-or-loss measurements, the company lost $392 million for the nine months ended Sept. 30, on revenue of $20.5 billion.)
Although many investors may have seen the company's disclosure yesterday as a bad surprise, some analysts had already been skeptical about Time Warner's figures for the first nine months of the year.
For that period, the company had reported a 13 percent increase in cash flow from continuing operations. But some analysts had said that the figure masked a bleaker performance, because it included several one-time gains that should not have been part of ongoing operations. Without those one-time figures, cash flow from ongoing operations would have been only 10 percent for the first nine months, not 13 percent.
Time Warner did not issue a revised cash-flow number yesterday for the fourth quarter. But the company had been projecting 13 percent growth for that period. And the number will now presumably be lower, since the revised full-year growth figure of 11 percent is below the company's previous estimates.
The company said the lower projections were a result of weaker advertiser receipts at its cable networks and poorer-than-expected performance at the music and film divisions. The company had been expecting big results from the Adam Sandler film "Little Nicky," but it has been a disappointment at the box office.
Yesterday's news was in stark contrast to the picture painted just two months ago by Time Warner's chairman, Gerald M. Levin, while reporting the company's third-quarter results. He said then that the company was on track for a record year and that the numbers reflected growth in advertising and "provide exceptional momentum for our pending merger."
But some analysts had begun questioning the real growth of the company's cable networks, in whose operating results the company had included $60 million of one-time gains. The cable networks include TNT, CNN, TBS Superstation and the subscription service HBO.
In an interview last week, Time Warner's chief financial officer, Joseph Ripp, said that including the gains was justified because they were offset by one-time expenses. But analysts said those expenses were nothing out of the ordinary and should not have been recorded as special one-time figures.
Executives at Time Warner and AOL continue to forecast cash-flow growth of 30 percent, to $11 billion, for the combined companies next year.
But Dennis Leibowitz, who follows the media for Credit Suisse First Boston, pointed out that if Time Warner was now reducing its cash-flow projections for the current year, a 30 percent gain next year would represent a lower hurdle for the company.
And one analyst, speaking on the condition of anonymity, noted that the so-called purchase-price accounting method that AOL and Time Warner plan to use for their merger would allow the companies to write down some assets. That could mean that expenses in the year after the merger would reduce costs somewhat and therefore allow for higher profits than might otherwise be possible. But he said he doubted that 30 percent cash-flow growth would be likely beyond next year.
And in light of yesterday's news, some analysts now doubt that 30 percent is achievable even next year. One analyst said he now expected cash-flow growth only in the 22 percent range.
As for the Roadrunner announcement, some sort of revamping had long been expected. For one thing, AT&T, which got its stake in Roadrunner by acquiring the cable company Media One, had been under government pressure to get rid of its stake; AT&T owns a controlling stake in an Internet-access service, Excite@Home, which competes with Roadrunner.
In exchange for its 25 percent stake in Roadrunner, AT&T will receive the right to convert 345,000 Roadrunner subscribers into Excite@Home subscribers. Compaq and Microsoft, meanwhile, will each relinquish their 10 percent Roadrunner stakes.
Time Warner said it would spend a total of about $570 million in cash in the Roadrunner transactions, while also taking a restructuring charge of $20 million to $40 million in the fourth quarter. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: TIME WARNER INC; AMERICA ONLINE INC; AOL TIME WARNER; FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION AOL INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (84%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: TIME WARNER INC; AMERICA ONLINE INC; AOL TIME WARNER; FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (84%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; FINANCES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES MERGERS (90%); CASH FLOW (89%); APPROVALS (89%); EBITDA (78%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (69%); 

PERSON: FABRIKANT, GERALDINE

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2000



507 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: THE 43RD PRESIDENT: SELECTING A CABINET;
Leading Candidate for Treasury Post Has Hefty Resume, if Not a Big Name

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 18

 BODY:
Paul H. O'Neill, the corporate executive who has emerged as President-elect George W. Bush's most likely choice as treasury secretary, is not a marquee name on Wall Street or on Capitol Hill.
But he has a broad resume that includes a long stint at the White House's Office of Management and Budget, service on an array of government commissions and the chairmanship of one of the nation's most prominent public-policy research organizations, the Rand Corporation. 
 Mr. O'Neill, who turned 65 on Dec. 4, and who is retiring this month as chairman of Alcoa, the world's largest aluminum manufacturer, based in Pittsburgh, is well versed in both domestic and international economic issues, friends and associates said.
"He has the mix of private-sector, public sector experience, and has it on a global basis, that would serve him well in any capacity in this administration, but probably particularly well at treasury," said Joseph T. Gorman, chairman and chief executive of TRW Inc., who serves on Alcoa's board.
Like many manufacturing executives, his economic philosophy is characterized by a belief that heavy investments in technology have left American industry capable of more rapid growth with low inflation than the Federal Reserve Board realizes.
"He has always been someone who thought we could do better on growth, and who has been at the forefront of the manufacturing-technology revolution," said Jerry J. Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers. "Being in manufacturing, Paul brings a real world perspective to the issues of technology and growth that you just couldn't find on Wall Street."
Mr. O'Neill emerged as a leading candidate for the treasury post only after Mr. Bush considered a number of better-known Wall Street executives. It is unclear how close Mr. Bush is to making a final decision or whether any other candidates are still in the running.
The other names most often mentioned for the treasury job include Walter V. Shipley, the former chairman of Chase Manhattan Corporation; John M. Hennessy, the former chairman of Credit Suisse First Boston and Donald B. Marron, the chairman of PaineWebber Group.
A Bush adviser said Gerald L. Parsky, the chairman of Aurora Capital Group, a Los Angeles-based investment firm, had also been added to the list of candidates.
Should he get the job, Mr. O'Neill would become the administration's point man on selling Mr. Bush's $1.3 trillion tax cut and his proposal to privatize Social Security. He would also be the administration's ambassador to the financial markets at home and abroad.
The president-elect, who met today with Mr. O'Neill for the first time, is also narrowing his choices for other top economic posts, his advisers said. Those jobs are likely to be particularly important if the long economic expansion gives way next year to a recession, as some economists say is possible.
Lawrence B. Lindsey, a former Federal Reserve governor who served as Mr. Bush's chief economic adviser during the campaign, is likely to become a top policy adviser to the new president in the White House, advisers to Mr. Bush said.
John B. Taylor, an economist at Stanford University who also advised the Bush campaign, is the leading candidate to become chairman of the Council of Economic Advisors, these advisers said.
Mr. Taylor, who is best known as an authority on monetary policy, served as a member of the council during the administration of Mr. Bush's father, and worked as an economist for Alan Greenspan's consulting firm before Mr. Greenspan became chairman of the Federal Reserve.
Mr. Lindsey served as a policy adviser in the White House during the first Bush administration before being named to the Fed. He coordinated the development of Mr. Bush's tax plan and is a strong advocate for creating private investment accounts within the Social Security system.
Mr. Lindsey has had a somewhat pessimistic view of the economy in the past several years -- he sold all his stocks some time ago -- and he has transmitted that view in recent weeks to Mr. Bush, aides to the president-elect say. Mr. Bush and Vice President-elect Dick Cheney have repeatedly stressed the risks of an economic downturn, in part to build support for their tax cut.
Mr. O'Neill worked at the Office of Management and Budget from 1967 to 1977, and was deputy director under President Gerald R. Ford for the last three years of that period, when Mr. Cheney was White House chief of staff.
After leaving Washington, he went to work for International Paper Company and was hired by Alcoa in 1987 as chairman and chief executive. The aluminum industry has endured difficult times for much of his tenure at Alcoa because of weak prices, but he lasted a dozen years on the job at a time when turnover among top executives at many old-line manufacturers was high.
He remained involved in public-policy issues, serving on a federal commission on Social Security and on a task force on education in Pennsylvania under Gov. Tom Ridge, a close ally of Mr. Bush. He has also been active through various business groups on issues like trade.
"Paul has a strategic and global view of the world and the relationship of the U.S. economy to it that is exceptional," Mr. Jasinowski said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul H. O'Neill, who is retiring as chairman of Alcoa, is apparently the treasury secretary-designate. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (83%); AA (NYSE) (83%); NOC (NYSE) (69%); CSGN (SWX) (52%); CS (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (83%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (83%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (71%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (69%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (69%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (69%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (69%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (69%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (69%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (83%); RAND CORP (71%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (69%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (52%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (58%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (58%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (58%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (58%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); EXECUTIVES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUDGETS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (70%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (69%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); TAX LAW (60%); TAX RELIEF (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2000



508 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Growth in Tourism to Slow With Economy, Giuliani Says

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and tourism officials said yesterday they expected the sharp growth in the number of tourists to New York City to slow next year amid signs of a cooling national economy, but held that tourism remains robust and a driving force in the city's economy.
A record 39.4 million visitors are expected to come to the city next year, 1 million more than the number projected for this year, the officials said at a City Hall news conference. It would be an increase of 2.6 percent, compared with the 4.7 percent increase expected this year and an 11 percent increase in 1999. 
 But the mayor and officials of NYC & Company, the city's convention and visitors bureau, said that the 2.6 percent increase was a "conservative forecast" that could very well be exceeded. And they said that projected spending by the nearly 40 million visitors expected next year -- more than $17 billion -- would mark a steady rise in visitors' spending and would represent a nearly 50 percent rise over the 1995 figure.
The blizzard of statistics were released yesterday, as the city's popular tourist destinations like Times Square and the Rockefeller Center area were crowded with even more tourists in the holiday season.
While some New Yorkers grumble at the congested sidewalks and the tourist buses worsening already clogged Manhattan traffic, Tim Zagat, the restaurant and travel guide publisher who is chairman of NYC & Company, suggested that tourism's contributions to the city more than outweighed such congestion.
"The visitor industry supports more than 277,000 city jobs, and it's clear that tourism means big business for New York and New Yorkers," he said.
Overall, the number of visitors to New York has risen more than 65 percent since 1991, from 23 million to the more than 38 million expected this year, according to data from the visitors bureau. The increases have come in one big spurt in 1992 during the Dinkins administration, when there was a 22 percent rise, and -- after two years of declines -- virtually steady growth since 1995 during the Giuliani administration.
The bureau attributed the sharp rise in 1992 to a reviving national economy, an air fare war that lowered travel costs and the Democratic national convention, which was held that year in New York. The bureau said that the repeal of the city's hotel tax in 1994, at the start of the Giuliani administration, played a major role in subsequent increases in visitors over the next six years. Mr. Zagat said that the sharp declines in crime in recent years had also contributed significantly to the city's renewed popularity as a tourist destination.
Officials say they expect that final figures for 2000 will show that the city drew 31.5 million Americans and 6.9 million visitors from other countries.
Cristyne F. Lategano-Nicholas, president of the visitors bureau, said she expected that even if the American economy slowed and more Americans stayed home next year, foreign tourism to the city would remain strong. She said the economies of some European nations were stabilizing, and a softening dollar in a cooling American economy would mean lower travel costs for foreigners traveling in the United States.
The Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone Development Corporation plans to release a study today that says that out-of-towners make up more than half of the 1.4 million visitors a year to cultural and other tourist attractions in Harlem and elsewhere in Upper Manhattan.
At the same time, the study, by the firm Audience Research & Analysis, suggests that Upper Manhattan needs to be better promoted. It says that "one third of the visitors elsewhere in Manhattan were not familiar with Upper Manhattan" and that this was "truer for domestic than international visitors."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "ON THE TOWN: Travelogue"
The latest figures on tourism from NYC & Company, the city's visitors and convention bureau.
 
INTERNATIONAL TOURISTS IN 1999 From top 10 countries in hundred thousands
Britain: 957
Canada: 910
Germany: 490
Japan: 425
France: 311
Italy: 262
Brazil: 150
Mexico: 144
Argentina: 143
Netherlands: 141
 
Graph shows domestic and international tourists in millions from 1992-2000*
 
*2000 figures are estimates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (58%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; FINANCES TOURISM (91%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LEISURE TRAVEL (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (69%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (69%); GUIDEBOOK PUBLISHING (66%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (65%); RESTAURANTS (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (56%); AIR FARES (50%); 

PERSON: FRIED, JOSEPH P; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); LATEGANO-NICHOLAS, CRISTYNE F RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2000



509 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Sites Suggested for Washington's Next Memorials

BYLINE: By IRVIN MOLOTSKY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 18

 BODY:
There are 228 memorials and museums in Washington, roughly one for each year since the federal government moved here in 1800, and a federal panel today came up with the proposed sites for the next 102, which should suffice for the next century.
"We propose that no more memorials be built in the reserve," said Margaret G. Vanderhye, the chairwoman of the panel, referring to Washington's monumental core, an area whose rough boundaries are the Capitol, Jefferson Memorial, Lincoln Memorial and White House. 
 To keep the monumental core from being overbuilt, Ms. Vanderhye's panel, the Joint Task Force on Memorials, came up with the list of 102 proposed sites away from the core, including 30 along the waterfront.
Besides the famous Potomac River, Washington has the lesser known Anacostia River, and Ms. Vanderhye said that placing monuments along both rivers would "connect the city to the waterfront."
A system of water taxis could ferry tourists from one monument to another, Ms. Vanderhye said, taking them to places outside the downtown area, from which tourists rarely venture. One concept includes a pier to allow boats to dock at the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, which is officially listed as a memorial.
In addition, Ronald E. Wilson, with the National Capital Planning Commission, said that spreading the monuments away from the core area would help in the economic renewal of Washington's neighborhoods.
Ms. Vanderhye's panel has members from the three federal agencies that have principal authority over monuments in the city: the planning commission, of which Ms. Vanderhye is a member, and the Commission of Fine Arts and the National Capital Memorial Commission.
All three agencies have given preliminary approval to the plan and will hold a hearing on it on Jan. 11. The three will then act on the proposal, and it will become the framework for determining the sites for future memorials and museums in Washington.
Congress has already instructed the agencies to come up with the plan and does not have to act on it further. In practice, Congress can override the agencies' plan and designate a monument wherever it cares to, but it is largely expected to follow the formula that is adopted.
The question of open space in the monumental core was part of the opposition to the National World War II Memorial, which was approved this year on a prime spot between the Washington Monument and the Lincoln Memorial.
"It is, in a sense, a reaction to the World War II Memorial," Ms. Vanderhye said when asked if there was a connection to approval of the new plan.
"We want to keep the open area from being overrun with memorials," Ms. Vanderhye said. "There will be no more in the reserve."
The World War II Memorial is one of four memorials that have already been approved in the monumental core and will not be affected by the new plan. The others are memorials to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and to blacks who fought in the Revolutionary War, both on the Mall, and a memorial to the Revolutionary patriot George Mason, near the Jefferson Memorial.
The list of the 102 proposed sites will be posted on the planning commission's World Wide Web site later this week when problems caused by a move are expected to be overcome. The site is www.ncpc.gov.
The new plan does not bar memorials and museums from downtown Washington altogether. The plan designates nine sites in an Area 1, surrounding the reserve and still downtown, "for commemorative works of pre-eminent historic and national significance."
Asked what that designation meant, Ms. Vanderhye said it referred to "leaders or events that defined our country or the way that we act as a people."
In any event, it will be up to Congress to decide which people or events meet that definition, so the political element in the selection process will continue.
There have been proposals in London to remove the monuments to yesterday's heroes who have fallen out of favor, such as the generals who subdued the people of the Indian subcontinent during Britain's imperial period.
Could space be made in Washington, Ms. Vanderhye was asked, by taking a course like that?
"There is no plan to remove anything that I know of," she answered.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bob Dole and Tom Hanks joined President Clinton and others in a groundbreaking ceremony in November for the National World War II Memorial on the Mall in Washington. (Justin Lane for The New York Times)
 
Chart/Diagram: "Proposing More Commemorative Sites Off the Mall"
A federal panel is proposing 102 new sites for memorials and museums over the next century away from the core of Washington, the Mall, in an effort to preserve open space in that area.
 
EXISTING MEMORIALS AND MUSEUMS
Most of the 228 existing memorials and museums are clustered around the Mall.
 
PROPOSED MEMORIAL AND MUSEUM SITES
The proposed sites are distributed more evenly around the District of Columbia and along the Potomac and Anacostia Rivers.
 
(Source: National Capital Planning Commission)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JOINT TASK FORCE ON MEMORIALS NATIONAL CAPITAL PLANNING COMMISSION (82%); NATIONAL CAPITAL PLANNING COMMISSION (82%); JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOINT TASK FORCE ON MEMORIALS NATIONAL CAPITAL PLANNING COMMISSION (82%); NATIONAL CAPITAL PLANNING COMMISSION (82%); JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MONUMENTS AND MEMORIALS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); APPROVALS (89%); WORLD WAR II (84%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (73%); CITIES (73%); MARINE VESSELS (73%); FERRIES (73%); 

PERSON: MOLOTSKY, IRVIN TOM HANKS (59%); BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2000



510 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1747 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY: A Cell Phone Surge Among World's Poor;
In Haiti, Entrepreneurs as Suppliers

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO 

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti

 BODY:
Cellular telephones may be an increasingly popular convenience in the United States and other prosperous countries. But demand is growing even faster in the world's poor nations, including in Haiti, where wireless phones are considered a necessity for those who can afford them.
With financially distressed governments often unable to provide adequate public services, including telephones, people are turning to privately built wireless networks as a way to communicate over extended distances. 
 "My cell phone allows me to dream of romance," said Remarais Brunel, a 24-year-old assistant director of a computer school here. He has learned Spanish to be able to speak with his girlfriend, who lives in the Dominican Republic, which shares the island of Hispaniola with French- and Creole-speaking Haiti. "My only problem is that I must budget my calls to just a few minutes each month."
Amid new political and economic tension in Haiti, where presidential elections recently returned Jean-Bertrand Aristide to power, one of the few systems that works reliably is the privately run cellular telephone network built by the local unit of an American company.
Less than 1 percent of the country's nearly eight million people have conventional, fixed-line phone service, compared with more than 95 percent in the United States. And while regular telephone service is less expensive than wireless service, there are 400,000 Haitians on the waiting list for a conventional phone line. The wait can last as long as five years, local people say, and the bureaucracy is such that the social and political standing of the person seeking service outweighs other considerations.
The delays, and the scarcity of phone lines, help explain why the number of mobile subscribers in Haiti climbed 150 percent last year compared with 1998, to about 25,000, enabling cellular phone users to account for more than a third of the nation's telephone customers.
Haiti is not alone among poor countries in witnessing the growth of wireless communications services, according to figures from the International Telecommunication Union in Geneva.
In some Latin American countries, wireless subscribers now outnumber customers of traditional fixed-line telephone companies. Wireless customers, for instance, account for almost 60 percent of phone subscribers in Paraguay, where the number of mobile phone users increased 88 percent last year, to 436,000. In Venezuela, some 57 percent of telephone subscribers use mobile phones.
And while the number of wireless users was growing by 24 percent in the United States last year and 70 percent in Europe, the growth rate in Africa was 116 percent. To be sure, the number of cell phone users in rich industrial nations is still higher.
Still, Zimbabwe had the fastest-growing wireless industry in the world in 1999, with wireless subscribers increasing by more than 800 percent, to 174,000. In Botswana, Rwanda and the Ivory Coast, wireless phone subscribers already outnumber users of the traditional telecommunications network.
"The advantage is that the existing infrastructure in these countries is often terrible," said Kent Lupberger, manager of communications investments at the International Finance Corporation, the investment banking arm of the World Bank. "And even in the worst places, there are people with money that are desperate for a viable communications network."
There are other reasons behind the growth of mobile communications systems in poor lands. The cost of adding a wireless line has declined to less than $600 from as much as $1,500 five years ago, said Mr. Lupberger, whose group has invested in more than 20 communications projects.
But perhaps the most important factor has been the eagerness of public officials to allow private companies to build and operate wireless networks, even as some governments try to maintain control over dilapidated fixed-line networks.
"Wireless is much less of a politically charged issue than wire-line in most countries," said Marc Beuls, president and chief executive of Millicom International Cellular, a company based in Luxembourg that operates wireless systems in Vietnam, Pakistan, Paraguay and even in war-devastated Sierra Leone.
"There's also the fascination with wireless technology that eases entry into new markets," Mr. Beuls said.
If there is any country that embodies the opportunities and challenges of adding mobile phone users, it may be Haiti.
In the last few years, government officials -- like those in some other poor countries -- have studied the possibility of privatizing the state-controlled phone company, Telecommunications d'Haiti. But the effort has been shelved because of the political uncertainties associated with Mr. Aristide's imminent return to office.
"It's run like the fiefdom of a select number of bureaucrats with no interest in improving service," said Francois Benoit, a former Haitian ambassador to the United States, who now manages the nation's main Internet service provider. In addition to cellular phones, Mr. Benoit relies on an elaborate walkie-talkie system to communicate with his staff.
The cellular network was built and is operated by a unit of Western Wireless of Bellevue, Wash., whose executives were early to recognize the commercial potential of bypassing a precarious state-controlled communications network that showed few signs of modernization.
After three years of negotiations that began in 1995, Western Wireless was finally granted a license, and the unit, ComCel, which was formed with Haitian investors, completed the construction of a network here in the capital, Port-au-Prince, late last year. Since then, it has been competing with a locally owned company, Haitel, and has succeeded in signing up more than 18,000 subscribers.
"This was a rare chance to build a viable private enterprise in Haiti," Bernard Fils-Aime, general manager of the Western Wireless operations in this country, said in an interview here. The building is guarded by half a dozen men with assault rifles who search all visitors for firearms. "The country doesn't have a long history of putting something like this together," Mr. Fils-Aime noted.
Despite impressive growth in the first year of operations, Mr. Fils-Aime said there were substantial challenges to operating a wireless carrier in Haiti. For instance, some subscribers have complained that they do not have enough electricity in their homes to recharge the batteries for their cell phones. So Mr. Fils-Aime allowes them to plug in free of charge at company headquarters.
Such quick fixes aside, Haiti's fragile economy remains an impediment in various ways. The Haitian currency, the gourde, has declined in value this year by nearly 40 percent, to a rate in New York just over 23 to the dollar -- squeezing ComCel's profit margins as most of the company's equipment costs are in dollars.
And metered service -- the standard, pay-for-what-you-use billing method in the United States -- is not practical here. Bill collection is simply too iffy in a nation where few people have bank accounts and the postal system is unreliable. The payment system involves prepaid service cards that are sold by a network of more than 80 local dealers.
With the average annual income, according to some United States data, only about $350, and with 70 percent unemployed, the cards are still out of reach for most people. The least expensive provides 200 minutes of time for the equivalent of $24. A 600-minute card, with a 5 percent discount, runs about $68.
Still, Western Wireless is pressing forward with its business in Haiti and several other countries. In fact, the company, which also focuses on under-served rural areas in the United States, has one of the most adventurous business models in the wireless industry.
So far, in addition to Haiti, Western Wireless operates networks in Bolivia, the Ivory Coast, Ghana and the former Soviet republic of Georgia. The company complements these operations with systems in higher-income nations like Ireland, Iceland and Croatia. "We go where the big guys fear to tread," said Brad Horvitz, its president of international operations.
The experience of companies like Western Wireless shows how third world areas are adopting some technologies faster than others.
Poor countries, where perhaps four-fifths of the world's people live, had about 40 percent of mobile phone lines in 1999, up from 20 percent in 1995. But those same countries had only about 5 percent of the hub computers of the Internet, according to Emmanuel Forestier, an economist at the World Bank.
"It's undisputed that wireless technology has had a far greater impact on people's lives in developing countries than the Internet," Mr. Forestier said.
Of course, income levels and other economic and political uncertainties are limiting the expansion of wireless systems in some places. In Pakistan, for instance, the government shut down a European company's wireless system for 18 months in 1995 and 1996 out of concern that separatists were using the network.
"You need to know how to operate a business in places without the basic structures of commerce," said Joseph Gatt, president of InterCel of Reston, Va., a company that operates wireless networks in Congo, Madagascar and Guinea.
Still, the startling growth in some markets has created unforeseen opportunities. Brazil, for instance, has more than 15 million wireless subscribers, outnumbering the number of users in Finland, Sweden, Denmark and Iceland combined.
"The publicly traded cellular companies in Brazil are the most attractive stocks in Latin America," said Peter Gruber, president of a hedge fund in the Virgin Islands that invests in Latin America. "Who would have predicted it a few years ago?"
In Port-au-Prince, the cell phone can be necessary baggage for other sorts of entrepreneurial aspiration.
Consider Francois Emmanuel Carlyle-Courtois, who dreams of fame as a rap star. Mr. Carlyle-Courtois, a 32-year-old graphic designer who works at a cultural center in a crumbling gingerbread house, has a wireless phone he shares with his brother to cut costs.
He raps in a rapid-fire mixture of Creole, French and English. "With a cell phone, I can talk to my producer in New York," said Mr. Carlyle-Courtois, or Elylrac by his stage name. "I can even rap on demand into the cell if he wants something fresh. The Americans love it when I do that."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bernard Fils-Aime, left, general manager of ComCel, saw "a rare chance to build a viable private enterprise in Haiti." In Port-au-Prince, below, where transport is communal, cellular ads offer counterpoint to street scenes. (Photographs by Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. C1); Cellular telephone operation is explained to a prospective customer at a ComCel office in Port-au-Prince, Haiti. Buyers are among the better-off. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. C4)
 
Map of Haiti highlighting Port-au-Prince: With new networks, competition among private phone providers is thriving in Port-au-Prince, Haiti. (pg. C4)
 
Chart: "Yearning to be Connected"
In many poor countries, people are turning to wireless phones
instead of conventional fixed lines because of poor service and
long waits for new fixed-line connections.
 
Paraguay
WIRELESS SUBSCRIBERS AS A SHARE OF ALL TELEPHONE SUBSCRIBERS: 59.5%
GROWTH IN '99: 88%
 
Venezuela
WIRELESS SUBSCRIBERS AS A SHARE OF ALL TELEPHONE SUBSCRIBERS: 56.8
GROWTH IN '99: 69
 
Ivory Coast
WIRELESS SUBSCRIBERS AS A SHARE OF ALL TELEPHONE SUBSCRIBERS: 54.0
GROWTH IN '99: 182
 
Rwanda
WIRELESS SUBSCRIBERS AS A SHARE OF ALL TELEPHONE SUBSCRIBERS: 50.4
GROWTH IN '99: 120
 
Botswana
WIRELESS SUBSCRIBERS AS A SHARE OF ALL TELEPHONE SUBSCRIBERS: 50.0
GROWTH IN '99: 422
 
Uganda
WIRELESS SUBSCRIBERS AS A SHARE OF ALL TELEPHONE SUBSCRIBERS: 49.7
GROWTH IN '99: 88
 
South Africa
WIRELESS SUBSCRIBERS AS A SHARE OF ALL TELEPHONE SUBSCRIBERS: 49.0
GROWTH IN '99: 103
 
Bolivia
WIRELESS SUBSCRIBERS AS A SHARE OF ALL TELEPHONE SUBSCRIBERS: 45.5
GROWTH IN '99: 76
 
Zimbabwe
WIRELESS SUBSCRIBERS AS A SHARE OF ALL TELEPHONE SUBSCRIBERS: 42.1
GROWTH IN '99: 816
 
United States
WIRELESS SUBSCRIBERS AS A SHARE OF ALL TELEPHONE SUBSCRIBERS: 31.4
GROWTH IN '99: 24
 
Ghana
WIRELESS SUBSCRIBERS AS A SHARE OF ALL TELEPHONE SUBSCRIBERS: 30.6
GROWTH IN '99: 68
 
Haiti
WIRELESS SUBSCRIBERS AS A SHARE OF ALL TELEPHONE SUBSCRIBERS: 26.3
GROWTH IN '99: 150
 
(The New York Times Source: International Telecommunication Union)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); HAITI (95%); RWANDA (92%); PARAGUAY (92%); COTE D'IVOIRE (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); ZIMBABWE (92%); BOTSWANA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); GHANA (79%); EUROPE (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); AFRICA (79%); UGANDA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); SWITZERLAND (78%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (58%); 

CITY: PORT-AU-PRINCE, HAITI (90%); 

COMPANY: COMCEL AMERICAN CO LLOID CO (55%); INTERNATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATION UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMCEL INTERNATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATION UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; UNITED STATES (95%); HAITI (95%); RWANDA (92%); PARAGUAY (92%); COTE D'IVOIRE (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); ZIMBABWE (92%); BOTSWANA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); GHANA (79%); EUROPE (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); AFRICA (79%); UGANDA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); SWITZERLAND (78%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (58%); PORT-AU-PRINCE, HAITI (90%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CELLULAR TELEPHONES MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (96%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (93%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (79%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (79%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (79%); TRENDS (78%); ELECTIONS (73%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (73%); BUDGETS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (71%); POLITICS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: FILSAIME, BERNARD; ROMERO, SIMON JEAN-BERTRAND ARISTIDE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2000



511 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Aetna to Raise Premiums And Eliminate 5,000 Jobs
Aetna, the nation's largest health insurance company, said that it would shed 2 million of its 19 million members over the next year as it raises premiums and tries to make its troubled managed-care business more profitable.
The company also announced plans to eliminate 5,000 jobs, about 13 percent of its work force. The cuts, more than half from attrition, will include some in New Jersey. Page A1. 

Business Tax Shelters Flourish
As companies have discovered how much money they can save using deals designed to help them avoid taxes, Wall Street bankers, lawyers and accountants have rushed in to serve them, charging a fee based on the savings from shelters they design and sell. A1.
 
Budget Bill Curtails Radio Plan
Budget legislation that President Clinton will soon sign contains a provision sought by the nation's largest broadcasters that sharply curtails the plans of the Federal Communications Commission to issue licenses for low-power FM radio stations to 1,000 or more schools, churches and other community groups. A1.
 
Gillette to Cut 8% of Work Force
Gillette said that it would shut down eight factories and 13 distribution centers and lay off 2,700 employees, about 8 percent of its work force. Edward F. DeGraan, the company's acting chief executive, said the layoffs were a result of new technology that allows the company to increase its productivity and efficiency. Shares of Gillette rose $1, to $34.81. C2.
 
Chrysler Loss to Hit $1.4 Billion
DaimlerChrysler indicated that losses at Chrysler would balloon to $1.4 billion in the fourth quarter. And next year may be worse. The disclosure confirmed widespread suspicions that Chrysler's slide had accelerated sharply. World Business, Section W.
 
'Survivor II' to Challenge 'Friends'
CBS said that the second season of its hit show "Survivor" would be broadcast at 8 p.m. on Thursdays, up against "Friends," which leads off NBC's dominant lineup. C7.
 
Fed to Consider Rates Today
More than a decade after the start of the last recession, the Federal Reserve will meet today to debate how to keep the current slowdown from becoming a downturn. C2.
 
Blue Chips Rise as Nasdaq Falls
Optimism that interest rates might soon be cut lifted blue-chip stocks. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 210.46 points, or 2 percent, to 10,645.42. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 10.59 points, or 0.8 percent, to 1,322.74. The Nasdaq composite index fell 28.75 points, or 1.1 percent, to 2,624.52. C10.
 
Shell Plans to Increase Savings
Royal Dutch/Shell said at an annual meeting of shareholders that it planned to increase cost savings and maintain production in the face of expectations for declining oil prices. It also said that Phil Watts, group managing director, left, would succeed the company's chairman, Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, when he retires in July. World Business, Section W.
 
Verizon Pulls Long-Distance Petition
Verizon withdrew its application to offer long-distance communications services in Massachusetts, fearful that the petition would be rejected by federal regulators. C4.
 
Prudential Lays Off 160 Bankers
Prudential Securities dismissed 160 investment bankers and will now almost exclusively provide financial advice and sell insurance and securities through brokers. C8.
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,645.42 up 210.46
Nasdaq composite -- 2,624.52 down 28.75
10-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.17% unchanged
The euro -- $0.8934 down 0.0017
The dollar -- 112.07 yen down 0.39
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows balance of trade figures from April-September.
October figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.
Expected: -$33.0 billion
 
Graph shows Gillette share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AET (NYSE) (92%); RDSA (LSE) (80%); RDSA (AMS) (80%); RDS.B (NYSE) (80%); RDS.A (NYSE) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (92%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (80%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (80%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: AETNA INC (92%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (80%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); NEW JERSEY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES LAYOFFS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); RECESSION (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (73%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (64%); INTEREST RATES (60%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (53%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2000



512 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-20
 
Israeli Parliament Votes Not to Disband for Election
The Israeli Parliament voted against dissolving for new elections, meaning that Israel will go to the polls in February to elect only a prime minister. Benjamin Netanyahu, a former prime minister who had considered running again, reportedly pulled out of the contest. A1 

U.N. Says No to Mideast Troops
The Palestinians failed to muster enough votes in the United Nations Security Council to send an international protection force to the West Bank and Gaza Strip. Israel and the United States have strenuously opposed the proposal. A14
 
Yugoslavia Appeals to NATO
The Yugoslav government is urging NATO to let the country's military and police forces move more freely in a security zone that borders Kosovo, to beat back ethnic Albanian militants. Currently, only Serbian police officers, with light weapons, may enter the zone, where they have been attacked repeatedly by Albanian militia. A13
 
Russian Leader in Canada
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia visited Canada and lined up support for "strengthening" a cold-war treaty that the Russians see as blocking American deployment of a national missile defense system. A7
 
I.M.F. to Aid Argentina
The International Monetary Fund and private banks promised as much as $39.7 billion to help Argentina reduce its mounting debt burden, spark its economy and stem a crisis of confidence that some economists worried could spread through Latin America. A16
 
Pentagon Criticized for Imports
A Pentagon agency that runs stores on American military bases imported $138,290 in clothing made in Myanmar at a time when the Clinton administration had banned new investments in that country, documents show. While such purchases are not illegal, critics in Congress and human rights groups say they violate the spirit of the administration's economic sanctions. A11
 
World Briefing A20
 
NATIONAL A22-32
 
Bush Promises Healing And Aggressive Politicking
President-elect George W. Bush courted Republican and Democratic leaders and promised to salve "whatever wounds may exist" from the election. But he also said he planned to push for his full campaign agenda, including a broad tax cut, and would use "head knocking" and "gentle arm-twisting" to prevail. A1
 
The Electoral College cast its votes, and Mr. Bush received the expected 271. Vice President Al Gore received 266, one fewer than expected, because a District of Columbia elector left her ballot blank to protest Washington's lack of a voting representative in Congress. A31
 
The representatives of several news organizations gathered in Broward County to begin examining tens of thousands of ballots across Florida that were not included in the final tallies for the presidential election. While at least one news organization said it wanted to count the ballots and see which candidate would have won, others said they wanted only to provide detailed descriptions of the untallied ballots for their readers and viewers, who could then decide how to add them up. A31
 
Slight Drop in Serious Crime
Serious crime declined in the first six months of 2000 compared with the same period in 1999, but by the smallest amount since the crime began falling in 1992, the F.B.I. said. Many cities, including New York and Los Angeles, had an increase in murders, the first since the early 1990's. A22
 
Sexually Active Boys at Risk
A study by the Urban Institute, financed by the federal government, on the sexual practices of 15- to 19-year-old boys found that two-thirds have had oral or anal sex, putting themselves in danger of contracting sexually transmitted diseases. A22
 
Ohio's Last-Chance DNA Tests
An Ohio program will offer death-row inmates a chance at DNA testing to try to prove their innocence. A22
 
Dispute at Detroit Papers Ends
The ratification of contracts by two Teamsters' locals ended a labor dispute that lasted five and a half years at The Detroit Free Press and The Detroit News. A32
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Rabbi's Followers Carry On Despite Terrorist Label
A core group of the followers of Rabbi Meir David Kahane, the radical Brooklyn Jew and Israeli politician who was assassinated in Manhattan 10 years ago, have thumbed their noses at the terrorist designations placed on two Kahane political organizations by Israel and the United States. They have reinvented themselves as Internet content providers, publishers, community center operators and fund-raisers to promote Rabbi Kahane's quest for the restoration of the biblical state of Israel and the expulsion of Arabs. A1
 
Whitman Talks Cause Stir
Gov. Christie Whitman of New Jersey is being mentioned for various positions in the Bush administration. Such an appointment, if it comes through, would have an enormous effect on New Jersey politics, particularly the contest to succeed her as governor. B1
 
Costly Penn Station Repairs
Federal transportation inspectors said it would take 30 years to correct fire and safety deficiencies in the tunnels that serve Pennsylvania Station unless $898 million can be found to speed up the work. Even then, the work could not be completed before 2010. B1
 
Neediest Cases B5
 
SCIENCE TIMES F1-12
 
Health & Fitness F7
 
ARTS E1-12
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
OBITUARIES A32-33
 
EDUCATION
 
Bilingual Education Debate
Mayor Giuliani urged the Board of Education to adopt the recommendations of a task force he appointed that proposes an overhaul of the bilingual education program. B3
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-16
 
Paper Deals and Taxes Debated
All of the Big Five accounting firms and the big investment houses have learned to create business deals that exist only on paper and wipe out enormous tax bills for corporations. They now charge corporations a fee based on the savings from tax shelters they design and sell. Some of their colleagues say that many of these tax shelters are illegal because they exist only to avoid taxes. A1
 
Aetna to Cut Customers
Aetna, the nation's largest health insurance company, said it would shed 2 million of its 19 million customers over the next year as it raises premium charges and struggles to make its managed care business more profitable. The company also plans to cut 5,000 jobs, many in New Jersey. A1
 
Tire Makers Fix Blame
Firestone engineers, speaking about the results of a four-month investigation, blamed a unique combination of tire and vehicle design, tire manufacturing and customer abuse for the failure of tires linked to the deaths of more than 100 Americans, almost all in Ford Explorers. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
World Business W1
 
FASHION B9
 
EDITORIAL A34-35
 
Editorials: Prelude to a missile defense; calling the Great Mentioner; the case for the Electoral College.
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman.
 
Crossword E9
TV Listings E11
Public Lives B2
Weather D8 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (55%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); CANADA (92%); SERBIA (92%); ARGENTINA (92%); ALBANIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); KOSOVO (79%); MYANMAR (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (55%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (73%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (73%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); CANADA (92%); SERBIA (92%); ARGENTINA (92%); ALBANIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); KOSOVO (79%); MYANMAR (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); COLD WAR (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); TAX LAW (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (67%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (58%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (58%); POLICE FORCES (55%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (51%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (51%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2000



513 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 82 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
UNITED RENTALS WARNS ON FOURTH-QUARTER EARNINGS

BYLINE: Reuters 

 BODY:
United Rentals, which rents construction and industrial equipment in the United States, Canada and Mexico, said bad weather, project delays and the slowing economy were eating into its revenue, and it warned that fourth-quarter earnings would be about 40 cents a share, less than two-thirds of the 62 cents analysts had forecast. For the full year, the company said, earnings of $1.89 could be expected; analysts had expected $2.11. United Rental shares fell $3.50, to close at $12.75.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: URI (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7359 EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING, NEC (92%); SIC7353 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (92%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (91%); MEXICO (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

COMPANY: UNITED RENTALS UNITED RENTALS INC (92%); UNITED RENTALS OF NEW ENGLAND INC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED RENTALS

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (91%); MEXICO (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (87%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2000



514 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1547 words

HEADLINE: THE 43RD PRESIDENT: THE PRESIDENT-ELECT;
PRESIDENT-ELECT COURTS CONGRESS AND URGES TAX CUT

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 18

 BODY:
President-elect George W. Bush courted Republican and Democratic leaders in the Capitol today and promised to salve "whatever wounds may exist" from the election.
Yet Mr. Bush also emphasized that he planned to push for his full campaign agenda, including a broad tax cut, and would use "head-knocking" and "gentle arm-twisting" to prevail. 
 Mr. Bush's triumphant sweep through the capital took place as the Electoral College met in states across the nation and cast the votes that sealed his presidency. In a whirlwind day, he had breakfast with the Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan, met lawmakers, paid a visit to President Jacques Chirac of France and interviewed candidates for his cabinet.
Republicans said that former Senator Daniel R. Coats, Republican of Indiana, was all but certain to be named defense secretary; that Paul H. O'Neill, chairman of the aluminum maker Alcoa, was a strong contender for treasury secretary; and that Ann Veneman, former California agriculture director, was a prospect for secretary of agriculture.
On Capitol Hill, Mr. Bush stood side by side with all four Congressional leaders of both parties. Glancing often at the two Democrats, he vowed that "this isn't a single photo opportunity" but the first step in building a working relationship.
While the president-elect's victory tour of Washington is a ceremonial tradition, this one was marked by strange political and historical cross-currents. Mr. Bush's father, President George Bush, put some of the blame for his defeat on Mr. Greenspan, believing the Fed had not acted aggressively enough to end the recession that helped Bill Clinton defeat him. Page A30.
And when Laura Bush and Hillary Rodham Clinton shared tea this morning, Mrs. Clinton was not just a first lady but also a senator-elect whose name is already bandied about as a possible presidential candidate for 2004.
While Mr. Greenspan prefers tax cuts to increases in government spending, he has long argued that the best choice is to use federal surpluses to reduce the national debt. But until a few months ago, the Fed's main concern about the economy was that it was too strong.
Now the situation is very different. And there were no signs of strain today between the incoming president and the Fed chairman who has become a revered Washington institution. The Fed is expected to signal on Tuesday that it is ready to cut interest rates next year to ward off a recession.
"I talked with a good man here," Mr. Bush said, placing his hand on Mr. Greenspan's shoulder as he escorted him out of his hotel this morning. "We had a very strong discussion about my confidence in his abilities."
Perhaps the day's most significant tableau came on Capitol Hill in the Rayburn Room, named after another powerful Texan, the legendary former speaker Sam Rayburn. Before a battery of television cameras, Mr. Bush appeared with the Congressional leaders who would go a long way toward determining his success in these divided political times.
To Mr. Bush's right stood the Republicans, Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois and Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the majority leader. To his left stood the Democrats, Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the minority leader, and Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the minority leader. Mr. Bush made a point today of spending time one-on-one with each of the two Democrats.
All five men took pains to sound conciliatory and Mr. Bush said jokingly, "I told all four that there are going to be some times where we don't agree with each other, but that's O.K. If this were a dictatorship, this would be a heck of a lot easier."
Chuckling, he added, "Just so long as I'm dictator."
More seriously, Mr. Bush said, "I've got opinions and they've got opinions." He added, "It's amazing what happens when you listen to the other person's opinion and we began the process of doing that today."
But for all the good will, the difficulties facing Mr. Bush and the divided Congress were also apparent.
The two Democrats stood stone-faced as Mr. Bush insisted he would move forward with his plan for $1.3 trillion in tax cuts across 10 years and said the slowing economy made it essential. He said he would make the case that "marginal rate reductions will help spur economic activity and economic growth."
"I think the case is even more solid today than it was a year ago when I started campaigning on the issue," the president-elect added.
Mr. Bush's tax-cut plan calls for an across-the-board reduction in all income tax rates, dropping the bottom rate to 10 percent from 15 percent, for example, and reducing the top rate of 39.6 percent to 33 percent. The proposal would also repeal the estate tax, reduce the taxes of some married couples, and double the child credit to $1,000 per child from $500.
The plan was one of the starkest dividing lines of the campaign, with Vice President Al Gore proposing less than $500 billion in tax cuts across a decade, mostly for certain specific social needs like a college education.
"There's going to be a lot of discussions, a lot of head-knocking, kind of gentle arm-twisting," Mr. Bush said.
Mr. Gephardt, perhaps sending Mr. Bush a message about how far the Democrats are willing to bend, said, "We will be there coming 50 percent of the way, sometimes even further, to the middle to get things done for the people that sent us here and hired us."
But unlike his remarks on the Sunday talk programs, when Mr. Gephardt danced around the question of whether he recognized Mr. Bush as the legitimate president, today he showed no hesitation. Noting that the Electoral College was meeting this very day to elect Mr. Bush, he said, "I don't know how you can get more legitimate than that."
Mr. Daschle said, "Absolutely, President-elect Bush is a legitimate president of the United States."
Republicans said that when Mr. Bush met with a larger group of the House Republican leadership earlier in the morning, there was discussion of how to sell the tax plan, including whether to pass it piece by piece. Several Republicans counseled that the president should not focus on the broad numbers of the plan but should make the policy case for it.
"We learned from the first session and second session of the 106th Congress that simply talking about numbers is a mistake," said Representative David Dreier, a California Republican.
Mr. Bush, a former oilman, also talked extensively with lawmakers about his desire for an aggressive energy policy to increase national production and make the nation less dependent on foreign oil.
"I'm not going to allow the working people of this country to suffer," Mr. Bush told Congressional leaders, his spokesman, Ari Fleischer, said. During the campaign, Mr. Bush proposed, among other steps, opening the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska to more exploration.
Mr. Gephardt said later in an interview, "I think it's possible to get to some compromise on this, but you can't forget the environmental side of it."
Mr. Bush also spent much of the day interviewing candidates for his cabinet. Vice President-elect Dick Cheney disputed a report in The New York Times that he and retired Gen. Colin L. Powell, tapped to be secretary of state, were backing different candidates for defense secretary.
Mr. Cheney said in an interview on CNN's "Wolf Blitzer Reports" that Gov. Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania, who was said to be Mr. Powell's candidate, had withdrawn his name weeks ago. Republicans close to the Bush campaign said that Mr. Coats was the leading contender for the post.
Mr. Bush and his aides tried to keep his cabinet deliberations private. But other officials said Mr. Bush had a lunch meeting with Mr. O'Neill, the treasury candidate. Mr. O'Neill served in the White House budget office in the Nixon and Ford years and is friendly with Mr. Greenspan, said one Republican who knows both men.
And Gov. Christie Whitman of New Jersey was seen at midday entering the Washington hotel that is Mr. Bush's Washington headquarters. Republicans said she could be a candidate for administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
Mr. Bush's trip to Washington is just one of the many steps he is taking this week to prepare for governing. On Wednesday, aides said, he will meet in Austin, Tex., with an array of religious leaders, many of them from prominent black churches, to explore the "compassionate conservative" themes with which he began his campaign. Plans for the meeting were first reported by The Washington Post.
On Thursday, he is to meet with many Hispanic leaders to discuss issues of education.
One of Mr. Bush's cabinet nominees was already on the job today. General Powell arrived for his first day of work on the transition at the State Department this morning.
Early this evening, Mr. Bush paid a courtesy call on President Chirac, in town for a European Union meeting with Mr. Clinton.
"Mr. President, I am so honored," Bush said to Mr. Chirac as the two posed for a picture at the French ambassador's residence.
Before returning to Texas on Tuesday, Mr. Bush will visit President Clinton and Mr. Gore. The last time Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore encountered each other in person was in their testy third debate in October.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: While President-elect Bush was in a series of meetings yesterday, the incoming first lady, Laura Bush, met with Hillary Rodham Clinton. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A1); President-elect George W. Bush, flanked, from left, by Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the majority leader, Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, Representative Richard A. Gephardt, the House minority leader, and Senator Tom Daschle, the minority leader, yesterday after the five men met. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A30)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (56%); AA (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (56%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM ALCOA INC (56%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; TAXATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CABINETS AND SUB-CABINETS; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTORAL COLLEGE; ELECTION ISSUES POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); RECESSION (86%); ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (68%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (67%); NATIONAL DEBT (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); MITCHELL, ALISON; CHIRAC, JACQUES (PRES); GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) GEORGE W BUSH (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); ALAN GREENSPAN (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JACQUES CHIRAC (74%); TRENT LOTT (59%); TOM DASCHLE (58%); DAN COATS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2000



515 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
Intelligex, a new Web site, moves into the new world of online market-research exchanges.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
THE fledgling field of online custom market-research exchanges is getting another entry as two entrepreneurs put up a Web site intended to bring together buyers and sellers.
Matthew J. Storm and Eric B. Fishman have opened Intelligex Inc. in New York to operate the site (www.intelligex.com), which has signed 90 research suppliers and 60 research buyers as initial partners. The research companies working with Intelligex include Maritz Marketing Research, the Opinion Research Corporation and Yankelovich Partners. 
 The formation of Intelligex, which comes soon after the introduction of Marketinginfo.com in New York, is indicative of a growing belief in the importance of proprietary market research as advertisers and agencies seek more penetrating insights into how and why consumers buy -- or don't buy. Just yesterday, VNU N.V., the Dutch publishing giant that owns the Nielsen Media Research television ratings company, agreed to spend $2.3 billion to acquire the A. C. Nielsen Corporation, which measures and analyzes sales and behavioral data.
"The value of quick and convenient information is extremely high," said Mr. Fishman, 28, the chief operating officer at Intelligex. "Whoever has the information first, wins."
Yet as the research industry keeps expanding, said Mr. Storm, also 28, who is the chief executive of Intelligex, many advertisers and agencies "don't have the time or expertise to find the optimal supplier of custom research."
Needless to say, Mr. Storm and Mr. Fishman are not eager for Intelligex to be characterized as a business-to-business dot-com, a label now derided as much as it was prized mere months ago. Rather, as they seek venture capital in addition to the $1 million raised in a first round of financing, they describe the company as an intermediary, intended to lower costs to buyers while generating additional revenue for sellers.
"It helps to level the playing field between a larger research company and a smaller research company like us, which can't spend the money to market itself the way the larger ones can," said Nicholas Tortorello, president at Guideline Research and Consulting in New York, one of the suppliers working with Intelligex.
"We also see Internet research as a quickly growing part of our business that will be a great leg up on doing work globally," said Mr. Tortorello, the incoming chairman of an industry association, the Council of American Survey Research Organizations. "Everything is moving online, including advertising and marketing services."
To be sure, there are risks involved in trying to alter longtime habits.
Custom market research "can be very specialized," said Gregory Ellis, vice president and general manager for the research division at DoubleClick in New York, and "seemingly subtle differences in specifications can result in significantly different costs."
"This complexity poses unique challenges to a successful buyer-seller exchange," said Mr. Ellis, a member of the Intelligex advisory board. "Resistance to change poses additional challenge."
Still, he described himself as convinced that a custom market-research exchange "will ultimately be successful."
One Intelligex customer, Kelly Eng, senior analyst at Creative Good, an Internet consulting company in San Francisco, said she "would definitely use Intelligex again," adding that next time she would focus on the quality of the research as well as the cost.
"The quality ended up not so great, but a lot of it was our fault," Ms. Eng said. "I'd be willing to pay a little more to get the quality up."
"Matthew and I have talked about how to improve the service," she added. "We've learned a lot."
That's a thought also expressed by the head of Marketinginfo.com, which began operating in September with research suppliers like Greenfield Online; the NFO Worldwide unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies; A. C. Nielsen; and Taylor Nelson Sofres.
"Every day for us as a company is a learning process," said Bruce Weinstein, 26, chief executive at Marketinginfo.com, which has a partnership agreement with the Advertising Research Foundation in New York.
Still, "our experience has been overwhelmingly positive," he added.
Whether, to paraphrase a line uttered by gunfighters in old Western films, there is room in this business for both companies remains to be seen. In the meantime, both are working to, as Mr. Storm put it, "make the process of purchasing research less painful and less costly." 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: December 21, 2000, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
The Advertising column in Business Day on Tuesday, about online custom market-research exchanges, misstated the given name of the chief executive at Marketinginfo.com in New York. He is Brian Weinstein, not Bruce.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: ORCI (NASDAQ) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (83%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (72%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: INTELLIGEX INC; MARITZ MARKETING RESEARCH; OPINION RESEARCH CORP; YANKELOVICH PARTNERS NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (83%); OPINION RESEARCH CORP (72%); THE NIELSEN CO BV (69%); DOUBLECLICK INC (58%); MARITZ MARKETING RESEARCH INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTELLIGEX INC; MARITZ MARKETING RESEARCH; OPINION RESEARCH CORP; YANKELOVICH PARTNERS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING; RESEARCH; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET MARKET RESEARCH (92%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); WEB SITES (90%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); B2B ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (78%); MARKETING SURVEYS (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (74%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (73%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (73%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PUBLISHING (68%); 

PERSON: STORM, MATTHEW J; FISHMAN, ERIC B; ELLIOTT, STUART ANN LIVERMORE (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2000



516 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2235 words

HEADLINE: TAX MAGICIANS/A special report.;
Sham Shelters for Business Flourish as Scrutiny Fades

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
Merrill Lynch saved AlliedSignal $180 million. A division in Merrill's army of bankers, lawyers and accountants -- known as the financial engineers -- had invented a way for AlliedSignal to escape taxes it owed the federal government on the sale of an oil business.
The scheme worked this way: the company transferred the taxable profit on the sale to a newly created partnership with a foreign company, which turned around and returned the same amount to AlliedSignal in a way that made it no longer count as taxable profits. 
 For their efforts, Merrill and its associates got a cut of the savings -- $25 million, or more than 13 cents on every dollar rescued from the government.
For decades, accountants and lawyers charged by the hour for advising corporations on how to arrange deals to legally avoid as much tax as possible. But the business has changed in two significant ways. First, Merrill and others decided they could create business deals that existed only on paper and could wipe out enormous tax bills. Second, they could demand a cut of the savings for devising the techniques that make the deal look real. The bigger the savings, the higher the fee.
As companies have discovered how much money these deals can save them, Wall Street bankers, lawyers and accountants have rushed in to serve them. All of the Big Five accounting firms -- PricewaterhouseCoopers, Ernst & Young, Deloitte & Touche, KPMG and Arthur Andersen -- now charge corporations a fee based on the savings from tax shelters they design and sell. So do big investment houses, notably Merrill Lynch, Goldman, Sachs and Bear, Stearns.
Some of their colleagues in these fields are appalled. They say that many of these tax shelters are illegal because they have no business purpose; they exist only to avoid taxes. They say that such shelters would be much less likely to be approved by advisers who are not compromised by the possibility of profiting handsomely from work that requires strikingly little time.
Indeed, the United States Tax Court ruled the AlliedSignal deal, struck in 1990, was a sham, and an appeals court upheld that decision earlier this year. AlliedSignal, now called Honeywell and planning to merge with General Electric, is appealing. Merrill Lynch sold a similar shelter to 10 other companies.
But few tax shelters are uncovered by an Internal Revenue Service whose resources have been significantly reduced in recent years. And even if one is discovered, penalties are rare. Criminal prosecution is almost unheard of. And, as in the AlliedSignal case, the Treasury is still without the money while appeals drag on for years.
In short, the money to be made can seem well worth the very small risk of being caught. That is why the tax shelter business is thriving to an extent that worries even some people in the field.
Paul J. Sax, former chairman of the American Bar Association's tax section and a partner at the law firm of Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe in San Francisco, used simple math to explain why tax shelters are so attractive -- "if you are willing to turn a blind eye to whether a deal really works or is a sham."
He cited a case he knows about on the condition that he not identify the participants. It involved a $7 million fee for a tax shelter that will save a company $100 million.
"I have a chance of being hit by the I.R.S. with a 20 percent penalty" for false reporting -- $20 million on top of the $100 million owed, Mr. Sax said. "Based on my experience I calculate that chance to be one in 50 because the likelihood of the I.R.S. detecting this transaction in my very large tax return is small, the chance of them pursuing it correctly is small, the chance of them pursuing through to litigation is small, the chance a judge will uphold a penalty is small."
What that means, he said, is that "once I get past 'I know I am doing something wrong here,' the arithmetic settles it for me."
"What is $7 million for at least an 80 percent chance at $100 million?"
He noted that the recent weakness of the I.R.S. because of budget cuts and new restraints imposed by Congress has only emboldened corporations. They "could not pick a better time to exploit the inability of the I.R.S. to deal with this under present law, under present funding and under the present demoralized state of the auditors."
Promoters of tax shelters are eager to play because of the dazzling payoff. "To think up a shelter, work out the details and then put it down on paper so you can sell it to others takes, maybe, 100 hours," said Peter L. Faber, a tax partner at McDermott, Will & Emery in New York who wants a crackdown on abusive tax shelters. "Then you take that idea to the biggest companies and tell them your fee is $10 million. Where else can you earn that kind of money?"
Lawyers asked to render opinions on whether a shelter was legal can also be intoxicated by the chance to profit handsomely. Buck Chapoton, a tax lawyer at Vinson & Elkins in Washington and a former tax policy chief for President Ronald Reagan, said he had been offered hundreds of thousands of dollars to write a letter characterizing as legitimate a tax-avoidance plan he considered a sham. Mr. Chapoton said another top tax lawyer told him that he had turned down more than $1 million to write such a letter.
"For those kinds of fees, the purveyors are not buying your professional advice," Mr. Chapoton said. "They are buying your good name and, sadly, at those prices there are lawyers and law firms that will sell."
Some corporations, including Ford Motor, say they refuse to participate in questionable tax shelters. But others have participated. Colgate-Palmolive, United Parcel Service, Winn-Dixie Stores and the advertising agency Foote, Cone & Belding, now part of True North Communications, have all engaged in tax shelters that the courts held were shams. Each of these rulings is now being appealed.
But the great majority of shams go undetected, Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers says. His aides have said that audits uncover perhaps one of every 10 illegitimate shelters.
Indeed, the Treasury Department has identified corporate tax evasion as the nation's biggest tax enforcement problem, and such shelters are at the core of it. Over the next decade, illegitimate tax shelters will short the government tens of billions of dollars, Mr. Summers said, adding that this official estimate is conservative because audits uncover "just the tip of the iceberg."
The Treasury Department has learned of some tax shelters through anonymous mailings of tax shelter documents, presumably sent by participants who found them improper but could not stop them. In recent weeks the department has proposed regulations intended to shut down tax shelters with names like Captain Sandy's, the Guam Residence Trust and, earlier this year, BOSS and Baby BOSS.
The Guam Residence Trust, first disclosed in the journal Tax Notes, relied on an opinion by Daniel M. Berman of the Washington office of the law firm of Sutherland Asbill & Brennan. Mr. Berman has been a tax official both with the Treasury Department and the Joint Committee on Taxation.
Mr. Chapoton and Mr. Sax said they were angry and saddened that Mr. Berman wrote an opinion letter for a trust that Mr. Chapoton said "doesn't even pass the smell test."
Mr. Berman denied there was anything improper and said, "I am not in the tax shelter business."
 
The Fees
The More You Save, The More You Pay
Charging a fee based on a percentage of the taxes avoided is prohibited by ethics rules of the accounting industry and is widely frowned upon by other tax professionals. The more subtle, and widely accepted, variation is called value pricing, in which the sellers of tax shelters set their price based not on hourly fees but on how much a client would be willing to pay to save a lot more on taxes. In some cases that amount is half the savings. The sellers assert that this more fairly compensates them for the value of the techniques that they invented.
In some cases, the tax shelter adviser is paid even if the tax savings are disallowed; in others the fee is contingent on surviving any challenge.
There are basically two kinds of tax shelters. In both cases, they become illegitimate when they serve little or no purpose other than avoiding taxes.
One kind lets companies take a deduction today and pay taxes later, in effect borrowing from the government the taxes owed and paying no interest.
Others, like the Merrill Lynch shelter that AlliedSignal bought, create an artificial deduction so that taxes are never paid. The deal allowed AlliedSignal to shift profits to a partnership created with a Dutch bank and two newly created entities in countries with no income taxes. Later Allied took back its money, but it appeared on its books as an untaxable return of capital. The Tax Court and an appeals court said it was all a sham.
Merrill Lynch sold the same shelter to companies including American Home Products, Borden, Brunswick, Colgate-Palmolive, Dun & Bradstreet and Schering-Plough. Some of these companies helped finance Colgate-Palmolive's so far unsuccessful fight to win approval for the shelter in court.
Merrill Lynch said both its tax experts and its clients' advisers thought the tax and economic aspects of the deals were proper, but "it would be fair to say that in the wake of the court's ruling our business places far greater reliance on the economic component" in deals it now markets.
Merrill Lynch relied on an opinion by Mark A. Kuller, then a tax lawyer with the Washington office of the law firm of King & Spalding. The appeals court sharply criticized Mr. Kuller for merely assuming a legitimate business purpose existed.
"I was asked to write an informal memo based on the assumption that there was a business purpose," said Mr. Kuller, who is now with McKee Nelson Ernst & Young in Washington.
 
The Pioneers
Early Plan Blocked Because of Pricing
The business of selling tax shelters began to grow quickly after bold moves by accountants like Robert M. Dolgin of St. Louis. Sixteen years ago he proposed to his partners at what is now Ernst & Young an arrangement that was a precursor of the ones today.
What troubled Mr. Dolgin's partners was not the tax shelter itself so much as the way he wanted to charge corporations for it.
"Instead of an hourly rate, Bob wanted his fee to be a percentage of the tax savings," recalled John O. Niemann, who was Mr. Dolgin's mentor. "We said no to that."
Sharing in the tax savings was unacceptable, Mr. Niemann said, because it raised questions about how the accounting firm could give detached professional advice when it had a stake in the outcome of that advice.
Mr. Dolgin formed Dolgin & Associates in Houston and soon boasted to his former mentor that he was making $1.5 million annually.
He declined to discuss his clients or his tax shelters. But documents filed in a Tax Court case involving General Signal, now part of the SPX Corporation, show that Mr. Dolgin charged a percentage of the taxes clients saved for using his tax shelter, which manipulated the rules on financing employee benefit plans to accelerate deductions.
The shelter was ruled a sham by the Tax Court, and General Signal later paid the taxes.
The I.R.S. has investigated Mr. Dolgin's shelters, but has taken no action against him.
 
Another Shelter
Creating Losses Where None Existed
Another big player in tax shelters is Robert N. Gordon, founder of the Twenty-First Securities Corporation in New York.
Both Compaq Computer and Alliant Energy, which operates a large electric utility in Iowa, bought tax shelters from Mr. Gordon that the Tax Court found were shams. The shelters involved arranging trading losses that offset profits from investments in other companies.
A trading partner was needed, and so was a tax-exempt pension fund. And an enormous number of shares had to be borrowed from unwitting pension funds, change hands briefly overnight through a Bear, Stearns office in Amsterdam, and then be bought back and returned to the pension fund.
In most of these transactions the trading partner was Foote, Cone & Belding, which was paid $1,000 a day for its role in the trades. Foote, Cone was a "passive investor" in these deals and was not aware of the plan, said Kathryn Woods, a spokeswoman for Ture North Communications.
Mr. Gordon said he disagreed with the Tax Court finding and said he was not selling tax shelters but, rather, products that take advantage of "the stupid ways" the tax laws are written.
His firm charges what he said were modest fees, often less than 5 cents for each share traded. But the volume of trades that Alliant Energy needed to wipe out $12 million in taxes was huge. Indeed, Alliant Energy paid Mr. Gordon's firm $5.5 million.
Mr. Summers said that the Treasury Department and the I.R.S. would propose this month a tightening of the rules under which accountants and lawyers who practice before the I.R.S. conduct themselves. Whether the Bush administration will follow through on those changes or seek to undo them is not known.
The changes could not come too soon, said Mr. Chapoton, the former Reagan tax policy official, because prominent tax lawyers are now writing opinions that endorse shams "and, unfortunately, my profession does not look down on them for doing it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: December 25, 2000, Monday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Tuesday about abusive corporate tax shelters misstated the source and target of a sharp criticism involving a shelter sold to investors by Merrill Lynch. The criticism was made by the Internal Revenue Service in a filing with the the United States Tax Court, not by the appellate court, and was directed at the shelter, on which Mark A. Kuller, a Washington tax lawyer, gave advice, not at Mr. Kuller himself.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Making Taxes Go Away"
Wall Street bankers, accountants and lawyers have invented a variety of techniques to help corporations avoid many millions in taxes. Such techniques are illegal if they have no business purpose and exist only to avoid taxes. But many such techniques, which involve a flurry of deals that send money back and forth, are never uncovered. Here is one that was ruled a sham by the tax court. It cut the taxes of the utility Alliant Energy by $12 million. The company paid the creators of the strategy $5.5 million. Twenty-First Securities arranged 332 transactions like the one below, which each took only a few hours, with stock worth $9.2 billion.
 
The Technique: Using a Lost Tax Credit
 
FOREIGN STOCK
Owned by many pension plans, which are tax-exempt.
 
THE TAXES
When dividends are paid by foreign companies, foreign governments tax those dividends at a 15 percent rate.
 
THE LOST CREDIT
Most United States taxpayers who lose part of their foreign dividend to foreign taxes can claim a tax credit in the U.S. equal to the taxes. That credit is useless for the pension plans because they are already tax-exempt.
 
Recycling The Credit
How Alliant Energy acquired the use of the lost tax credit.
 
STOCK BORROWED
A company called Foote, Cone & Belding, acting as a middleman in most of the trades, borrowed the stock from the pension plans, putting up cash equal to 102 percent of the value of the borrowed stock.
 
STOCK SOLD
Through Twenty-First Securities, Foote, Cone immediately sold the stock to Alliant Energy for an amount equal to the value of the stock plus 85 percent of the dividend that was due.
 
DIVIDEND COLLECTED
Alliant Energy held on to the stock for only minutes to qualify to collect the 85 percent of the dividend in cash and the other 15 percent as a foreign tax credit it would use to reduce its U.S. income taxes.
 
STOCK SOLD BACK
Alliant Energy, through Twenty-First Securities, sold the stock back to Foote, Cone moments later at a loss equal to 85 percent of the dividend. This loss offset the 85 percent of the dividend Alliant would collect in cash, and Alliant now owned the right to the foreign tax credit.
 
STOCK AND DIVIDEND RETURNED
Foote, Cone returned the stock to the pension plans with the 85 percent of the dividend, which offset its profits from the trades with Alliant so its tax situation was unaffected.
 
COLLATERAL RETURNED
In turn, the pension plans refunded the collateral that was equal to 102 percent of the stock's value.
 
The Result
 
PENSION PLANS
Was able to invest cash equal to 102 percent of the value of the borrowed stock for the duration of the loan.
 
ALLIANT ENERGY
Claimed the credit for foreign taxes paid on dividends and used it to reduce its United States income taxes by nearly $12 million.
 
FOOTE, CONE & BELDING
Was paid $1,000 for its role in each of the transactions.
 
TWENTY-FIRST SECURITIES
Collected $5.5 million in fees.
 
U.S. GOVERNMENT
Lost $12 million in taxes.
 
(Dylan Loeb McClain/The New York Times)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

TICKER: HON (NYSE) (92%); HON (LSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (90%); GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (92%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (90%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (90%); DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (84%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (54%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; TAX-SHELTERED INVESTMENTS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; TAX EVASION; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS TAXES & TAXATION (93%); ACCOUNTING (90%); LAWYERS (90%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); TAX FRAUD (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TAX AUTHORITIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (88%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); LITIGATION (78%); TAX COURTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (77%); INCOME TAX (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (71%); APPEALS COURTS (66%); APPEALS (66%); APPROVALS (62%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (61%); 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2000



517 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2000

SECTION: Section G; Page 1; Column 1; Workplace 

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Workers Safe, but at What Cost?

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH 

 BODY:
In November, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration issued a far-reaching, controversial rule intended to protect employees from repetitive stress injuries -- the disabled arms, aching backs and other maladies that each year fell an estimated 600,000 Americans who type, bend, reach and lift objects repeatedly at work.
Businesses have until October to comply. In the meantime, though, a range of businesses, trade groups, insurance companies and unions are filing legal challenges. Congressional opponents are expected to try to repeal the rule in the coming session, and President-elect George W. Bush's administration is likely to propose revisions. 
 Much of the business community's unhappiness with the ergonomics rule centers on its anticipated cost. Many managers contend that repetitive stress injuries are poorly understood, and that government is forcing companies to pay huge sums to reduce hazards that may not really exist.
How huge? The projections are all over the map. OSHA estimates that businesses will spend $4.5 billion on compliance in the rule's first year. The National Association of Manufacturers puts the cost at $6.7 billion for just its core constituency of 10,000 small and medium-size manufacturers. The Employment Policy Foundation, a business-oriented research group, predicts a toll on the economy of $125.8 billion in the first year of compliance, and a budget-busting $886.6 billion over the coming decade.
What is a nonspecialist to make of these wildly conflicting numbers? History may hold insights.
In 1992, members of the House Committee on Education and Labor were also troubled by the dueling cost projections each major new OSHA rule seemed to generate. Vinyl chloride, cotton dust, lead, formaldehyde -- each new standard elicited cries from business that the rule would bankrupt them, and countercharges from labor that OSHA was making the standards too lax. Committee members, concerned that something was seriously out of whack, asked the Office of Technology Assessment, a Congressional research agency, to take a careful look at OSHA's cost projection methods.
The research agency put together a panel of economists and occupational health specialists from academia, industry and organized labor. The group looked at more than a dozen major OSHA safety rules that had been on the books for at least five years, and in one case for more than two decades. Because so much time had passed, the panelists were able to determine, for eight of the rules, how much the affected industries had actually spent on compliance.
The findings, published in 1995 -- the same year the research agency was closed by a budget-minded Congress -- make interesting reading today, given the uproar about OSHA's newest rule. Not only did the panelists learn that the affected industries' fears of crushing costs were usually way off target; they found that even OSHA tended to overestimate the cost of its rules.
In the case of vinyl chloride, for instance, the plastics industry railed that OSHA's rule, promulgated in 1974, would cost $65 billion to $90 billion to comply with and wipe American plastics off the map. OSHA projected that industry would have to spend $1 billion to reduce worker exposures to vinyl chloride, a gas that may cause cancer. In fact, users were able to eliminate the substance for no more than $278 million.
When OSHA proposed limiting worker exposure to cotton dust, the industry warned that compliance would cost $2.3 billion. OSHA revised the rule and issued a projection of $280.3 million, which industry said was still too low. In the end, however, textile mills were able to reduce the risk to workers' lungs for $82.8 million.
OSHA's 1987 rule on formaldehyde elicited cries that it would cost users $251.2 million. The O.T.A. panel looked only at one large group of users -- metal foundries -- and found again that while OSHA had projected costs of $11.4 million, the affected companies eventually cleaned up their workplaces for $6 million.
Only in one out of the six mandatory rules studied did OSHA underestimate the cost to business, that of ethylene oxide, a toxic sterilizing agent used in hospitals. And in that case, the panelists discovered that OSHA had failed to anticipate the scrupulousness with which hospitals moved to reduce exposures. They reduced ethylene oxide leaks to levels lower than OSHA had required, and thus spent more money than OSHA had projected they would.
For a fifth rule, covering workplace lead exposures, the panel was unable to draw clear lessons because the affected industries requested extensions and were not yet in compliance.
Why did OSHA overshoot so often? The panelists concluded that the agency's main problem was a tendency to assume that business would reduce workplace hazards by stepping up existing technologies. If, for instance, the problem was an airborne poison, then companies would reduce worker exposures by installing new ventilators or putting lids on vats.
In practice, though, businesses were in many cases able to devise radical new manufacturing processes to reduce the hazards. Instead of installing ventilators, for example, they might substitute different raw materials, eliminating the offending toxin from the stream of production. These innovations pared hundreds of millions of dollars off the estimated compliance costs.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: From grain dust, left, to cotton particles, top, to lead, above, OSHA has issued rules requiring businesses to protect employees from harm at work. (Bettmann/Corbis, left; David Smart, top)
 
Chart: "Overshooting the Mark"
When OSHA creates a new workplace regulation, it estimates the cost to private industry. Private industry also tries to estimate the cost, usually coming up with higher figures. Often, however, all estimates end up being too high.
 
RULE CONCERNING: Vinyl chloride
WHEN PASSED: Oct. 4, 1974
 
OSHA estimate: $1 bil.
Range of industry estimates: $65 bil.
If top estimate were to scale, it would be about 5 feet 9 inches tall: $94 bil.
Actual cost: $278 mil.
 
Figures are total cost in 1974 dollars
 
RULE CONCERNING: Cotton dust
WHEN PASSED: June 23, 1978
 
OSHA estimate (Includes equipment costs amortized ): $280 mil.
Range of industry estimates: $273 mil.
Does not include initial outlays of $865 million to $1.57 billion: $444 mil.
 
Actual cost: $83 mil.
 
Figures are annual cost in 1982 dollars
(Source: Occupational Safety and Health Administration; Office of Technology Assessment)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH ADMINISTRATION NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SECURITIES DEALERS INC (55%); OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY & HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (97%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH ADMINISTRATION OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY & HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (97%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; REPETITIVE MOTION DISORDERS; INDUSTRIAL AND OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS; SUITS AND LITIGATION WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (91%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (91%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); REPETITIVE MOTION DISORDERS (90%); BUDGETS (88%); ERGONOMICS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); LITIGATION (74%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); INSURANCE (71%); ALDEHYDES (50%); 

PERSON: WALSH, MARY WILLIAMS GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2000



518 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: MANAGEMENT;
For Armstrong, Bankruptcy Is Lesser of Two Evils

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER 

DATELINE: LANCASTER, Pa.

 BODY:
It was a wrenching choice, and last August, Armstrong Holdings, hired Michael D. Lockhart as chief executive to make it: either accept the risk of a slow death by litigation or suffer the stigma of seeking relief in bankruptcy court.
Four months later, after an exhaustive study of claims against Armstrong for decades-old asbestos injuries, Mr. Lockhart took the only course that he thought would ensure the company's long-term survival. He directed its Armstrong World Industries unit to file for Chapter 11 protection from creditors. 
 "Almost no one associated with this company was interested in Chapter 11," Mr. Lockhart said in a recent interview at Armstrong headquarters in Lancaster. "The stigma is, you go into Chapter 11 because your business is no good."
That was not the case with Armstrong, a manufacturer of floor and ceiling materials that employs 18,000 people worldwide. In the three months ended Sept. 30, it earned $74.3 million on sales of $835.6 million, up from $71.7 million on sales of $844.3 million in the period a year earlier.
Indeed, Mr. Lockhart said, the company could have obtained additional credit, albeit on increasingly unfavorable terms. But that would have only prolonged the uncertainty, he said. And so Armstrong joined a roster of other Fortune 500 companies with otherwise solid balance sheets, including Texaco and Owens Corning, that have turned to the bankruptcy courts as part of a broad strategy to resolve potentially ruinous legal woes.
"This is a business problem, not an emotional problem," he said. "A problem like any other."
But it was too difficult a problem for an Armstrong insider to solve, analysts said. Mr. Lockhart, 51, filled the bill as an objective outsider, they said. He had been chairman and chief executive of General Signal, a Stamford, Conn., manufacturing company, for three years until it was sold in 1998 to SPX, and had spent the time since then mostly sailing the Caribbean. Previously, he had been an executive at General Electric for 13 years and before that, a consultant at the Boston Consulting Group for six years.
"He was likely less emotionally attached to this decision," said Budd Bugatch, senior vice president at Raymond James & Associates, an investment firm in St. Petersburg, Fla.
When Mr. Lockhart arrived at Armstrong last summer, he ordered a thorough review of all asbestos claims filed against it over the years, mostly by people who were not Armstrong employees but who in the 1950's worked at a construction site or shipyard where insulation was installed. The company has tried to prepare for future claims by taking charges against profits totaling $765 million, but its estimate of future liability ranges from $700 million to $1.4 billion, over the next six years. There is no way of precisely calculating how many other potential victims might sue and win huge verdicts from juries in the future, Mr. Lockhart said.
"That's an unknown -- disputed liability that threatens the viability of the company," he said.
Over the years, Armstrong had contested some claims, tried to settle others and even reached a substantial settlement with a group of claimants in the mid-1990's, a settlement that was later overturned by the Supreme Court.
"The genius -- and by that I mean clairvoyant -- would've filed for Chapter 11 on that day," Mr. Lockhart said.
The review he ordered showed that the number of claims was rising, rather than falling as it previously appeared. "We were seeing costs above what we hoped to see," Mr. Lockhart said.
The risk of skyrocketing jury awards, combined with the unlikelihood of legislation resolving nationwide asbestos-related claims in the fall of an election year, started to make Chapter 11 the most attractive option, he added, and the company hired Weil, Gotshal & Manges, a New York law firm known for its bankruptcy practice, for advice.
"They've done a great job of trying to break down our biases about some things," Mr. Lockhart said. "You have a debt, you think you should pay it," but the lawyers explained that is not the way to think in the context of Chapter 11, he said.
Once a company files a petition for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11, litigation against it and its obligation to pay creditors are both automatically frozen, said Christian C. Onsager, general counsel of the Broe Companies in Denver and co-chairman of the American Bankruptcy Institute's committee on business reorganization.
Then, a "bar date" is set, before which all claims must be filed with the court, Mr. Onsager said. That is beneficial to Armstrong because it means that all current asbestos claimants will have to file claims in the bankruptcy court in Delaware, where Armstrong filed, rather than in separate state court proceedings around the country.
Payment of claims must then be negotiated and described in a plan for reorganization of the bankrupt company, and ideally a trust is established to pay future claimants, he said. The court must approve the plan.
And at the end of bankruptcy, there is a discharge of liabilities, so that claimants cannot seek more than they are allotted under the reorganization plan, Mr. Onsager said. "You are enjoined from trying to collect your debt forever," he said.
There is a cost to the company: significant expenses must be approved by the court, which means they are a matter of public record and subject to review by competitors, for example. "That's frankly one reason companies don't want to operate all the time in Chapter 11," he said.
Nervousness over mounting asbestos claims drove Armstrong's share price down to a low of 75 cents on Dec. 6, the day the company filed for bankruptcy protection, from a high of $36.81 in January, but the stock has since rebounded somewhat, closing at $2.19 yesterday. Both employees and customers have been reassured by the prospect of a final conclusion to the years of potential liability hanging over the company, Mr. Lockhart said, as well as by statements that there will be no bankruptcy-related work force reductions -- although some employees worry that the slowing economy may lead to layoffs anyway.
Because bankruptcy can be long and slow, years may pass before it becomes clear whether Mr. Lockhart's decision was correct. After all, a plan for payment of present and potential claims will have to be hammered out and agreed to by claimants, creditors and the company.
But at least there will be a resolution, Mr. Lockhart said. "We were going to have to find a consensual solution," he said. "In Chapter 11, there will be a consensual solution. The question is when."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael D. Lockhart, Armstrong's chief, found that asbestos-related claims against the company were rising. He chose bankruptcy protection to ensure the company's long-term survival. (Timothy M. Shaffer for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: OC (NYSE) (57%); AWI (NYSE) (57%); GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423330 ROOFING, SIDING & INSULATION MATERIAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); NAICS327993 MINERAL WOOL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS324122 ASPHALT SHINGLE & COATING MATERIALS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3296 MINERAL WOOL (57%); NAICS327120 CLAY BUILDING MATERIAL & REFRACTORIES MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3253 CERAMIC WALL & FLOOR TILE (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (52%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (52%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (53%); 

CITY: LANCASTER, PA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: ARMSTRONG HOLDINGS OWENS CORNING (57%); ARMSTRONG WORLD INDUSTRIES INC (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%); BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP INC (52%); RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARMSTRONG HOLDINGS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (52%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (53%); LANCASTER, PA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: ASBESTOS; BANKRUPTCIES; SUITS AND LITIGATION; FINANCES; LIABILITY FOR PRODUCTS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (90%); LITIGATION (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ASBESTOS PRODUCT MFG (89%); ASBESTOS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TOXIC TORTS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); JURY TRIALS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (77%); ASBESTOS & ENVIRONMENTAL LOSS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); VERDICTS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); CONSTRUCTION (62%); SHIPBUILDING (60%); 

PERSON: GLATER, JONATHAN D; LOCKHART, MICHAEL D MICHAEL D LOCKHART (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2000



519 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY;
In a Nod to Slower Economy, SBC Cuts Earnings Forecast

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO 

 BODY:
SBC Communications, the nation's second-largest provider of local telephone service, lowered its forecasts yesterday for sales and earnings next year in a sign of how the slowing economy is beginning to affect large telecommunications companies.
SBC said its problems were caused in part by regulatory hurdles it faces in introducing long-distance service in states like California and also by high-speed digital subscriber line problems at Ameritech, the company with operations in Illinois, Michigan, Ohio, Indiana and Wisconsin that SBC bought in 1999. 
 But gloomier prospects for the American economy also contributed to SBC's decision to lower forecasts. This is a contrast to previous years, when large telecommunications providers were generally thought to be shielded from an economic downturn because demand for their basic products like local and long-distance service remained strong.
"The telecom industry of today is dramatically different from that of 10 years ago," said Simon Flannery, a telecommunications analyst at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. "There's an Achilles' heel to introducing so many new products if sales of these services are shown to decline when demand slumps."
Instead of percentage growth in earnings per share in the midteens, SBC now expects per-share earnings to increase 11 percent to 14 percent next year. And sales, instead of climbing 10 percent, are expected to rise 8 percent to 9 percent, said Edward E. Whitacre, SBC's chairman and chief executive.
Analysts were quick to react after SBC's announcement. Adam Quinton of Merrill Lynch downgraded the stock to accumulate from buy, and lowered his firm's target price to $60 from $65. And Dan Reingold of Credit Suisse First Boston also lowered the target price to $64 from $66 but refrained from recommending to investors that they trim their SBC holdings.
Shares in SBC, which until yesterday had mostly been spared the recent turmoil at other large telecommunications companies like AT&T and WorldCom, fell $6.75, to $46.56. Until yesterday SBC stock had climbed 9.4 percent in 2000. Now the stock is down 4.5 percent for the year.
While analysts, for the most part, remained cautiously optimistic, investors showed concern that difficulties at SBC could signal similar problems at other large providers of local telephone service. Shares in BellSouth declined $2.63, to $41.25, and shares in Verizon Communications fell $3.94, to $51.88.
"Everyone is wondering whether this will have a contagious effect on the industry," said Tim Ghriskey, a senior portfolio manager at the Dreyfus Corporation. "Could it be that demand for high-capacity data services are slowing at a time when competitive pressure in areas like D.S.L. is growing? Questions like these are all of a sudden on everyone's mind."
Verizon sought to play down these concerns by reaffirming its financial projections for 2001 and 2002. And the company added that it was adding 3,500 D.S.L. lines a day, having already exceeded its year-end target of 500,000 D.S.L subscribers.
"Our problem is that we're trying to keep up with the orders in areas like D.S.L. that are hard to fill quickly," said Eric Rabe, a spokesman for Verizon, which was formed by Bell Atlantic's acquisition of the GTE Corporation. "It's certainly not affecting our bottom line."
To be sure, SBC's problems are largely of a similar nature. But in the states where its Ameritech unit operates, SBC acknowledged that "recent service issues" have prevented the rollout of D.S.L. service as smoothly as the company had hoped. To deal with the problems, SBC has dispatched technicians from other areas to the Ameritech region.
The growing popularity of D.S.L. service, which allows users to gain access to the Internet over regular telephone lines at speeds far faster than a regular dial-up connection, has emerged as a flashpoint for much of the turmoil in the telecommunications industry.
The technical complexity of adapting copper telephone lines for high-speed data delivery have made the business complicated when it comes to installations and repairs. Those problems are compounded by the confusion generated by the large number of relatively small service providers and wholesalers that need access to local phone networks to get D.S.L. to the consumer.
Companies like SBC are continuing to expand into sophisticated services like D.S.L. and add-ons like call-waiting and caller I.D. as they seek to use a large customer base to cross-sell products. But judging from SBC's warning yesterday, these new services also appear to make local telephone companies vulnerable when the economy slows.
"The old predictability of the local phone company is out the window," said Jeffrey Kagan, an independent telecommunications analyst. "It looks like the rewards of riding an unprecedented wave of demand during the last few years for new telecommunications products also presents its fair share of risks."

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
BellSouth Takes a Charge
Reuters
ATLANTA, Dec. 19 -- The BellSouth Corporation said it would take after-tax charges of $350 million to $375 million related to a restructuring of its video entertainment service. BellSouth, said a "significant portion" of the charges would occur in the fourth quarter, when the restructuring activities began; the rest would probably be taken in 2001. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (96%); VZC (LSE) (85%); VZ (NYSE) (85%); MS (NYSE) (56%); CSGN (SWX) (53%); CS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (96%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (96%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (51%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SBC COMMUNICATIONS AT&T INC (96%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (85%); DREYFUS CORP (61%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (53%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: SBC COMMUNICATIONS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; FINANCES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY COMPANY EARNINGS (93%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (91%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (89%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); NEW PRODUCTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (64%); 

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON EDWARD E WHITACRE JR (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2000



520 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Trade Deficit Is Down, but Only a Bit

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 19

 BODY:
The nation's trade deficit declined slightly in October but was still the second highest on record, the Commerce Department said today. Imbalances with China and Japan both hit records, reflecting imports of cars and toys, and the bill for foreign oil also rose to the highest level ever.
The trade deficit fell to $33.2 billion in October, down 1.6 percent from the record of $33.7 billion in September. 
 Through the first 10 months of the year, the trade deficit is running at an annual rate of $363 billion, almost $100 billion higher than last year's $265 billion deficit.
But the departing Clinton administration and some private economists saw glimmers of hope that the soaring imbalances may begin to turn around in the new year as the United States economy slows and foreign economies rebound.
"With the U.S. slowdown looking more real every day, the trade deficit may have passed its peak," said Bill Cheney, chief economist at John Hancock Financial Services in Boston.
The administration insisted that the trade deficit represented the effect of larger economic forces -- fast growth in the United States and sluggish growth overseas -- rather than a failure of open-trade policies.
For October, exports of goods and services slipped 1.5 percent, to $91.2 billion, the second consecutive monthly decline, reflecting small decreases in a wide variety of products from computer chips and commercial airliners to farm goods.
Imports, which had set a record the previous month, fell a slight 1.6 percent in October, to $124.4 billion, the second-highest level on record. This decline primarily reflected a return to more normal levels of service trade after a big one-time payment in September made by NBC to cover the Olympics.
October imports continued to show a high level of oil shipments. Imports of crude petroleum hit a record high of $8.5 billion in October as the volume rose even as the price dipped slightly to $28.62 a barrel from a 10-year high of $28.98 in September.
The deficit with China rose 4 percent in October, to a record $9.1 billion, the biggest deficit ever set with a single country. China is on track to pass Japan this year, the perennial leader as the country that has the biggest trade surplus with the United States.
The deficit with Japan also hit a record in October at $8.4 billion, a sharp 38 percent increase over the September level as shipments of Japanese autos soared.
The small drop in exports in October still left total export sales up 13.4 percent in the first 10 months of this year at $789 billion. Charlene Barshefsky, the United States trade representative, predicted exports would top $1 trillion this year for the first time. Imports so far this year are up an even larger 19.9 percent, at $1.19 trillion through October.
The United States deficit with Canada, its largest trading partner, set a record at $4.7 billion, while imports from Mexico set a record even as the deficit with that country narrowed slightly, to $2.4 billion.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Balance of Trade"
Chart shows deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. In billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.
 
October 2000
Balance: -$33.18
Imports: 124.42
Exports: 91.23
(Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JHF (NYSE) (53%); JHF (FRA) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (94%); JAPAN (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT JOHN HANCOCK FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (69%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; JAPAN; CANADA; MEXICO; UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (94%); JAPAN (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (94%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); SHIPMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (64%); AIRLINES (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2000



521 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: Text of Statement by Fed

 BODY:
Following is the text of a statement released by the Federal Reserve yesterday after the Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed's monetary policy panel, said that it had left interest rates unchanged but that it now had a stance to reduce borrowing costs in the future:
The Federal Open Market Committee at its meeting today decided to maintain the existing stance of monetary policy, keeping its target for the federal funds rate at 6.5 percent. 
 The drag on demand and profits from rising energy costs, as well as eroding consumer confidence, reports of substantial shortfalls in sales and earnings and stress in some segments of the financial markets suggest that economic growth may be slowing further. While some inflation risks persist, they are diminished by the more moderate pace of economic activity and by the absence of any indication that longer-term inflation expectations have increased. The committee will continue to monitor closely the evolving economic situation.
Against the background of its long-run goals of price stability and sustainable economic growth and of the information currently available, the committee consequently believes that the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (92%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (91%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (91%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES MONETARY POLICY (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2000



522 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Investors Show Displeasure As the Fed Lets Rates Alone

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Apparently disappointed that the Federal Reserve did not cut short-term interest rates immediately, investors drove down stock prices yesterday even though the Fed clearly signaled that it was likely to reduce rates soon.
Before the Fed's announcement at around 2:15 p.m., major market averages were trending higher, with the Dow Jones industrial average up nearly 140 points shortly before the decision of the Fed's Open Market Committee was released. 
 But prices began to slide nearly immediately after the Fed said that it had shifted its concerns to a slowing economy and was no longer particularly worried about the threat of higher inflation. While that was a more drastic change in emphasis than many analysts had expected as recently as last Friday, it left lots of investors wishing for more.
"As an equity investor, seeing the Fed say they are worried about a slowdown but not do anything sort of makes you rethink things," said Jim Paulson, chief investment officer for Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis. "I am not saying what they did is the wrong move," he added. "But I think it would have been bullish if they had cut rates."
The afternoon selling pushed the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Nasdaq composite index down to their lowest closing levels of the year.
Led by declines in Verizon Communications, the American International Group and Microsoft, the S.& P. index fell 17.14 points, or 1.3 percent, and closed at 1,305.60.
Companies like Ciena, Siebel Systems and JDS Uniphase -- all major suppliers to communications companies -- were the big losers on the Nasdaq. The composite index fell 112.81 points, or 4.3 percent, to 2,511.71. As evidence mounts that the economy is hitting the brakes, stocks that depend on rapid growth appear to be the most vulnerable.
"The Nasdaq more than any other index needed some really positive news that could jump-start the economy and earnings and lower future financing costs," said Kenneth M. Sheinberg, head of listed trading at SG Cowen. "It's nice the Fed went to an easing bias, and it looks like they will do something in January. But that is still a month away."
At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average lost 61.05 points, or 0.6 percent, to 10,584.37. Declines in stocks like SBC Communications and Boeing more than offset gains in drug and oil stocks.
Some traders and stock market analysts expressed concern that the economy might already have stopped growing. But many economists said that had almost certainly not happened yet.
"I think we are a ways from a recession," said Donald J. Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Fleming Asset Management.
Phil Orlando, chief investment strategist at Value Line Asset Management, said he was "astounded" by the market's reaction, given that the Fed was moving to an easier stance. "The market is a screaming buy," he said. "The Fed has to be considering interest rate cuts of between half a percentage point and a full percentage point over the next six months. If you are a contrarian looking at fundamental valuations, you have to be licking your lips."
It has been more than two years since concerns about a slowing economy spurred the Fed to ease monetary policy and lower short-term interest rates.
In a speech earlier this month, the Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan, outlined his worries about the economy but said current economic conditions were much better than the climate in the second half of 1998, when the Russian default and the collapse of the hedge fund Long Term Capital Management caused many analysts to worry that the world financial system was at the brink of disaster. But for a day at least, many stock investors seemed worried that the Fed was moving too slowly to stave off a downturn.
Ciena and Siebel Systems were two of the biggest losers on the Nasdaq. Ciena slumped $23.19, or 24 percent, to $73.19, after it announced that it had agreed to buy the closely held Cyras Systems for about $2 billion in stock. Cyras is a developer of optical switching systems.
And Siebel fell $15, to $63.38, after a Credit Suisse First Boston analyst said growth in its customer-relations software was growing more slowly than investors expected.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasury Prices Fall
By Reuters
Treasury bond prices fell yesterday after the Federal Reserve kept interest rates steady but said it now saw economic risks tilted toward an economic downturn rather than inflation.
 The 10-year Treasury note fell 3/32, to a price of 104 8/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.18 percent from 5.17 percent on Monday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 14/32, to 111 11/32. The bond's yield rose to 5.47 percent from 5.44 percent on Monday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Trading erupted at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange after the Fed announcement. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. C1)
 
Chart: "The Dow Reacts"
After steadily climbing most of the day, the Dow industrials dipped after the Federal Reserve announced it would not change interest rates.
 
Chart shows the Dow's progress for the day.
(Source: Bridge Information Systems)(pg. C1)
 
Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (82%); AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%); ORCL (NASDAQ) (66%); JDU (TSX) (54%); JDSU (NASDAQ) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); VZC (LSE) (54%); VZ (NYSE) (54%); BOE (LSE) (51%); BAB (BRU) (51%); BA (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (82%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (82%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (66%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (66%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (66%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (66%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (66%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM AT&T INC (82%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%); ORACLE CORP (66%); JDS UNIPHASE CORP (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (54%); BOEING CO (51%); CHASE FLEMING ASSET MANAGEMENT (50%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES STOCK INDEXES (98%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); INFLATION (78%); RECESSION (78%); TRENDS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); EXECUTIVES (67%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2000



523 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: On Sales Tour in Canada, Putin Assures Investors of Better Times

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: TORONTO, Dec. 19

 BODY:
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia brought his capitalist road show to Canada's business capital today, promising investor security, low tax rates and renewed economic growth.
"Attracting foreign investment is seen by us as a major factor for integrating Russia in the world economy," Mr. Putin told a luncheon audience of nearly 2,000 people. "We have expanded the legal framework to improve protection of investors' rights." 
 In what may be a dress rehearsal for a visit to the United States next year, Mr. Putin stressed that Russia is getting its macroeconomic house in order. He said the economy is expanding by 7 percent this year, personal income is up by 9.4 percent, a budget surplus has cut inflation and industrial production is up by "15 to 20 percent."
Despite the politeness of his Canadian hosts, Mr. Putin knew he was playing to a wary audience.
Welcoming him to Canada's largest city today, The National Post, a conservative newspaper, published a cartoon showing the president protected by two looming thugs, while an interpreter asks a bespectacled Canadian businessman: "President Putin is asking why you Canadians are so wary of investing in Russia?"
"A lot of people had bad experiences in Russia," said David Mosher, president of High River Gold, a mining company based here that produces gold in Eastern Siberia. "Once people feel there is transparency, that your investment can be protected, that international accounting rules are accepted, the sky is the limit."
Trade between the world's two northern giants has dropped by half since the ruble collapsed in 1998. Last year, Canada's trade with Russia was only $520 million, slightly more than with Rhode Island.
Although Canada has barely one-fifth of Russia's 145 million people, Canada's gross national product of $591 billion is almost double that of Russia's. Russia accounts for two-tenths of 1 percent of Canada's foreign trade and Canada accounts for one-half of 1 percent of foreign investment in Russia.
Good intentions expressed in Canada need follow-through, said Lloyd Axworthy, who worked on promoting trade with Russia until he stepped down as Canada's foreign minister this fall.
"It was a classic problem of pulling a lever, hearing a lot of noise and not having anything come out the other end," Mr. Axworthy said of efforts to cut through bureaucracy and corruption to promote trade.
"It should be a real priority for Canadians and Americans to do as much as they can, but it is going to be very difficult to do until you clear up the various barriers that are there."
Despite the general wariness, Canadian companies are cautiously expanding investments in Russia.
On Monday SNC-Lavalin, a Montreal-based conglomerate, signed a $143 million contract to aid the construction of a rapid-transit system linking Sheremetyevo airport with downtown Moscow. A second contract, worth $1.1 million, was signed by Nascor Inc. and Rostnefteresurs Ltd. of Russia for the Canadian company to provide technology and equipment for prefabricated houses in the Rostov region.
"Things are starting from scratch again," Mr. Mosher said of the gradual return of investment since the collapse of the ruble. "The Russians are building a base for sustainable development. This time it will work." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (58%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (58%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); QUEBEC, CANADA (58%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (58%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INWARD INVESTMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (69%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); CORRUPTION (64%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); MASS TRANSIT CONSTRUCTION (60%); 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2000



524 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases;
From 10 Cents to $100, 75 Straight Years of Giving

BYLINE: By AARON DONOVAN 

 BODY:
Last month The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund received what may be a record-breaking check.
The record was not for the amount given. The check was for $100, a fairly common amount of money for a donor to give. 
 The record it may have broken was for uninterrupted number of years of giving.
On Nov. 24, Virginia Miles, a retired advertising executive with a doctorate in psychology, mailed in her 75th annual contribution to the fund.
Dr. Miles, 84, sent in her first contribution to the Neediest Cases Fund in 1925, when she was 9. It was for 10 cents.
"As soon as I grew up a little and I had a little more money, I gave 25 cents," Dr. Miles said. "Whenever I had a little more, I gave more. I know people give more than my $100, but that's what's comfortable for me."
In fact, Dr. Miles said, her first gift was a greater sacrifice than her most recent, and not just because of inflation. "That 10 cents was my entire worldly wealth," she said.
The year she first gave, The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund conducted its 14th annual appeal for donations. That year, The Times published a report about a woman whose husband, the family's breadwinner, had died on the same day that their baby girl was buried, and who was having a hard time providing for their five other children. Other reports were about a man with partial paralysis who was learning to walk again and a woman with diabetes who had to have two legs amputated.
They were articles that could be written this year.
This year, the fund is conducting its 89th annual appeal. Though times have changed, there are still New Yorkers who do not have enough money to provide their child with a warm blanket, but receive one because of money from the fund. There are still mentally ill adults who find a way to get therapy through the fund's beneficiary agencies. There are still elderly men and women whose isolation is eased a bit by a weekly visit from a social worker who can give them a little extra because of money from the fund.
"Particularly in these times, when obviously corporate profits are rising and things look good for many people, there's a tendency for many people to forget that more than two million people live below the poverty line in New York," said David R. Jones, chief executive of the Community Service Society of New York, "and many of them are children and the elderly."
Dr. Miles said she gave to the fund because she was moved by the disparity she saw between the haves and the have-nots in the world. "I couldn't stand it if I didn't give something to try to ameliorate the suffering I see all around us," she said. "I know that what problems I have are nothing compared to the people I read about in the paper. If everybody threw all their problems into one big pile, I'd happily take my own back."
Though she may be the donor who has given the longest, she is probably not the one who started at the youngest age. Each year the fund receives many gifts from children. Often they give through their schools. In April, the fund received a check for $45 from Kenny Creed's fourth-grade class at the Town School on the Upper East Side. The money was raised when the fourth graders collected pennies, and the members of the class signed a letter to the fund wishing those in need all the best.
"Hello," wrote Kelsey Bess Cohen, when she signed the note. "I hope we helped out with the penny drive and that the $ (money) goes right to work and for a good cause!"
 
HOW TO HELP
 
Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to P.O. Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087, or any of these
organizations:
 
BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.
 
CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.
 
CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.
 
CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station, P.O. Box 4100, New York, N.Y. 10261-4100
 
No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
 
The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.
 
Donations may be made with a credit card online, courtesy of the Qpass digital commerce service, at www.nytimes.com/neediest. Online donors receive a free trial subscription to the crossword puzzle of The New York Times on the Web.
 
Contributions to the fund are deductible on Federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.
 
To delay may mean to forget.
 
Previously recorded -- $3,452,000.49
Recorded yesterday -- $180,832.00
Total -- $3,632,832.49
Last year to date -- $2,912,872.26 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AS SOON AS POSSIBLE INC (57%); COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND POOR POPULATION (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SENIOR CITIZENS (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (71%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (65%); PARALYSIS (64%); DIABETES (50%); 

PERSON: DONOVAN, AARON; MILES, VIRGINIA

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2000



525 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: Plan to Restore River Causes California Furor

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL 

DATELINE: LEWISTON, Calif., Dec. 17

 BODY:
Just upstream from this old mining town, the icy waters of the Trinity River are collected behind Lewiston Dam and split into two unequal parts.
The bigger share disappears into a mountain tunnel and ultimately helps to grow crops and build suburbs in California's arid Central Valley. What remains -- only about one-quarter on average -- follows the Trinity's original looping course to the Pacific Ocean. 
 This arrangement was supposed to make everyone a winner. But in the 37 years since the Trinity River was dammed and diverted, many people say, the inhabitants and wildlife on the short end of the deal have gotten precious little.
Now, in perhaps its last major environmental act, the Clinton administration has settled on a plan to right what officials call a historic mistake. The plan would return much of the Trinity's flow to its original course, in the hope of restoring badly depleted populations of salmon. At the same time, it would take back water bestowed on farmers and power users in the Central Valley since 1963.
For as long as the Trinity has been split, both sides have cast the stakes as monumental. And now, among a flurry of actions intended to help cement President Clinton's environmental legacy, the proposal is being scrutinized with a particular intensity, as evidence of high stakes in the quest to balance the needs of conservation and development.
Under federal law, the incoming Bush administration would not be able to reverse the Clinton administration's decision on the Trinity, which represents the end of 19 years of federal study and is a product of long negotiations with Indian tribes.
But the power to freeze the action does lie in the hands of the federal courts, which are being asked by water and power users in the Central Valley to block the remapping.
"We don't have a high level of confidence that simply reallocating more water is going to restore the fisheries in the Trinity River," said Jason Peltier, who as a representative of Central Valley water users is a major opponent of the new plan.
"On the other hand," he said, "we have absolute certainty that the water and power infrastructure in California is going to be damaged."
In a state in which water and power are often in short supply and where electricity shortages have become chronic, such warnings carry a particular resonance, and added to the political delicacy of the decision, which was in the hands of Bruce Babbitt, the interior secretary.
At least a half-dozen lawmakers, including Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, had sent letters to Mr. Babbitt urging him to pay close heed to the state's water and power needs as part of any decision. And concern that an unpopular outcome might hurt Democrats in California apparently contributed to the administration's decision to schedule the final announcement after the November elections.
The White House is following the same pattern in the case of several other environmental decisions that remain before Mr. Clinton leaves office, including vast public-lands conservation programs criticized in much of the West as a land-grab.
 Mr. Babbitt formally announced the Trinity River plan on Tuesday in Hoopa, Calif., home to the Hoopa Valley tribe, one of several tribes that have suffered from the salmon's decline and that joined several federal and local agencies as parties to the agreement.
In Trinity County, an isolated section of Northern California that is home to just 16,000 people and is mostly composed of national forest, strong sentiments in favor of a return of the river's water to its natural home tend to be mixed with enduring misgivings about those who would make it possible.
"Our problem now is caused by the federal government," said Tom Stokely, a Trinity County planner who says the revival of the Trinity's flow would attract tourists and fishermen in numbers important to the local economy. "I guess the general view is that people want them to fix their error, and then go away."
For the Trinity River, whose headwaters are high in rugged, snowy mountains known as the Trinity Alps, the decision would nearly double the minimum flow of water in the river that continues below the vast Trinity Dam and its smaller companion Lewiston Dam, where the diversion takes place. That water ultimately flows into the sea near the Oregon border, as part of the Klamath River, and a federal environmental impact report concluded that the increase could meet federal goals for restoring coho, chinook and steelhead salmon, whose populations have plummeted to as little as 10 percent of their pre-dam levels.
As for diversions to the Central Valley, the plan would reduce that flow by about one-third, a significant decrease in a stream that flows through tunnels and then into the Sacramento River, ending up hundreds of miles to the south in the irrigation projects.
In making the case for the river's remapping, Mr. Babbitt said in an interview that he regarded the Trinity as a "a poster child of river and fisheries destruction" that stands in dire need of repair.
"We recognize reality; we can't go back to what once was, pre-dam," Mr. Babbitt said. "But it's important that we correct the mistakes of the past." Of the Trinity water that heads into the dams, he said, the new plan would still divert about half to the Central Valley, down from an average of about three-quarters over the years since 1965.
Central Valley interests who would be most affected describe a decrease of that magnitude in more pointed ways. Over all, said Thomas Birmingham, general manager of the Westlands irrigation district, near Fresno, the federal government "has paid little attention to the impact on water users" and the generation of hydroelectric power.
Among water users, Westlands, a 550,000-acre district in Fresno and Kern Counties on the west side of the San Joaquin Valley, has long been among the principal users of water from the Trinity, and it has taken the lead in seeking a federal court order that would block the restoration.
Even over the past decade, said Mr. Peltier, manager of the Central Valley Water Users Association, years of drought have left the federal government unable to deliver more than a fraction of the water for which farmers have contracted. The Trinity provides more than a million acre-feet a year to the Central Valley Project, the federal system of waterways that is the backbone of California agriculture. The river produces a seventh of all the water, and a fourth of the power, of the entire project.
Among power companies, the Sacramento Municipal Utilities District is among those that have also signaled an intention to fight in court the potential loss of hydroelectric generating capacity, saying that it would cost the state's ratepayers at least $25 million a year.
In an effort to ease the impact of the reconstruction plan, the utilities district proposed a compromise that would have reduced by two-thirds the amount of water to be taken away from the Central Valley. That plan would have relied heavily on mechanical means, including bulldozing of banks and channels, to restore lost fish habitats.
The final plan adopted by the administration also calls for using that kind of mechanical tactic, at a total cost of more than $10 million. But given a second chance to redraw the Trinity's course, federal officials suggested that they were leery of any solution that would have left the original channel with anything less than half its water.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Stokely, a Trinity County planner, says residents want federal officials to restore the flow of the Trinity River "and then go away." (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)
 
Map of California highlighting the Trinity River and surrounding areas: A federal plan would return the Trinity River to its original course. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRINITY RIVER; CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: WATER; FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; SALMON; DAMS AND DIKES; LEWISTON DAM RIVERS (90%); FISHES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MOUNTAINS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (75%); FISHERIES (74%); POWER FAILURES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (63%); 

PERSON: JEHL, DOUGLAS; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (76%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2000



526 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Exxon Told to Pay Alabama $3.5 Billion for Natural Gas

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE 

 BODY:
The Exxon Mobil Corporation, the nation's largest oil company, was ordered by an Alabama jury to pay $3.5 billion in damages after it found the company guilty of defrauding the state of royalty payments from natural gas wells situated in state waters.
The verdict is one of the largest ever against a company in a case based solely on accusations of financial harm, and it rivals the $5 billion awarded by a jury in Alaska in 1994 against the company for environmental damage caused by the Exxon-Valdez tanker oil spill. 
 The case against Exxon Mobil was brought last year by the state's Department of Conservation and Natural Resources, which contended that the company had illegally deducted certain expenses from natural gas production royalties paid to the state. The amount of underpayment, the state says, varied from $87 million to $132 million, depending on the accounting.
The award, which came after two hours of deliberation and 11 days of testimony, was immediately denounced as "meritless" by the company, which said it would appeal.
But it won praise from Gov. Donald Siegelman of Alabama. "The verdict is appropriate because it is against a company that attempted to cheat the people of Alabama," he said. "What is even more appalling is that this company stated they believed they could get away with their scheme because the people of Alabama were too inexperienced to understand they were being cheated."
Exxon Mobil said in a statement that it "strongly disagrees" with the verdict. "We have always endeavored to fully comply with the requirements of our leases," it said. "No evidence of fraud was offered at the trial and none was considered by the jury."
Analysts say they expect the verdict to be reduced on appeal. They also say Exxon Mobil, which had revenues of $166 billion last year and has operations throughout the world, has the economic resources to pay a scaled-down award without much financial strain.
"It's a huge, huge verdict," said Thomas Harrison, publisher of Lawyers Weekly USA, a legal industry trade publication. "Will it stand up? No. Verdicts like this are almost always reduced on appeal."
Mr. Harrison, however, said that what was striking about the verdict was that it came over a purely financial issue: whether the state had been adequately compensated for natural gas taken from 13 wells along the Alabama coast. Typically, large jury verdicts over accusations of corporate wrongdoing come over issues of health, as in cases brought against tobacco makers or consumer safety, as in many cases brought against automakers, rather than over what is essentially a contract dispute.
"From a public relations standpoint, this is obviously not good," Mr. Harrison said. "But it's a whole lot better than if they had hurt someone. If you have a huge verdict because some poor people have gotten burned, that has a much more vivid effect than a picture of a gas well."
Mark Flannery, an analyst with Credit Suisse First Boston, a brokerage firm, said that if the $3.5 billion verdict was upheld, it would be a significant event, "even for a company like Exxon. But if the verdict is reduced to an amount in the hundreds of millions of dollars, he said, "at Exxon, no one would notice -- the company is that big."
Mr. Flannery said that from a market standpoint the verdict should have little effect on Exxon Mobil's stock price because "the court appeals will have a long way to run and Exxon will fight this hard." Exxon's stock in after-hours trading barely moved when the verdict was announced, which came a few minutes after the 4 p.m. closing of the New York Stock Exchange.
The jury determined, in siding with the state, that the company owed Alabama $87.7 million in compensatory damages. To come up with the $3.4 billion in punitive damages, the jury accepted the argument of the state that Exxon Mobil's decision to underpay the state could have brought $1 billion to the oil company over the next 30 years and awarded punitive damages at least triple that amount. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (96%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (95%); ALASKA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP EXXON MOBIL CORP (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: EXXON MOBIL CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA; UNITED STATES (95%); ALABAMA, USA (95%); ALASKA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GAS (FUEL); DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ROYALTIES; FINANCES; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (91%); DAMAGES (90%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (90%); VERDICTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL SPILLS (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); ROYALTIES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); LAWYERS (74%); APPEALS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); TOBACCO MFG (69%); TESTIMONY (67%); 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE THOMAS HARRISON (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2000



527 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 35; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: What Tax Cuts Can't Do

BYLINE: By Bruce Bartlett; Bruce Bartlett is a senior fellow at the National Center for Policy Analysis.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
More and more, economists are predicting that the recent economic slowdown will end in a recession early next year. Indeed, the Federal Reserve stated yesterday that weakening growth is now a greater threat to the economy than higher inflation.
President-elect George W. Bush is using the threat of recession to push for his $1.3 trillion tax cut. In doing so, he risks using a bad argument to sell a good policy. 
 During much of the postwar era, economists and policymakers believed that fiscal policy was government's primary tool for countering recessions. The idea was that forecasters would accurately predict business cycles and that timely tax cuts or government spending would offset the effects of recessions. In the early 1960's, when this idea was at its peak, many economists believed that recessions were a thing of the past.
In the 1970's, however, such fine tuning of the economy fell out of favor. It became apparent that economic forecasting was grossly incapable of predicting downturns far enough in advance. And even if such forecasting were possible, the legislative machinery would be too cumbersome to respond appropriately. Indeed, in all seven of the postwar recessions, Congress did not pass legislation in response to the downturn until after it had ended. In some cases, Congress didn't enact anti-recession programs until years after the recession was over. For example, in May 1977, Congress was still passing legislation to deal with the recession that ended in March 1975.
For these and other reasons, economists soured on fiscal policy as a tool to ease economic downturns. While the idea might work in theory, it proved impossible to enact the appropriate programs when they would actually help. Moreover, using fiscal policy to tame recessions often did more harm than good. For instance, if government spending is used to prop up the economy, legislators can easily recast their pork-barrel spending bills as anti-recession medicine -- even though these projects seldom, if ever, are located where unemployment is high or address sectors of the economy that are hurting.
At the same time that fiscal policy was falling out of favor, monetary policy gained greater respect among economists. In an economic downturn, the Federal Reserve can cut interest rates and expand the money supply almost instantaneously. After all, the Federal Open Market Committee meets every six weeks as a matter of course to review economic conditions and take action if necessary. And no Congressional debate is required.
In contrast, before Mr. Bush's tax cut can be enacted, it must be reviewed by lawyers and economists at the Treasury Department. Economic assumptions must be updated and new revenue projections made. The divided Congress is unlikely to pass this big tax bill quickly -- indeed, there is already disagreement on how to proceed. And the parts of Mr. Bush's plan that are most ripe for passage, like marriage penalty relief, are not big enough to have much effect. It is hard to see how the tax cut would have much impact on the economy before mid-year, even if made retroactive. By that time, we would probably be past the slowdown.
There is a good case to be made for a big tax cut, and Mr. Bush made it when first putting forward his tax plan a year ago, long before there were any signs of a recession. Taxes are too high, and certain features of the tax code, like the marriage penalty, need to be fixed. But Mr. Bush should not argue that his tax cut will save the economy from a recession. Such a tactic could undermine his credibility and corrode his relationship with the Federal Reserve. Like it or not, only the Fed can save us from a recession.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Luba Lukova)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (77%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); RECESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); INFLATION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); POLITICAL DEBATES (66%); INTEREST RATES (60%); MARRIAGE (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); BARTLETT, BRUCE GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2000



528 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

While Not Changing Rates, Fed Is Wary of Downturn
The Federal Reserve said that it was shifting its sights from fighting inflation to steering the economy away from a possible recession, emphasizing in blunt language problems that could derail the decade-long expansion.
The central bank left interest rates unchanged, but made clear it is ready to cut rates if the slowdown that has become increasingly evident in recent weeks appears to be developing into a full-fledged downturn. Page A1. 

Wall Street Firms Post Lower Profit
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter and Goldman Sachs reported lower fourth-quarter earnings, attributing the decline to the slumping financial markets. Morgan Stanley fell short of forecasts while Goldman beat estimates. C3.
 
SBC Cuts Profit and Sales Forecast
SBC Communications, the local telephone giant, lowered its forecasts for sales and earnings next year in a sign of how the slowing economy is beginning to affect large telecommunications companies. Instead of percentage growth in earnings per share in the midteens, SBC now expects per-share earnings to increase 11 percent to 14 percent next year. And sales, instead of climbing 10 percent, are expected to rise 8 percent to 9 percent. Shares of SBC fell $6.75, to $46.56. C4.
 
New Rules for Federal Contracts
The Clinton administration will issue new rules that aim to bar awarding federal contracts to companies with a record of breaking labor and environmental laws. Critics called them a parting gift to organized labor. A26.
 
Exxon Ordered to Pay $3.5 Billion
Exxon Mobil, the nation's largest oil company, was ordered by an Alabama jury to pay $3.5 billion in damages after it found the company guilty of defrauding the state of royalty payments from natural gas wells in state waters. The verdict is one of the largest ever against a company in a case based solely on accusations of financial harm. A23.
 
Energy Agenda of President-Elect
Industry officials and advisers to the president-elect expect a top priority will be to open up federal land in the lower 48 states for energy production, especially of natural gas. A31.
 
Airbus Approves New Jumbo Jet
Airbus formally approved a gigantic double-decker jumbo jet to be known as the A380. It is planned for use on long-distance routes like those between Asia and Europe or the United States. World Business, Section W.
 
Latching On to the Future
Abraham Peled, chief executive of the NDS Group of London, was born in Communist Romania and moved to Israel at 13. "Coming to a new place, getting to know different people and having to deal with difficult situations is something that builds self-confidence," he said. When the time came to pick a subject to study, he said he chose electronics because "people considered it the future." The Boss. C4.
 
MP3.com Faces New Copyright Suit
MP3.com, which settled its legal troubles with the major record labels, has been accused of copyright infringement again, this time by Emusic.com and six partner labels. C4.
 
Bankruptcy as the Lesser of Evils
Armstrong Holdings, a manufacturer of floor and ceiling materials, hired Michael D. Lockhart as chief executive in August to make a wrenching decision. He could either accept the risk of a slow death by litigation or suffer the stigma of seeking relief in bankruptcy court. He chose the latter. C4.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart tracks SBC Communitcations share prices for the week.
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,584.37 down 61.05
Nasdaq composite -- 2,511.71 down 112.81
10-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.18% up 0.01
The euro -- $0.8934 Unch.
The dollar -- 112.40 yen up 0.33
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows "Housing Constuction"
November figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.
Expected: +0.5%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: T (NYSE) (94%); GS (NYSE) (90%); XOM (NYSE) (67%); MS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (67%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (67%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (50%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (94%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (67%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); AIRBUS SAS (52%); NDS GROUP LTD (51%); CBS INTERACTIVE INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); NATURAL GAS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); SALES PROJECTIONS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); ROYALTIES (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (73%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (70%); VERDICTS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); DAMAGES (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (65%); CONTRACT AWARDS (65%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (63%); COPYRIGHT (63%); EXECUTIVES (62%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (62%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2000



529 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: Tough Sanctions Imposed on Taliban Government Split U.N.

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Dec. 19

 BODY:
Led by the United States and Russia, the Security Council imposed harsh new sanctions on the Taliban government of Afghanistan today, leaving the United Nations profoundly split over the human and political damage the measures could inflict on one of the world's poorest nations.
The vote in the 15-member Council was 13 for the embargo, with China and Malaysia abstaining. 
 At a year-end news conference, Secretary General Kofi Annan expressed his barely concealed displeasure at the move, which was also opposed by his special envoy trying to start peace negotiations between the Taliban and the remnants of an opposition army fighting in a corner of the country. United Nations relief officials working in Afghanistan have been unusually public in their criticism. Private agencies also lobbied the Council against taking this step. "It is not going to facilitate our peace efforts, nor is it going to facilitate our humanitarian work," Mr. Annan said of the Security Council action. "I think we had given adequate indications of that to the Council. But the decision belongs to the Council and of course, once they take the decision, we have to adapt and take the necessary measures that are required."
Today, the United Nations removed all its remaining relief workers from the country, fearing a backlash from the Taliban, who will be almost completely isolated diplomatically when the resolution takes effect in 30 days, a grace period during which the Taliban could avoid sanctions by meeting the Council's demands. Air links will be cut and an arms and military training embargo will be imposed only on the Taliban, not their armed opposition, which is supplied by Russia, Iran and India. All assets belonging to Osama bin Laden, who is thought to be living in Afghanistan, will be ordered frozen around the world.
The United States has been demanding Mr. bin Laden's expulsion from Afghanistan to stand trial for masterminding explosions at American Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998. The new sanctions imposed today are linked to the refusal of the Taliban to meet that demand, made in a first round of sanctions a year ago. For Russia, the Taliban are assumed to be behind an Islamic rebellion in Chechnya.
Russian and American pressure on Security Council members and some officials in the United Nations secretariat has been intense, diplomats said. Two weeks ago, as the sanctions resolution was circulating, the Russian representative complained to Deputy Secretary General Louise Frechette that the coordinator of relief work in Afghanistan, Erick de Mul of the Netherlands, was undermining the anti-Taliban campaign by drawing attention to what he believed would be the adverse effects of the tightened embargo on ordinary Afghans, already among the poorest people in the world.
United Nations officials have warned that as many as a million Afghans could face starvation in coming months because of a drought and continued civil war.
Ambassador Nancy Soderberg, speaking for the United States today, said that the Security Council was taking "a strong stand against terrorism." She described Mr. bin Laden as "the world's most wanted terrorist."
"The Taliban cannot continue to flout the will of the international community and support and shelter terrorists without repercussions," she said in the Council following the vote. "As long as the Taliban continues to harbor terrorists, in particular Osama bin Laden, and to promote terrorism, it remains a threat to international peace and security.
Sergey Lavrov, the Russian ambassador, said that the one-sided nature of the sanctions was fully justified. "It is the Taliban who has provided their territory for the use of terrorists and open support for the Chechen, Uzbek, Tajik, Uighur and other extremists," he said.
Barnett Rubin, director of the Center for International Cooperation at New York University and an expert on Afghanistan and Central Asia, characterized the Council resolution today as an expression of Russian and American interests that bears little relevance to Afghanistan's real problems.
"Certainly there is a legitimate concern about Osama bin Laden and other training camps," Mr. Rubin said in an interview. "There is a legitimate concern not only about attacks on United States forces but also about cross-border attacks by extremist groups into Central Asia -- although most of those attacks actually come from bases in Tajikistan, which is controlled by the Russian Army.
"But I think we have to ask ourselves," he said, "What is the strategic goal of international action in Afghanistan, bearing in mind that this is a country that has had 21 years of war, that has which has the highest rates of infant, child and maternal mortality, the lowest life expectancy, the lowest literacy rate and the highest rate of hunger -- tied with Somalia -- in the world.
"Even sanctions that are carefully targeted -- and these are intended to be -- have some negative impact on civilian populations," Mr. Rubin said, "and the civilian population in Afghanistan does not have a margin for survival."
Human Rights Watch petitioned the Security Council on Friday not to impose a one-sided arms embargo when both sides in the lingering Afghan civil war are guilty of abuses. While the letter, signed by Human Rights Watch's executive director, Kenneth Roth, and its United Nations representative, Joanna Weschler, accused the Taliban of scorched-earth policies, attacks on ethnic minorities, particularly the Hazara, and continuing abuses against women. The letter also mentioned atrocities committed by the alliance of former mujahedeen armies now fighting the Taliban in a pocket of northeastern Afghanistan.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A United Nations worker waving as she and five international workers left Kabul for Pakistan yesterday. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); AFGHANISTAN (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); KENYA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

CITY: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS; SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS; SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN; RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); AFGHANISTAN (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); KENYA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM; FOREIGN AID UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (93%); TALIBAN (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); TERRORISM (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); PEACE PROCESS (76%); ARMIES (76%); CIVIL WAR (75%); DISASTER RELIEF (74%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); STARVATION (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); FOOD CHARITIES (70%); MILITARY TRAINING (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); FINES & PENALTIES (58%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN); BIN LADEN, OSAMA OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2000



530 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Real Estate;
As Demand Grows, an Old Project Is Dusted Off

BYLINE: By SANA SIWOLOP 

 BODY:
The foundation of the three-story building in Armonk, N.Y., was laid a decade ago, when the market in Westchester County was vastly different, before a recession killed the appetite for speculative office projects.
Now the developer has decided to resume construction next spring on the building, at 90 Business Park Drive, with completion tentatively set for the end of 2001. Real estate specialists say it would be the first speculative multitenant office building built in Westchester in a decade. 
 The property is the project of Edward A. Lashins, a developer based in Armonk who, like a number of other developers, spent much of the mid-1980's building offices in the county on speculation, without having tenants lined up.
It is part of the 80-acre Westchester Business Park, which is home to nine buildings. In the 1970's, Mr. Lashins was an early developer of the park, where he owns two buildings, at 80 and 84 Business Park Drive. When he started this third building, the market was already souring, but the existing foundation gave him the option to proceed when the market turned around, without seeking new approvals.
Mr. Lashins said that a number of events in the past year convinced him that it was time to finish the building. For one, he said, his firm had turned away about 20 potential tenants from the two existing buildings because there was no space.
Still, the "pivotal event" that finally convinced Mr. Lashins to dust off his earlier project occurred about a year ago. Two tenants who were next door to each other at 84 Business Park Drive both said that they would have to move if they could not expand. Even though the additional space the tenants required was small -- roughly 3,000 square feet -- Mr. Lashins lost one of the tenants.
"That hurt, because these had both been very good tenants," he said. "It convinced me that it was time to build a new building."
Mr. Lashins said that while the area around Armonk and Interstate 684 was booming, there was very little commercially zoned land in the area. Tenants might be able to move in as early as late next year.
The current goal is to feature flexible layout options for tenants looking for space of as little as 5,000 square feet, Mr. Lashins said. He added that although the building would be able to accommodate one large tenant, demand for office space in Westchester now favored catering to small and mid-sized companies.
Salvatore J. Carrera, the director of economic development and real estate for Westchester County, agreed. "This building fits in beautifully with what the current market needs are," he said. "Most of the leases that have been signed in the county over the past 12 months have been for spaces that are between 20,000 and 80,000 square feet."
Mr. Carrera added that in the last 18 months, the vacancy rate of office buildings in Westchester has slid to 15 percent from 30 percent.
The interest in smaller space has not escaped the attention of other Westchester developers. Louis Dreyfus Property Group, for example, recently revived plans it had made a decade ago to add a new office building at the company's Sutton Park office complex in Valhalla. Although plans for the three-story building, Sutton Park South, had originally called for 120,000 square feet of space, Louis Dreyfus has since scaled them back to 74,000 square feet.
"By going to a smaller building, we can cater to smaller tenants, as well as help them save $3 to $4" per square foot in annual rent, said David Friedman, a regional vice president for Louis Dreyfus in its Stamford office. He added that his firm would like to see Sutton Park South cater to tenants looking for between 2,000 and 25,000 square feet of space.
In order to accommodate smaller tenants at 90 Business Park Drive, Mr. Lashins plans to fit each 37,000-square-foot floor of his new building with two separate heating and cooling systems so that every 18,000 square feet of space would have its own system. Other plans for the building, which is less than a two-minute drive from Westchester County Airport, include fitting it with high-speed Internet access, a reflective glass facade, a 30-foot-high glass sky-lit lobby, a cafeteria, a 1,000 to 2,000-square-foot tenants-only fitness center, and, possibly, a day-care center.
Mr. Lashins said he hoped that the reflective glass on the outside of his building would give it plenty of visibility, especially since the building would sit next to the intersection of Route 22 and Interstate 684, as well as to Exit 3 off I-684.
So far, interest in the proposed property has been sizable, said Frank Tomasulo, a vice president in the Stamford office of CB Richard Ellis, the property's marketing agent.
"Tenant interest has been quite diverse, from those looking for 5,000 square feet to more than 50,000 square feet," as well as companies in a range of industries, Mr. Tomasulo said. He added that his firm has also seen interest from the Manhattan office community.
Mr. Tomasulo is encouraged by the diversity. "We're looking to create a good mix of tenants at this building," he said, adding that the average size of an office deal in Westchester County is still under 10,000 square feet.
At Louis Dreyfus Property Group, Mr. Friedman said that his company doesn't plan to start building Sutton Park South -- which still needs to be approved by the Town of Mount Pleasant -- until it has already signed up tenants for at least 25,000 square feet of space.
"We like to look for pre-leasing," Mr. Friedman said. But, he quickly added: "That doesn't mean that a speculative building in today's market wouldn't be successful. We think it would be."
So does Mr. Lashins. "This is the last large site left at the business park," he said. "We deliberately saved the best for last." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SUTTON PARK (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARMONK (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (92%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); CHARITIES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); 

PERSON: SIWOLOP, SANA; LASHINS, EDWARD A EDWARD A LASHINS (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2000



531 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: FED, SHIFTING GOAL, STRESSES FIGHTING RISK OF RECESSION

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 19

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve said today that it was shifting its sights from fighting inflation to steering the economy away from a possible recession, emphasizing in blunt language a number of problems that could derail the decade-long expansion.
The Fed left interest rates unchanged but made clear it was ready to cut rates if the slowdown that has become increasingly evident in recent weeks appears to be developing into a full-fledged downturn. 
 In holding rates steady, the Federal Reserve disappointed Wall Street. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 61.05 points, to 10,584.37, after being up as much as 139 points before the announcement. The Nasdaq composite index fell 112.81 points, to 2,511.71, its lowest level since August 1999. Page C1.
The Fed did not use the word recession in describing its decision, and it indicated that it still saw some risk of inflation, particularly from higher oil and natural gas prices.
The policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee listed a series of weaknesses and potential problems that could turn the slowdown, which it helped bring about through a series of rate increases, into the first recession since early in the 1990's.
The Fed is scheduled to meet next on Jan. 30 and 31, and analysts said there is a good chance of a rate cut then, especially if there are further signs that the economy is weakening.
"The purpose of the announcement today was to assure businesses and households that the Fed is not blind to the evidence of and concern over the slowing economy," said Joel Prakken, an economist at Macroeconomic Advisors in St. Louis. "They're signaling that should it become necessary to do so, they are prepared to lower interest rates."
In disclosing its decision, the Fed emphasized how rapidly economic conditions had deteriorated.
"The drag on demand and profits from rising energy prices, as well as eroding consumer confidence, reports of substantial shortfalls in sales and earnings and stress in some segments of the financial markets suggest that economic activity may be slowing further," the committee said in a statement issued about 2:15 p.m.
"While some inflation risks persist, they are diminished by the more moderate pace of economic activity and by the absence of any indication that longer-term inflation expectations have increased," the committee said.
Using words that signaled the formal adoption of a presumption that the Fed would soon have to consider cutting rates -- a 180-degree turnabout from its previous position -- the committee said it "believes that the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future."
Although the Fed has been trying for a year and a half to cool down what had been an overheated economy, the abruptness of the slowdown over the last month or so has clearly caught it by surprise.
In its report on conditions in the Federal Reserve districts earlier this month, the Fed noted no signs of real trouble, saying only that some regions were reporting slower growth and others moderate but steady growth. And at its last meeting, on Nov. 15, the Fed concluded that "the risks continue to be weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate heightened inflation pressures."
The sharp deceleration has left Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, and his colleagues approaching circumstances that give central bankers nightmares: realizing that they may have raised rates too much, requiring them to do a quick about-face in hopes of averting a stall that would drive up unemployment, sink the stock market and set off finger pointing about who is to blame.
What is particularly inducing fear for the Fed is the possibility, remote at this point but still real, that it could face an upturn in inflation because of higher energy costs and low unemployment at the same time growth slows to a crawl or goes into reverse.
President-elect George W. Bush has been warning for the last two weeks that there may be a downturn just ahead, and that his proposal for a $1.3 trillion tax cut over the next decade is just the prescription for a faltering economy. Mr. Bush and his team have cited rising energy prices in particular as a cause for concern.
In a speech two weeks ago, Mr. Greenspan alerted investors that he was aware of the risks to the economy, especially since the bond market was effectively cutting off credit to all but the strongest of borrowers and banks were tightening their lending standards.
A report in The Wall Street Journal on Monday suggesting that the Fed would seriously consider a rate cut today generated hope among investors who see a declining interest rate environment as the best tonic for the pessimism that has gripped the markets in recent weeks.
While the Fed opted to hold rates steady, the concerned tone of its statement suggested that it was intent on sending as clear a signal as it could, short of cutting rates, about the risks to the economy.
"They went as far as they could with words but stopped short of action," said Martin A. Regalia, chief economist at the United States Chamber of Commerce.
The Fed raised its benchmark federal funds target rate 1.75 percentage points, to 6.5 percent, in six steps between June 1999 and May of this year. It has left the rate unchanged since then.
The rate increases were intended to slow the growth in economic output from above 5 percent a year, well beyond what most economists think is sustainable over the long run without igniting inflation, to something closer to 3 percent.
Growth now appears to be running about 2.5 percent, a subdued but still healthy rate. As the Fed suggested today, however, there are plenty of reasons to think that the growth rate could fall further.
Perhaps more important, confidence among both investors and consumers appears to be deteriorating. If left unchecked, that could lead to more concrete economic problems.
"If psychology goes decidedly south, the real numbers will follow," Mr. Regalia said. "That's what the Fed was trying to address, and it's why they went from an anti-inflation bias to a progrowth bias without a stop at neutral."
But if the Fed wants to avert a meltdown in the markets, it is clearly not unhappy to see the speculative froth skimmed off stock prices. Indeed, some Fed officials may not be particularly displeased with where the economy is now, given their desire to make sure that inflationary forces do not get a toehold.
Consumer price inflation by some measures has been creeping up. Average hourly earnings have been accelerating. The sharp rise in natural gas prices will put pressure on both businesses and consumers.
"On the one hand, growth has slowed, maybe more sharply than most were expecting, and the economy in those circumstances is vulnerable to recession," Mr. Prakken said. "On the other hand, it's foolish to argue that the inflation risks have evaporated."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan has signaled he is aware of risks to the economy. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM DOW JONES & CO INC (57%); DOW JONES & CO INC (57%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; SALES; BANKS AND BANKING ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); RECESSION (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (68%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (68%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2000



532 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-22
 
Sharon Is Likud's Pick For Prime Minister of Israel
Ariel Sharon became the Likud Party's nominee for prime minister after Benjamin Netanyahu withdrew his candidacy. Mr. Sharon will face Prime Minister Ehud Barak in the Feb. 6 election. A3
 
Few Fleeing Mexican Volcano
Scientists and the Mexican government continued to warn that there could be a full-blown eruption from the Popocatepetl volcano, which has erupted in what is believed to be its biggest bang in more than a millennium. People in the surrounding area have largely refused to evacuate, revering the volcano as a more benevolent force than their government. A22 

Legal Victory for Pinochet
A Chilean court ruled that General Augusto Pinochet should be examined in a military hospital, where the staff is thought to be sympathetic to his plight, before facing a trial on charges of kidnapping and murder. Under Chilean law, General Pinochet cannot be tried if he is declared mentally incompetent. A22
 
Debate Over North Korea
The Clinton administration is deciding whether to push ahead toward an agreement with North Korea that would shut down its missile program, which is regarded as a potential threat to the United States. President Clinton briefed President-elect George W. Bush on the talks. A20
 
Indian Government Censured
The upper house of the Indian Parliament censured the Hindu-nationalist-led government for refusing to dismiss three cabinet ministers who were charged in the demolition of a mosque that led to Hindu-Muslim riots eight years ago. A13
 
U.N. Sanctions on Afghanistan
The United Nations Security Council, in a move led by the United States and Russia, imposed new sanctions on the Taliban government of Afghanistan. The U.N. is divided over the damage the measures could inflict on one of the world's poorest nations. A20
 
World Briefing A14
 
NATIONAL A23-32
 
Bush Visits His New Home
To Talk Shop With Clinton
President-elect George W. Bush with met President Clinton and Vice President Al Gore as part of his transition efforts. Mr. Bush, who talked about foreign policy with Mr. Clinton, plans to announce the selection of Donald L. Evans, his campaign chairman, as secretary of commerce, and Mel Martinez, the chief executive of Orange County, Fla., as secretary of housing and urban development. A1
 
Florida's Political Fallout
A Republican-led group is seeking to unseat three Florida Supreme Court justices who ruled in favor of hand recounts sought by Mr. Gore. A31
 
New Rules for Medical Privacy
President Clinton will issue new rules today to protect the privacy of medical records by requiring doctors and hospitals to get consent from patients before disclosing health information. A1
 
A Clinton Gift to Labor
The Clinton administration will issue new regulations today that aim to bar awarding federal contracts to any company with a record of breaking labor, environmental or other laws. Outraged business groups vowed to try to get Mr. Bush or Congress to overturn the regulations. A26
 
Large Award in Royalties Case
Exxon Mobil, the nation's largest oil company, was ordered by an Alabama jury to pay $3.5 billion in damages after it found the company guilty of defrauding the state of royalty payments from natural gas wells located in state waters. A23
 
Plan Offered to Aid Salmon
The Clinton administration has settled on a far-reaching and controversial plan to return much of the flow of California's Trinity River to its original waterway, a looping path to the Pacific, in the hope of restoring depleted populations of salmon. A23
 
Little Legal Aid for Indigents
Texas spends only $4.65 per capita for the defense of poor people charged with crimes, less than all but two other states, according to a report by a nonpartisan foundation. Texas is also the only large state that has no system of organized public defenders in its big cities. A31
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
5 Officers Convicted In Police Custody Beating
Five Orange, N.J., police officers were convicted in federal court in Newark for the beating and pepper spraying of an innocent man who died in police custody during a mistake-riddled investigation into the shooting death of a female police officer. The jury found that the officers conspired to violate the civil rights of the man, Earl Faison. Prosecutors contended that Mr. Faison was attacked by vengeful officers convinced that he had killed Officer Joyce Carnegie in April 1999. A1
 
Limits on Cell Phones Sought
Mayor Giuliani and Peter F. Vallone, the City Council speaker, called for restrictions on the use of cell phones by drivers in the city. A proposed bill would require that drivers use headsets or earpieces. B3
 
Sharpton Looks Ahead
The Rev. Al Sharpton said that he would form an exploratory committee for a possible campaign for mayor. He also plans to raise money for candidates running for office in next year's municipal elections. B1
 
Neediest Cases B5
 
DINING F1-14
 
ARTS E1-14
 
Carnegie Hall Director Quits
The executive director of Carnegie Hall, Franz Xaver Ohnesorg, announced his resignation to take a top post at the Berlin Philharmonic. A1
 
EDUCATION B9
 
New Strategy for Vouchers
After defeats at the polls and in the courts, groups favoring school vouchers are trying to reposition themselves. They are avoiding the use of the term vouchers and framing their cause as one of choice. A1
 
Levy Stresses English Skills
Schools Chancellor Harold O. Levy proposed that schools be required to move students with limited English skills into mainstream English classes within three years. B1
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-12
 
No Change for Interest Rates
The Federal Reserve said it was shifting its sights from fighting inflation to steering the economy away from a possible recession. The central bank left interest rates unchanged, but made clear it was ready to cut rates if it saw signs of a full-fledged downturn. A1
 
Stock Prices Decline
Apparently disappointed that the Federal Reserve did not cut short-term interest rates immediately, investors drove down stock prices. The afternoon selling pushed the Standard & Poor's 500 index and the Nasdaq composite index down to their lowest closing levels of the year. C1
 
S.E.C. Faults Firms on Options
Brokerage firms have pocketed millions of dollars from the new competitive arrangement in the trading of stock options, while passing on almost none of the money to customers, the Securities and Exchange Commission concluded in a study. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
World Business W1
 
SPORTS D1-10
 
OBITUARIES A33
 
EDITORIAL A34-35
 
Editorials: When the economy slows; another fatal Osprey crash; Verlyn Klinkenborg on James Joyce.
 
Columns: Maureen Dowd.
 
Crossword E12
TV Listings E13
Public Lives B2
Weather D9
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); ISRAEL (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); CHILE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); INDIA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: UPPER ROOM (54%); LIKUD PARTY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIKUD PARTY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); ISRAEL (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); CHILE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); INDIA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (92%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); MEDICAL RECORDS (88%); PATIENT PRIVACY (83%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); PATIENT CONSENT (75%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); HOSPITALS (74%); TALIBAN (74%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (74%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); FINES & PENALTIES (69%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (69%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (68%); MURDER (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (66%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (65%); FOREIGN POLICY (65%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (64%); RIOTS (64%); CONTRACT AWARDS (60%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (52%); CITIES (50%); HUMAN SUBJECTS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (73%); EHUD BARAK (58%); AL GORE (57%); MEL MARTINEZ (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2000



533 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: THE 43rd PRESIDENT: THE PRESIDENT-ELECT;
A 'Humbled' Bush Visits His New Home

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 19

 BODY:
President-elect George W. Bush today carried out a core ritual of the transition of power, calling in person on the chief executive he will succeed and later on the candidate he defeated.
Mr. Bush met for nearly two hours at the White House with President Clinton, almost all of it spent discussing foreign policy, including the possibility of Mr. Clinton's visiting North Korea before the end of his term if a deal to limit that nation's missile program can be reached. 
 First the two men held a brief exchange with reporters in which Mr. Clinton said he did not think the economy would lapse into a recession, challenging the worries voiced in recent days by his guest. Mr. Bush said he was "humbled and honored" to be in the Oval Office, where his father served, and looked forward to Mr. Clinton's advice.
Mr. Bush had in fact campaigned against both Mr. Clinton, promising repeatedly to "restore honor and dignity to the White House," and Vice President Al Gore, whom he later met for less than 20 minutes at another house where his parents had lived in Washington, the official vice-presidential residence at the Naval Observatory.
Mr. Bush said nothing at all to reporters there, and Mr. Gore said simply that "we're going to have a private discussion." The vice president's press aide, Jim Kennedy, later called the meeting "cordial" and said Mr. Gore viewed it as a chance to "demonstrate that this is a country where we put aside our differences after a long and difficult campaign and join together in support of the person who will be the next president."
Mr. Bush then left the capital in a snowstorm to return to Austin, where on Wednesday he plans to announce the selection of his longtime friend and campaign chairman, Donald L. Evans, as secretary of commerce.
The Bush advisers who confirmed the long-expected choice of Mr. Evans also said Mel Martinez, a Cuban refugee who is chairman of Orange County, Fla. -- that is, the chief executive of county government -- had been chosen to be secretary of housing and urban development. The announcement of Mr. Martinez's selection is also possible on Wednesday, as are others, perhaps including that of Gov. Christie Whitman of New Jersey as administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
Mr. Bush will also move ahead this week on three policy fronts, holding meetings in Texas on how to involve religious organizations in more government programs for the needy, which was the theme of his first policy speech during the presidential campaign; on education legislation, which he has said will be the first measure he sends to Congress; and on agriculture.
Ari Fleischer, the Bush spokesman who announced those meetings, said the education discussions were intended to produce "a package that we can enact into law."
Mr. Fleischer said Mr. Bush would meet in Austin on Thursday morning "with the bipartisan leaders of the education committees" of Congress. But the partial list of participants he released, though including Republicans who hold or are contending for leadership, named no such Democrats.
For example, the chairman of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, James M. Jeffords, Republican of Vermont,was invited. But a spokesman for the committee's senior Democrat, Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, said he had not been asked.
Invitations were extended to two Democratic senators, Evan Bayh of Indiana and Zell Miller of Georgia, former governors who served simultaneously in that role with Mr. Bush. Mr. Bayh was a leader last year in an unsuccessful effort to strike a compromise on federal aid to schools in poor areas, a measure that got 13 Democratic votes but no support from Republicans, who felt it did not go far enough toward block grants.
From the House, the three Republican contenders for chairmanship of the Committee on Education and the Workforce -- Representatives Tom Petri of Wisconsin, John A. Boehner of Ohio and Peter Hoekstra of Michigan -- will attend. But George Miller of California, the committee's senior Democrat, was not asked, according to his spokesman, Daniel Weiss. Two other, more centrist Democrats on the committee, Representatives Tim Roemer of Indiana and Robert E. Andrews of New Jersey, will be going.
Neither Senator Kennedy nor Congressman Miller offered any complaints, but Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, the second-ranking Democrat on the Senate committee, said it was a mistake for Mr. Bush not to invite Mr. Kennedy.
"I applaud him for holding a meeting -- a positive gesture, and I commend him for it," Mr. Dodd said. "But the gesture is incomplete if you're not going to have a full table. It is not a good first signal."
The Bush camp had no comment on how various participants had been chosen.
This meeting with lawmakers on Thursday morning will be followed, Mr. Fleischer said, by a bipartisan meeting that afternoon "with a group of Latino leaders," also to talk about education. Mr. Fleischer said that "we may, or may not," have a choice for secretary of education by then.
On Wednesday afternoon, after the announcement of Mr. Evans as commerce secretary, Mr. Bush will meet with a group of religious leaders and former Mayor Steve Goldsmith of Indianapolis. Mr. Fleischer said that federal law now imposed severe limits on the aid programs in which "faith-based organizations" can participate and that Mr. Bush wanted to remove those barriers and involve "the armies of compassion" in helping the needy. He said that "it's a wonderful way to help people who need a helping hand in America."
Then on Friday, Mr. Fleischer said, leaders from all sectors of the farm economy will meet in Texas with Mr. Bush.
For the president-elect, the visit to the White House today stirred memories. As he entered the building, he greeted a group of permanent staff members, including ushers and doctors, who were there when his father was president, from 1989 to 1993.
Because of the Florida election disputes, the meeting today, six weeks after Election Day, came much later than the usual meeting between a departing president and the president-elect.
When Mr. Clinton called on President George Bush on Nov. 18, 1992, it was just two weeks past Election Day. That meeting itself apparently went smoothly -- the president-elect called it "terrific" -- although staff members of the two camps were hardly cordial toward each other, with Bush aides shooing reporters when Dee Dee Myers, Mr. Clinton's press secretary, tried to talk to them.
Television cameras then were allowed to record only the arrival. Today they were present as the two leaders sat before the unlighted fireplace in the Oval Office.
Dealing with North Korea, a topic that came up at length in the later private meeting along with Russia, China and the Middle East, Mr. Clinton told reporters: "When I had this meeting eight years ago with the president-elect's father, he told me that the biggest problem we were facing was the nuclear program in North Korea, and we were able to build on the work they had done and put an end to that. And now the big problem there is the missile program. We may have a chance to put an end to that, and if we can, I think we should."
Asked what he would tell Mr. Bush was now the greatest problem facing the nation, Mr. Clinton said: "I want to talk to him, not you. He can talk about that."
Then the president added, "I waited eight years to say that."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: President-elect George W. Bush visited President Clinton at the White House yesterday and then met briefly with Vice President Al Gore. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times); (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A1); While George W. Bush and Al Gore met inside the vice president's residence, aides of both men mingled outside. Among them were Andrew H. Card Jr. (carrying documents), who will be White House chief of staff, and Karen P. Hughes (with her son), counselor to the new president.; George W. Bush and President Clinton met for nearly two hours in the office that Mr. Bush's father occupied just eight years ago. (Photographs by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY; HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER (52%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY; HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION US PRESIDENTS (91%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); POLITICS (79%); COUNTIES (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (74%); RELIGION (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (65%); CITIES (60%); EDUCATION LAW (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (57%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (56%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLYMER, ADAM; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); MARTINEZ, MEL; EVANS, DONALD L BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (94%); AL GORE (90%); MEL MARTINEZ (79%); JAMES KENNEDY (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2000



534 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: THE 43rd PRESIDENT: THE NOMINEES;
On Economic Affairs, Bush's Man for Commerce Dept. Is His First Pick (and Easiest)

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 19

 BODY:
President-elect George W. Bush's decision to name Donald L. Evans, his campaign chairman and longtime friend, as secretary of commerce is his first and perhaps easiest step in assembling an economic team from a swirl of competing candidates who have less binding ties to Mr. Bush.
The appointment, which Republican officials said would be announced Wednesday, would give Mr. Evans, a 54-year-old oil industry executive, control of 31,000 employees in a sprawling government bureaucracy that is responsible for promoting trade, counting the number of Americans, measuring the economy, and approving patents. 
 It would also be a prominent prize for Mr. Evans, who raised a record $100 million for Mr. Bush's campaign but whose public policy experience is limited to service on the University of Texas board of regents, a position Mr. Bush named him to after Mr. Evans helped lead previous Bush campaign efforts.
Mr. Evans's appointment is expected to be the first major economic appointment by Mr. Bush, who has been reviewing candidates for secretary of the treasury and the United States trade representative along with his White House economic staff for several weeks.
Paul H. O'Neill, who is retiring this month as chairman of Alcoa, is considered by some Bush supporters to be the leading candidate for the Treasury post. Mr. O'Neill served in the Office of Management and Budget in the Nixon and Ford administrations before turning to the private sector, where he was credited with reviving Alcoa, the aluminum manufacturer.
People who know Mr. O'Neill described him as an effective public servant and a successful chief executive, a record of achievement in both public and private sectors that appealed especially to Dick Cheney, the vice president-elect who knew Mr. O'Neill from when they both worked for President Gerald R. Ford.
Mr. O'Neill has advised the last three presidents on public policy issues. He served on commissions set up by President George Bush to study education and social security and discussed environmental policy with President Clinton.
His comments on environmental issues have not endeared him to conservatives.
Mr. O'Neill participated in at least two sessions with President Clinton as part of a corporate advisory body convened to discuss global warming, Clinton administration officials said.
Participants in one 1997 meeting described Mr. O'Neill as more willing to consider steps to tackle global warming than most of his corporate counterparts, but more skeptical about global-warming trends than some Clinton administration officials.
At a session on global warming held by the American Enterprise Institute, Mr. O'Neill described having had a debate with Jane Fonda, the actress, about whether industrialists could be friends of the environment. He said they could, Mr. O'Neill told participants.
Speaking at a Clinton economic summit meeting in 1992, Mr. O'Neill strongly favored taxing gasoline as a way of promoting environmentally sustainable economic development.
"It certainly has been clear to me, and has been for a long time, that we need a gasoline tax," he said, a comment that was reprinted in today's issue of The Wall Street Journal.
The sentiment, which echoed a longstanding proposal by Vice President Al Gore and contradicts Mr. Bush's campaign pledge to reduce taxes and energy costs, has caused rumbles among conservatives.
"I hope that the comment was just a youthful indiscretion and that he has since renounced that position to Bush," said Grover Norquist, president of the conservative think tank Americans for Tax Reform.
Yet Mr. O'Neill is hardly a radical environmentalist. People who know him said his comments about energy and environmental policy could be seen as good public relations for Alcoa, which operates aluminum smelters that are noted polluters and consumers of energy.
It is unclear whether Mr. O'Neill's past comments injure his candidacy for the Treasury job. The other names most often mentioned for the post include Walter V. Shipley, the former chairman of the Chase Manhattan Corporation; John M. Hennessy, the former chairman of Credit Suisse First Boston and Donald B. Marron, the chairman of PaineWebber Group.
Mr. Bush is also expected in coming days to decide among competing candidates for the job of United States trade representative.
Some Bush supporters favor Robert B. Zoellick, a former official who has served in the State and Treasury Departments as well as the White House under Presidents Ronald Reagan and Bush. But he is also considered the leading candidate for the head of the Office of Management and Budget.
Other candidates include Jennifer B. Dunn, a Republican congresswoman from Washington State; Richard D. Parsons, the president of Time Warner; and Rudy Boschwitz, a former senator of Minnesota.
As commerce secretary, Mr. Evans would take a job that at least since the Nixon administration has been viewed as a post where trusted allies serve as the president's ambassador to corporate America.
Now the chief executive and chairman of Tom Brown Inc., an oil company based in Midland, Tex., Mr. Evans, a native of Houston, is by some accounts Mr. Bush's closest ally outside his family. The two were born the same month, July 1946, and have been inseparable since Mr. Evans married a childhood schoolmate of Mr. Bush.
It is unclear whether Mr. Bush or Mr. Evans sees the Commerce Department job as a substantive part of the administration's economic program. Though it has a role in trade policy, many of its units operate without top-level political guidance.
In several recent administrations, commerce secretaries have been criticized for appointing loyal political retainers to government posts and using the department as a platform to raise campaign funds.
House Republicans, furious at what they described as Commerce's political role, voted to close the department in 1996 and assign its duties to other agencies. The Senate did not pass the measure.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The nomination of Donald L. Evans, shown at a news conference last month, as secretary of commerce is expected to come as soon as today. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (55%); AA (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (55%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (55%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT ALCOA INC (55%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (56%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (56%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (54%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (56%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (56%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (54%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (85%); GLOBAL WARMING (84%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); POLITICS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (66%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (62%); 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); EVANS, DONALD L GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (90%); DICK CHENEY (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2000



535 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: When the Economy Slows

 BODY:
Corporations are finding it a lot harder to make money. Consumer confidence is down. Retailers are experiencing a weak holiday season. Credit is tightening. Layoffs are on the horizon. The Nasdaq index, that once-fearless barometer of the new economy, has lost half its value since the spring. The evidence keeps mounting: America's economy is abruptly slowing down. Reacting to this altered outlook, the Federal Reserve said yesterday that a potential economic downturn had supplanted inflation as the main threat to the economy. Fed watchers interpret this statement as a prelude to interest rate cuts starting in January.
President-elect George W. Bush may want to pin any future recession on this slowdown in the waning days of the Clinton presidency. Inheriting a strong economy only to preside over its decline is a recipe for political disaster. Disturbingly, Mr. Bush also seems to believe that an economic slowdown makes his ill-advised tax cut an easier sell to Congress and the American public. 
 Mr. Bush is well aware of the political significance of economic cycles. His father has blamed his 1992 defeat by Bill Clinton on the reluctance of Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, to cut interest rates in response to the recession late in his administration. Bush family loyalists have long bemoaned the public's failure to recognize signs of a nascent recovery in the months leading up to the 1992 election.
A failure to recognize the beginnings of a potential downturn eight years later, in time to pin it on the Clinton administration, would strike Bush loyalists as an equally haunting oversight. This may explain why Dick Cheney was so quick to say, on a recent talk show, that we are on the "front edge" of a recession. It also explains why President Clinton seemed eager during his awkward Oval Office photo op with Mr. Bush yesterday to say that he did not see a recession on the horizon. But setting aside questions of a slowdown's parentage, it is undoubtedly true that if you are going to have a rough economic patch during your presidency, it is best to get it out of the way early on and then claim credit for the eventual turnaround.
The president-elect seems eager to seize upon the potential downturn as a justification for the tax cut -- $1.3 trillion over 10 years -- that he proposed on the campaign trail. Meeting with Congressional leaders of both parties on Monday, Mr. Bush said: "I think the case is even more solid today than it was a year ago when I started campaigning on the issue." Mr. Bush may hope that his tax plan, which even many Republicans viewed as unduly risky during the primaries last spring, will come to be seen as necessary.
It should not be. The nation does not find itself in a serious depression requiring a major overhaul of its fiscal policy. In the short term, tax policy is not an effective means of fine-tuning the economy. It takes too long to pass Congress and kick in. Fine-tuning is the preserve of monetary policy and of Mr. Greenspan, who can respond more quickly than Congress, and is clearly prepared to take the proper steps on interest rates.
Moreover, if Mr. Bush's tax cut is adopted, its scale would jeopardize efforts to pay down the federal debt. In light of Mr. Greenspan's stated view that bringing down the debt must take precedence over any tax cuts, Mr. Bush could find himself at odds with the respected central banker early on in his administration. This would be a foolish misstep.
Nonetheless, a sense of political realism suggests that the new Republican president and his allies in Congress will insist on some version of Mr. Bush's campaign plan. It is essential that Democrats give ground grudgingly and insist on making any cuts as modest and progressive as possible. By scaling back the scope of his proposed tax cut once in office and agreeing to a more progressive version in the name of bipartisanship, President Bush would enhance his stature as a uniter setting a new tone in Washington. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; EDITORIALS ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); RETAILERS (78%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (75%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); DICK CHENEY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2000



536 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: LESSONS;
Another Look at the Way That Intelligence Flowers

BYLINE: By Richard Rothstein; E-mail: rrothstein@nytimes.com

 BODY:
MANY people think of intelligence as having a fixed genetic component that flourishes or fades with environmental influences like home life or economic opportunity. In this view, if children make the most of education, their developed intelligence can shine, but "innate" ability (as measured by I.Q.) still places a firm limit on how far they can go.
Recent discoveries suggest that this model is faulty, that the brain continues to develop physiologically after birth, discarding less useful synapses while strengthening more useful ones. The process continues into adulthood, making inherited and learned ability indistinguishable in any practical sense. 
 "From Neurons to Neighborhoods," a new report from the National Academy of Sciences, summarizes the recent research. But Jack P. Shonkoff, its co-editor, a pediatrician who is dean of the Heller Graduate School of public policy at Brandeis University, cautions against simplistic efforts to enhance brain functioning. He doesn't put much stock in fads like giving classical music CD's to parents of newborns.
"Although it can't hurt, there is nothing in brain research to support that," Dr. Shonkoff said. "But there is a lot of hard science that tells us how to prevent harm."
Brain development is inhibited by poor nutrition, toxins in the environment and a stressful or chaotic upbringing. It requires paying as much attention to early child care and education, beginning in infancy, as we now pay to kindergarten on up.
"Not more attention," Dr. Shonkoff said, "but not less."
Smaller classes and more qualified teachers are good reforms for children in elementary schools, he notes, but they are just as crucial for children before they start kindergarten.
The nature-nurture dichotomy has been dealt a blow not only by brain research but also by a surprising long-term rise in average I.Q. scores.
Because exclusively genetic traits take eons to evolve, one might suppose that the current range of innate intelligence must be the same as in recent generations. But in the early 1980's, James R. Flynn, a political scientist in New Zealand, made a remarkable discovery: average I.Q.'s rose by about three points a decade during most of the 20th century.
"The Rising Curve" (American Psychological Association, 1998), edited by Prof. Ulric Neisser of Cornell University, tries to explain this "Flynn effect."
One chapter notes, for example, that average height has increased even though it is strongly influenced by genes. If better nutrition created conditions for genes to increase height, other environmental improvements may be helping intelligence to flourish.
I.Q. seems to improve with more time in school. Professor Neisser's book notes that in isolated areas where the gene pool has been unaffected by migration, the longer that children attend school, the higher their I.Q.'s on average. But more schooling can't be a full explanation, because I.Q.'s have also risen for preschool children.
Rapidly changing urban surroundings and exposure to more complex stimuli may also enhance intelligence. Adults often joke about asking a child to program the VCR, saying he didn't have to learn because "it must be in his genes." But in a sense this may be no joke: a child could be more intelligent in this way because of how his environment has allowed his brain to develop physiologically.
Dr. Shonkoff speculates that average I.Q. may have risen because since the publication of Benjamin Spock's "Baby and Child Care" in 1946, parents of all social classes have probably been more attentive to individual children's particular needs.
The National Academy of Sciences report sees the brain as more plastic than "hard wired." The manner of nurturing can raise or lower the limits of I.Q. This makes conditions in which children are reared, from the prenatal stage to adolescence, more crucial because (as with height) an interaction of genes and environment, not genes alone, produces potential as well as developed intelligence.
Dr. Shonkoff says the most nurturing environments build on tendencies already existing in the brain. And some environments exacerbate natural vulnerabilities that can limit I.Q. How well parents or other adults can "read" and respond to a child's unique tendencies appears to be one measure of the way that genes and environment interact.
For instance, adults may respond to a child genetically predisposed to inquisitiveness in a way that is different from their response to a child less naturally inquisitive. Adjusting this response may give the latter an equal chance for high intelligence.
If child care quality and the economic conditions affecting young children improve, along with regular school quality, a long-term rise in average I.Q. might continue.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David Suter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (51%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (56%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (56%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; INTELLIGENCE BRAIN (91%); CHILDREN (90%); NEUROSCIENCE (89%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); PSYCHOLOGY (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%); NUTRITION (65%); 

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, RICHARD JACK P SHONKOFF (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2000



537 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: Tenant Groups Vow a Lawsuit to Challenge Changes in State Housing Codes

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT 

 BODY:
Tenants could be evicted for harassing landlords under revamped New York State housing codes that take effect today. The codes cover about 2.4 million people in rent-regulated apartments in New York City and Nassau, Westchester and Rockland Counties.
But tenant groups say they will challenge the rules in court, charging that the harassment provision and many other changes are illegal. The revised codes wrongly give owners wider latitude to overcharge, deregulate apartments and evict tenants, the critics said. 
 The State Division of Housing and Community Renewal adopted the regulations, saying it was updating and consolidating various legislative amendments, court rulings and policy directives since the last recodification, in 1987.
"The code continues to provide strong protection for current tenants and their families," said the state housing commissioner, Joseph B. Lynch, "including limitations on rent increases, provision of required services, renewal leases and now even stronger antiharassment penalties."
State officials dispute the interpretations of the tenant groups and say they are prepared to defend the codes in court.
Leaders of the city's largest apartment landlord group, the Rent Stabilization Association, said they had not seen the final codes but generally supported an earlier draft as long overdue. The group's president, Joseph Strasburg, said: "Overwhelmingly, 90 percent of it is codifying existing case law, statutes and operational bulletins. These things have been in effect for years. It's a little late to be complaining about them now."
Tenant advocates, pro-tenant lawyers and legal groups that represent the poor met yesterday to plan their lawsuit. "For one change out of hundreds that might benefit tenants, dozens and dozens favor the landlords," said Michael McKee, associate director of the New York State Tenants and Neighbors Coalition. "It's totally one-sided."
Mr. McKee said, "One of the worst parts is the gutting of the rent-regulation system," adding that the changes would enable landlords to falsify records and charge illegally high rents.
The new codes let landlords base rent increases on past rents that are not registered with the state, as required every year, said another tenant advocate, Judith Goldiner, a lawyer for the Legal Aid Society.
Critics say other new provisions let landlords get around rent regulations by improperly declaring apartments vacant, loosening standards for luxury decontrol, and limiting the rent a tenant may charge to roommates. The critics also object that the codes remove the limit of one 20 percent rent increase upon a vacancy in a two-year lease period, permit surcharges for appliances and utilities, list new criteria for determining primary residency in eviction cases and allow concessions made by a tenant in settling litigation with a landlord to be imposed on later tenants. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (91%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (91%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); NASSAU COUNTY (NY); ROCKLAND COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SUITS AND LITIGATION LITIGATION (91%); RENT CONTROL (91%); EVICTION (90%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LAWYERS (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (77%); LEGAL AID (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); 

PERSON: LAMBERT, BRUCE MICHAEL MCKEE (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2000



538 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 107 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
CHEMICAL MAKER ISSUES 2ND WARNING FOR 4TH QUARTER

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The Rohm & Haas Company, a specialty chemical maker, said yesterday that it would fall short of already reduced fourth-quarter earnings estimates because of slowing sales and rising energy and raw-material costs. The company, based in Philadelphia, said it would earn 29 cents to 34 cents a share in the fourth quarter; analysts forecast 35 cents a share, and before the company's October warning, 47 cents a share, for the quarter. Rohm & Haas's biggest business, acrylic-based materials for making paints and coatings, has proved especially sensitive to the slowing of the economy. Rohm & Haas shares rose $1.81 to close at $31.88.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ROH (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325520 ADHESIVE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: ROHM & HAAS CO ROHM & HAAS CO (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROHM & HAAS CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES SPECIALTY CHEMICALS MFG (91%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); CHEMICALS MFG (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (85%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (84%); PAINTS & COATINGS (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2000



539 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1488 words

HEADLINE: Tourist Chapter To the Book Of Mormon;
In Religion's Birthplace, Pageants and Pilgrimages

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU 

DATELINE: PALMYRA, N.Y., Dec. 17

 BODY:
Many of the world's faithful make pilgrimages to Mecca. Others worship in the holy city of Jerusalem. And some even find their way here to a remote grove where a 14-year-old farm boy claimed to behold God and Christ in 1820.
That boy, Joseph Smith Jr., later founded the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and led an exodus west that eventually settled Salt Lake City. Now, 180 years after that divine revelation, thousands of church members are trekking back to the Palmyra area, about 20 miles southeast of Rochester, to visit the birthplace of Mormonism. 
 Guided by faith and road maps, they arrive in cars and charter buses for a few hours, or a few days, of spiritual rejuvenation. They hike along freshly laid trails in the Sacred Grove, and step into the Smith family's recreated log home nearby. A restored printing shop shows where the Book of Mormon was first published, and a visitors' center plays a recording of Christ's words in 20 languages including Hungarian, Finnish and Tahitian. A new temple overlooking the Sacred Grove draws so many Mormons that reservations are taken weeks in advance, and walk-ins often have to be turned away. Only church members in good standing -- they must present a card -- can enter the inner sanctuary. There are 100 Mormon temples around the world, but few have attracted as much attention.
"You come in the front door," said Margaret Fuqua, 66, who moved to Palmyra last year from Billings, Mont., with her husband to live near their grandchildren and the temple. "And you lay all your worldly cares aside. It's just such a spiritual feeling of peace and comfort, it feeds your soul."
The thriving Mormon community has transformed this rural town of 7,690 into a tourist destination. Though only a few hundred Mormons actually live in Palmyra, their faith is displayed everywhere. Shops on Main Street sell postcards, magnets, tote bags and other souvenirs of the Mormon temple. A busy intersection guarded by four mainline churches -- Episcopal, Baptist, Methodist, Presbyterian -- has a large blue sign pointing the way to the Mormon sites.
And Mormon tourists routinely fill the town's restaurants and bed-and-breakfasts (there are no hotels). They are easy to pick out, local residents say, by their dark suits and modest hemlines, polite manners and clean-cut lifestyle; Mormons adhere to a strict moral code that prohibits gambling, smoking, alcohol, coffee and tea, among other things.
The town supervisor, David Lyon, who is a Methodist, welcomed guests to the Smith log home on a recent snowy night. He then flipped a switch to turn on the Christmas lights. "The town has worked closely with the Mormon Church for years," he said. "It puts us on the map, and it gives the town an economic boost. It helps all the local businesses except the bars and smoke shop, but the rest are happy."
The farm boy who became the town's most famous resident was once one of its most scorned. In the early 1800's, Palmyra -- named after an ancient city in Syria -- was a stomping ground for preachers trying to win converts to their churches. It lay in a stretch of western New York known as the "burned-over district" because religious fires had passed through so many times.
As Mormons tell the story, Smith was agonizing over which church to join when God and Christ appeared to him in the grove. He was told to wait. Three years later, Smith was awakened one night by the angel Moroni and directed to a nearby hillside. There he unearthed a set of gold plates containing the history of an ancient Israelite people who had been taught the ways of the true church by Christ after his resurrection. Smith later translated part of the gold plates into the Book of Mormon, regarded by church members as a testament of Christ; the prophet Mormon himself was said to have engraved the plates. The first edition went on sale for $1.25 in 1830. It was so unpopular that most of the copies were simply given away.
Palmyra residents ridiculed the Book of Mormon as the "gold Bible" and accused Smith of being a fraud, or worse. Less than a year later, the Mormons headed west to settle in Ohio, Missouri and Illinois. But their unconventional beliefs and practices -- including polygamy for a while -- and their growing numbers were met with opposition and violence. Smith was killed by a mob in 1844, and the Mormons split into several factions. The largest followed Brigham Young into the desert and built a religious and political stronghold that later became Salt Lake City.
Today, Mormonism is one of the world's fastest-growing religious movements, with 11 million members. Nearly half of them live in the United States. In New York alone, the number of Mormons has increased by 51 percent in the last decade to 60,516, in no small part because of aggressive recruiting.
Yet the Mormon Church has also faced unrelenting criticism over its origins in Palmyra. Many religious leaders, scholars and others scoff at Smith's claim that God and Christ appeared in modern times, at least by biblical standards. And they argue that no archaeological record exists of an ancient Israelite civilization in New York, or, for that matter, anywhere in America. (Smith is said to have returned the gold plates to the angel Moroni.)
Like religious groups before them, the Mormons responded by surrounding themselves with tangible symbols like the Sacred Grove, said Jan Shipps, author of "Sojourner in the Promised Land: Forty Years Among the Mormons" (University of Illinois Press, 2000). "They were trying to create pilgrimage places," she said. "Places where people could literally go, and stand, and say, 'It happened here.' "
The Mormon Church started buying land in the Palmyra area in 1907, and later dispatched a missionary couple, Willard and Rebecca Bean, to reintroduce the Mormon faith in Smith's hometown. It was no easy task. Neighbors yelled at them to go home to Utah.
But the Beans slowly won friends, and converts, and stayed for a quarter-century. They even named their daughter after the town. "I remember my mother would say, 'Just be nice and friendly, and things will change,' " said Palmyra Bean Packer, now 85, who lives in Provo, Utah. "She was right. They just accepted them like anyone else by the time the 25 years were up."
Mrs. Packer met her husband, Thane, while he was on a church mission to Palmyra in 1935. The church was building a towering monument of the angel Moroni, and Thane stood by the road to answer questions from passers-by. She went over to shake his hand.
"It's a special place," she said, looking back. "It's part of my life, and I'm proud of it."
The Mormon Church has acquired 984 acres of property in the Palmyra area valued at $9.8 million, according to local records. The $5 million temple was dedicated in April, and several of the historic sites have been refurbished. In 1998, church workers recreated the Smith family's log home after using infrared aerial photography and geological surveys to pinpoint its location and excavating 2,400 household artifacts.
The church's annual pageant in Palmyra has also grown into a lavish production, with 600 costumed actors on seven stages and a high-tech sound system. For seven nights, the Book of Mormon comes alive on the hillside where Smith claimed to have unearthed the gold plates. This year, the final earthquake scene was so realistic that it set off car alarms for miles. The free pageant draws as many as 10,000 spectators a night, and local church members scramble to make room for the out-of-towners on their couches and floors.
Not everyone is Mormon, of course, or even a potential convert. A group of Bob Jones University students recently filed wordlessly through the Mormon sites. And some pageant fans see only a story well told, nothing more. "Everyone goes," said Kailey Sawyer, 16, a Roman Catholic, who attends the town's high school, "because it's so beautiful."
But it is the faithful who trek to Palmyra again, and again, for spiritual fulfillment that cannot be found anywhere else. Jerry Hess, director of the Mormon historic sites here, said many church members were overwhelmed by their emotions. "During the busy season," he said, "there are tears shed every day."
Others find great joy in following in Smith's footsteps. On a chilly gray afternoon, Jerry and Judi Butt walked arm in arm through the Sacred Grove. The Butts, who live in Bountiful, Utah, spent their honeymoon here in July 1989. They could have afforded a more exotic place, they said, but decided that they wanted something closer to home.
"We've been everywhere else," said Mrs. Butt, 59, a retired paralegal. Mr. Butt, 63, a trainer for fire alarm systems, said, "You can't feel the spirit anywhere more than you can here, where the church was organized."
Only after touring Palmyra did they drive over to that other honeymoon destination, Niagara Falls.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mormons come to the Palmyra, N.Y., area seeking spiritual rejuvenation and church history. Among the local sites is a log cabin that recreates the boyhood home of Joseph Smith Jr., who founded the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.; Mormon teenagers praying in a Palmyra church. Joseph Smith Jr. was 14 when he claimed to have had a divine revelation on a site now known as Sacred Grove. (Photographs by James Estrin/The New York Times)
 
Map of New York highlighting Palmyra: The thriving Mormon community has transformed Palmyra, a town of 7,690.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%); BILLINGS, MT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PALMYRA (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); UTAH, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%); BILLINGS, MT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MORMONS (CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS) MORMONS & MORMONISM (97%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (95%); RELIGION (94%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (91%); HIKING (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (77%); LEISURE TRAVEL (72%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (72%); CHRISTMAS (72%); TOURISM (69%); RESTAURANTS (68%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (63%); HOTELS & MOTELS (62%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (57%); 

PERSON: HU, WINNIE

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2000



540 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1707 words

HEADLINE: Nuclear Power's Second Act;
Rising Demand for Electricity Revives Aging Reactors

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: VERNON, Vt.

 BODY:
Nobody has ordered a new nuclear plant in this country in more than 20 years, but rising demand for electricity and prices for natural gas are forestalling extinction and giving aging reactors a new lease on life. Consider Vermont Yankee, on the banks of the Connecticut River here.
For years many people thought that the plant was at death's door. It is one of the oldest nuclear reactors that is still operating in the United States. The core shroud, a crucial internal part that holds the fuel in place and channels cooling water, is showing damage from age. The owners are short of money. 
 But now a bidding war is brewing among three eager buyers, and financial analysts say the winner is likely to invest even more to seek to extend its operating license for decades and possibly to raise its power output.
Similar decisions have quietly transformed dozens of plants around the country. While no one expects any American utility to order a new nuclear plant in the foreseeable future, the overall effect is a much-improved prospect for the long-battered industry.
Several factors are helping to turn nuclear white elephants into valuable heirlooms. The price of natural gas, the main source for new generation, has quadrupled in the last year. The market price of electricity has soared under deregulation, and the growing economy has led to shortages of generating capacity.
"Suddenly people realize that you can actually make money with these plants," said Ted Marston, the chief nuclear officer at the Electric Power Research Institute, a nonprofit research consortium in Palo Alto, Calif., that has helped utilities obtain license renewals beyond the initial 40 years for which they were approved.
In March, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission approved a 20-year extension on a twin-reactor plant in Maryland, Calvert Cliffs, which is now owned by the Constellation Energy Group. Two months later, it did the same for the three-reactor Oconee plant, owned by Duke Energy, in South Carolina.
Since then, Mr. Marston said, the market value of nuclear reactors has increased tenfold.
The effect is visible here. In October 1999, the AmerGen Energy Company, a partnership between the PECO Energy Company, the parent of Philadelphia Electric and itself a unit of the Exelon Corporation, and British Energy, made a $23.5 million bid in a battle for Vermont Yankee.
But the state Department of Public Service, which represents the interests of energy consumers, said the price was too low, helping kill the deal. AmerGen is now offering more than $93 million, but a second company, the Entergy Corporation, based in New Orleans, has indicated it will offer more. Entergy recently announced a merger with the FPL Group, parent company of Florida Power and Light, which would create the nation's largest electric utility.
The Vermont Public Service board has told Entergy to file a bid by Jan. 12, and told the plant to cooperate with the company in due diligence. The board also told two other companies, Dominion, based in Virginia, which has expressed interest, and Constellation Nuclear, a subsidiary of Constellation Energy, that it would offer them similar accommodations.
The companies say they want to buy up reactors around the country, and through economies of scale and their extensive nuclear experience, run them better and make more money from their operations. AmerGen has already bought Three Mile Island 1, the undamaged twin of the reactor near Harrisburg, Pa., that experienced the nation's worst nuclear accident. It has also acquired Clinton, in southern Illinois, and Oyster Creek, in Toms River, N.J. Entergy has a deal to buy Nine Mile Point 2 and James A. FitzPatrick, near Scriba, N.Y., and Indian Point 3, in Buchanan, N.Y.
While Vermont Yankee has not yet applied for a license extension -- its license is good until 2012, and the sellers are leaving that to a new owner -- applications have been approved or submitted for about a third of the nation's 103 surviving reactors. In addition, in the last decade, 57 reactors have quietly received the commission's permission to increase heat output and thus electric production, according to the Nuclear Energy Institute, a trade association in Washington. Some did it more than once. The capacity increase totals 2,200 megawatts, which is the equivalent of adding two huge reactors.
The independent company that owns Vermont Yankee says output could probably be raised by 15 percent at a cost of about $200 for every kilowatt of additional capacity, which is far cheaper than a kilowatt of capacity at a new natural gas plant. Making the investment only makes sense, though, if the owner believes that the plant will run for more than a few years.
The higher prices for reactors have pushed them roughly into the range of prices for fossil fuel plants, and do not approach a level that would lead to new nuclear construction. Still, it is a sharp turnaround from the idea that nuclear power would be phased out almost entirely over the next 10 or 15 years.
The recovery is visible not only on the balance sheet but in improved operations. Vermont Yankee, for example, now shuts for refueling once every 18 months, and finished the job in 1999 in 34 days. In the 1970's and 1980's, it would shut down every year, for 60 or 70 days.
"We did it under budget, under dose and under days," said Joseph P. Cox, who schedules engineering work at the plant, meaning that money, radiation exposure and time are all carefully watched.
And 28 years into its lifetime, "we're hitting the top of our game," said Michael Balduzzi, vice president for operations.
In the early days, emergency shut-downs came every couple of months or so; now they are so infrequent plant managers remember each one, and every manual shutdown. The last shutdown was in August. Before that, Vermont Yankee ran 285 days uninterrupted. The run before that was 372 days, a plant record.
The result of more powerful plants running more days of the year is that a reduced number of reactors is producing more and more power; in 1999, the 103 reactors produced more power than the whole industry did in the early 1990's, when the number of plants peaked at 110.
The turnaround has stunned opponents, like Debbie Katz, who lives in Rowe, Mass., near the now closed Yankee Rowe plant. Yankee Rowe was one of the four Yankee reactors built by New England utilities, with overlapping ownership and some shared engineering services; she expected them all to close. The other three did. And she pointed out that in 1992, Shearson Lehman Brothers predicted that within 10 years, 25 reactors could face closing because they were not economically viable.
Ms. Katz now tours Vermont with a camper emblazoned with the words, "No Nukes," and painted with the propeller-shaped logo that is the international symbol of radiation. In a reference to AmerGen's British partner, the sign also has a silhouette of Paul Revere on his midnight ride of warning.
Like many nuclear opponents, she was counting on nuclear power to fail the economic test. But deregulation, combined with the recent electricity shortage, has given the industry new life instead. "These reactors they are selling would have closed," she said. Speaking of the wild price swings, she said, "This is such a destabilized situation, it's like being in the Wild West all over again."
Ms. Katz and others say the sales of old plants are putting the job of decommissioning -- for which money has already been set aside -- into the hands of companies focused on profit, not safety; she likened it to an unscrupulous fortune-hunter marrying a rich widow and soon burying her cheaply.
Critics say the idea of a 60-year-old reactor makes them nervous. Vermont Yankee's shroud, a barrel-shaped structure around the fuel that directs the flow of water being boiled into steam, shows damage in places that were heated during welding. Metallurgists have diagnosed something called intergranular stress corrosion cracking, a process not understood when the part was made in the 1960's. They have added reinforcing rods around it.
But engineers, managers and operators insist that simple age is no barrier to performance.
"They have B-52's flying around that were flown by the pilots' grandfathers," said Michael G. Laporte, a work management supervisor here. A 20-year extension might make the same true for Yankee Rowe.
The owners have spent tens of millions of dollars modernizing and re-analyzing in order to address safety concerns. The control room is now full of digital readouts and a monitoring system that runs on Gateway personal computers, undreamed of in 1966, when work here began.
But Vermont Yankee and other plants still face problems, such as how to store the spent fuel, which is kept in a pool that will be full in 2008.
Immediate neighbors like the plant. "We've always been careful to watch it, but it is very, very well run, and a safe plant," said Patricia O'Donnell, who represents Vernon in the state House of Representatives and is also one of the five members of the Board of Selectmen, the town's executive body. Mrs. O'Donnell expressed her confidence from behind the counter at the clerk's office in town hall, a solid brick building that also houses a spacious library, less than a mile from the reactor that paid for it. The plant is 73 percent of the local property tax base. It is comforting to many here that the goose that lays the golden eggs may not, in fact, be getting too old yet.
In Brattleboro, William L. Morse saw it a little differently. His brother-in-law has worked at Vermont Yankee, Mr. Morse said, and in general, nuclear power "doesn't bother me any." Mr. Morse is the proprietor of Earth's Treasures, which sells Native American arts and crafts to tourists, and the shop is adjacent to one gasoline station and across the street from another, probably more of a hazard than the reactor down the road, he said.
But pondering the idea of running it for 20 years beyond its 40-year license, he said that they "better have a big shutdown and go through it really carefully."
"You hear people say, 'They closed those other plants down,' " he said. "Why run this one?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: December 21, 2000, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about renewed interest in old nuclear plants misstated the name of the company that is buying the Nine Mile Point plants. It is Constellation Nuclear, not Entergy. The article also misstated the name of the plant that could be run by the original workers' grandchildren. It is Vermont Yankee, not Yankee Rowe.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas Schultz, a reactor operator, studies a book of alarm codes in the control room at the Vermont Yankee plant. Recently, the owners have spent tens of millions of dollars modernizing the facility, which has attracted interest from potential buyers. (Matthew Cavanaugh for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 
Chart: "Renewed Energy"
Just a few years ago, conventional wisdom held that nuclear power plants were on their way out of business. But the growing need for electricity has led many utilities to seek an extended lease on life for existing nuclear plants, which are now seen as relatively inexpensive and more reliable than they once were.
 
The chart highlights existing nuclear plants in the United States.
(Source: Nuclear Energy Institute)(pg. C1)
 
Chart: "Fewer Plants, More Power"
Even as the nuclear power industry has shut down several reactors, the remaining units have been bolstered so they are more reliable and can produce 2,200 additional megawatts of power.
 
Chart shows the amount of working nuclear reactors (over 100 megawatts, in the U.S.) since 1990.
 
Chart shows nuclear electricity generated (in kilowatt hours) since 1990.
(Sources: Nuclear Energy Institute, Energy Information Administration)(pg. C2)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ETR (NYSE) (85%); EXC (NYSE) (81%); DUK (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (85%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (81%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (81%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (53%); NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (53%); SIC4939 COMBINATION UTILITIES, NEC (53%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: ELECTRIC POWER RESEARCH INSTITUTE ENTERGY CORP (85%); EXELON CORP (81%); PECO ENERGY CO (81%); CONSTELLATION ENERGY GROUP INC (53%); DUKE ENERGY CORP (52%); FLORIDA POWER & LIGHT CO (50%); ELECTRIC POWER RESEARCH INSTITUTE (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); ELECTRIC POWER RESEARCH INSTITUTE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ELECTRIC POWER RESEARCH INSTITUTE ELECTRIC POWER RESEARCH INSTITUTE (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); ELECTRIC POWER RESEARCH INSTITUTE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); VERMONT, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC ENERGY; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; FINANCES; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; GAS (FUEL); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; SHORTAGES NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (92%); ENERGY DEMAND (91%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (91%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); ENERGY RESEARCH (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (88%); HOLDING COMPANIES (88%); PARENT COMPANIES (88%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); ELECTRICITY GENERATING CAPACITY (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); APPROVALS (72%); MERGERS (69%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L; MARSTON, TED CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2000



541 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 6; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1446 words

HEADLINE: Revolutions Come and Go, but a Porcelain Factory Endures

BYLINE: By JOHN VAROLI 

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG, Russia

 BODY:
IMAGINE a tea party with the following guests: the New York designer Eva Zeisel, 94; the New York financier Henry R. Kravis, 56; the St. Petersburg designer Mikhail Sorokin, 52; and Douglas Boyce, 34, an American business consultant who is Mr. Sorokin's new boss.
It is not hard to imagine what they would be discussing over their smoky caravan tea, since only one thing binds this unlikely fraternity: the strange plight and uncertain future of the Lomonosov Porcelain Factory. This is not just any porcelain factory. 
 Some 300 years ago, the Russians, in a Sputnik-style campaign, strove to replicate the magically translucent milky white porcelain being imported from China by the richest families in Europe. Peter the Great tried, and failed. It wasn't until 1744, 14 years after German alchemists cracked the formula for making porcelain, that Peter's daughter, Empress Elizabeth, opened the Imperial Porcelain Factory and began cranking out porcelain pieces painted gold, red and blue -- colors designed to mask the early flaws.
The factory continued to ply the czars with gilded figurines, place settings and centerpieces, until the Bolsheviks took over in 1917. Eventually, in 1936, they renamed it the Leningrad Porcelain Factory.
Skip ahead through the Soviet era and glasnost to 1997 and the Park Avenue triplex of Mr. Kravis. A onetime purveyor of the leveraged corporate buyout, a 1980's financial tool that helped make him a billionaire, Mr. Kravis, sponsor of the Kravis wing of European decorative arts at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, declined to be interviewed for this article, but two years ago he became interested in an unusual proposition. He was offered an opportunity to help bail out the porcelain factory. It had been privatized in 1993, when it was again renamed, this time after the Russian scientist Mikhail Lomonosov. Which brings us to the new director, the devoted Mr. Boyce.
As he walks the corridors of the sprawling factory, in a clump of buildings overlooking the Neva River, Mr. Boyce is greeted as "Dooglas Giorgivich," sort of a Russian version of his name. But while Mr. Boyce speaks fluent Russian and knows Russian culture, in fact he hails from Chicago.
He arrived in St. Petersburg seven years ago as a consultant at PricewaterhouseCoopers but ended up at the U.S.-Russia Investment Fund, an economic development fund. With $440 million and a mandate to prod the Russian economy, the fund had purchased a 30 percent stake in the Lomonosov plant. Mr. Boyce agreed to oversee it.
In six months, he has raised the salaries of the 1,800 employees (80 percent of them women); introduced new accounting, sales and marketing procedures; tightened workplace rules; and looked into charges that previous managers had sold porcelain at cut rates in return for kickbacks.
"I want to bring back the glory of this factory's great past," he said. "It sometimes seems that I am more a Russian nationalist than most Russians."
If he seems like a man in a hurry, consider his task. Along with the rest of the work force, Mr. Boyce reports to outside investors eager to see the factory on its feet and back to its original business: designing, making and selling some of the world's most expensive porcelain.
Which brings us back to Mr. Kravis. A principal in the New York investment firm of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company, Mr. Kravis was drawn to the factory around the time that Russia's financial crisis became so bad that Lomonosov employees, despairing of being paid, started selling off shares they owned in the plant. In the end, Mr. Kravis and some colleagues formed the International Porcelain Company, which also purchased 30 percent of the factory.
The Lomonosov factory, still carrying out most work by hand, needed infusions of cash and savvy. But when the old guard saw the Americans coming, they feared they would sell off the factory's 25,000-piece museum, which contains a tea set made for Empress Elizabeth and drawings by Kandinsky, who designed motifs for the factory in the 1920's, and Kasimir Malevich. The managers persuaded the government to sue for an annulment of the factory's privatization. Ultimately, the Russian courts ruled in favor of the outside investors, while the government stepped in to claim the museum.
Why all the fuss over an aging porcelain factory? "The decision to invest in Lomonosov was made because it was viewed as an attractive investment," said Ruth Pachman, a spokeswoman for Mr. Kravis. It "possesses rich historic traditions," she added, "and in the past it has produced world-class porcelain masterpieces, which are sought by collectors of Russian imperial art. It's a unique company with a special legacy that deserves to be preserved."
Though the last few decades were hard on the factory, it held on to its reputation as an artistic and cultural treasure chest. When President Ronald Reagan and his wife, Nancy, visited Moscow in 1988, they went home with a Lomonosov vase and a coffee service for six, a gift from the Gorbachevs. In 1999, a vase was a gift for the King and Queen of Norway.
"During its long history, the factory has nurtured some of Russia's and St. Petersburg's most important artistic, architectural and literary talents," said Karen Kettering, the associate curator at the Hillwood Museum in Washington, which has the largest collection of Russian decorative art objects outside Russia, including many Imperial Porcelain pieces. "No other European or American factory had such a unique or productive collaborative relationship with contemporary artists."
Even under the Bolsheviks, who viewed it as a propaganda tool, the factory attracted skilled designers and craftsmen. In the 1920's, they recycled a stockpile of white porcelain by decking it with Communist slogans. Many pieces were hung in public places like state-owned banks; others were snapped up by members of the surviving bourgeoisie, who recognized the porcelain's value. The collectibles have gained cachet recently in other circles: about six years ago, Jane Fonda placed an order for a reproduction of a plate embossed with the words "Land to the Workers."
Current patterns, most notably the glossy blue and white Cobalt Net, remain popular in Russia, and though Lomonosov porcelain is not readily available in the United States, vintage imperial ware and Lomonosov collectibles are sold in specialty stores and on the Internet. A recent Web search for "Russian Imperial Porcelain" turned up a dozen items, including a circa-1830 gold-rimmed teapot advertised at $1,350. (The Metropolitan Museum of Art has a nice sampling of the factory's 18th-century works and sells a reproduction of one of the plates.)
Items from the 20's and 30's are harder to find -- which brings us to Eva Zeisel, considered one of the 20th century's leading industrial designers.
Hungarian-born, Ms. Zeisel worked at three ceramics factories in the Soviet Union during the 1930's, including the one in Leningrad, and within five years she was named art director for the state's china and glass industry. But during one of Stalin's cleansing campaigns, she was jailed. In 1937, she was deported and landed in New York.
Last year, eager to re-establish a link, Mr. Boyce tracked down Ms. Zeisel at a studio she keeps north of New York City, inviting her to make her first visit to Russia in more than six decades. Last July, she spent two weeks in St. Petersburg, visiting her old haunts and working with a Lomonosov designer on a tea service expected to go into production soon.
Ms. Zeisel, interviewed in New York last summer, called the current generation of designers "sensitive and high-quality artists who are perfectionists." But she said the factory had fallen behind in failing to mechanize, adding that it faces competition from the Germans and the Japanese.
"Of course it's worth saving, because of its great tradition and history," she said, "and because of the beautiful pieces it has produced for centuries. Lovely things. Some of the things they make now, such as the Cobalt Net tea set, are also exquisite, and their hand-painted decorations are unique."
She continued: "We must save these great old factories, because porcelain, unlike shoes, for instance, documents a culture, just as the written and printed word do."
In St. Petersburg, Mikhail Sorokin, the new chief designer, seemed optimistic. He looked around his cramped studio at the factory, its surfaces littered with molds.
Lomonosov is "not just a factory, but rather it is an experimental art studio," he said, adding, "We emphasize art, and especially creating new art forms through porcelain."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: PERIOD PIECES -- Collectibles made at the St. Petersburg porcelain factory reflect the changing times. From left: a 1935 teapot commemorating subway construction, a 30's desk set and a 1923 teapot designed by Nikolai Suetin. Far right center, a monumental vase from 1830, with imitation malachite enamel.; NOW, AS THEN -- The designer Eva Zeisel with a teapot she worked on last summer while visiting the Lomonosov Porcelain Factory for the first time since the 30's. Even today, most work is done by hand, right. (Photographs by Brent C. Brolin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (52%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (76%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

COMPANY: OMONOSOV PORCELAIN FACTORY (ST PETERSBURG, R PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (52%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (54%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: OMONOSOV PORCELAIN FACTORY (ST PETERSBURG, R METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (54%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; ST PETERSBURG (RUSSIA); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (76%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

SUBJECT: PORCELAIN; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS POTTERY & CERAMICS MFG (95%); CHINA & POTTERY PRODUCT MFG (90%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (77%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); VISUAL ARTS (73%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); SPONSORSHIP (69%); PRIVATIZATION (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (60%); 

PERSON: VAROLI, JOHN; KRAVIS, HENRY; BOYCE, DOUGLAS; ZEISEL, EVA HENRY KRAVIS (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000



542 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2000

SECTION: Section W; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: Group of Metal Traders Sues Russian Aluminum Producer

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Dec. 20

 BODY:
A Russian corporate battle reached United States courts today when a group of metals trading companies sued Russia's biggest aluminum producer, Russian Aluminum.
Base Metal Trading Ltd., a company registered in the Channel Islands, filed suit under federal racketeering laws against Russian Aluminum, which produces more than 70 percent of Russia's aluminum. 
 The company, together with two other foreign-registered metals trading companies, Base Metal Trading S.A. and Alucoal, accused the Russian metals giant of extortion and murder to gain control of an aluminum plant in Siberia.
The trading companies assert that some of the crimes took place using United States institutions, and have hired Robert Abrams, a former New York state attorney general, to represent them.
Russian Aluminum says the suit is an extension of a battle for control of the Siberian-based factory being waged by Mikhail Zhivilo, the former manager and owner of the factory. Russian Aluminum said the trading firms are front companies for Mr. Zhivilo, who it says is behind the suit. Mr. Zhivilo and his brother, Yuri, dominated the Siberian region's aluminum industry in the 1990's.
They have been accused by government officials in Siberia of organized-crime ties and questionable business practices, including involvement in the bankruptcy of a leading Russian bank that caused foreign shareholders, including the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, to write off millions of dollars in investments.
Base Metal Trading shares an address in south central Moscow with Mr. Zhivilo's company, which is called Mikom, and has figured prominently in previous court cases in Russia brought by Mr. Zhivilo aimed at stopping the bankruptcy of the Siberian metals factory.
The factory, called the Novokuznetsk Aluminum Plant, is at the center of the conflict. It was forced into bankruptcy early this year with the help of the region's governor, shifting its main production and cash flows into the hands of companies linked to Russian Aluminum.
Both sides have accused the other of numerous criminal acts. Mr. Zhivilo has been charged with trying to assassinate the Siberian region's governor, Aman Tuleev, and is currently in hiding. Base Metal says the charges have no merit.
The battle has been raging for months in courts in Russia and other countries. The trading companies filed suit in the United States for $900 million, which could be tripled to $2.7 billion under racketeering provisions, which also allow for such a suit even if only a portion of the suspected crimes occurred in the United States.
Though Mr. Zhivilo no longer owns any stake in the aluminum factory, companies affiliated with him are creditors of the factory and say that the company is still obliged to honor contracts concluded during his tenure. Under Russian rules, control over a company that is declared bankrupt passes from shareholders to creditors.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: RUSSIAN ALUMINUM; BASE METAL TRADING LTD; ALUCOAL RUSSIAN ALUMINUM (94%); BASE METAL TRADING LTD (73%); EUROPEAN BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUSSIAN ALUMINUM; BASE METAL TRADING LTD; ALUCOAL EUROPEAN BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; SIBERIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: ALUMINUM; SUITS AND LITIGATION; EXTORTION AND BLACKMAIL; RACKETEERING AND RACKETEERS; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (93%); BASE METALS MARKETS (93%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (93%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); METALS MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); LITIGATION (90%); EXTORTION (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (87%); ORGANIZED CRIME (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); 

PERSON: TAVERNISE, SABRINA; ABRAMS, ROBERT; ZHIVILO, MIKHAIL MIKHAIL ZHIVILO (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000



543 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 38; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: Charter School Costs

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Suburbs Face Tests as Charter Schools Continue to Spread" (front page, Dec. 18): 
 The premise of New Jersey's charter school law is that students leaving regular public schools for charter schools take only their "per capita share" of tax dollars with them. But this premise confuses per capita share (the budget divided by number of students) with the actual cost of educating students in existing schools, which is far less than the per capita share. Thus, deducting per capita shares from district budgets makes no economic sense and unfairly penalizes the district schools.
The charter school law also ignores a fundamental law of economics: competition may improve an industry only where there is a liquid market. Under home rule, districts can't simply get new "customers" to replace those who choose charter schools.
 
LISA KENT
Highland Park, N.J., Dec. 18, 2000
 
The writer, a lawyer, represents public school districts on charter school issues. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; CHARTER SCHOOLS; SUBURBS CHARTER SCHOOLS (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); 

PERSON: KENT, LISA

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000



544 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: Gains Reported In Construction Of New Homes

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 20

 BODY:
Construction of new homes rose in November, led by a surge in apartments, condominiums and townhouses, government figures showed today. The November performance keeps housing construction on track for its third best year of the current economic expansion.
New-home starts rose 2.2 percent last month, to an annual rate of 1.562 million after a 0.6 percent decrease in October, the Commerce Department said. All the increase was in the West. 
 A drop of a full percentage point in fixed-term mortgage rates since May has underpinned demand for new homes, and with Federal Reserve policy makers poised to cut rates to keep the record expansion from coming to an end, mortgages are likely to become cheaper.
Builders are on pace to start 1.603 million single-family homes, apartments, condominiums and townhouses this year. Home builders began work last year on 1.667 million homes, the most since the expansion began in 1991, after 1.617 million in 1998.
Still, a 0.4 percent decline in starts of single-family homes in November, the third straight monthly decrease, suggests builders are becoming "very cautious in starting new homes," said Michael Moran, chief economist at Daiwa Securities America Inc. in New York.
The expectations of the nation's home builders fell in December to the lowest level in six months, a survey showed on Tuesday. The National Association of Home Builders housing market index fell to 57 this month from 65 in November. This month's reading is the lowest since 57 in June.
New construction of multifamily homes, which includes apartment buildings, condominiums and townhouses, rose 12.9 percent, to 342,000 at an annual rate from 303,000 in October. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT DAIWA SECURITIES AMERICA INC (68%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); HOUSING STARTS RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (94%); CONSTRUCTION (92%); HOUSING STARTS (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); STATISTICS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000



545 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
America, don't smirk. The European Union is no joke in any language.

BYLINE: By Jeff Madrick; This column appears here every Thursday. Jeff Madrick is the editor of Challenge Magazine and a new collection of essays, "Unconventional Wisdom: Alternative Perspectives on the New Economy." Mr. Madrick, Virginia Postrel, Alan B. Krueger and Hal R. Varian rotate as contributors.

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
THE relentless fall of the euro in 2000 at least until recently -- has lulled Americans into thinking the European Union has lost some credibility as an economic power. Add to this the failure of the recent summit meeting of European leaders in Nice to reach agreement on sharing power, and it is easy to cast aside the ambitions of Europe to form a less fractious and much bigger union. Even the news media in France, which played host to the meeting, were critical of the event.
But European finance ministers like Karl-Heinz Grasser of Austria; Vincenzo Visco, head of Italy's Treasury; and Laurent Fabius, the French finance minister, exhibit little loss of confidence. To the contrary, they point out, Europe is growing at an annual rate of 4 percent and unemployment is at last falling. Not bad for a set of countries roundly criticized for so-called inflexible labor policies and squashing their entrepreneurial instincts. "Remember that 10 years ago no one believed we could form a single market, either," Mr. Grasser said. 
 Because of the euro, Europe has also entered a period of financial tranquillity compared with the recent past, when nation after nation kept interest rates damagingly high to maintain currency parity with the German mark. Now rates are low throughout Europe as policies have been harmonized. "All this would not have happened without the euro," Mr. Visco said. "We even absorbed the financial crises of the 1990's in a stable way."
Still, the easy part, including establishing a single market by eliminating most trade barriers and adopting a single currency, may be over. Now the European Union has smaller, less mature economies, from Poland to Turkey, knocking at its door. The member nations increasingly have to begin sacrificing their special interests if Europe is to unite further to make decisions on such matters. Attracting most concern, traditionally proud France may have to yield power to Germany, whose population is half again as large. Some say the friction will keep the euro too weak ever to pose any serious threat to the dollar as a reserve currency.
But we should be wary of too much cynicism about the European Union. History may well be on its side -- and not merely Europe's history, but America's own. To Mr. Fabius, who runs the largest ministry in France, the benefits of a large market like America's are apparent. The fragmented markets of a single nation would sustain companies that served only niches. With some 300 million consumers, Europe can now produce both vital small companies as well as what he calls "champions."
"As I understand the economy, the decisive factors will be innovation, creativity, knowledge research," he said. "You need a 300- million-person market for this. I don't know if big is beautiful, but strong is beautiful. At the least, it is very useful."
American historians have long said the same thing about the United States. Alfred D. Chandler Jr., the esteemed business historian, has persuasively argued that America's true exceptionality was its ability to manage enormous operations, from U.S. Steel and Standard Oil to I.B.M. and Microsoft.
To the economic historians Gavin Wright and Richard Nelson, the size of America's market might have been its single greatest advantage. It enabled business to raise mass production and distribution to a level of efficiency Europe could not come close to achieving until well after World War II. America's continentwide domestic market has no tariff barriers, only one language and has mostly been served by one currency since the 19th century. To be competitive, Mr. Fabius said, all economies must now be continentwide.
But still, how does one overcome differences that domestic citizens take very much to heart? The European Union's best bet is that further economic advantages of union will pull it together. In fact, political integration always worked this way. What became the Common Market in the 1950's actually started out as a political dream to unite Europe to prevent war. But it was easier to find agreement on economic issues like reducing tariffs on key products. Economic growth and rising standards of living opened Europeans to political integration.
Mr. Fabius said a major unifying event might come early in 2002, when the euro itself becomes the daily working currency. Europeans will have euro bills and coins in their pockets, and resistance to change may diminish further. He also said the monthly meetings of the finance ministers from the 12 euro nations, called the Eurogroup, are providing practical grounds for overcoming obstacles. "In the beginning the meetings were rather abstract and superficial," he said. "But no longer. Step by step we build a common culture. First it was only economic, now it is also social." Mr. Fabius said the 12 nations that had adopted the euro would find common ground more readily than those that had not.
If the Europeans succeed, and the euro strengthens, there are consequences for America. In recent years, the high value of the dollar kept import prices down, and attracted direly needed capital, even as the trade deficit soared and Americans saved less and less. In coming years, it will not be as easy to import capital and keep interest rates low if the euro provides serious competition for the dollar.
But, on balance, a strong European Union, even if it means a higher value for the euro, will be a benefit. It will provide vibrant markets for American companies and may help keep the domestic economy growing. Moreover, little is as important to the nation's security as Western democracies that are economically strong.
The Europeans profess to have few illusions. They will not abandon their social programs, which are more costly than America's, but they say they will have to become more competitive to compensate, including further liberalization of their markets and coming to terms with future pension obligations.
The danger is that the European Union might take its current economic success too seriously. Restrictions on fiscal spending are still fairly tight, and the management of the European Central Bank has been heavy-handed. These policies may well slow progress.
Europeans have a longer time frame than Americans. "The history of Europe is one of slow and steady improvements even if I would like to see us move faster," Mr. Visco said. The members of the European Union are embarked on one of the great political experiments of our time. America's own success suggests, against the odds, that over time they may just pull it off.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany, left; Foreign Minister Jaime Gama of Portugal; Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain; Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer of Germany; and Prime Minister Wim Kok of the Netherlands were at the Nice talks. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (94%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); POLAND (79%); ITALY (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (94%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); POLAND (79%); ITALY (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EUROPEAN UNION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EURO (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); TRENDS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); HISTORY (72%); INTEREST RATES (69%); GERMAN MARK (66%); 

PERSON: MADRICK, JEFF TONY BLAIR (59%); GERHARD SCHRODER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000



546 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: In Final Fight, Weary Envoy Counts Ticks On U.N. Clock

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Dec. 20

 BODY:
After more than 16 months in the thankless job of refereeing between a hostile Congress and a lot of angry countries, Richard C. Holbrooke, American ambassador to the United Nations, is out of diplomatic patience and into outburst territory.
Today, as another deadline passed for deciding whether the United States will get a reduction in the dues it pays to both the regular and peacekeeping budgets, representatives of the 189-member General Assembly were staring at two sleepless nights ahead. The gavel comes down on the Assembly session on Friday. At moments like this, unity is always the last thing to be found. 
 "There is no way this is going to be finished by midnight Friday," Mr. Holbrooke said today, slumping on his office couch as one aide after another brought a phone or an urgent message on a 3-by-5 card. "A tremendous fight has broken out. It's not everyone against the U.S. It's everyone against everyone. Each country is protecting its own turf, sometimes for tiny amounts of money."
Mr. Holbrooke, who will leave the United Nations and government service for the quieter environment of the Council on Foreign Relations next year, is keeping an eye out for countries that may now accept the inevitability of reductions in American dues, looking for anyone else to pick up the slack: about $34 million a year worldwide. He has seen a nation as rich as Singapore balk at a $3 million annual increase in peacekeeping payments, and the Sultan of Brunei refuse to part with an extra $150,000. And then there was the hurricane thing.
"In one of the most dramatic moments," he said, "a country that shall be unnamed in print suddenly erupted and started to lecture me about their economy and that they get hurricanes all the time and how they therefore had to reduce their peacekeeping bill. So I said, O.K., Mr. Ambassador, let's check the record. Last year you paid to the U.N. annual dues of $11,000 in the regular budget, and your peacekeeping budget was $4,000 -- and you want a dramatic reduction because of hurricanes."
"That's an extreme example of self-indulgence," Mr. Holbrooke said, adding that colleagues had chided him for humiliating an envoy in front of his peers.
"There is also a bizarre situation where some of the oil-producing countries do not wish to give up their discounts on peacekeeping because, they say, they have single-commodity economies and they are vulnerable if oil goes to $8 a barrel," he said. "Of course it's at $28 now and going up."
Argentina, Korea, Brazil, China and scores of others all have their own rationales for being excused.
"The Congress, in turn, says, 'We've got troops in Korea, we're protecting you in the gulf, we just participated in a $15 billion bailout of Argentina through the I.M.F.,' " Mr. Holbrooke said. " 'What are you talking about?' "
He has spent more than a year traveling between here and Washington trying to get more flexibility from the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, whose chairman is Jesse Helms, Republican of North Carolina. He and Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware, the committee's ranking Democrat, wrote an agreement that tied payments of American dues and peacekeeping assessments -- governed by separate budgets -- to a reduction in American payments. Hundreds of millions of dollars already appropriated hang on this week's decision.
The agreement seeks a cut to 22 percent of the United Nations regular budget, from 25 percent -- and, on the peacekeeping budget, a cut to 25 percent from 30 percent. "The only reason I think we have a chance of success is that the cost of failure is so immense," Mr. Holbrooke said.
A failure to reach consensus would mean that assessments would be frozen for another three years until the next review. If a deal is struck, Mr. Helms and his committee will decide whether it suits them. Mr. Helms told Mr. Holbrooke this week that he would wait and see. "We're a lame-duck administration carrying out a mandate from Jesse Helms," Mr. Holbrooke said.
As for the European Union's refusal to pay more, it widens a rich-poor, North-South gap, he said. "Their core argument is indisputable. They pay more than their share of world G.D.P. and we pay less. But this is not a debating society. We have two days left to save the U.N. system. We are in overtime now, and there are no timeouts."
Even with a deal, there could be last-minute hurdles, based on past performances.
"Finally, and very importantly," Mr. Holbrooke said, "after all the other countries are finished working out their deals -- if they work them out -- the Cubans and the Libyans are going to come in and try to blow it up." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); CHINA (79%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS APCO ARGENTINA INC (51%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (55%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (55%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); CHINA (79%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); BUDGETS (89%); WEATHER (86%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (70%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; HOLBROOKE, RICHARD C (AMB) RICHARD HOLBROOKE (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000



547 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: Levitt to Leave S.E.C. Early; Bush to Pick 4

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
Arthur Levitt, the longest-serving chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, announced yesterday that he would resign from the commission by mid-February, clearing the way for President-elect George W. Bush to make four appointments to the five-member commission early next year.
Mr. Levitt, 69, who became chairman in July 1993, declined to say what he would do after he left the commission, but he said he had no plans to retire. 
 In an interview, Mr. Levitt was harshly critical of Wall Street analysts who opposed a new S.E.C. regulation aimed at blocking companies from selectively disclosing information to analysts, and of accounting leaders who bitterly fought S.E.C. efforts to place restrictions on the amount of consulting work they do for audit clients.
And he said he regretted his actions in 1994, when he persuaded the Financial Accounting Standards Board to back down on a proposed rule that would have required companies to deduct the value of stock options given to executives and employees from their profits.
There was fierce opposition to that proposal from many corporations, which argued that reporting options as an expense would damage their stock prices, and the Senate adopted a resolution opposing the rule sponsored by Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut.
In retrospect, he said, he should have stepped aside and let the accounting board act. "They would have come up with a rule, an interpretation, and that would have been it," he said. "I doubt that Congress would have come up with the votes to roll it back."
Mr. Levitt's term on the S.E.C. expires in 2003, and although he could have stayed on as a commissioner, the new president would have the right to replace him as chairman. There is currently one vacancy on the commission, and another Democratic appointee, Isaac C. Hunt Jr., is serving after his term has expired, pending the nomination of a replacement.
Mr. Levitt's departure will give the new president three appointments, and the expiration of Commissioner Laura S. Unger's term in June will give him a fourth.
Mr. Levitt said he had generally good relations on Capitol Hill despite conservative Republicans' having run the committees with oversight responsibility for the S.E.C. during most of his tenure. "We did these things," he said, "and we were not rolled back once."
Nonetheless, the possibility that some of his actions would be rolled back during the next administration was clearly on his mind. He expressed concern that a new S.E.C. might not be as vigilant about pushing accountants to resist the temptation to fudge numbers to make companies look better. "If you don't have an activist chief accountant," he said, "the competitive juices of corporate America are such that they will stay close to the line, and some of them will go over the line. It requires continual attention."
He also said he thought efforts might be made to repeal Regulation FD, for fair disclosure, the rule that bars selective disclosure of material information. "We have heard from corporate executives who lament being unable to do certain things because of fair disclosure," he said, adding that "they never should have been doing those things" anyway.
Mr. Levitt, a former president of the American Stock Exchange and a top executive of a brokerage firm -- known in Wall Street jargon as the sell side as opposed to the buy side represented by institutional investors -- showed little patience for complaints from brokerage firm analysts who say that the rule has made it harder to do their jobs.
If some companies are cautious about giving information to analysts, he said, "I think after some of the excesses of the recent past that caution is warranted," and adding "Sell-side analysis has lost all its credibility anyway."
Asked what he was most proud of, he cited changes in the Nasdaq stock market, which stemmed from the discovery that market makers had violated antitrust laws by conspiring to keep customers' trading costs high, as well as his initiatives to force the issuers of prospectuses to use plain English and to promote investor education.
Perhaps the most bruising fight of Mr. Levitt's tenure came over his attempts to reduce the amount of consulting that auditing firms can do for their clients. He argued that such work compromised a firm's independence, and two of the Big Five firms, PricewaterhouseCoopers and Ernst & Young, said they were willing to work with the S.E.C. But the three others -- KPMG, Arthur Andersen and Deloitte & Touche, along with the leadership of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants -- sought Congressional legislation to block the move and for months refused S.E.C. entreaties to negotiate. In the end, they did, and a new rule was recently passed.
"They had a fortress mentality," Mr. Levitt said of the top executives who battled the S.E.C. "They chose to make war rather than try to work with the commission. They lacked any ability to arrive at consensus between themselves. They spent a fortune of money to fight us legally and legislatively. The kind of settlement we reached could have been reached a year ago. The public attention garnered by this battle is something that will remain a lasting legacy for the profession to overcome."
He praised the Clinton White House for never intervening in an S.E.C. policy matter. "And when I needed help on the accounting issue," he said, "they were there."
As for a successor, Mr. Levitt noted that business executives who come to Washington often have trouble learning to deal with Congress, and err in one of two directions. "A typical businessman," he said, "comes in, either so terrified of the Congress that he stays away from them -- and Congress will take advantage of any weakness they see -- or he becomes so belligerent that he becomes involved in constant public battles with them."
He said that he thought it took years to learn to do the job well, adding that "I think my second three years were much more productive than the first."
And Mr. Levitt said a new chairman would have to deal with one matter where he failed in his dealings with Congress -- getting pay raises for the S.E.C. staff, a group he praised effusively, to bring their compensation into line with that of other financial regulatory agencies. Legislation to do that came close to passage this year, but died in a dispute over whether to tie it to a reduction in fees the S.E.C. charges to businesses that issue securities.
"Maybe that was a personal failure," he said. "I did not focus on it with the same ferocity that I did other issues. It was not until late in the game that I really began to work on pay parity."

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Commodities Chief to Quit
WASHINGTON, Dec. 20 (Reuters) -- The chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, William Rainer, will step down from his post on Jan. 19, the commission said. Mr. Rainer, a Democrat and a co-founder of Greenwich Capital Markets, has led the agency since August 1999. His tenure culminated last week in Congressional passage of an overhaul of laws governing futures trading and regulation. His term was scheduled to run until August 2004. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING SYSTEMS INC (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (56%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (56%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; COMPANY REPORTS; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; CONSULTANTS AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); AUDITS (75%); BONDS (75%); CONSERVATISM (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD; LEVITT, ARTHUR JR (CHMN); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000



548 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: More Experienced Applicants at Business Schools

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER 

 BODY:
When Kirsten Muetzel was laid off earlier this month by @TheMoment Inc., an Internet company in California, she was thrilled. Now, she thought, she could focus on getting into business school.
"This has worked out perfectly," Ms. Muetzel said. "Up until last week, I had no time to study." 
 The number of people who, like Ms. Muetzel, are interested in business school is up this year, according to business schools and both Kaplan Inc. and Princeton Review, which offer preparatory courses for the Graduate Management Admissions Test, or G.M.A.T. Some applicants, like her, are refugees from troubled or failed dot-coms, and others are looking to dodge a slowing economy.
This wave of applicants has more work experience behind it than previous classes, according to Kaplan and Princeton Review. For example, Ms. Muetzel, who is 26, had already worked at the accounting firm Arthur Andersen for nearly three years before she left in May to join @TheMoment, which makes products that include software that allows companies to sell goods through Web sites that operate like stock exchanges.
At Kaplan, revenue from G.M.A.T. course offerings jumped 24 percent from September through November, compared with figures in the period a year earlier. Princeton Review, which would not disclose revenue growth, also had gains, said Chris M. Volpe, the company's assistant vice president for marketing.
Of course, it is early in the course of the business school admissions cycle to predict with certainty how many people will begin studying for M.B.A.'s next fall. But the numbers at G.M.A.T. preparatory programs offer a sneak preview of how popular business schools will be.
"We are a leading indicator of demand for business schools," said Trent Anderson, vice president and publisher at Kaplan. "We tend to get people earlier in the cycle," he said, because people must take the G.M.A.T. to apply to schools.
While it is too early for business schools to have received, let alone have counted, all applications for next year, preliminary indications show interest in the form of surging attendance at recruiting events, said Randee Sacks, a spokeswoman for the Columbia Business School.
"On campus, we have seen a 45 percent increase in attendance at events," compared with last year, and attendance at off-campus events has risen about 75 percent, she said.
Last year, business schools reported a sharp decline in applications. At the time, the drop was attributed to the overwhelming temptation of a hot job market, which drew people to practice business rather than study it. Now, it seems, the reverse is true: more people want to study business, whether it is because they are fleeing a failed start-up or because they simply want career advancement.
On average, the age of would-be test-takers is rising, as is the level of experience of most applicants, Mr. Volpe said. This may be because people who experimented with the technology economy now want to return to school.
"We have had a trend toward students with more experience over the past 10 years," said Jay S. Stowsky, associate dean for school affairs and initiatives at the Haas School of Business at the University of California at Berkeley. In particular, he said, the number of applicants with engineering backgrounds has risen, to 27 percent last year from 18 percent the year before.
"That's probably because of all these people who decided to try their luck in the dot-com world," he said. Still, over time, he said that he expected to see a trend toward younger students as older people switch to programs focused on working professionals.
Applicants and admissions officers say that part of the reason for the increase in demand for the M.B.A. is the result of the perception that a graduate degree is necessary.
"What we're seeing now is that it's just become a presumption that in certain industries you have a graduate degree in order to advance," said Mr. Anderson of Kaplan.
"It's necessary to make the next step," said Ms. Muetzel, who hopes to work overseas for a strategic consulting firm. Most young people who rise in big organizations like the consulting firms that interest her have graduate degrees, she said.
Unfortunately for applicants, the quality of applications has increased sharply, making this a highly competitive year for a spot in next fall's class, said Alex L. Brown, associate director of admissions at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.
Students have more varied and stronger backgrounds, he said. "There are some really cool people applying to business school right now," he said. "That's a good thing."
Joshua Gold, a victim of recent layoffs at the e-business consultant MarchFirst, has one of those interesting backgrounds. Mr. Gold, 27, graduated in 1999 from Georgetown University with a degree in finance; he grew up in Puerto Rico, moved to Israel when he was 14 and served in the Israeli army for three years. At MarchFirst, he helped manage a team responsible for designing a Web site for a financial company.
The different experiences are useful fodder for his application essays, Mr. Gold said. "It's so hard to differentiate yourself nowadays," he said. "They have a lot of bankers and consultants."
His plan is to apply to several top-ranked schools in the United States as well as at least one in Europe. Afterward, he said, the entrepreneurial life still appeals to him -- but not at a dot-com. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS611430 PROFESSIONAL & MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT TRAINING (85%); NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (85%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: KAPLAN INC; PRINCETON REVIEW INC KAPLAN INC (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: KAPLAN INC; PRINCETON REVIEW INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; BUSINESS SCHOOLS GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); REFUGEES (70%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); 

PERSON: GLATER, JONATHAN D KIRSTEN MUETZEL (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000



549 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: Oil and Mining Leaders Agree to Protect Rights in Remote Areas

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 20

 BODY:
Several big oil and mining companies have agreed to principles meant to safeguard human rights while protecting employees and property in remote parts of the world, the State Department said today.
The department announced that the companies, human rights organizations and the governments of the United States and Britain have agreed to a set of voluntary guidelines after months of negotiations. 
 Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright said she was pleased with the accord, which she said embodied precepts "that we hope and expect will become the global standard in the oil and mining industries."
Human rights organizations said that the rules of conduct were an encouraging step, but that their voluntary nature meant there was still no formal regulation for the conduct of the companies abroad nor a system for monitoring possible abuses.
The guidelines address situations that were once little noticed but that, with the global economy and instant communications, have become more common and more publicized. Diplomats and others who have studied the problems said today that they arose when residents near mines, drilling fields or pipelines resented their government leaders and law enforcement officials and saw the companies as being in league with them. In such cases, explosive ingredients are present, they said.
The countries of greatest concern include Angola, Cameroon, Chad, Colombia, Ecuador, Equatorial Guinea, Indonesia and Nigeria. Oil exploration in Nigeria, for instance, has seen deadly pipeline explosions that have killed hundreds of people. Oil companies and the government have faulted vandals for pipeline breaks. But some people fault the government for not enforcing safety codes.
Under the guidelines, companies agree not to hire security forces implicated in human rights abuses, and they have to ensure that police equipment provided by the companies is not used to violate citizens' rights.
The accord states that companies should pressure governments to make security arrangements "transparent and accessible to the public." When there are reports of human rights abuses, "companies should actively monitor the status of investigations and press for their proper resolution," one guideline states.
An assistant secretary of state who heads the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor, Harold Koh, said, "The global marketplace is a tremendously powerful tool for promoting freedom."
"No government, even the most committed, can promote human rights alone," Mr. Koh said.
Those agreeing to the guidelines include BP Amoco, Chevron, Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold, Conoco, Shell and Texaco, along with Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch and other rights groups.
Mr. Koh's deputy, Bennett Freeman, called the accord "the start of a process, not an end." Department officials acknowledged that some of the biggest multinational names in business were not listed.
Aron Cramer, vice president of Business for Social Responsibility, whose 1,400 member companies pledge to improve business practices, acknowledged in an interview from San Francisco that the accord was but a beginning, and a nonbinding one at that. Still, Mr. Cramer said, what was announced is significant. Not so long ago, he said, such an accord would have been "unlikely, bordering on unthinkable." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FCX (NYSE) (62%); BP (NYSE) (58%); BP (LSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (62%); NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (62%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (62%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (62%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (62%); SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (62%); SIC3331 PRIMARY SMELTING & REFINING OF COPPER (62%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (62%); SIC1044 SILVER ORES (62%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (62%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (62%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NIGERIA (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); CAMEROON (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CHAD (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FREEPORT-MCMORAN COPPER & GOLD INC (62%); BP PLC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES (93%); NIGERIA (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); CAMEROON (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CHAD (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; MINES AND MINING HUMAN RIGHTS (91%); MINES & MINING (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (87%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (87%); ETHICS (78%); OIL EXPLORATION (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); 

PERSON: STOUT, DAVID HAROLD KOH (75%); ARON CRAMER (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000



550 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Kentucky Insurance Chief Leaves for New York Life and Big Raise

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
The New York Life Insurance Company said yesterday that it had hired one of the country's most highly regarded and influential regulators. The move raised concern among some consumer advocates who have long criticized what they call an overly close relationship between the insurance industry and the state officials who oversee it.
George Nichols III, 40, who resigned as Kentucky's insurance commissioner two weeks ago after finishing a year as president of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, will become a senior vice president at New York Life, working on marketing and international business. He will report to Sy Sternberg, the company's chief executive.
J. Robert Hunter, the director of insurance for the Consumer Federation of America, said the shift might be legal, but "it sure looks bad." 
 "It undermines consumer confidence in regulation," he said. "You say you're protecting me, and the next day you're with the very guy you say you're protecting me from."
Both Mr. Sternberg and Mr. Nichols said they saw nothing improper about the new job. Mr. Nichols, who has been widely praised for his effectiveness as the head of the national association, which creates guidelines for insurance regulation in all the states, said Mr. Hunter raised "a legitimate issue." But he said he was proud of his "long record of achievement on behalf of consumers" and said he thought he was known and respected for his integrity.
New York Life would not disclose Mr. Nichols's salary, but it said that most senior vice presidents there earned $350,000 to $700,000 last year. Both Mr. Sternberg and Mr. Nichols said Mr. Nichols's pay would fall near the middle of that range. Mr. Nichols's salary in Kentucky was $92,000 a year.
Mr. Sternberg said Mr. Nichols would do no lobbying or be involved in regulatory affairs.
But Mr. Sternberg said that New York Life expected to receive a license to sell insurance in China early next year and that Mr. Nichols, who has advised the China Insurance Regulatory Commission, "could be very helpful in some sort of ambassadorial role."
"With respect to communicating with the regulatory commission," Mr. Sternberg said, "having George on our staff will certainly be a plus."
Mr. Hunter said Mr. Nichols did "quite a good job" as president of the regulatory group. "He's a good man who I think truly cares about consumers," Mr. Hunter said.
He added that protections for insurance consumers had been eroded over the last year but that Mr. Nichols was not largely responsible for that. In Kentucky, Mr. Nichols began a program that provides more affordable coverage for people with serious health conditions. He also created an omsbudsman program, to explain insurance to consumers, and an antifraud bureau.
In general, senior federal and state officials are allowed to take jobs in industries in which they have been involved on behalf of government, but they usually cannot deal directly with their former agencies for a year or two. Even so, Charles Elson, the director of the Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware, said, "The conflict issue always comes up."
But, he said, there are good reasons for permitting people to move between government and private industry. "If people leaving government could not serve in areas with which they are familiar, you would discourage good people from going into regulatory work," he said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO; NATIONAL ASSN OF INSURANCE COMMISSIONERS; NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO (92%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF INSURANCE COMMISSIONERS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO; NATIONAL ASSN OF INSURANCE COMMISSIONERS; NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF INSURANCE COMMISSIONERS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: INSURANCE; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY INSURANCE (94%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (92%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); INSURANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); LIFE INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); LOBBYING (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); 

PERSON: NICHOLS, GEORGE 3D; TREASTER, JOSEPH B SEYMOUR G STERNBERG (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000



551 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Nasdaq Tumbles 7.1% as Fed Bias Shift Fails to Halt Skid

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
The slide in stocks picked up speed yesterday as the Nasdaq composite index suffered the biggest of seven consecutive declines and its biggest percentage loss since April. The technology-dominated index has now crumbled 53.8 percent from its peak in March.
The other main gauges skidded by lesser, though still sizable, amounts as investors bailed out of a wide range of companies. Utility and drug stocks, along with the bond market, were among the few places to provide refuge in a market poised to turn in its worst annual performance in a quarter century. 
 The Nasdaq tumbled 178.93 points, or 7.1 percent, to 2,332.78, the seventh worst day since the index was started in 1971. The index is down 42.7 percent this year. Yesterday's close was the lowest since March 1999.
Nasdaq volume was 2.85 billion shares, the second-heaviest trading on record, surpassing last Friday's 2.77 billion shares and just behind the 2.88 billion on April 4. Declines led advances about four to one.
Three main forces were weighing on the market: fears that the economy may be downshifting so abruptly as to risk a profit-eroding stall; forced sales by those who had bought shares with borrowed money; and end-of-the-year selling to establish tax deductions. Cisco Systems, down $5.25, to $36.50, was a prominent casualty after it was downgraded by a Merrill Lynch analyst, who said lower corporate spending could be a drag on revenue. Shares of Cisco sold at $82 in March.
"The feeling is the economy's falling off a cliff," said Frank Cappiello, president of McCullough, Andrews & Cappiello in Baltimore.
"This is about the severest market I've seen," added Mr. Cappiello, who has been in the market for 30 years. "We're facing terror, fear."
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 40.86 points, or 3.1 percent, to 1,264.74, 13.9 percent lower than at the end of 1999 and heading for the worst annual showing since 1974, when it fell nearly 30 percent.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 265.44 points, or 2.5 percent, to 10,318.93, down 10.3 percent so far this year.
Although Wall Street got what most analysts expected in the Federal Reserve's decision on Tuesday to switch its stance toward cutting interest rates from raising them, analysts said the market appeared to reflect hopes that it would actually make a cut and not wait for perhaps another month.
"I couldn't believe the market was discounting an easing, but it obviously was," said R. Crit Thomas, a portfolio manager at National City Bank in Cleveland.
The fear that the Fed, whose latest increases last spring are thought to be taking effect only now, may be waiting too long to cut rates when faced with declines in retail sales and other sobering economic data contributed to Tuesday's post-meeting skid and yesterday's sharp, largely unrelieved, drop.
Taking a somewhat longer view, Charles J. Pradilla, chief investment strategist at SG Cowen, pointed to what he called the "full-fledged mania" that elevated the prices of technology companies, those with sound as well as shaky business models, to extremely high levels that he said could never be sustained.
EMC, downgraded by A. G. Edwards to "accumulate," slumped $7.38, to $55.63, after trading at $91.25 last week.
Cisco, with a rarely surpassed 169.75 million shares changing hands, was by far the most actively traded issue. Sun Microsystems, in second place, was the only one of the 28 most active issues to manage a price gain, up 50 cents, to $27.44.
J. P. Morgan took the biggest hit among blue-chip stocks. It fell $5.06, to $159.13, followed by I.B.M., American Express and Microsoft, all down more than $3. Only five of the 30 Dow stocks rose, the biggest winners being Merck, up $1.88, to $93.38, and Johnson & Johnson, up $1.44 to $100.63.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasury Prices Rise
By Bloomberg News
Bond prices staged their biggest rally in two weeks yesterday as forecasts of lower corporate earnings suggested the economy was slowing and inflation would not accelerate.
"The feeling is growing by the minute that we are moving toward a recession, which is forcing people into the bond market," said Alan Koepplin, who has about 40 percent of the $500 million he manages for institutional clients at SG Cowen Asset Management in bonds.
The price of the 10-year Treasury note rose 16/32, to 105 14/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 5.03 percent from 5.18 percent on Tuesday.
The 30-year Treasury bond rose 13/32, to 112 14/32. Its yield fell to 5.40 percent from 5.47 percent on Tuesday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Quincy DeFreitas, a stockbroker at JW Genesis Securities in New York, monitored the markets yesterday. The Dow fell 2.5 percent. (Associated Press)
 
Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 
Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since August. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)
 
Graph: "A Bad Year Gets Worse"
After yesterday's decline, four of the
Nasdaq composite's ten worst days
have occurred this year.
 
Oct. 19, 1987
CHANGE: -11.35%
DATE CLOSE: 360.21
 
PUB-DATE: April 14, 2000
CHANGE: - 9.67
DATE CLOSE: 3,321.29
 
Oct. 20, 1987
CHANGE: - 9.00
DATE CLOSE: 327.79
 
Oct. 26, 1987
CHANGE: - 9.00
DATE CLOSE: 298.90
 
Aug. 31, 1998
CHANGE: - 8.56
DATE CLOSE: 1,499.25
 
PUB-DATE: April 3, 2000
CHANGE: - 7.64
DATE CLOSE: 4,223.68
 
Dec. 20, 2000
CHANGE: - 7.12
DATE CLOSE: 2,332.78
 
PUB-DATE: April 12, 2000
CHANGE: - 7.06
DATE CLOSE: 3,769.63
 
Oct. 27, 1997
CHANGE: - 7.02
DATE CLOSE: 1,535.09
 
PUB-DATE: March 27, 1980
CHANGE: - 6.15
DATE CLOSE: 124.09
 
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (73%); PNC (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (73%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (73%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (73%); NATIONAL CITY CORP (50%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (65%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR FRANK CAPPIELLO (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000



552 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 38; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: An Aluminum Man for Treasury

 BODY:
As the president's point man on tax policy and international economic affairs, the secretary of the Treasury is one of Washington's most powerful officials. President-elect George W. Bush acted wisely yesterday in naming Paul O'Neill, the pragmatic chairman of Alcoa, for the job, despite the grumbling of some conservative ideologues.
Conservatives are particularly alarmed by Mr. O'Neill's past views on the paramount importance of cutting the national debt and his support in the early 1990's for energy taxes on fiscal and environmental grounds. Though he said yesterday that he believed Mr. Bush "has the right ideas about where our economy should go," we are hopeful that in time Mr. O'Neill will exercise his sound judgment by counseling Mr. Bush to scale back his proposed tax cuts. 
 During his 12-year tenure as chief executive officer of Alcoa, the aluminum giant based in Pittsburgh, the understated Mr. O'Neill was a highly regarded executive. It would be wrong to suggest that because he ran an industrial conglomerate he is ill suited to guide the economy in the information age. Mr. O'Neill turned the stodgy company into a highly profitable one by embracing new technologies. Under his leadership, Alcoa became a case study at business schools for the proposition that a company's investments in technology can reap large productivity dividends and enhance workplace safety.
As the chief executive of a multinational corporation with operations in three dozen countries, Mr. O'Neill brings to the Treasury Department a firsthand understanding of how currency fluctuations affect the economy. He is also familiar with the ways of Washington, having worked at the Office of Management and Budget from 1967 to 1977. He was its deputy director during the Ford administration. Mr. O'Neill has been close to Alan Greenspan since his Washington days. He is also a good friend of Dick Cheney, the vice president-elect.
Mr. Bush's three other designations yesterday further deepened his cabinet's diversity. He named Ann Veneman, the deputy secretary of agriculture in his father's presidency, to run the Agriculture Department. She has impressive credentials for the position, but she must reassure Americans that she will not seek to overturn decisions protecting designated national forest lands from development.
Mel Martinez, a Cuban-born immigrant and Republican leader in Florida, was selected to take over the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Mr. Bush owes his election in part to the support of the Cuban-American community in Florida. Mr. Bush named Don Evans, his old friend and campaign chairman, as commerce secretary.
In introducing his Treasury secretary-designate, Mr. Bush alluded to the economy's slowdown. Indeed, another selloff on Wall Street amid concerns about declining corporate earnings provided an ominous backdrop to Mr. O'Neill's appointment. The rapidly changing economic climate will challenge Mr. Bush's economic team from the start. Mr. O'Neill will have to prevail upon Mr. Bush to act prudently on the tax front and work closely with his old friend at the Fed to stave off a recession. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (58%); AA (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (58%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT ALCOA INC (58%); TREASURY DEPARTMENT (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT TREASURY DEPARTMENT (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EDITORIALS TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (86%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); TAX RELIEF (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); IMMIGRATION (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (72%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (64%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (64%); NATIONAL DEBT (56%); CITIES (50%); CURRENCIES (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); O'NEILL, PAUL H GEORGE W BUSH (90%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); MEL MARTINEZ (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000



553 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 38; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: The Lindsay Legacy

 BODY:
John V. Lindsay presided with passion, idealism and courage over New York City during one of the most beleaguered periods of its history. In his eight turbulent years as mayor, from 1966 through 1973, New Yorkers endured racial unrest, strikes, economic decline, rising crime rates, antiwar protests, fiscal crises, police scandals and finally a revolt of the white middle class that discouraged him from seeking re-election to a third term. He was a glamorous but divisive figure who battled labor leaders, rival politicians and countless others. Yet his biggest fights were waged against racial hatred and poverty, and he helped awaken all Americans to the cause of the cities.
Mr. Lindsay's death yesterday, at age 79, brings back many indelible images of that time, including garbage piled high on the streets, angry picket lines at the city's schools and a transit strike that began the second he took office on New Year's Day of 1966. There was the way he led cyclists and pedestrians back into the city's crime-ridden parks for concerts, festivals and "happenings," offset by the 1969 debacle of snow clogging the streets of Queens long after a blizzard, a frozen symbol of a city government in collapse. But surely the most memorable image is of a mayor in a trench coat, heading bravely into the city's tormented black communities to assure them that someone did care after the murder of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. in 1968. That singular gesture helped keep the city together in an era when other cities across the country had gone up in flames. 
 Mr. Lindsay's 1965 mayoral campaign slogan had been: "He is fresh, and all the others are tired." Eight years later, he was as tired of the city as it was tired of him. It is easy in hindsight to see the mistakes that Mr. Lindsay made. They include failed liberal experiments like school decentralization, "maximum feasible participation" of the poor in anti-poverty programs, and giant housing projects for minorities in middle-class neighborhoods, as well as unwieldy government superagencies and a mistaken belief that the city could tax itself out of financial troubles.
No doubt there was arrogance and a condescension toward the middle class running through some of those ideas. But in today's affluent times, it is worth recalling that his programs reflected an urgency to address the grievances of those left out, and a willingness to challenge the status quo.
Mr. Lindsay was an alluring figure in many ways. Handsome, tall and self-assured, he seemed to glide through the messiness of the city with patrician ease. In truth, he lived modestly after leaving Gracie Mansion. He began his career as a liberal pro-civil-rights Republican in the House of Representatives, and ended it by switching to the Democratic Party and making an embarrassingly unsuccessful run for president in 1972.
But his legacy is enormous. He inspired a whole generation of idealistic young people, many of them minority members and women, to join the cause of public service. Look around the city, and you can also see a separate legacy, brought by a new generation of gifted architects and planners from his day who created vest-pocket parks, Model Cities programs and innovative building projects. But the greatest legacy of all is the memory of a time when the city was sorely tested and even experts wondered whether it would ever see great days again. John Lindsay may have overreached, but he embodied the city's combative spirit, the honor of public service and ultimately the city's ability to renew itself. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EDITORIALS; MAYORS; DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); POLITICS (89%); MAYORS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); MURDER (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); RACE & RACISM (77%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (75%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (66%); SCANDALS (57%); 

PERSON: LINDSAY, JOHN V JOHN V LINDSAY (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000



554 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: Stock Exchange Signs Deal for New Site in Financial District

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
Two years after the New York Stock Exchange threatened to move to New Jersey, exchange officials signed a formal agreement with the city and the state yesterday for a new, modern trading complex on Wall Street that would receive more than $600 million in subsidies.
Under the terms of the agreement, the largest deal of its kind, the city would acquire the block bound by Wall, Broad and William Streets and Exchange Place to build the 10-story trading complex, which the stock exchange would occupy, and a 1.3-million-square-foot office tower on top, which would be rented out. The city and the state have agreed to provide up to $480 million in cash for the trading complex and an estimated $160 million in tax breaks. 
 "It's a very significant milestone in the course of the project," said Michael Carey, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation. "It means everybody's committed to going forward."
But first, the city must buy the land, which is expected to cost taxpayers up to $450 million. The agreement, known as a letter of intent, states that the city must acquire the site for the project by June 30 and complete the complex by 2005. Mr. Carey said he already had an agreement with Rockrose Development Corporation to buy the apartment house at 45 Wall Street. He expects to resume negotiations with J. P. Morgan & Company, which controls the other buildings within the block.
The stock exchange has agreed to invest about $400 million in new equipment and technology and pay an annual rent starting at $10 million. The city hopes that rent from the office tower will offset the land costs, although it has had no success so far in attracting a tenant.
The deal has come under increasing criticism over the last two years, as costs have soared and some analysts questioned the need for an expanded trading floor when electronic networks were growing increasingly popular. In addition, some urban planners and public officials are questioning why the Giuliani administration would get involved in building an office tower even as it has urged the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey to sell the World Trade Center and get out of the real estate business.
"The stock exchange is like a baseball stadium in that it may be somewhat good for civic pride and the economy, but it's not worth paying an exorbitant price," said Charles Brecher, director of research at the Citizens Budget Commission. "We may have provided a deeper subsidy than the underlying economic judgment could justify."
The stock exchange would replace a series of trading floors totaling 45,000 square feet with one new 50,000-square-foot trading complex. Richard A. Grasso, chairman of the stock exchange, has said that the exchange has to consolidate its trading operations into a single modern complex to compete globally.
City officials are hoping that the agreement and the purchase of the land will give the project some much needed credibility and help attract a major tenant for the tower. But some real estate executives say that the city is undertaking enormous financial risks by agreeing to start building the project by 2004 with or without a developer and a major tenant.
"It is our expectation that we will have a developer and a tenant for the tower," Mr. Carey said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (67%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (67%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (63%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); ROCKROSE DEVELOPMENT CORP (67%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (63%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK EXCHANGES (93%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (77%); BONDS (77%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (74%); REAL ESTATE (74%); LAND USE PLANNING (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); PORT AUTHORITIES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (65%); BASEBALL (60%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V MICHAEL CAREY (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000



555 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Residents of New London Go to Court, Saying Project Puts Profit Before Homes

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

DATELINE: NEW LONDON, Conn., Dec. 20

 BODY:
Efforts to revive the economy of this impoverished old port city are focused on the redevelopment of Fort Trumbull, a ramshackle waterfront neighborhood where Pfizer Inc., the global pharmaceutical giant, is building a new $270 million headquarters for its research and development operations.
But the city's plans for $200 million in additional development in the neighborhood, including new offices and housing, have set off a court battle by some local residents and business owners who say their property is being seized through the city's power of eminent domain, not for a greater public good but to enrich commercial interests. 
 "We do not want to sell," said Michael Cristofaro, 38, a computer technician, whose parents own a home at 53 Goshen Street that the family says is worth about $200,000. "The property has been in our family for the last 36 years. They could come in here and offer us $500,000 for it and we wouldn't take it. It's really not the money issue. It's the principle of it."
Seven property owners in the Fort Trumbull neighborhood, including the Cristofaros, filed a lawsuit today in State Superior Court here seeking to prevent the condemnation of their homes and businesses. Their efforts are being backed by the Institute for Justice, a nonprofit public interest law firm in Washington that specializes in helping property owners fight confiscation under eminent domain.
The institute has won some well-publicized cases, including that of Vera Coking, a widow whose home in Atlantic City was going to be seized for the expansion of the Trump Plaza Hotel and Casino. That case, decided by a state court in 1998, focused on whether the state could condemn land on behalf of someone else.
The New London case will raise similar issues. But unlike the New Jersey case, which pitted the interests of one large casino against a homeowner, the Fort Trumbull case involves what many city leaders argue is a comprehensive effort to revitalize a sorely depressed local economy, to attract commercial investment and new jobs and to increase the tax base.
"Going back to John Locke, the concept of private property, after due remuneration, being transferred to public benefit is a longstanding tradition in the United States," said Claire Gaudiani, the president of the New London Development Corporation, a private nonprofit group authorized by the city to direct the redevelopment plan.
Ms. Gaudiani, who will step down in June after 13 years as president of Connecticut College here, has led the economic redevelopment effort and is largely credited with persuading Pfizer to put its new research headquarters on a formerly polluted site. Her husband, David G. Burnett, is a Pfizer executive, the director of Pfizer Research University.
"We all need to sacrifice," Ms. Gaudiani said, adding, "If this city can become a lively, diverse hub of activity that improves life for people of color, for poor people, from middle income, for working poor and for upper-income people, then it is going to be a great American city."
Some residents have blamed Pfizer, saying the city is trying to please the company by moving working-class people out of the Fort Trumbull neighborhood. A spokeswoman for the company, Kate Robins, said that Pfizer's new headquarters was not contingent on any other part of the development plan. "We're moving in in June," she said. "Our project is almost finished."
Ms. Robins said that the company had outgrown its research center across the Thames River in Groton and that the new headquarters would have up to 2,000 workers.
Among the residents refusing to give up their homes is Susette Kelo, whose pink Victorian cottage on East Street was the site of a news conference this morning to announce the lawsuit. "It's not for sale," Ms. Kelo, a nurse, said of her house, which has a front porch overlooking Long Island Sound. "I told them that from the beginning, and I told them if they kept messing with me they're going to be sorry."
Already, the development corporation has bought 65 properties in the 90-acre neighborhood and is in the process of seizing 21 more from owners who have refused to sell, said Chris Riley, a spokesman. Some of those owners, like Ms. Kelo, have already received orders to move out.
And on East Street, things are starting to get lonely. The owners of the two identical cottages next door to Ms. Kelo have both sold, and the homes have been reduced to mounds of rubble. Four other homes in the near vicinity have also been sold and demolished. Ms. Kelo herself is under orders to be out of her house by March 9, a deadline that her lawyers say will most likely be postponed by a judge.
Some officials have proposed that the project include a Coast Guard museum, but the Coast Guard has not made a commitment to the plan.
Scott G. Bullock, a lawyer with the Institute for Justice, said the lawsuit argued that the use of eminent domain in Fort Trumbull violated the rights of property owners under the federal Constitution, the state Constitution and the city charter.
Mr. Riley said that the development corporation lawyers were reviewing the lawsuit but that they were confident they had followed all state and local statutes.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of Connecticut highlighting Fort Trumbull: Pfizer plans a new research center in the Fort Trumbull neighborhood.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (95%); PFE (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (95%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (95%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (95%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (91%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PFIZER INC PFIZER INC (95%); PLAZA HOTEL & CASINO (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: PFIZER INC

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON (CONN); UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (91%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; SUITS AND LITIGATION PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PROPERTY LAW (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); EMINENT DOMAIN (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); LITIGATION (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); CITIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); LAWYERS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (64%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); 

PERSON: HERSZENHORN, DAVID M ANN LIVERMORE (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000



556 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1954 words

HEADLINE: Market Paying Price for Valuing New-Economy Hope Over Profits

BYLINE: By ALEX BERENSON 

 BODY:
This boom was supposed to be different.
Even after the stocks of money-losing Internet retailers like Amazon .com collapsed last spring, investors kept faith in the limitless potential of companies that were building the Internet itself. From giants like AT&T to no-names like the optical equipment maker Corvis, which briefly this summer was worth more than General Motors, technology and telecommunications companies raised $330 billion from American investors and venture capitalists this year, about $1,200 for every American. 
 But since September, the boom has turned into the deepest bear market for technology stocks in a generation, as investors worry about the prospects for continued growth. Intel is down 58 percent from its high. Cisco Systems has fallen 55 percent. Lucent Technologies has dropped 80 percent. Yesterday, stocks skidded again, with the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index falling 178.93 points, to 2,332.78, and the Dow Jones industrial average losing 265.44 points, to 10,318.93. Page C1. The Nasdaq has now fallen more than half from its high set in March and, after a summer rally, almost 45 percent since Sept. 1.
When the dot-com bubble burst in the spring, a roaring economy hardly noticed. The broad crash in technology stocks this fall has swept over more investors and bigger companies by far, erasing more than $3 trillion in stock market value -- enough to destroy the portfolios of investors who moved into technology stocks late, though long-term investors remain ahead. Today, it is a major factor in the slowdown in the American economy.
Analysts, economists and business executives now worry that the binge may take years to cure. Blinded by the potential for vast new markets, they say, companies and investors alike fell into bad habits that Wall Street only encouraged.
Corporate managers came to value sales growth over profitability, adding employees and building factories in expectation of limitless demand. Putting too much trust in the executives' rosy predictions, Wall Street analysts failed to independently investigate the prospects of the companies they covered. In turn, investors, as they had with the dot-coms, forgot the most basic rule of valuing stocks -- that profits ultimately dictate share prices.
The excesses were not confined to information-technology companies. Retailers like Gap also grew too fast. Biotechnology companies with dim prospects found financing. Even slow-growing media companies like Time Warner convinced investors that they should be valued for their prospects, not their paltry profits.
But the technology sector paced the boom, grabbing an ever-increasing share of investors' attention -- and cash. "We had an enormous amount of relatively low-cost capital," said Greg Maffei, chief executive of 360networks, which still plans to spend at least $3.5 billion next year as it builds an 86,000-mile worldwide fiber optic network. "When people throw a lot of money at things quickly sometimes, it's not all rational."
Of course, technology companies have made bears look foolish before, most recently in 1998. The Federal Reserve appears inclined to loosen credit to bolster the economy. Unlike the e-commerce companies, many of the builders of the Internet's infrastructure are profitable, and almost no one doubts that demand for their products will rise in the long run.
But this slowdown has already lasted longer than the 1998 decline. Technology investment drove growth in the 1990's, both directly and by fueling a rising stock market that led to increased consumer spending. Now the fall in technology stocks is having the opposite effect. Economic growth, 5.6 percent in the second quarter, slowed to 2.4 percent in the third. Some economists predict a recession next year, a prospect that would have seemed impossible only a few weeks ago.
Even bulls like John T. Chambers, chief executive of Cisco, agree that the pace of technology spending is abating. "A person would have to have a blindfold on not to realize that the economy is slowing and that capital expenditures are slowing," Mr. Chambers said, although he remains optimistic that Cisco can avoid the broader slowdown.
To those with long memories, the cycle is familiar. At another "really big inflection point in the history of capitalism, in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, we find something very similar going on," said Nancy Koehn, a historian at the Harvard Business School.
Then, J. P. Morgan and John D. Rockefeller led investors who poured billions of dollars into the steel, rail and electric industries, creating the infrastructure of modern America. But along the way, the economy suffered busts that make the current slowdown look tame.
"A lot of capital investment made at the very end of the 1990's is going to prove to be uneconomic," said Paul Sagawa, communications equipment analyst for Bernstein Investment Research and Management. "These things happen over and over again."
No sector illustrates today's glut as vividly as the communications industry.
In 1990, telecommunications companies raised $3.8 billion selling stocks and bonds to American investors, according to Thomson Financial Securities Data. This year, they have raised $111 billion, financing a huge expansion in cellular phone and fiber optic networks.
Along the way, shares soared as investors bet that the Internet and wireless communications would provide enough business for everyone. Shares in long-distance companies like Sprint more than tripled between 1996 and 1999 from $17.80, to $67.31. Qwest Communications, the biggest of the new entrants, rose sevenfold from its initial public stock sale in June 1997 to the end of 1999 from $5.50, to $43.
By this year, at least six companies, including Qwest, had built or were building new nationwide fiber optic networks, while established companies like AT&T were furiously upgrading their own networks, and upstarts were selling shares.
"There were a thousand me-too companies," said Afshin Mohebbi, president for worldwide operations at Qwest. "How the hell can you win if your objective is to do what we did four years ago?"
Perversely, Wall Street encouraged many new companies to lose money as quickly as possible, said Jim Chanos, a veteran short-seller, or investor who places bets that stocks will fall.
Investors and venture capitalists knew that the companies they financed would need years to recoup their high start-up costs and turn profits. So they, and the companies, focused on measures like "miles of fiber optic cable laid" instead of earnings. To meet those growth targets, companies spent capital as quickly as they could raise it, leading to mounting losses, Mr. Chanos said.
Now, communications capacity seems to have outstripped demand. Prices for cellular phone service, Internet access and long-distance calling are plunging. According to Jim Lande, a Federal Communications Commission economist, long-distance rates have fallen 35 percent since 1993. Cell phone charges are falling even faster.
And profits are following prices down. Earlier this year, Wall Street figured that AT&T and WorldCom would together make $16 billion in 2001. Today, they expect the two companies to earn just over $6 billion. The stocks of both are down more than 60 percent. At AT&T, prospects appear to be worsening. The company yesterday cut its dividend for the first time in 113 years and said profits would fall short of already reduced expectations. Its shares closed at $18.94, down from a high of $61 in March.
Many smaller, newer companies are near collapse. Five have defaulted on their bonds this year, most prominently ICG Communications of Englewood, Colo., which filed for bankruptcy last month. Several more such filings are likely next year, said Diane Vazza, head of global fixed-income research for Standard & Poor's.
Even so, companies like Cisco and Juniper Networks, which make the equipment that runs communications networks, continued into the autumn to surge on the carriers' spending. Profits at the equipment companies soared, and investor enthusiasm grew even faster.
Cisco shares rose more than 1,000-fold between its February 1990 initial public offering at a split-adjusted 6 cents till it peaked at $82 in March, when it was briefly the world's most valuable company. Juniper rose 40-fold -- from $5.67, to $244.50 -- in the 16 months ending in October.
Along the way, investors, analysts and the companies locked themselves into an ever-faster dance.
Investors bid the equipment companies to price-earnings ratios never before seen for large stocks, creating great wealth for employees and executives. In return, the companies were expected to meet or surpass analysts' projections for growth each quarter -- forecasts that the analysts worked closely with the companies to determine.
But as their stocks soared, the companies found the dance impossible to stop. With engineers scarce and the companies using stock options to pay them, any drop in a company's stock could lead to a devastating loss of talent, said Steven Levy, telecommunications equipment analyst for Lehman Brothers.
At best, that pressure discouraged executives from reminding investors that their companies were badly overvalued, by historical measures. At worst, it led them to use controversial accounting techniques to pump up their reported growth rates.
Analysts said the company that used the most tricks was Lucent, the biggest of the equipment makers.
Throughout 1999, Lucent enhanced its earnings with a restructuring reserve and gains from its pension plan. It also offered its customers loans so they could buy its equipment, a practice known as vendor financing.
Aside from a few short-sellers and Mr. Levy, investors largely ignored those accounting issues for the first three years after Lucent was spun off from AT&T in 1996. Lucent shares rose more than 1,100 percent from the split-adjusted offering price of $6.38 in April 1996 to their peak last December at $79.16.
Just weeks later, Lucent told investors that its earnings and sales for the fourth quarter of 1999 were short of projections. The company again warned of problems in July, October and November, saying it had lost sales because it had been slow to offer customers a new class of superfast optical networking equipment.
Lucent closed at $15.50 yesterday. The drop has left its shareholders $200 billion poorer and prompted the company's board to remove Richard A. McGinn, the chief executive. Only the longest-tenured holders of the stock still have profits.
Most of the other equipment makers have not been as aggressive in their accounting. But vendor financing has become common, raising concerns that the industry may be paying for its own growth and encouraging carriers to buy equipment they cannot profitably use.
"Some accounts, if you don't participate in vendor financing, you're not going to play," Mr. Chambers of Cisco said. But he acknowledged worries about growth in financing.
Even the most skeptical analysts do not expect the equipment makers to face the same immediate pressures as their customers. Except for Lucent, the equipment makers' profits have risen this year, and they remain major holdings of Janus Capital, Fidelity Investments and other big mutual fund companies.
Indeed, despite their plunge this fall, these stocks remain expensive. Juniper trades at 330 times its expected earnings for 2000 -- 15 times the multiple of the average stock in the Standard & Poor's 500.
Prices like that assume the equipment companies will continue to grow very fast for several years -- an optimistic assumption in an economy slamming on the brakes.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Printing Money"
The total debt and equity issued by technology and telecommunications has soared the last decade.
 
Graph shows technology companies and telecommunications companies figures from 1990-2000*.
 
*Through Dec. 7
(Source: Thomson Financial Securities Data)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (90%); ALU (PAR) (70%); ALU (NYSE) (70%); ALU (BIT) (70%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); GM (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (90%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (70%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (58%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS; INTEL CORP; LUCENT TECHNOLOGIES CISCO SYSTEMS INC (90%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (70%); AMAZON.COM INC (58%); INTEL CORP (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CISCO SYSTEMS; INTEL CORP; LUCENT TECHNOLOGIES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (92%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (89%); RETAILERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (77%); FIBER OPTICS (77%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (73%); VENTURE CAPITAL (73%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (62%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: BERENSON, ALEX GREGORY B MAFFEI (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000



557 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-19
 
Mideast Talks Under Way, Once Again, at White House
Israeli and Palestinian negotiators met with President Clinton at the White House, as hopes revived for the possibility of a Middle East settlement before Mr. Clinton leaves office next month. Little progress was reported in the talks so far. A14
 
Steps to Calm Kashmir
India and Pakistan announced steps to reduce tensions along their de facto border in divided Kashmir. India's prime minister, Atal Behari Vajpayee, said he was extending a cease-fire and beginning "exploratory steps" to rejuvenate peace talks with Pakistan. Later, Pakistan's army announced a partial withdrawal of troops. A6 

Pinochet Court Case
The Chilean Supreme Court dismissed kidnapping and murder charges against Gen. Augusto Pinochet, but the court ordered that the general be interrogated in 20 days, so he might be charged again. A11
 
Shifting France Elections
The French National Assembly passed legislation that could give the Socialist prime minister, Lionel Jospin, left, a hand in the 2002 presidential race by reversing the election calendar, moving the race for president before the legislative elections. A5
 
Guidelines for Human Rights
Several big oil and mining companies have agreed to principles meant to safeguard human rights while protecting company employees and property in remote parts of the world, the State Department said. A9
 
World Briefing A12
 
CIRCUITS G1-12
 
The Newest Kitchen Appliance
The latest of the stripped-down computers called Internet appliances have advantages over traditional PC's, one being that they are "small enough to fit on a kitchen counter," as their brochures put it. G1
 
NATIONAL A22-37
 
Seeking a 'Steady Voice,' Bush Picks Treasury Chief
President-elect George W. Bush chose Paul H. O'Neill, a business executive with extensive government experience, to serve as treasury secretary, calling him a "steady voice" who could "calm people's nerves, calm the markets, calm those who would speculate in the dollar" in the event of an economic downturn. Mr. Bush tapped his long-time friend and campaign chairman, Donald L. Evans, an oil man, to be secretary of commerce; Mel Martinez, the chairman of Orange County, Fla., as housing secretary; and Ann Veneman, the former director of California's Agriculture Department, as agriculture secretary. A1
 
Mr. Bush took another step toward easing strains from the presidential race, meeting with about 30 religious leaders, many of them black, to discuss his plans to expand the role of churches and charities in federal welfare programs. A37
 
SCIENCE/HEALTH
 
Crackdown on Truck Emissions
President Clinton has approved final pollution-control rules that will force drastic reductions in heavy-duty truck and bus emissions over the next 10 years. A1
 
New Rules for Organic Food
The Department of Agriculture announced the first standards the government has ever imposed for the labeling and processing of organic foods. The new standards ban the use of irradiation, biotechnology and the use of sewer sludge as fertilizer in anything labeled organic food. A22
 
Revised Privacy Rules Sought
Leaders of the health care industry said they would immediately ask Mr. Bush to revise new rules issued by President Clinton to protect the privacy of medical records. A22
 
African Medicine Hunt
A $15 million grant to hunt for drugs against sleeping sickness and leishmaniasis, diseases that kill thousands of Africans each year, has been made by the foundation created by the founder of Microsoft. A8
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-9
 
Some Troubled City Schools May Be Put in Private Hands
In its first effort to turn entire public schools over to private operators, the New York City Board of Education planned to let Edison Schools Inc., a for-profit company that is the nation's largest commercial manager of public schools, run up to five of the city's worst-performing schools beginning next fall. A1
 
Killer's Release Dismays Family
It was troubling enough to the victim's family that Mohammad Abequa, who killed his wife in New Jersey and fled to Jordan with their two children, was sentenced to only 15 years by a Jordanian court. But then came the news that the confessed killer had been pardoned after five years in prison, and set free. B1
 
Neediest Cases B4
 
ARTS E1-14
 
Berlin's Coda for Carnegie
Germany allowed itself a measure of contempt for New York habits by warmly greeting the return of Franz Xaver Ohnesorg, left, from his tenure as executive director of Carnegie Hall to be the chief executive of the Berlin Philharmonic. Mr. Ohnesorg, criticized for his management style, "was obviously too German for New Yorkers, or too efficient," commented The Berliner Morgenpost, a Berlin newspaper. E1
 
OBITUARIES B10-12
 
John V. Lindsay
The debonair political irregular who represented Manhattan's Silk Stocking district on the East Side for seven years in Congress, and who was a two-term mayor of New York City during the turbulent 1960's and early 70's, was 79. A1
 
Milt Hinton
The dean of American bass players, and one of the most recorded musicians of all time, was 90. B12
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-16
 
Technology Tumbles Again
Stocks skidded again, with the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index falling 178.93 points, or 7.1 percent, to 2,332.78. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 265.44 points, or 2.5 percent, to 10,318.93, down 10.3 percent so far this year. The Nasdaq has fallen by more than half from its March high. C9
 
S.E.C. Chief Quitting
Arthur Levitt, the longest-serving chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, announced that he would resign by mid-February. C1
 
Back to Business School
The number of people interested in business school is up, spokesmen say. Some applicants are refugees from failed dot-coms. Others aim to dodge a slowing economy. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
World Business W1-8
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
HOUSE & HOME F1-12
 
EDITORIAL A38-39
 
Editorials: Negotiating with North Korea; an aluminum man for Treasury; the Lindsay legacy.
Columns: William Safire.
 
Bridge E8
TV Listings E14
Crossword E8
Weather B13
Public Lives B2
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (66%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); INDIA (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHILE (79%); 

STATE: KASHMIR (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER (52%); NEW YORK CITY BOARD (63%); WHITE HOUSE (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY BOARD (63%); WHITE HOUSE (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); INDIA (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHILE (79%); KASHMIR (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); EMISSIONS (87%); AGRICULTURE (84%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (84%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (83%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (72%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); ARMED FORCES (69%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (69%); MURDER (69%); APPROVALS (67%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (66%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); RELIGION (60%); MINES & MINING (51%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); MEL MARTINEZ (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000



558 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: THE 43rd PRESIDENT;
Bush's Announcement of 3 Cabinet Selections

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from a news conference yesterday in Austin, Tex., at which President-elect George W. Bush introduced his choices for three cabinet positions: Ann M. Veneman as secretary of agriculture, Melquiades R. Martinez as secretary of housing and urban development and Donald L. Evans as secretary of commerce. The news conference was recorded by Federal New Service Inc.
 
President-Elect Bush
Today I have the opportunity to name three outstanding Americans to three very important cabinet positions. 
 When I campaigned in Iowa, I told many of the folks involved in the agriculture community there that I would name a secretary of agriculture who understood the importance of agriculture in the larger scheme of things for America, that agriculture not only is an incredibly important part of our economy, agriculture is an important part of our international policy as well; that agriculture represents an incredibly important way of life; that the values of the farm are ingrained in the American soul.
And I found the right person who shares that philosophy.
Ann Veneman has been in government before. She was deputy secretary at the Agricultural Department, so she has experience in that office in Washington. She was also the secretary of California's Department of Food and Agriculture. She was the first woman to hold that post, and now she'll be the first woman to hold the post at the U.S.D.A. She's an accomplished attorney. She's bright. She's capable. And she'll do an outstanding job.
I also have picked a secretary for housing and human development, Mel Martinez from the state of Florida. Mel is the executive of Orange County, which is a sizable county in central Florida, and he's done a really good job.
He's an administrator. He's a good executive. He also is a good lawyer. In spite of that, I named him to the position.
He's got a wonderful story. He was a refugee as a young boy from Cuba. He understands American values. He's grown to appreciate them. And there's no greater American value than owning something, owning your own home and having the opportunity to do so.
Mel's the perfect pick to run this important department, and I'm honored that he would agree to serve.
And finally, . . . I'm naming a secretary of commerce named Don Evans. Evans has been my lifelong friend. He has been the chairman of my campaign. He has been a valuable adviser. He is a free enterpriser, he understands free trade and he'll do a fabulous job as the secretary of commerce.
 
Ms. Veneman
Thank you very much. Mr. President-elect, I am honored and humbled to be asked to join your administration and to serve with you and your highly qualified team.
It says a good deal about your commitment to agriculture that one of your first appointments is that of secretary of agriculture. Agriculture is part of the fabric that makes America great. Our farmers feed and clothe not only the people in this country, but people around the world, and it's important that we work together to expand markets for our food and fiber both at home and abroad.
President-elect Bush, like you, I want to find common ground and promote common sense. And I want to promote policies that will help all of our farmers reap a bountiful harvest for years to come. Thank you again for placing your confidence in me. Thanks very much.
 
Mr. Martinez
Thank you, Mr. President-elect.
You know, 38 years ago, as a 15-year-old refugee, I arrived on the shores of America, and I had no family. I was alone. I did not speak the language. I had only a dream to live in freedom. And after living for four years with wonderful people in foster homes, where I learned the goodness of America and its people, I was reunited with my family here in freedom.
Today that immigrant, that refugee, that young man looking for freedom, is standing before you, receiving the nomination of the next president to serve in his cabinet. And Mr. President-elect, I am proud to receive your nomination, and I accept it.
Today for me is the fulfillment of the promise of America, the promise that regardless where you come from, what language you speak, the color of your skin, or your economic circumstances, if you share the dream of a brighter tomorrow, and you're willing to pursue it with respect for others and an abiding faith in God, all things are possible.
As secretary of housing and urban development, I will continue to carry that dream of freedom with me. After all, the dream of freedom is the American dream.
President-elect Bush, as you know, for too long, too many Americans have been left out of the American dream, and as you said last spring, homeownership lies at the very heart of the American dream. I agree with you, and I will work hard to ensure that every American has every opportunity to have affordable housing. This is a vital element of compassionate conservatism.
I know you will help low-income Americans achieve the full promise of America. After all, that is the American dream.
It is my blessing that the dream has come true for me, and now it is my responsibility to help it come true for others.
Thank you.
 
Mr. Evans
Let me begin by saying thank you to an old friend who's offered me a new challenge.
Mr. President-elect, I'm both honored and I'm humbled. I proudly accept this challenge, and, if confirmed, will humbly dedicate my best efforts to uphold your high standards. At this moment I'd also like to give thanks to my family, who has supported me through the years and given me advice. In fact, I got advice from my wife this afternoon before I came in here, telling me to remember where I came from. And I will.
Yes, I am ready to serve this great nation. And since our founding, we have been a nation of free men and free markets. You see it everywhere in America, from the corner merchants in Washington, D.C., to the oil fields of West Texas. Our business in America is truly business. And as a result, our economy is the envy of the world.
But as President-elect Bush has suggested, that the lights of today tell us little about tomorrow. Now is no time for small plans or shrinking ambitions.
Governing, like business, is about setting a course, setting priorities, setting goals and objectives and making the right choices for the right reasons. And if I am fortunate enough to be confirmed by the Senate, the road the Department of Commerce will travel is clear: the promotion of free enterprise, first in America and then abroad, will be our first priority, free-flow of capital, free and open competition.
And we will strive to be an advocate for U.S. businesses first in America, and also those wading into the waters of the global marketplace.
In short, we will endeavor to keep the genius of the American free enterprise system strong and dynamic from sea to shining sea and around the world.
I know there are many more responsibilities of the Department of Commerce, and we will be good shepherds and stewards of those responsibilities.
But first and foremost we will be thinking about the great free enterprise system of America. It is an exciting challenge. And after almost 25 years in the energy industry, the chance to bring the experience of the private sector to the exercise of public service is a welcomed one.
So, Mr. President-elect, I stand before you ready, sustained by my faith, humbled by this opportunity, and prepared to serve.
Thank you very much, and God bless you. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT; HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT; HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); TEXAS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); POLITICS (73%); CITIES (72%); 

PERSON: VENEMAN, ANNE M; EVANS, DONALD L; MARTINEZ, MELQUIADES RAFAEL; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); MEL MARTINEZ (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000



559 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Fairway Pays $6.5 Million For Properties in Harlem

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN 

 BODY:
Ever since Fairway opened a large discount market five years ago in a former meatpacking plant on 133rd Street, the no-frills store has been so popular with residents of Harlem and the Upper West Side that shopping there has often been a test of endurance.
On Tuesday, the owners of the market, which is famous for its produce and its "cold room" stocked with a wide variety of meat, fish and prepared soups, made a $6.5 million real estate deal that is expected eventually to ease shopping-cart gridlock. In the deal, Fairway bought all the property from 125th to 132nd Street between 12th Avenue and Marginal Street, giving it an additional 80,000 square feet of space, more than double the size of the existing store. 
 David Sneddon, a Fairway owner who in 1974 helped found the original store on Broadway that has become an Upper West Side institution, said yesterday that plans for the additional space were up in the air and that construction might not start for a couple of years.
"We have high hopes," Mr. Sneddon said, "but it's all on the back burner." He said he would like to add a bakery, warehouse space and more room for parking. The store has a year-to-year lease from the city for a parking lot along the Hudson River that accommodates about 130 cars.
Many neighborhood residents have urged the city to develop the parking lot space for recreational uses, and they successfully fought Fairway's 1998 proposal to extend its lease to 10 years.
But Mr. Sneddon said that Fairway would still need those parking spaces after the store expanded because the new site could hold 80 cars at most. Without the existing lot, Mr. Sneddon said, "I wouldn't have a store. There would be 380 people looking for work." Fairway and the Pathmark that opened last year on Lexington Avenue and 125th Street are the only large markets in Harlem.
Benjamin Fox, the broker at Newmark New Spectrum Realty who handled the sale, said the Fairway expansion could have a major impact on the immediate area. "Clearly, they would be the anchor for a whole regeneration of that strip," he said.
Mr. Sneddon denied that his market would serve as an anchor store for a shopping center, but he said that Fairway might lease some of its new space near 125th Street to other retailers.
Fairway's newly acquired property consists of several small buildings and some open spaces, one of which is used as a parking lot for school buses. For many years, the property was owned by the Salmon family, which owned a meatpacking business until about nine years ago. Michael Salmon, a family spokesman, said his family's Harlem property had been on the market for about two years.
"We wanted to have a community-minded owner that would preserve the value of the property," Mr. Salmon said.
Fairway's purchase of the Salmon site has apparently caught the community off guard. "I have not heard anything about their expansion," said George W. Goodwill, the chairman of Community Board 9, which includes the neighborhood surrounding Fairway. Mr. Goodwill said that an expansion of the market could interfere with efforts by the community board and the city's Economic Development Corporation to develop a master plan for the area.
City officials did not respond to requests for comment.
But Mr. Sneddon pointed out that before Fairway's arrival, the waterfront had been a dark and dangerous place. "Now that it's worth something, everyone wants a piece of it," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fairway has bought up several Harlem blocks like the one beneath the West Side Highway near 129th Street. One community official said the market's expansion could interfere with development efforts. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)
 
Map of Harlem highlighting recently acquired site: Fairway could more than double the size of its existing store.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FAIRWAY SUPERMARKETS

ORGANIZATION: FAIRWAY SUPERMARKETS

GEOGRAPHIC: HARLEM (NYC); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (89%); RETAILERS (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (69%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (65%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); EMPLOYMENT (50%); 

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY DAVID SNEDDON (92%); MICHAEL SALMON (74%); GEORGE W GOODWILL (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000



560 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 36; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2582 words

HEADLINE: THE 43rd PRESIDENT;
Excerpts From News Conference in Which Bush Named Treasury Secretary

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the news conference yesterday in Austin, Tex., at which President-elect George W. Bush announced Paul H. O'Neill, the chairman of Alcoa Inc., as his choice for secretary of the treasury, as recorded by Federal News Service Inc.:
 
Mr. Bush
There's a reason why the Treasury Department is right next to the White House. It's because the secretary of treasury and the president must work closely for the good of the American people. The secretary of treasury is the chief financial officer of our nation, the successor to Alexander Hamilton. This job is obviously always important for any administration. But I think it's incredibly important as we head into the 21st century. The world is more connected than ever. Our economy and the lives of every American depend upon our standing in the world. 
 Secondly, our economy is showing warning signs of a possible slowdown. And so it was incredibly important for me to find somebody who had vast experience, who is a steady hand, who, when he speaks, speaks with authority and conviction and knowledge. I found such a man in Paul O'Neill.
Paul O'Neill has strong credentials in government and in business. He worked at the Office of Management and Budget and had a distinguished record. People who knew Paul in that capacity knew him to be a straight shooter, an innovator, someone who could lead. Paul has got vast experience in the private sector. He has run large corporations, and even more importantly, has employed large numbers of people. He knows that all our decisions and one of the key goals of this administration will be to make sure that all Americans can find high-paying, high-quality jobs.
Paul has extensive knowledge about the world and the international economy. After all, in his current job, he employs over 140,000 people in 36 countries.
He's worked broadly in the field of education. We share a vision of making sure that we have an educated work force as we head into the 21st century.
In the days ahead, there will be much to do together. We must work to keep our economy strong. That's why we share a commitment to fair and responsible tax relief and a strong commitment to making sure there is free trade in our world.
I look forward to having this good man by my side. I look forward to having him making our administration's case to the Congress, to the American people and to the world. Therefore, it is a great honor for me to submit to the United States Senate the name of Paul O'Neill as secretary of treasury. Congratulations.
 
Mr. O'Neill
Well, thank you, President-elect Bush. I am truly honored to be asked to do this important job. I must tell you in all candor that until three weeks ago, I thought I was immune to the suggestion that I should return to public life, having been there before for 16 years. But perhaps it's a mark of the capability of the president-elect in convincing people to do things that he wants them to do that I'm here today to say yes, I'm going to do this job.
I believe in the president-elect's policy and program as he's articulated over the last many months. And I'm dedicated to helping him achieve the greatness that I believe he aspires to for America. So it's really a pleasure for me to be here today.
As some of you have noted in your stories, Secretary Cheney and I go back many years, and so it's also a pleasure to have a prospect of working closely with him again.
Thank you very much.
 
MR. BUSH. Be glad to take some questions.
Q. Do you think it would be beneficial or a detriment for President Clinton to go to North Korea before he leaves office?
A. : The question was about potential travels for the current president. There's only one president in our country, and that's President Clinton. And he must make the decisions for what's best for our nation. So, it's for the president and his advisers to decide what's best for America. And until I'm the president, he is going to make those decisions.
Q. The Federal Reserve is now saying there's a significant risk of a downturn. Do you worry that you're inheriting a recession? And beyond tax cuts, how would you deal with this?
A. The question was about the Fed's recent actions that signaled that we may have some economic problems ahead for our administration. I said during the course of my campaign, and I believe strongly, that tax relief is part of the prescription for any economic ill that our nation may have.
I think it is so important for members of the Hill to understand that tax relief is all about economic growth and cash flow and accumulation of capital, and so is Social Security reform. Part of the reforms we outlined in the campaign on Social Security, as you may remember, talked about personal savings accounts. That not only encourages people to manage their own money and trust people with their own money, that policy encourages the accumulation of capital in the private sector. And capital is what fuels entrepreneurial growth.
Secondly, our nation must be bold enough to be a nation that's willing to trade freely in the world. One of the cornerstones of our foreign policy must be trade, not only trade in our own hemisphere, which I think is incredibly important for the United States, but also for Mexico and countries to the south. Free trade in our hemisphere is incredibly important for Canada. But we must be a nation of free traders.
Thirdly, we must review regulations that hamper the accumulation of capital, regulations that make it harder for the entrepreneur to start a business.
And fourthly, we must have a steady voice coming out of our administration. Someone, should the economy take a downturn, who can calm people's nerves, calm the markets, calm those who would speculate in the dollar. And that's why naming Paul O'Neill as the secretary of treasury is such an important, important decision, because he is the man who's capable of doing that job.
Q. Mr. President-elect, sir, are you concerned that by talking down our economy, you run the risk of making the possibility of tax relief more real, sir?
A. Now, John, my job as the chief executive officer -- soon to be -- is to anticipate. I am hopeful that this economy stays strong. I'm hopeful that the rate of growth of the economy is such that more capital will flow into the private sector, that people will be able to find jobs, that retail sales will be strong, that the automobile industry will be robust. I'm hopeful that the downturn in the Nasdaq is a correction, because I understand the productivity gains that we'll have in our economy as a result of the new technologies. I'm hopeful.
But I'm also a realist, and one of my jobs is to think ahead, just in case. The Fed sent the signal, and we are going to play the hand we have been dealt. I want everybody to understand loud and clear that our hope in this administration is that our economy remain robust. But should it not, we have a plan, the cornerstone of which will be tax relief, free trade, Social Security reform, less regulations.
Q. Mr. President-elect, this morning your office spoke about the need for a new energy policy. Can you tell us something specific that you would do, for instance, in the first 100 days, to correct rising energy prices?
A. I strongly believe that we must work in concert to increase the amount of supply available for American consumers. Supply of natural gas, supply of coal, supply of plant and equipment.
I believe we need to review all federal land policy to make sure that we're not missing an opportunity to explore for natural gas in the country. Natural gas is hemispheric; I like to call it hemispheric in nature, because it is a product that we can find in our neighborhoods, and it is immune from price manipulation by OPEC. It is -- there are supplies of gas to be discovered in America.
The issue with natural gas is not only its discovery, but its transportation. So we must review all policies that would prevent that construction of pipeline to be able to move gas from field to market.
When we're undersupplied as a nation and demand increases, prices will go up. And that's what's happening in the energy field.
I look forward to working with Congress to pass clean coal technologies, money for clean coal technology, so that we can explore and develop the vast coal reserves in our country with the comfort of knowing that we're not going to ruin our environment.
I look forward to working with our friends and allies in our own hemisphere to put together a hemispheric energy policy, an energy policy that will allow for the free flow of natural gas, in particular, across our respective borders to make sure there is ample supply, ample supply to meet the demand of this nation.
And so, Carl, I look forward to when I'm swearing in as to put together a strategy that will make clear to the American people that we will address the needs. . . .
Q. How serious do you think the energy situation is? I mean, would you call it, as your spokesman did, a looming crisis? And some of the stuff you just outlined is more long-term than short-term. What can the administration do to helping consumers ----
A. Well obviously we can work with Congress to fund Liheap the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program to help poor consumers that are having trouble meeting their energy, paying their energy bills. I look forward to doing that. I think there's going to be bipartisan support for such a measure. After all, it's been funded in the past, and I'm confident we can get that done.
I think there are some ways to expeditiously move natural gas to the market in a way that protects the environment, exploration in some of our western states for example. But there's no question that we're going to have to work with our friends and allies overseas, particularly with the price of crude oil and heating oil, to make sure they understand that they've got to treat their friend, the United States, and our market with ease. They can't be punishing our friend. And one of the things we're going to have to do is start up a strong diplomatic effort to work with our, as I say, our friends in the Middle East to have an energy policy there that is respectful to their friend here and other democracies.
The shortest, the quickest impact on the price of energy, particularly crude oil, will be to work with OPEC nations and to foster relations so that they may be convinced to open up the spigots to keep the pressure off price.
Q. Mr. President-elect, regarding your meeting later today with African-American ministers, what do you believe you can do, specifically, to improve your standing among African-Americans?
A. Well, David, first, our meeting this afternoon is with ministers from all walks of life, different religions, different race. This is not a political meeting. This is a meeting to begin a dialogue about how best to help faith-based programs change people's lives. How best government can encourage, as opposed to discourage, faith-based programs from performing their commonplace miracles of renewal.
My hope is that when people who may not have supported me get to know me, they realize that I am just as intent upon being a good president for them as for those folks who supported me. My hope is that when people get to know our policies, whether it be making sure that the education system is responsive not only to the children of the parents who voted for me, but responsive to children from all walks of life, that they will realize that our commitment is to an America where the dream shines brightly for everybody.
My hope is that when people get to know me as a person, I'll be able to sit down and say, "We may disagree on a particular piece of public policy, but we don't disagree on an America that is hopeful and strong and vibrant for every child."
I've got a lot of work to do, Dave, I understand that. I've got a lot of work to do. But you know what? I welcome the opportunity. I look forward to the chance. I look forward to the chance of healing a nation that has been divided as a result of an election.
I look forward to the chance of saying to people, regardless of their political persuasion, that ours will be an administration that focuses on what's right for America, not what's right for a particular party but what's right for the great country that we all love. And I accept the challenge and I recognize it's there. . . .
Q. You've mentioned Social Security several times. Two questions: How do you persuade Americans that inaudible what they want with their retirement money inaudible the stock market?
A. Right.
Q. And secondly, are you still planning to form a commission on this with respect to -- --
A. Alison, I said I'd do so in the campaign; form a commission for Social Security. I'm going to look at it to make sure it's the right policy. I think it is. And we'll let you know.
Secondly, an investment in the private markets should be viewed as a long-term hold, not something that -- the mentality of the day trader is not a part of what the vision of a retirement system where people are able to hold assets for a long period of time. There will be ups and downs in the marketplace. But the facts are that the rate of return on monies held in the private markets is significantly higher than that which is achieved off of the Social Security trust. And in order to make sure that baby boomers who are going to retire within the decade have got a -- and beyond -- have got a retirement system. We've got to do a better job of getting a rate of return on the monies in the Social Security trust.
Secondly, one of the key challenges for our nation is to make sure that there is enough money in the private markets to fuel economic growth in the future. And a Social Security system that allows people to manage their own money in private markets will provide the fuel for economic vitality in the future. And I believe that -- the American people heard this argument. I want to remind you that my opponent also talked about some kind of private savings accounts; we just disagreed on the funding mechanism.
I think the private savings accounts ought to come from the payroll taxes people contributed into the Social Security trust. And this is an important issue, Alison, that I'm going to prioritize right after I'm elected.
Last question.
Q. Mr. President-elect, there was speculation that you may be looking toward Wall Street to make the treasury secretary pick. How concerned were you about Wall Street's reaction? And also, Mr. O'Neill was known to believe in low interest rates. Are you expecting any sort of conflict with the chairman of the Federal Reserve over interest rates?
A. I might let him ask the question -- answer the question about his relationship with the Fed. I will tell you -- well, I'll put some words in his mouth. He understands like I understand that the Fed makes decisions independent of the president and the secretary of treasury. On the other hand, we will have a good working relationship with Alan Greenspan. He is a very capable American who's made a huge difference for our country. And the first part of the -- oh, Wall Street.
Well, I think people on Wall Street who are savvy will understand what a good pick Paul O'Neill is. And I looked at a lot of folks, people with different backgrounds and different addresses. And I found the absolutely right person for the job. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text; Interview

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (91%); AA (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (91%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT ALCOA INC (91%); FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE INC (72%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (55%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (55%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); TEXAS, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LABOR FORCE (73%); TAX LAW (60%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); O'NEILL, PAUL H GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000



561 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: THE 43rd PRESIDENT;
Choice for Treasury Describes His Goals

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from a news conference yesterday in Austin, Tex., at which Paul H. O'Neill, President-elect George W. Bush's choice for secretary of the treasury, discussed his background, as recorded by Federal News Service Inc.:
I understand perfectly well that Fed policy is up to the Federal Reserve chairman. But maybe as a little background it would be useful for you to know that I have known and worked with Alan Greenspan since 1969. 
 When I was rising through the ranks to become deputy director of the Office of Management and Budget, Alan was there for part of the time as the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers. And we became not just professional associates but close friends. And you know from the background material, when I left the government I went to International Paper and eventually became president of International Paper Company.
But I kept up my association with Alan over the years, and in 1987 Alan was a member of the board of directors of the Aluminum -- what was then the Aluminum Company of America, now Alcoa, and Alan and two or three other outside directors decided that I should join Alcoa as chairman and C.E.O.
So we go back a long way. We've had lots of dealings with each other over the years that I've been at Alcoa and he's been at the Fed. I've made it a business, my business, at his request, to come by on a fairly regular basis and tell him what I thought he was doing wrong and what I thought he was doing right, which I felt I had the privilege to do, being longtime friends and associates.
And what he said to me was, it was valuable to him because he didn't have an opportunity to meet with many people who didn't want something, and so he valued me coming by and sharing with him my perception of what economic affairs were doing in places as far-flung as China and Russia and Hungary and Spain and Italy and all the other places that Alcoa has business around the world.
And so I guess I would change your question that said out loud that I favor low interest rates to say I am here substantially because I believe the president-elect has the right ideas about where our economy should go. It's desperately important to everything else we care about in our lives and about leading the world that we have a strong and vibrant economy.
Yes, rates of growth are going to vary over time. I'm -- it is true that I'm one who believes that we can operate at higher levels than most economists would have told you 20 years ago were possible. That is to say, with higher real rates of growth without inflation, which means stability and job growth, all the other things that are important. I do believe that.
But I also understand my place in this, and that place is to let Alan Greenspan make monetary policy.
From my point of view, it will be important for me to have ideas and suggestions for the president for the formulation of his policy, so that the balance of fiscal policy and monetary policy doesn't get out of kilter, and we don't do damage to the very important idea that we need to be the economic engine of the world. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

TICKER: IP (NYSE) (84%); AAI (ASX) (83%); AA (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325194 CYCLIC CRUDE, INTERMEDIATE, & GUM & WOOD CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS322110 PULP MILLS (84%); NAICS113110 TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (84%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (83%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (79%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT INTERNATIONAL PAPER CO (84%); ALCOA INC (83%); FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE INC (72%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (79%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%); TEXAS, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); POLITICS (73%); BUDGETS (72%); PAPER MFG (68%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (67%); INTEREST RATES (60%); 

PERSON: O'NEILL, PAUL H; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); ALAN GREENSPAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000



562 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1787 words

HEADLINE: THE 43rd PRESIDENT: THE TREASURY DEPARTMENT -- Man in the News;
Industrialist With a Twist -- Paul Henry O'Neill

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN with FLOYD NORRIS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 20

 BODY:
Early in his tenure at Alcoa, Paul H. O'Neill faced the sort of public relations crisis that keeps corporate chief executives awake nights.
The National Wildlife Federation was holding a news conference in Washington to denounce the Pittsburgh aluminum manufacturer as the nation's single worst polluter. 
 Mr. O'Neill slipped into the news conference and, after the complaint was read, stormed the dais to respond to what he called a "scurrilous attack on our integrity." Alcoa adheres to all government environmental codes, he argued, and the group had facts wrong. The stunt captured as many headlines as the environmental group's accusations.
When President-elect George W. Bush named Mr. O'Neill today as his treasury secretary, he selected a man who is a prototypical Republican, a punctilious budget expert who has served Presidents Richard M. Nixon, Gerald R. Ford, Ronald Reagan and Mr. Bush's father, and a captain of old-line industry who dines in Pittsburgh's Duquesne Club and inspects Alcoa's far-flung properties on the company's corporate jet.
Yet Mr. O'Neill is also a bit of a maverick. He has taken positions on global warming, energy taxes, education, Social Security and health care that are decidedly nonpartisan and, in a few cases, seemingly un-Republican.
He also remade Alcoa, a struggling rust-belt company when he assumed control 13 years ago, into the best performing stock in the Dow Jones industrial average last year with an energetic and occasionally quirky focus on international expansion, workplace safety and open-plan architecture.
No lavish corner office for him. In the new headquarters he helped design in Pittsburgh, he works in a cubicle and holds meetings in Alcoa's kitchen.
"This is a man who simply delights in challenging conventional wisdom," said Tim Wirth, the former Colorado senator, a Democrat who has known Mr. O'Neill for 30 years.
As treasury secretary, Mr. O'Neill, who is 65 and bears a passing resemblance to Harry S. Truman, will be the new administration's senior economic policymaker at a time when the stock market is tumbling and the economy is slowing abruptly, threatening the decade-long expansion.
Mr. O'Neill will play a sizable role in designing and implementing the president-elect's economic strategy, including the sweeping tax cuts Mr. Bush proposed on the campaign trail and the introduction of private investment accounts for Social Security. He will also serve as the administration's ambassador to Wall Street and its diplomatic liaison with foreign financial leaders.
Though he is not an investment banker like Robert E. Rubin or an academic whiz like Lawrence H. Summers, Mr. Clinton's former and current treasury secretaries, his supporters are confident that Mr. O'Neill accomplishes at least one prerequisite for the post. He sends a relatively reassuring message that American economic policy is in experienced, if little-known, hands.
"In Paul O'Neill, the president-elect has attracted an exceptional and talented person," said Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, who met Mr. O'Neill when both worked in the Ford administration.
But Mr. O'Neill also seems to relish a good fight over policy, and that makes him a wild card in a Bush cabinet.
The two men met for the first time five years ago at an education conference in New Jersey, where Mr. Bush was attending as Texas' new governor and Mr. O'Neill attended with Tom Ridge, the Pennsylvania governor who named the executive to lead an education task force in his state. On education, Mr. O'Neill's drive to institute unified testing standards for Pennsylvania meshed well with Mr. Bush's own education initiatives in Texas.
Mr. O'Neill also reflected Bush priorities when he staked out an aggressive position against President Clinton's health care initiative in 1993 and 1994. During Alcoa's annual meeting in 1994, he called Mr. Clinton's proposal for universal health care an "empty box" that would do "irreparable harm" to the nation.
But just as often, he has displayed an independent streak. He reached out to labor, for example, ending Alcoa's sometimes adversarial relationship with its union, the United Steelworkers of America. Together with George Becker, the Steelworkers president with whom he became friends, Mr. O'Neill devised a new model of collective bargaining, helping produce a research paper on the subject that the Steelworkers union circulated to other corporate executives.
"This man would make a great treasury secretary in any administration, Democratic or Republican," Mr. Becker said.
Despite his earlier spat with Mr. Clinton, Mr. O'Neill later attended White House sessions with the president to discuss how best to fight global warming, signaling greater concern about the issue than Mr. Bush has shown to date.
In 1990, breaking decisively with fellow corporate executives, Mr. O'Neill made a public push to persuade Mr. Bush's father to slap a $10 per barrel tax on the price of oil as a way of reducing energy use, protecting the environment, and helping close the budget deficit. The tax would have added about 40 cents a gallon to the price of gasoline.
That stance is precisely opposite the position held by the president-elect, who wants to cut taxes and concentrate on finding new supplies of oil, not reducing its use.
But aides to Mr. Bush said Mr. O'Neill was well aware that in his new role his job will be to support Mr. Bush's agenda.
After being introduced today by Mr. Bush, Mr. O'Neill acknowledged his reputation for outspokenness and pledged to check the impulse to hold forth on his personal views.
The days of being "a free-ranging, self-admitted maverick" are over, Mr. O'Neill said. "That was yesterday."
Paul Henry O'Neill was born on Dec. 4, 1935, in St. Louis. He has a bachelor's degree in economics from Fresno State College in California and a master's degree in public administration from Indiana University. He began working as a computer systems analyst at the Department of Veterans Affairs in 1961. He later moved to the Office of Management and Budget in the White House, where he worked until 1977, serving Presidents Nixon and Ford.
It was there that Mr. O'Neill became a budget wizard, people who worked with him said. But his expertise went beyond the green-eyeshade kind; he also fashioned himself as a student of federalism, the balance between conservative visions of slashing the government and the liberal drive to increase Washington's role in social initiatives.
Suzanne Woolsey, who worked with him at the budget office and who now works at the National Academy of Sciences, said Mr. O'Neill "virtually invented" block grants, federal matching funds for state programs. Block grants allow the central government to play a role in local policy without smothering it.
At that time Mr. O'Neill also met Dick Cheney, then Mr. Ford's chief of staff. The two stayed in touch over the years, and Bush supporters said that Mr. Cheney was Mr. O'Neill's most concerted advocate in the Bush camp. Though he has not been a major donor to the Republican Party, Mr. O'Neill gave $5,000 to Mr. Cheney's political action committee in 1994, records show.
As a corporate executive, Mr. O'Neill proved a skillful player in Washington. In 1993, he helped broker a compromise under which Russia agreed to stop dumping aluminum onto world markets in return for loans to modernize its industry. The agreement obviated the need for punitive trade sanctions on Russia's new government.
"It's typical that the industry people come in foaming at the mouth about the need for sanctions," said W. Bowman Cutter, a Clinton administration economic official at the time. "Paul was totally balanced. He saw both sides and worked for a principled solution that made sense for everybody."
In the competitive world of metals, Mr. O'Neill is recognized for revamping Alcoa's inventory control, accounting systems and manufacturing processes, so that the company's profits and cash flow soared. Before he took over, it took Alcoa 40 days to get aluminum plates for airplane wings through an inspection process; Mr. O'Neill whittled that to four days. The company is typically among the first to release its earnings each quarter, in good part because the financial systems Mr. O'Neill installed enabled its finance people to close their books quickly.
By well-timed acquisitions he turned Alcoa into a huge global player. In 1998, for example, Alcoa purchased Inespal, Spain's nationalized aluminum industry, for $410 million.
"He bought assets worth $4 billion for essentially 10 cents on the dollar," said R. Wayne Atwell, an analyst with Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, which advised the Spanish government. "Spain wanted a higher price, so he waited until they came down. And he made the best acquisition I've seen in the aluminum business in 20 years."
Mr. O'Neill has grown extremely wealthy at Alcoa. In 1999, the year he stepped down as chief executive but stayed on as chairman of the board, he was paid $2.95 million in salary and bonus.
As of this spring, Alcoa reported that Mr. O'Neill owned 1.6 million shares of Alcoa, worth $50 million at today's Alcoa closing price of $31.44 per share, and had options to buy another 4.6 million shares at varying prices well below the current level. The most recent options grant, allowing the purchase of 1.4 million shares at $21.05 per share, would be worth $14.5 million at Alcoa's current price.
Alcoa's options plan, unlike many in corporate America, allows recipients to exercise all of the options after one year. Since his last options grant came in January 1999, Mr. O'Neill is free to exercise all his options before he takes office if he is confirmed as treasury secretary.
That is in contrast to the situation faced by Mr. Cheney, who owns options in Halliburton, the energy company he formerly served as chief executive, that cannot be exercised before he takes office. He has indicated that he would forfeit the benefits from those options.
 
Profile
Paul Henry O'Neill
 
Born: Dec. 4, 1935, St. Louis
 
Hometown: Pittsburgh
 
Education: B.A., Fresno State College; M.P.A., Indiana University.
 
Career Highlights: Site engineer, Morrison-Knudsen, 1955-57; systems analyst, Veterans Administration, 1961-66; assistant director, associate director and deputy director, Office of Management and Budget, 1967-77; vice president, senior vice president, president, International Paper Company, 1977-87; chairman, Alcoa, 1987-present; chairman and chief executive, Alcoa, 1987-98.
 
Family: Married to Nancy Jo Wolfe; three daughters, one son.
 
Hobbies: Painting
(Source: Associated Press)(pg. A35)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President-elect George W. Bush spoke yesterday about his energy policy as he announced his choice to be secretary of the treasury, Paul H. O'Neill, center. With them was Vice President-elect Dick Cheney. (Associated Press)(pg. A35) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (94%); AA (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (94%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT ALCOA INC (94%); NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION (84%); NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION (84%); NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); WILDLIFE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); BUDGETS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (73%); TAX LAW (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); POLITICS (69%); STOCK INDEXES (64%); GLOBAL WARMING (51%); 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH; NORRIS, FLOYD; O'NEILL, PAUL H; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); DICK CHENEY (69%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (55%); RICHARD NIXON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000



563 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 5530 words

HEADLINE: John V. Lindsay, Mayor and Maverick, Dies at 79

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN 

 BODY:
John V. Lindsay, the debonair political irregular who represented Manhattan's Silk Stocking district on the East Side for seven years in Congress and was a two-term mayor of New York during the racial unrest, antiwar protests, municipal strikes and other upheavals of the 1960's and early 70's, died late Tuesday night at Hilton Head Medical Center, near his home in Hilton Head, S.C. He was 79.
The cause was complications from pneumonia and Parkinson's disease, said his daughter Katharine Lake. Mr. Lindsay had been in failing health for years, suffering from Parkinson's, heart trouble and the effects of two strokes that left his speech slurred and impaired his capacity to read and walk. 
 An athletic, buoyant man most of his life, Mr. Lindsay spent his final years in a vale of adversity. Two law firms with which he was associated went out of business. He underwent heart surgery and collapsed in public twice. At times, he had no pension or health insurance. The riches evoked by his patrician manner turned out to be illusory, and he and his wife, Mary, lived for years in a one-bedroom apartment.
But friends and old allies said he bore up with a dignity they remembered from his maverick Republican years in the House of Representatives from 1959 to 1965, from his turbulent years as Republican-Liberal and Liberal-Fusion mayor from 1966 to 1973, and from his fading years as a Democrat who fell far short of a presidential nomination in 1972 and a Senate nomination in 1980.
With the hindsight of decades, historians and political experts have given the Lindsay mayoralty mixed reviews. It was a tumultuous eight-year ride marked by strikes, racial divisions, fiscal problems and a profound alienation of the city's white working and middle classes that only grew worse as the Lindsay stewardship went on, with effects still being felt by many today.
But it was also a remarkable era in which many New Yorkers took a new pride in their city and its urbane, matinee-idol mayor, who hobnobbed with movie stars and battled the bureaucracy, who took his star quality into the streets in shirt sleeves, at times picking up litter himself or berating Park Avenue doormen for letting limousines double-park, and who once strode into a bar to order dumbstruck sanitation workers back to their unattended trucks.
As New Yorkers of his day recall, he created a Kennedyesque excitement, bringing into city government bright young people of wit, zeal and imagination. He insisted that the parks were for the people, not cars, and filled them with concerts and go-go dancing and kite-flying contests, psychedelic sidewalk painting and other "happenings." He promoted New York as Fun City, a cornucopia of theater, arts and other goings-on. Unlike politicians who criticized antiwar protests and civil rights marches, he joined them.
And when riots tore at Detroit, Newark, Los Angeles and other cities, he walked the steamy night streets of Harlem and other black areas, tie askew, jacket flung over the shoulder, taller than anyone else, talking to people with only a detective at his side: a calm figure of civic dignity. And while other cities burned, New York had only minimal looting and violence.
 
A Celebrity-Politician In New York and Nation
 Trailed everywhere by reporters and cameras in the nation's media capital, featured in national magazines and on television network news programs, a familiar face on Johnny Carson's television show, Mr. Lindsay became known to millions of Americans as a glamorous celebrity-politician battling New York's iniquities in what he called "the second toughest job in America."
But to many New Yorkers, there seemed to be more style than substance in Mr. Lindsay, who was often unaware of political realities of the city where he had grown up. Critics said a stiff idealism rendered him unwilling or unable to see through the bluster of labor leaders, to play choreographed bargaining games or make backroom deals.
Aides insisted that Mr. Lindsay was not inflexible. But the cultural abyss between the aristocratic reform-minded mayor and the old-guard municipal labor leaders was painfully obvious, and after Mr. Lindsay invited trouble by failing to back up his own tough talk with hard bargaining, his administration was plagued with strikes and slowdowns by transit workers, teachers, police officers, firefighters and sanitation workers.
Other Lindsay endeavors went awry. He tried to establish an independent Civilian Complaint Review Board to oversee police actions, but voters rejected it in a referendum. He hoped to balance budgets, but saw the city lurch into staggering debt, despite imposing its first income and commuter taxes and resorting to budget maneuvers that led to fiscal crises years later.
Perhaps his most serious failure, Mr. Lindsay himself agreed, was trying to help poor black and Hispanic people in ways that alienated the city's white middle and working classes. Trying to give communities more control over public schools, for example, he provoked a bitter, racially divisive teachers' strike that shut down the school system for two months in 1968.
Later, seeking to build low-income housing in middle-class Forest Hills, Queens, he unleashed a torrent of racial and class divisions; it was an unknown young lawyer, Mario M. Cuomo, who came to the rescue and mediated the dispute. Critics called these Lindsay initiatives the politics of polarization.
The depth of feeling against Mr. Lindsay became starkly apparent when a huge snowstorm buried eastern Queens in 1969. Stranded homeowners met the visiting mayor on unplowed streets with a barrage of invective that crystallized the wide grievances of the white middle class, which regarded him as a "limousine liberal" biased toward minority members, the rich and glittery Manhattan.
"The reception I got was virtually unanimous," the mayor recalled. "There were a number of suggestions about what I might do with myself, and there was a good deal of fascinating speculation about my ancestry."
 
A Second Term Won On Independent Ticket
 Mr. Lindsay's second term at City Hall was even stranger than the first. He won with a campaign of mea culpas, on a Fusion-Independent ticket that took only 42 percent of the ballots against Republicans and Democrats who split the larger, more conservative vote and in effect canceled each other out.
The fun faded. Racial tensions grew. Welfare rolls doubled. Crime increased and there were riots in city jails. Open enrollment at the City University began a new era of eased educational standards and larger student bodies that raised costs sharply. The cost of generous health programs rose. The impact of earlier labor settlements finally struck. Middle-class flight to the suburbs reduced the tax base. New taxes had to be imposed.
But even as these problems were ballooning, Mr. Lindsay, urged on by a coterie of ambitious political aides, was becoming a Democrat and running for president. His 1972 race for the Democratic presidential nomination barely got off the ground. Defeated in the Florida and Wisconsin primaries, he withdrew and cast his support to Senator George S. McGovern, who was overwhelmed by Richard M. Nixon in the general election.
By 1973, his last year in office, Mr. Lindsay had become a more seasoned, pragmatic mayor. Having moved from Republican congressman to Liberal mayor to Democratic presidential contender, largely under the tutelage of aides like Robert Price and Richard R. Aurelio, who had by then resigned, Mr. Lindsay had become his own political boss, handling patronage, dictating strategy, courting labor leaders and middle-class voters and leaving more day-to-day government operations to subordinates.
"He started out as an idealist, thinking he could accomplish all those things he discussed in the campaign," said his wife, who had become his closest adviser. "He has learned how to operate; not just doing things your own way. The years as mayor have made him more cynical, and also more tolerant. He tries to be more understanding."
Exhausted, virtually without a political party, his ebullient hope for urban regeneration subdued and his dreams of the White House shattered, Mr. Lindsay did not run for a third term and left office on Dec. 31, 1973, for an extended European vacation with his wife.
 
One of Five Children Of a Prosperous Family
John Vliet Lindsay was born in Manhattan on Nov. 24, 1921, a twin and one of five children of George Nelson and Florence Eleanor Vliet Lindsay. His father, the son of an English brick manufacturer who emigrated from the Isle of Wight in 1881, was an investment banker and chairman of American Swiss Corporation, a subsidiary of Credit Suisse. John's mother, who traced her Dutch family to the American Revolution, was a graduate of Wellesley who gave her four sons and her daughter a taste for the theater, the opera and museums.
The family was prosperous, but not ostentatiously so. It lived on Riverside Drive and later on Park Avenue, and had a summer home in Cold Spring Harbor, on Long Island. John went to the Buckley School for Boys in New York, then to preparatory school at St. Paul's, in Concord, N.H., where he was active in rowing and other sports, and from which he graduated in 1940. At Yale, he majored in history and, in a program compressed because of the onset of World War II, graduated with a bachelor of arts degree in three years, in 1943.
He joined the Naval Reserve as an ensign and served as a gunnery officer aboard a destroyer, participating in the invasion of Sicily and, in the Pacific theater, in the American landings in Hollandia, the Admiralty Islands and the Philippines. He won five battle stars and was a lieutenant when he was discharged in 1946.
After the war, Mr. Lindsay returned to Yale to study law. He also met Herbert Brownell Jr., a New York lawyer active in Republican politics. After Mr. Lindsay earned his law degree in 1948, Mr. Brownell helped him get a job with the New York law firm of Webster, Sheffield & Chrystie, and to start moving in the right Republican circles.
In 1949, he married the former Mary Harrison, who survives him. Also surviving are three daughters, Mrs. Lake, Margaret Picotte and Anne Lindsay; a son, John Jr.; a brother, Robert V. Lindsay, and five grandchildren.
Mr. Lindsay and his wife gave up their Manhattan apartment in 1997 and, after two years in Old Lyme, Conn., moved in 1999 to a retirement community on Hilton Head Island, S.C.
Mr. Lindsay's political rise was swift. In 1949, he became a governor of the New York Young Republican Club; in 1951, he was one of 11 founders of the Youth for Eisenhower movement; in 1952, his work at the Republican National Convention impressed Mr. Brownell, who became President Dwight D. Eisenhower's attorney general in 1953. By 1955, Mr. Lindsay was Mr. Brownell's executive assistant and the Justice Department's liaison with the White House, the cabinet and Congress. As such, he helped draft civil rights, immigration and other legislative bills.
In 1958, with Mr. Brownell's encouragement, Mr. Lindsay ran for Congress in the 17th District, which extended from Harlem to Greenwich Village on the East Side. Though ethnically and culturally diverse, with towers and tenements, swaths of business, publishing and broadcast centers, even a theater district, it was known as the Silk Stocking because it took in wealthy residential areas along Fifth and Park Avenues.
 
A Liberal Tilt Leads To Isolation in Congress
 It was the one district in Manhattan that traditionally sent Republicans to Congress, and it had been represented since 1946 by Frederic R. Coudert Jr., a conservative Republican whose strength at the polls was clearly waning.
Mr. Coudert, who had barely beaten a Democrat in 1956, stepped aside and the Republicans nominated Elliot H. Goodwin. Mr. Lindsay defeated him in the primary, though, and went on to beat a Democrat-Liberal, Anthony B. Akers, by a narrow margin in the general election.
In Congress over the ensuing seven years, Mr. Lindsay affirmed his independent-liberal credentials again and again, often voting with the Democrats on civil rights, immigration, housing, school construction, foreign aid and other issues. In 1960, he introduced a bill to set up a federal Department of Urban Affairs; in 1962, he proposed legislation embodying Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller's plan for a federal program of medical care for the aged. He also was re-elected three times, by successively larger margins.
By 1965, however, Mr. Lindsay's unorthodox Republicanism, though attractive to constituents, had left him isolated in Congress and he was ready for a move. The New York mayor's office had always been a political dead end, but Mr. Lindsay thought it could also be a national platform. If the country's priorities turned to urban needs, and if he could become a spokesman for the cities, Mr. Lindsay reasoned, City Hall might be a steppingstone to higher office, perhaps even the presidency.
There were formidable obstacles. New York was overwhelmingly Democratic, with large Roman Catholic and Jewish voter rolls. And in an immigrant-and-establishment city of enormous complexity, where racial hostilities and class divisions, poverty and wealth, vested interests and resistance to change, all seethed in a caldron ready to boil over, mayors were traditionally men who could keep the lid on.
John Lindsay was hardly the type: a white Anglo-Saxon Protestant Republican with an unnerving streak of unpredictability. Indeed, in contrast to Robert F. Wagner, a Catholic and a Democrat whose appoint-a-commission, seek-a-consensus approach had been holding down transit fares, municipal wages and most social and labor unrest for 12 somnolent years, there was almost nothing politically or personally orthodox about Mr. Lindsay when he ran for mayor in 1965.
He was only 43 years old, a handsome 6-foot-4 Yale graduate with an aura that spoke of prep schools, privilege and boyish idealism. His background, his staunch liberal independence, had played well in the Silk Stocking district. But would they play across the rest of the city?
No Republican had been mayor of New York since Fiorello H. La Guardia in the Depression and World War II years. But times were changing. President Lyndon B. Johnson had begun the Great Society social programs. Civil rights struggles were under way and racial tensions were escalating. The Vietnam War was beginning to intrude on the American conscience. Hippies and the counterculture were spreading. The nation was paying more attention to its aging, infirm cities.
Like La Guardia, Mr. Lindsay, a superb campaigner, submerged his Republican credentials in an independent candidacy that many Democrats and Liberals could support. But he also won the crucial backing of key Republicans in the state, including Governor Rockefeller and Senator Jacob K. Javits, and their support helped provide the final winning ingredient: $1.5 million in campaign money.
It did not hurt that Mr. Lindsay had voted for the Civil Rights Act of 1964, had been one of the first lawmakers in Washington to oppose the war in Vietnam and had refused to support his party's presidential candidate, Barry M. Goldwater. He almost seemed like a Democrat. Mr. Wagner did not seek a fourth term, and Mr. Lindsay, working hard on the sidewalks and in the speaking halls, won a tight race, eking out a victory over the Democrat, Abraham D. Beame, and William F. Buckley, on the Conservative ticket.
 
Shining Promise Turns Into Muddy Division
The Republican mayor-elect of New York was national news, and America was suddenly paying attention. What it saw was a lanky Mr. Smith with an engagingly open smile, talking about shining ideals, about a great city where people would work together, about replacing old power brokers and party-hack government with dedicated young people who cared about democracy and equality.
"John Lindsay was the best mayor New York ever had before he took office," a press aide to Mr. Wagner quipped.
But on Jan. 1, 1966, as Mr. Lindsay was being sworn in, the bubble burst. New York's vast lifeline of subways and buses was shut down by a transit strike that had been looming unattended for weeks. "My God," said a straphanger who found the subway abandoned. "Wagner left and took all the trains with him." There were bad gags about the mayor ending subway crime on his first day, but the reality was worse.
The longtime president of the Transport Workers Union, Michael J. Quill, had danced a pas de deux every second New Year's Eve with Mayor Wagner, blustering threats of a strike for weeks in a tyrannical brogue, and then settling at the 11th hour on terms that would let him -- and the city -- each claim victory.
The cognoscenti understood it to be a kind of charade. Mr. Quill and other municipal union leaders, in fact, trusted Mr. Wagner, who never mistook bluster for substance. His father, a United States senator, had written the 1935 Wagner Act, codifying rules for union organizing and adjudicating unfair practices.
In his final days in office, Mayor Wagner, true to custom, did nothing to avert a transit walkout, and Mr. Lindsay -- not yet in charge and determined to avoid the appearance of a backroom deal -- waited until it was too late. Then, instead of negotiating, he lectured the union chief on civic responsibility.
"Coward! Pipsqueak! Ass!" Mr. Quill bellowed at the new mayor, referring to him contemptuously as "Lindsley." Defying court orders against the strike, Mr. Quill went proudly to jail, and Mr. Lindsay took to the airwaves to rally the citizenry.

A Costly Battle of Wills Anoints a New Mayor
The strike went on for 13 days, with New Yorkers walking, riding bikes or staying home. The cost to the city, in lost productivity and wages, was a whopping $1.5 billion. Finally, a settlement was worked out: $52 million for two years, double the size of any transit pact negotiated by Mr. Wagner. For the city, it was a bad deal that would raise other unions' demands and commit administrations to heavy labor costs for years to come. For Mr. Quill, in the twilight of his stormy life, it was a resounding last hurrah. For Mr. Lindsay, it was a rude awakening.
The strike had been about more than money. "It was a cultural collision that had more to do with symbolic power than dollars, as each man sought to make a statement about who who should rule New York," Chris McNickle wrote in his 1993 book, "To Be Mayor of New York."
Early in his first administration, Mr. Lindsay announced that he would give back $5,000 of his $50,000 salary, saying the city needed it more than he did. He got rid of pothole inspectors. He banned cars from big parks during weekends and nonrush hours, and had his parks commissioner, Thomas P. F. Hoving, organize musical events and other happenings to draw people back to the greenswards. He opened a bicycle path on the Brooklyn Bridge. He established the Mayor's Office of Film, Theater and Broadcasting and campaigned to bring filmmaking back to the city.
After Dick Schaap, a columnist for The New York Herald Tribune, coined the phrase Fun City, the mayor adopted it to promote New York as a mecca of theater, art and other culture. The phrase came back to haunt him later when the trains stopped running and uncollected garbage piled up in the city streets.
While Mr. Lindsay brought urbanity to City Hall, there was another side of him that the public rarely saw, but one glimpsed by subordinates, reporters and others up close. In his first days in office, the mayor, enraged at criticism by City Hall reporters, banned the press from the main-floor washroom.
Lindsay aides said that in contrast to his sparkling performances on late night talk shows, the mayor was often aloof in private, looking over the heads in a meeting, his conversations punctuated by silences. Some said he displayed no curiosity about the lives of his staff members, was intolerant of their quirks and seemed incapable of warmth, except toward his family.
Fighting bureaucracy, he reorganized 50 departments into 10 super-agencies, each with an administrator who reported to the mayor. The plan streamlined overlapping jurisdictions and functions, but critics said it ultimately only added more layers to the bureaucracy.

Creating 'Night Mayor' And 'Little City Halls'
 Another Lindsay plan to turn dozens of neighborhood storefronts used in his campaign into "little City Halls" -- ostensibly to give the voters grass-roots access to city government -- was cut down by City Council Democrats, who said they would in effect become Lindsay political clubhouses. The mayor instead opened a half-dozen neighborhood government offices.
He also created the "night mayor," usually one of his top commissioners or administrators, who could be reached at any hour of the night to deal with problems or complaints. Like the neighborhood offices, the night mayoralty was eventually abandoned as needless and ineffective.
Mr. Lindsay also enlarged and reorganized the Police Department, modernized its communications system and appointed innovative commissioners, including Patrick V. Murphy and Donald F. Cawley, who were committed to rooting out corruption, integrating the force and establishing performance standards.
But he also antagonized many officers by announcing, within months of his inauguration, an executive order creating an independent Civilian Complaint Review Board to hear charges against the police, especially allegations of brutality against black and Hispanic people. A police union lawsuit blocked the action, and the issue finally went to the voters, who rejected the idea.
It was a major blow to Mr. Lindsay's prestige and to the cause of civil rights in what had long been a bastion of liberalism in the country. But it was only one of a number of Lindsay initiatives that were widely viewed as special concessions to black New Yorkers.
In 1968, Mr. Lindsay responded to black parents' demands for more control and more black teachers in their neighborhood schools by putting into effect, on an experimental basis, a school decentralization plan in several black areas of the city, including Ocean Hill-Brownsville, in Brooklyn.
Studies were cited that said integration was sputtering in New York, that schools had a poor record educating black children, that it was psychologically harmful for blacks to attend schools with mostly white teachers and administrators. The Ford Foundation, among others, had urged the city to pursue decentralization, and the Legislature had agreed to finance the plan.
Challenging a white, largely Jewish school bureaucracy, whose authority was to be pared by decentralization, Rhody McCoy, the administrator of Ocean Hill-Brownsville, transferred 13 teachers and 6 administrators, most of them Jewish, out of his district. In effect, he dismissed them without pedagogic reasons, and it was said that their real offense was to oppose decentralization.
The action was denounced as illegal by the United Federation of Teachers, which called a strike that closed 85 percent of the city's 900 schools for 55 days, putting a million children out of classrooms and disrupting thousands of families. The strike's bitterness was horrendous, with threats of violence and diatribes laced with racism and anti-Semitism; Mr. Lindsay denounced the slurs and ugly conduct as intolerable.
 
Teachers' Strike Leaves A Legacy of Tensions
 The strike ended when the state suspended Mr. McCoy and the Ocean Hill-Brownsville board on grounds that it had violated valid union contracts by transferring the teachers and administrators without cause. Later, the Legislature fashioned a compromise, decentralizing city schools into 32 districts and giving locally elected boards power to run their elementary and junior high schools, but adopting strong protections for teachers' jobs. But the episode left a legacy of tensions between blacks and Jews that went on for years, and Mr. Lindsay called it his greatest regret.
The last six months of 1968 were "the worst of my public life," Mr. Lindsay later said. The schools were shut down, the police were engaged in a slowdown, firefighters were threatening job actions, sanitation workers had struck for two weeks and the city was awash in garbage, and racial and religious tensions were breaking to the surface.
The depth of feeling against Mr. Lindsay in the boroughs outside Manhattan was not widely understood beyond New York. But it became apparent to the nation after a Feb. 9, 1969, blizzard buried the city in 15 inches of snow. While major arteries were plowed quickly, side streets in Queens were buried for days, and homeowners greeted the visiting mayor with boos, jeers and curses. The scenes, captured on national television, conveyed a message that the mayor of New York was indifferent to the middle class.
Mr. Lindsay's hope for a second term appeared to fade with his popularity. Robert Price, who had run the 1965 mayoral campaign, had left after a year as deputy mayor. But Richard Aurelio, who had managed Senator Javits's campaign, replaced Mr. Price, and David Garth, the political consultant, joined the team. Louis Harris, the pollster, became an adviser, and crucial decisions were made.
One was to grant more generous wage and pension settlements to the municipal unions, undercutting their opposition. Another was to win back the Jewish vote by campaigning in middle-class Jewish communities in Queens, Brooklyn and the Bronx -- and having the mayor apologize for his mistakes. It grated on him, but the mayor made speeches and commercials saying he had mishandled the snowstorm and had let the school strike go on too long.
The mayor lost the Republican nomination to John Marchi, a conservative state senator from Staten Island. But the Democrats also put up a conservative, City Comptroller Mario A. Procaccino, and the major party candidates split the growing conservative majority and allowed Mr. Lindsay, running as a Liberal-Fusion candidate, to win the election with only 42 percent of the vote.
 
A Second Term Marked By a Host of Problems
Mr. Lindsay's second term was marked by growing racial and class tensions; substantial increases in crime; sharply rising costs for municipal labor, welfare rolls, health and education; and a deteriorating fiscal posture for the city.
It was also marked by disclosures of wide police corruption that began with allegations by two officers, Frank Serpico and David Durk. In articles by David Burnham of The New York Times, the officers contended that businessmen, gamblers and drug dealers were paying bribes to many officers to overlook crimes, and that senior commanders and even some top city officials had failed to act on evidence of graft.
Mayor Lindsay appointed an investigating commission under Whitman Knapp. In 1972, after a two-year inquiry, it concluded that corruption was endemic in the department, infecting "a sizable majority" of officers. Reforms included the assignment of drug, gambling and vice cases to specialized investigative units and establishment of "integrity control" officers to ferret out misconduct.
The problem that always plagued Mr. Lindsay -- alienating the white middle and working classes whenever he tried to help minorities -- arose again in 1971, when the mayor, trying to comply with federal orders to move thousands of poor black people into middle-income white communities, or risk the loss of federal housing funds, proposed building the city's first "scatter-site" housing, a low-income, high-rise project, in the middle-class, largely Jewish neighborhood of Forest Hills.
Pandemonium broke out. Residents said the development would bring in crime, drugs and social problems, erode property values, corrupt the schools and force people to move out. There were rallies and marches. Residents vowed to block construction with their bodies. On the other side, civil rights advocates said neighborhood preservation was a euphemism for racial bigotry, and insisted that killing the project would sabotage integrated and open housing everywhere. The fight inflamed racial tensions and nagged at consciences all over town.
Mr. Lindsay finally asked Mr. Cuomo to mediate, and Mr. Cuomo gained his first wide public attention by fashioning a compromise that cut the project's size in half, from three 24-story buildings with 840 apartments to three 12-story buildings with 432 apartments. It also increased the proportion of elderly residents and turned the project into a cooperative -- the first public housing co-op in America. It was built in 1972, and the crime and other problems never came to pass.
 
Running for Presidency Creates Ill Will at Home
 But resentments against Mr. Lindsay were magnified just as he was making a decision to run for the presidency. Winning the White House was hardly more than a remote possibility, as Mr. Lindsay well knew. But he had long dreamed of it, his advisers were pushing hard, and he was aware that the national exposure could establish him as a spokesman for the cities and enhance his chances in years to come.
Running as a Republican was out of the question. Richard M. Nixon had the nomination sewn up and Governor Rockefeller, with whom a feud had degenerated into poisonous mutual distaste, stood in Mr. Lindsay's way. So in 1971, he joined the Democrats and began attacking Mr. Nixon over the war in Vietnam and the nation's housing, health, education and other needs.
Mr. Lindsay's race for the Democratic presidential nomination was over quickly. He was defeated in the Florida primary and dropped out after coming in sixth in Wisconsin. Moreover, it was resented by many Democrats, who saw him as an interloper, and by many New Yorkers, who saw him campaigning around the country instead of attending to business at home.
Switching to the Democrats also deprived the mayor of the financial support of many Republicans in New York, among them social and business leaders who had shared his liberal ideas and backed him unconditionally because they regarded him as a man of integrity. The mayor's party shifts and his futile presidential race were seen by these allies as opportunistic.
Moreover, the city's financial problems were deepening. When Mr. Lindsay's second term drew to a close, welfare rolls had more than doubled, to 1.2 million people. Labor contracts had committed the city to enormous future costs. City debt had grown in Mr. Lindsay's tenure to $9 billion from $2.5 billion.
 
Budget Maneuvering Causes Years of Ripples
Though he had vowed never to borrow for the city's daily expenses, Mr. Lindsay had been borrowing for years as the economy declined and the cost of city services soared. And his administration had resorted to budget gimmicks that mortgaged the future -- paying salaries on July 1 instead of June 30 to charge them to another fiscal year, borrowing against overestimated future revenues, using capital budget money for noncapital items, and on and on.
Many experts traced the city's mid-70's fiscal crisis to the Lindsay years, though Mr. Lindsay disagreed, insisting that it may have come sooner if he had not imposed new taxes.
By the mayoral election year of 1973, Mr. Lindsay had become a far more pragmatic politician and a better administrator -- even his opponents said so. But the Republicans and the Democrats had abandoned him, and Alex Rose, his old Liberal Party ally, urged him not to run again. Mr. Lindsay left office at the end of the year, exhausted.
He became a commentator on ABC's "AM America," a precursor to "Good Morning America," resumed his partnership in Webster, Sheffield and wrote articles for periodicals. He also wrote a novel, "The Edge," published in 1976. He wrote two other books, "Journey Into Politics," a 1967 account of his political career, and "The City," a 1969 memoir of his first term and his re-election.
He had one more political fling, a 1980 Democratic primary race for the United States Senate. He was beaten by Elizabeth Holtzman, who lost the general election to Alfonse M. D'Amato.
From 1984 to 1991, he was chairman of the Lincoln Center Theater, and was credited with a significant role in its rejuvenation.
But his health was failing, and as his medical bills mounted, his financial status deteriorated, too. He had never been rich, and his eight years as mayor left him seven short of qualifying for a city pension under rules then in effect. After Webster, Sheffield folded in 1991, he joined Mudge Rose Guthrie Alexander & Ferdon, Nixon's old law firm, but it went out of business in 1995, leaving him without health insurance.
Friends, including Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone, came to the rescue. Mr. Lindsay was named special counsel to the City Commission for the United Nations, with health coverage and a $25,000-a-year salary. It also made him eligible for a city pension in May 1997, under new rules requiring only 10 years of municipal service.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: John V. Lindsay, the mayor of New York from 1966 to 1973. (Carl T. Gossett Jr./The New York Times, 1970)(pg. A1); BROOKLYN, 1968 -- After Mr. Lindsay put a school decentralization plan into effect, teachers called a strike that closed 85 percent of the city's schools. (Meyer Liebowitz/The New York Times); CENTRAL PARK, 1969 -- Mr. Lindsay insisted that the parks were for people, and he promoted policies that encouraged concerts, kite-flying contests and other "happenings." (Barton Silverman/The New York Times); CITY HALL, 1966 -- Mayor Lindsay speaking at a news conference about a deficit in the New York water reservoir system. (Carl T. Gossett Jr./The New York Times); BROOKLYN BRIDGE, 1966 -- A transit strike hit as Mr. Lindsay began his first term as mayor. (The New York Times); MANHATTAN, 1959 -- After his election to the United States House, Mr. Lindsay became chairman of the city G.O.P. (Allyn Baum/The New York Times); HARLEM, 1967 -- Mayor Lindsay took off his jacket and walked the streets of black areas of New York as turbulence grew in other cities. (Neal Boenzi/The New York Times)(pg. B10); GRACIE MANSION, 1971 -- Mayor Lindsay announcing that he would become a Democrat, a move he made so he could run for president. (Carl T. Gossett Jr./The New York Times); QUEENS, 1969 Mayor Lindsay in Forest Hills after a major snowstorm, in an attempt to reach out to alienated middle-class residents. (Mike Evans/The New York Times); MANHATTAN, 1972 -- Frank Serpico, then a New York police detective, testified before the Knapp Commission investigating police corruption. (Librado Romero/The New York Times); FOREST HILLS, 1972 -- Behind police barricades, demonstrators protested a plan for a low-income housing project in Queens.; MIAMI BEACH, 1972 -- Mayor Lindsay campaigning in Florida's Democratic presidential primary. (United Press International); (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times, 1993)(pg. B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); HILTON HEAD, SC, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); HILTON HEAD, SC, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MAYORS; DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (99%); MAYORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CELEBRITIES (87%); CITIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (75%); HEART DISEASE (75%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); RACE & RACISM (72%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (69%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (68%); FILM (65%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (65%); HISTORY (64%); PNEUMONIA (56%); 

PERSON: MCFADDEN, ROBERT D; LINDSAY, JOHN V JOHN V LINDSAY (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000



564 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 33; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: THE 43rd PRESIDENT: THE CHOICES -- Man in the News;
Joining the Team: A Right-Hand Man, a Refugee and a Capital Returnee --Donald Louis Evans

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 20

 BODY:
Donald L. Evans, a 54-year-old Texas oilman, likes to say that he has been "cycle tested," whipped by the vagaries of commodity markets and, more recently, by the vicissitudes of the prolonged contest that resulted in George W. Bush, his best friend, winning the White House.
He was strapped in the passenger seat of a faltering Cessna over the Permian Basin in Texas as Mr. Bush, flying himself for the last time, struggled to land the plane successfully. He celebrated Mr. Bush's 40th birthday party in 1986, the one that prompted his friend to quit drinking and change his life. On Election Night, it was Mr. Evans who told Mr. Bush that his Democratic rival had withdrawn his concession and that the election fight would go on. 
 For weathering such storms and many others over the years, Mr. Evans received his reward today as he was chosen for a Cabinet post in Mr. Bush's administration. It is Mr. Evans' first major government duty. But in naming him, Mr. Bush kept his most loyal supporter at his side in Washington, and continued a tradition of treating the Commerce Department as a place to install stalwart political loyalists.
Mr. Bush effectively acknowledged that today, when he referred to Mr. Evans as "my lifelong friend." He also called Mr. Evans a valuable adviser, and a free enterpriser who understands free trade. But the subtext seems clear: Mr. Bush wants Mr. Evans in Washington, as in Texas and on the campaign trail, when Mr. Evans spent more time with Mr. Bush than anyone outside his family.
Donald Louis Evans was born near Houston, the second of three children. He was raised to be an oilman by his father, who worked as a manager for the Shell Oil Company. When he entered the University of Texas, he studied engineering and returned several years later for an M.B.A., which he received in 1973.
Shortly thereafter he moved to Midland to join Tom Brown Inc., a local oil concern, where he is now chairman and chief executive.
At only 33 in 1979, Mr. Evans became president of Tom Brown, and presided over a boom-and-bust cycle that would might seem familiar to an Internet industry executive today. Before the oil crash of the mid-1980's, Tom Brown had a market capitalization of $2 billion, equivalent to Ford Motor Company's value at the time, with 1,600 employees and investment bankers banging at the door.
A short time later, the stock market thought Tom Brown was worth $75 million. Mr. Evans let go all but 50 employees. Today, the company has 350 workers and is enjoying a bit of a resurgence with the recent spike in oil prices.
It was such ups and downs that led Mr. Evans to pronounce himself "cycle tested," or battle hardened, a trait needed for politics.
Mr. Bush and Mr. Evans met through his wife, Susie, who had known Mr. Bush from grade school. When Mr. Bush came to Midland as a bachelor in search of riches in the oil patch, the Evanses provided a place to watch television, do his laundry and chat about oil.
The two men have never been far apart since then. Mr. Evans is something of a straight man to Mr. Bush's occasional clown, the fund-raiser for Mr. Bush's political ambitions, the sober adviser who steered him to a deeper spirituality.
Whether that close relationship will translate to a substantial policy role for Mr. Evans in Washington is another question.
Mr. Evans said today that his business experience would serve him well at Commerce, which oversees some aspects of trade policy and trade promotions, administers the census, collects statistics on the economy, reviews patent applications and represents business interests abroad.
"Governing, like business, is about setting a course, setting priorities, setting goals and objectives and making the right choices for the right reasons," he said. "The road the Department of Commerce will travel is clear: the promotion of free enterprise, first in America and then abroad, will be our first priority -- free flow of capital, free and open competition."
In principle, the commerce secretary has oversight over a wide area of business activity as diverse as the Internet, technology investment, American competitiveness and export policies. In practice, most secretaries have used the office to keep the president in good stead with leading business supporters, while watching most important economic policy decisions be made in other departments. Mr. Evans will have to work to make his job something more.
In 1989, former President George Bush appointed Robert A. Mosbacher, a Texas oilman and his leading fund-raiser, to head the department. Mr. Mosbacher later called the department the "hall closet" of the federal government and suggested that it should be closed.
 
Profile
Donald Louis Evans
 
Born: July 27, 1946.
 
Hometown: Houston
 
Education: B.S. in mechanical engineering, University of Texas; M.B.A., University of Texas.
 
Career Highlights: Chairman and chief executive of Tom Brown, Inc. (1975-present); chairman of the Bush-Cheney 2000 campaign; national finance chairman for Gov. George W. Bush's campaigns for governor of Texas in 1998 and 1994; chairman of the Texas Inaugural Committee for Mr. Bush (1995); appointed to Board of Regents of the University of Texas System (1995) of which he became the chairman in 1997.
 
Family: Married to Susan Marinis; two daughters, one son.
(Source: Associated Press)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Donald L. Evans, center, the secretary of commerce choice, at a news conference yesterday with Melquiades R. Martinez, selected for housing secretary, and Ann M. Veneman, selected for agriculture secretary. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (82%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (65%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT FORD MOTOR CO (84%); TOM BROWN INC (82%); SHELL OIL CO (65%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); POLITICS (89%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (77%); ELECTIONS (74%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (74%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (65%); OIL & GAS PRICES (62%); INTERNET & WWW (50%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); EVANS, DONALD L; KAHN, JOSEPH GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000



565 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 33; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: THE 43rd PRESIDENT: THE CHOICES -- Man in the News;
Joining the Team: A Right-Hand Man, a Refugee and a Capital Returnee --Melquiades Rafael Martinez

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 20

 BODY:
In the heart of fast-growing central Florida, where developers and Disney dream big, the Orange County chairman, Melquiades R. Martinez, rang an alarm earlier this year.
The schools around Orlando, are too crowded, he warned; the county should stop building houses in areas where classrooms are full and where new construction has not already been approved. 
 His proposal, which he said was a "wake-up call to the entire community," may have seemed a bit unusual, but his friends and supporters say it was an indication of his willingness to take unpopular positions, something they say is a trademark of his brief political career.
Today, Mr. Martinez took another step in that career. President-elect George W. Bush selected him to be secretary of housing and urban development. If confirmed by the Senate, Mr. Martinez would become the first Cuban-American to hold a cabinet post.
"He's got a wonderful story," Mr. Bush said in introducing Mr. Martinez today. "He was a refugee, as a young boy, from Cuba. He understands American values; he's grown to appreciate them."
In confronting developers who build 12,000 houses in his and two neighboring counties each year, Mr. Martinez argued that he was protecting the quality of life of those already living there. It was common sense, he said. But builders and lawyers who are challenging the approach called it economic suicide.
Colleagues of Mr. Martinez, a 54-year-old lawyer who came to this country as a Cuban refugee in 1962, say he has long been willing to take positions that are politically risky.
Since 1998, when he became the chief elected official of the county that encompasses Orlando, he has trimmed services to allow for a modest tax cut; fired a fire chief for not promoting women and minorities; dismantled the department of community affairs, a civil rights-era agency established to give the poor a voice in county affairs, and introduced regular drug testing for many county employees.
Mr. Martinez oversaw those changes with what friends described as a low-key manner, based on the convictions of a conservative pragmatist. "He's unassuming," said Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, a Miami Republican. "He's not a show horse. He's a workhorse."
During an earlier five-year stint as president of the Orlando Utilities Commission, he was praised for improving the image of an agency tarnished by charges of misconduct.
Mr. Martinez is an ally of Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida, who recently appointed him to head a commission to tackle growth management issues for the state, a minefield that ranges from mass transit to agriculture.
And after Mr. Martinez signed on as one of eight chairmen of George W. Bush's Florida campaign, he found himself basking in the praise of the Texas governor, who was impressed by his personal story.
"I could tell George W. had great respect for him," said Representative John L. Mica, a Republican from Winter Park. The presidential candidate introduced Mr. Martinez to crowds as "being part of the American dream, coming to this country and working his way up."
Born in Sagua la Grande, Cuba, on Oct. 23, 1946, Melquiades Rafael Martinez came to the United States at the age of 15 in 1962 as part of an airlift operation in which Cuban parents sent their children out of the country so they would not be raised under a Communist government. About 14,000 Cuban children came to the United States under the program from December 1960 to October 1962.
Mr. Martinez resettled with a foster family in Orange County and was joined by his parents four years later. He worked his way through Florida State University, studying international affairs and law, and earning his law degree in 1973.
After law school, he became a personal injury lawyer, and in 1998, reported a net worth of $3 million. He also headed the Orlando Housing Authority for two years in the 1980's.
"Today, for me, is a fulfillment of the promise of America," Mr. Martinez said, "the promise that regardless of where you come from, what language you speak, the color of your skin or your economic circumstances, if you share the dream of a brighter tomorrow, and you're willing to pursue it with respect for others and have an abiding faith in God, all things are possible."
Given Mr. Martinez's limited experience in public housing and urban issues, some observers called his selection a political payback for Cuban-Americans, whose support for Mr. Bush may have provided the winning margin in Florida.
But Mr. Martinez sees himself more broadly than his Cuban roots.
"He's certainly not limited to his own community," said Frank Calzon, executive director of the Center for a Free Cuba, an anti-Castro group. "Obviously for the Cuban-American community, whenever a young Cuban comes to the U.S. under that circumstance and achieves, of course we're very proud."
Florida Democratic leaders say Mr. Martinez shuns the political or ethnic factionalism that has recently roiled the state. "Mel's a consensus builder," said Bob Poe, state chairman of the Florida Democratic Party. "He fits the mold the president-elect is trying to portray."
Nevertheless, Mr. Martinez got his first national exposure by jumping into the thick of Cuban exile politics last year during the dispute over whether to return Elian Gonzalez -- the 6-year-old refugee whose mother died crossing the Florida Straits -- to his father in Cuba.
In interviews and phone calls, Mr. Martinez pressed officials to keep Elian in the United States, and he personally treated the boy to a trip to Walt Disney World, cameras in tow. The actions endeared Mr. Martinez to many Cuban-Americans, but he drew criticism from other Americans, who accused him of using the boy as a political prop.
Despite his mild manner, Mr. Martinez proved a formidable campaigner in seeking to run Orange County.
In a bitter, expensive race in 1998, he challenged a state senator, John Ostalkiewicz, who was better known and had the support of conservative Republicans. Mr. Martinez attacked Mr. Ostalkiewicz as an extremist with little regard for quality-of-life issues, while his challenger depicted Mr. Martinez as being out of step with ordinary people.
Mr. Martinez won in a landslide, with 60 percent of the overall vote, including 70 percent of the Democrats who voted. Declaring himself "astonished" by his margin of victory, Mr. Martinez claimed a mandate to follow his heart and "let the politics fall where they may."
 
Profile
Melquiades Rafael Martinez
 
Born: Oct. 23, 1946, Sagua la Grande, Cuba
 
Hometown: Orlando, Fla.
 
Education: Bishop Moore High School, Orlando, Fla.; B.A., Florida State University; J.D., Florida State University, 1973.
 
Career Highlights: Private law practice, 1973-98; president, Orlando Utilities Commission, 1994-1997; chairman, Orange County, Fla., 1998-present.
 
Family: Married Kathryn Tindal; one daughter and two sons.
(Source: Associated Press) 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS221310 WATER SUPPLY & IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (62%); NAICS221119 OTHER ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT ORLANDO UTILITIES COMMISSION (62%); ORLANDO UTILITIES COMMISSION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT ORLANDO UTILITIES COMMISSION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CONSTRUCTION (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); COUNTIES (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (76%); CONSERVATISM (74%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); POLITICS (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); TAX LAW (71%); APPROVALS (71%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (69%); CITIES (69%); WOMEN (69%); LAWYERS (66%); MISCONDUCT (65%); CIVIL RIGHTS (65%); WORKPLACE SUBSTANCE ABUSE (62%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (60%); 

PERSON: MARQUIS, CHRISTOPHER; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); MARTINEZ, MELQUIADES RAFAEL GEORGE W BUSH (89%); ILEANA ROS-LEHTINEN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000



566 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: White House, Trying Once More for Mideast Peace, Rates the Chances Below 50-50

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 20

 BODY:
Israeli and Palestinian negotiators met with President Clinton at the White House today, as hopes revived for the possibility of a Middle East settlement before Mr. Clinton leaves office next month.
The president urged the negotiators to be diligent about their work at the sessions that began Tuesday night at Bolling Air Force Base and are expected to continue through Saturday, administration officials said. Little progress was reported in the talks so far, but Mr. Clinton offered some ideas and said he would decide on the next step depending on how much is achieved. 
 The 45-minute encounter with Mr. Clinton in the Cabinet Room was part of a process that began 10 days ago in a phone call between the president and the Israeli leader, Ehud Barak.
White House officials expressed hopes that the culmination would be a mad, rush-to-the-finish summit meeting in the next 34 days between Mr. Barak and the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, with Mr. Clinton as ultimate peacemaker.
But the prospects for a successful version of the failed July summit meeting at Camp David remain less than 50 percent, Clinton administration officials say. Even so, they have done considerable behind-the-scenes work, including a session last week between Mr. Arafat and Dennis B. Ross, the chief Middle East peace negotiator, in Rabat, Morocco.
Prompting the recent surge of meetings and phone calls is the political crunch facing all three participants: Mr. Barak's need for a peace deal to have even a chance to survive Feb. 6 elections in Israel, Mr. Clinton's imminent departure to private citizenship on Jan. 20, and Mr. Arafat's presumed, though not certain, desire to deal with Mr. Barak as prime minister rather than the Likud candidate, Ariel Sharon.
But another uncertainty entered the mix today when Shimon Peres said he intended to run for prime minister -- if he could get the requisite signatures for candidacy -- which could tempt Mr. Arafat to wait to deal with the Israeli leader he probably gets along with best.
Even before today, Mr. Clinton figured that Mr. Arafat was the most uncertain element, his aides said.
In their phone call 10 days ago, according to several accounts, Mr. Clinton and Mr. Barak discussed how they could best ensure that Mr. Arafat would not just play along at a summit meeting and then walk away -- as he did last time -- undercutting Mr. Barak's hopes of re-election and handing Mr. Clinton a spectacular defeat as his finale.
While the negotiators toiled here, Mr. Arafat flew today to Cairo to see the Egyptian president, Hosni Mubarak, the man with whom Mr. Arafat usually consults before forging ahead with a major negotiation with the United States.
Mr. Mubarak has apparently pledged to the Americans to push Mr. Arafat to accept a peace deal and, in unusually encouraging words, Egypt's foreign minister, Amr Moussa, said that a peace deal was possible in the coming weeks. But for an agreement to be completed before Jan. 20, the talks at Bolling Air Force Base must achieve enough to warrant calling Mr. Arafat and Mr. Barak together with Mr. Clinton.
American officials are wondering if they can pull off another Camp David-like summit meeting.
The Israelis are promoting the idea of Mr. Clinton's going to Israel, thus lending added drama and giving the beleaguered Mr. Barak a potentially huge lift going into the February election. The White House did not rule out such a trip today, saying only that Mr. Clinton had no plans to travel.
With the Middle East peace talks, unlike a possible presidential deal with North Korea on missiles, Mr. Clinton has little to fear from the Bush camp, say foreign policy experts close to President-elect George W. Bush.
Indeed, one Bush aide said that the president-elect would "welcome" a settlement of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict before he came to office.
An accord would represent one less difficulty for the new president. And it could be presented as the culmination of a process begun by Mr. Bush's father, former President George Bush, who was a moving force behind the 1991 Madrid conference, which brought the Palestinian Liberation Organization and the Israelis together for the first time.
The endorsement of Mr. Clinton's Middle East peace efforts by the Bush team did not come suddenly.
In the last few months, according to Edward Abington, the representative of the Palestinian Authority here, Bush foreign policy advisers have told Palestinian leaders that they would be more than happy to carry out a peace deal secured by Mr. Clinton and to help arrange any needed international funding.
But while Mr. Clinton might have a clear hand at home, he still faces the problem of how to resolve the issues between the two protagonists.
How far is Mr. Arafat willing to compromise on the key issues of the Haram al Sharif, known to Jews as Temple Mount, and the right of Palestinian refugees to return to Israel?
Israeli officials have talked broadly of allowing the Palestinian neighborhoods in Jerusalem to be under Palestinian sovereignty, including those areas next to the Haram al Sharif. This would mean there would be no Israeli security checks between the Palestinian neighborhoods and the Haram. Mr. Barak's team has also talked recently of giving up 95 percent of the West Bank that would make the essence of a Palestinian state. At Camp David last summer, Mr. Barak was less generous in the amount of the West Bank he was prepared to let go.
The Israelis have also offered some formulas on the question of sovereignty over the Haram. In a conference call today with members of the Israel Policy Forum, a private American group devoted to policy in the Middle East, the Israeli cabinet secretary, Isaac Herzog, said that Israel would agree to a formula under which neither side ceded sovereignty but which allowed both sides to claim sovereignty.
On the other intractable issue -- the right of Palestinian refugees to return to Israel -- Mr. Herzog said Israel would affirm the right of refugees to return but would hold veto power over individual applications.
How Mr. Arafat would react to these offers was far from clear. His representative here, Mr. Abington, said that the Palestinians were wary of being pushed into an agreement under the pressure of Jan. 20 and Feb. 6 deadlines.
On the other hand, Mr. Abington said the Palestinians felt that every effort should be made this time to try for a final deal.
The Palestinian leader is feeling his own pressures. More than two months of violence has ruined the Palestinian economy, and while Mr. Arafat's popularity in the street remains reasonably high, his authority seems to have waned.
In Rabat, Mr. Arafat gave Mr. Ross a sense of greater urgency for a peace deal than in the past, an administration official said. But this did not mean that he was ready to accept what he rejected at Camp David in July, the official added.
Describing the sudden feverish activity and the pressure of the clock, Thomas R. Smerling, the director of the Israel Policy Forum's Washington center, used a football analogy: "We're at the two-minute warning period when you start to throw long balls toward the sideline."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: December 22, 2000, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the Israeli-Palestinian talks in Washington misstated comments by Isaac Herzog, the Israeli cabinet secretary, in a conference call on Wednesday with members of the Israel Policy Forum, a private American group. Mr. Herzog discussed press reports in Israel about possible compromises on Jerusalem and on the issue of Palestinian refugees. But he did not say that Israel would agree to a formula that would let both sides claim sovereignty over the Jerusalem site known to Jews and Christians as the Temple Mount and to Muslims as Haram al Sharif, and he did not say that Israel would affirm the right of Palestinian refugees to return to Israel.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton and Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright meeting with Foreign Minister Shlomo Ben-Ami of Israel (third from right), the Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat (third from left) and others yesterday in a peacemaking effort aimed at breaking the current cycle of violence in the Middle East. (The White House via Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (67%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (96%); MIDDLE EAST (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); EGYPT (92%); MOROCCO (79%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); 

COMPANY: SICOME SA (67%); WHITE HOUSE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL ; ISRAEL (96%); MIDDLE EAST (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); EGYPT (92%); MOROCCO (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); 

SUBJECT: PALESTINIANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (89%); ARMED FORCES (57%); AIR FORCES (57%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); EHUD BARAK (79%); SHIMON PERES (59%); HOSNI MUBARAK (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000



567 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1362 words

HEADLINE: THE 43rd PRESIDENT: THE PRESIDENT-ELECT;
ALCOA'S CHAIRMAN IS NAMED BY BUSH TO TREASURY POST

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex., Dec. 20

 BODY:
President-elect George W. Bush today chose Paul H. O'Neill, a business executive with extensive government experience, as his candidate for treasury secretary, calling him a "steady voice" who could "calm people's nerves, calm the markets, calm those who would speculate in the dollar" in the event of an economic downturn.
A day after the Federal Reserve said it was shifting from fighting inflation to steering the economy away from recession, Mr. Bush put an emphasis on his choice for the senior economic policy position in his administration by announcing Mr. O'Neill's selection at a morning news conference and leaving the announcement of three other cabinet-designees until the afternoon. 
 "I'm hopeful that this economy stays strong," Mr. Bush said as he introduced Mr. O'Neill, 65, the retiring chairman of Alcoa, the world's largest manufacturer of aluminum. But with the Fed pointing to rising energy prices, an erosion in consumer confidence and stress in financial markets, Mr. Bush added, "I'm also a realist, and one of my jobs is to think ahead, just in case."
Mr. Bush said, "We are going to play the hand we are dealt," and he repeated his calls for tax cuts, expanded global trade, less regulation, and a plan to allow the transfer of some Social Security taxes to private investment accounts, all cornerstones of his fiscal strategy. He said his Social Security plan and his proposed $1.3 trillion tax cut over a decade would increase the flow of capital into private markets and spur growth.
In an afternoon round of cabinet announcements, Mr. Bush tapped his longtime friend and campaign chairman, Donald L. Evans, 54, an oil man, to be secretary of commerce; Melquiades R. Martinez, 54, the chairman of Orange County, Fla., as housing secretary; and Ann M. Veneman, 51, the former director of California's agriculture department, as agriculture secretary.
Mr. Bush also cleaned out his office at the Texas Capitol, including his autographed baseball collection, and met with 30 religious figures, a number of black ministers among them, to begin planning how to give religious groups a major role in providing social services.
Mr. Bush plans to announce his resignation as governor at 10 a.m. Thursday, and the lieutenant governor, Rick Perry, will be sworn in as governor at 3 p.m., The Associated Press reported. .
Republicans close to the Bush campaign said that the president-elect was close to naming several fellow Republican governors to cabinet posts, perhaps on Friday. Christie Whitman, the moderate governor of New Jersey, would be named to head the Environmental Protection Agency, the officials said.
Mr. Bush had also tentatively decided on Gov. Tommy P. Thompson of Wisconsin, for the Department of Health and Human Services, advisers said. Mr. Thompson is known as a pioneer in welfare policy and as an opponent of abortion. He is considered acceptable to conservatives for the influential domestic policy post.
Gov. Mark Racicot of Montana, a close friend of Mr. Bush who became a prominent spokesman for the Texas governor during the battle over the presidential vote in Florida, met with Mr. Bush today. Advisers to Mr. Bush said that Mr. Racicot had been the leading contender for several posts, including attorney general and interior secretary.
But tonight, a spokeswoman for Mr. Racicot said in a statement that he had withdrawn his name for consideration as attorney general because of "family considerations." The statement left unclear whether he would accept another post.
Republicans have predicted that Democrats would try to use the confirmation hearings on the choice for the attorney general to showcase their differences with Republicans over issues like gun control and prosecution of hate crimes.
But this morning, Mr. O'Neill had star billing -- the second cabinet choice after Gen. Colin L. Powell for secretary of state -- as Mr. Bush sought to send reassuring signals that he was prepared to manage a slipping economic situation and would be ready to move aggressively on tax policy and fiscal policy.
Although Mr. Bush had also been considering several Wall Street executives for treasury secretary, he emphasized Mr. O'Neill's range of experience, including years in the government budget office under Presidents Richard M. Nixon and Gerald R. Ford and in the private sector.
"He has run large corporations and, even more importantly, has employed large numbers of people," Mr. Bush said. "He knows that all of our decisions and one of the key goals of this administration will be to make sure that all Americans can find high-paying, high-quality jobs."
Mr. O'Neill himself disclosed the personal connections that would help him in his job. He said he and Vice President-elect Dick Cheney, who had been White House chief of staff under Mr. Ford, "go back many years," and he called Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, a close friend who was instrumental in bringing him to Alcoa in 1987.
Conservatives had raised alarms about Mr. O'Neill because he had once backed gasoline and carbon taxes, which Vice President Al Gore had also favored. Standing at Mr. Bush's side, however, he said that he believed in the president-elect's policy and that his days as a "free-ranging, self-admitted maverick" had come to an end. At that, Mr. Bush gave a mock sigh of relief.
Mr. Bush said any possible economic slowdown should not make the idea of putting Social Security taxes into the market less politically appealing, arguing that the policy had to be viewed over the long term.
Mr. Bush's talk of an economic slowdown drew a sharp response from the Clinton administration, with a White House official suggesting that the president-elect was simply trying to sell his agenda.
"When most experts are still projecting solid growth, a new president should not be hurting confidence by talking down our economy for political positioning," said Gene Sperling, President Clinton's national economic adviser.
Mr. Bush also expanded on his views on energy policy, saying that he wanted to increase the natural gas, coal and energy supply. He called for a "hemispheric" energy policy, exploration for natural gas in Western states, a review of policies on pipeline construction and development of coal reserves as well as investment in clean-coal technology.
With today's announcements and the ones to come, the shape of a Bush cabinet is becoming clearer, including Bush loyalists like Mr. Evans; veterans of the administration of Mr. Bush's father, like General Powell; officials like Mr. O'Neill with ties to Mr. Cheney; and a sprinkling of governors who rallied early around Mr. Bush's candidacy.
Many of those being named have extensive government backgrounds. Ms. Veneman, for example, was a deputy secretary of agriculture under Mr. Bush's father before she was California's agriculture secretary from 1995 to 1999.
One Bush adviser said the president-elect was looking for experience and competence, saying: "This is not learning-curve time. People say the knock on Bush is he's not experienced? Well, look at what he has surrounded himself with."
Mr. Bush has also made a point of reaching out to minorities in his appointments. Mr. Martinez, who was co-chairman of Mr. Bush's campaign in Florida and is a close ally of his brother, Jeb, the state's Republican governor, fled Cuba when he was 15.
Mr. Bush acknowledged today that he had failed to draw many minority votes. "My hope is that when people who may not have supported me get to know me," he said, "they realize that I am just as intent on being a good president for them as for those folks who supported me."
So far, Mr. Bush has not produced a Democrat for his cabinet, despite aides' pledges that he would try to.
Officials said one Democrat, the Rev. Floyd Flake, a former congressman from Queens, was on a list of contenders for education secretary. National security experts in the Republican Party said Mr. Bush had settled on a deputy national security adviser, Stephen J. Hadley, an arms control expert who was an assistant secretary of defense when Mr. Cheney was defense secretary.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: December 22, 2000, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about a meeting between religious leaders and President-elect George W. Bush in which he said he was interested in easing strains with black voters referred incorrectly to one of his appointments. Mr. Bush's choice for national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, would be the second black person in the post, not the first.
(Colin L. Powell was the first.)

GRAPHIC: Photos: President-elect George W. Bush was joined in Austin, Tex., yesterday by four newly chosen officials for his cabinet. Clockwise from above, Paul H. O'Neill, the selection for treasury secretary; Donald L. Evans, for secretary of commerce; Ann M. Veneman, for secretary of agriculture; and Mel Martinez, for secretary of housing and urban development. (Above and bottom right, Associated Press; upper right and center, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (92%); AA (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (92%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ;TREASURY DEPARTMENT; HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT; AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT ALCOA INC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;TREASURY DEPARTMENT; HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT; AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS; UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; GOVERNORS (US); RELIGION AND CHURCHES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); RELIGION (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (88%); TAX LAW (87%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (86%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (86%); AGRICULTURE (85%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); APPOINTMENTS (79%); EXECUTIVES (79%); POLITICS (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); RECESSION (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (71%); TAX RELIEF (70%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); BASEBALL (69%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (65%); CITIES (59%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); O'NEILL, PAUL H; EVANS, DONALD L; MARTINEZ, MELGUIADES R; VENEMAN, ANN M; PERRY, RICK (LIEUT GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (93%); MEL MARTINEZ (79%); RICK PERRY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000



568 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
Shift in Stance by Federal Reserve Deals Blow to Wall Street

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
For years, investors have been trained to believe that whenever the financial markets turn particularly stormy, Alan Greenspan can be counted on to calm the seas. But in their stampede out of stocks yesterday, investors seemed to be awakening to the idea that the chairman of the Federal Reserve may not be quite the guardian angel they thought he was.
With the Nasdaq composite index down 54 percent from its March peak and the Dow Jones industrial average down 12 percent from its high of last January, investors are clearly experiencing more pain and less gain in their stock holdings than they are accustomed to. So it seems utterly perplexing to many of them that when the Federal Reserve Board met on Tuesday, it didn't cut interest rates. All its members could muster was a shift from an inclination to raise rates to a neutral monetary policy stance. 
 "That might have been a big move for the Fed," said Jeff Applegate, chief investment strategist at Lehman Brothers, "but it wasn't good enough for the markets. And Wednesday was a continuation of that."
The sector sustaining the greatest damage in yesterday's rout was technology, the shares that rose the most whenever Mr. Greenspan worked his magic with interest rates recently. The Nasdaq composite lost 178.93 points, or 7.12 percent of its value, to 2,332.78, while the Dow Jones industrials fell 2.51 percent, or 265.44 points, to 10,318.93.
Even hallowed stocks like Cisco Systems, Juniper Networks and Nokia were hit yesterday as investors grew nervous that a slowing economy would take too much out of technology companies' sales. Shares of Cisco Systems, which had been viewed until recently as a safe haven among growth stocks, have lost 55 percent of their peak price. Even so, the stock still trades at 61 times current earnings, nobody's idea of a discount.
"The problem we have to unwind now is the extraordinary amount of money that was crammed into technology stocks at the end of last year and beginning of this year," said Bill Meehan, chief market analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald. "People who had never redeemed an index fund were putting their money into tech. It's going to be difficult to unwind that in a relatively normal manner."
Mr. Meehan expects stocks to rebound today. But an underlying fear remains among investors that the United States economy has rolled over and the best years are behind us. "We're at the top of the hill and maybe we reached a momentary apex," said Richard Babson, chairman of Babson United Investment Advisors, a money management firm. "We're looking down, not up, in terms of how the economy is going to climb."
While yesterday's stock market decline looked as if investors were banking on a recession, Mr. Babson said that even if the economy continued to expand, albeit at a slower annualized rate of, perhaps, 2.5 percent, it would cause pain. "When you've had a cumulative growth rate that has been expanding at a much faster pace and you turn back on that growth rate, for some people it's going to feel like a capital-R recession," he said, even if it is only a slowdown in growth.
Much of the recent market turmoil is a result of investors trying to gauge the level of earnings growth they can expect from corporations next year. A. Marshall Acuff Jr., a market strategist at Salomon Smith Barney, said: "Investors are wondering, 'What can we count on and what can we value it at?' It's kind of a moving target, and a lot of people in the market have never seen that before."
Some strategists think that the more the market falls, the faster the Fed will move to cut rates. Still, the reality that Mr. Greenspan is moving more slowly on rates than investors would like is a new and unpleasant idea for the markets to absorb.
"The Fed chairman took away the punch bowl and wants to make sure that everybody feels the headache before he brings it back again," Mr. Babson said. Who knew Mr. Greenspan could be such a grinch? 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: December 23, 2000, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
The Market Place column in Business Day on Thursday, about the stock market's reaction to the Federal Reserve's shift in stance on interest rates, misstated the action. The Fed switched to an inclination to lower rates, from an inclination to raise them. It did not adopt a neutral stance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (55%); JNPR (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (55%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (55%); JUNIPER NETWORKS INC (54%); CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (52%); BABSON-UNITED INVESTMENT ADVISORS INC (50%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; STOCKS AND BONDS BANKING & FINANCE (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); RECESSION (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); INDEX FUNDS (71%); 

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000



569 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section G; Page 4; Column 1; Circuits 

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Storage Disks That Make Room For Some Coming Attractions

BYLINE: By BRUCE HEADLAM 

 BODY:
COMPUTER users will sit through a long boot-up. They will sit through a lengthy download. Some will even sit through a long e-mail message. But will they sit through a coming attraction?
The Iomega Corporation and Independent Pictures hope so. Through a deal between the two companies, new Iomega Jaz disks include a preloaded trailer for the film "The Prime Gig," a comedy starring Vince Vaughn and Julia Ormond. The people behind the scheme at Independent Pictures think this is the first time that advertising has appeared on computer storage disks. 
 To hear them tell it, they've discovered a new highway with nothing but empty billboards running alongside.
"We were trying to find the blank real-estate marketing that nobody had thought of before," said Reed Martin, director of marketing at Independent Pictures. "Millions of disks are shipped blank every month. It's a shame."
If this experiment works, marketers may have discovered a new opening for advertisers to crawl inside the home PC.
Jaz disks are large (one or two gigabytes) magnetic cartridges used for backup and storage. Like floppies and other kinds of storage, they are almost always sold blank (although other disk makers have tried putting free software and imbedded links on their products).
The film company found a willing partner in Iomega, the largest manufacturer of magnetic storage cartridges in the United States.
"The way we convinced them, we said, 'It would be different if it were a commercial for Pepsi or Honda,' " Mr. Martin said. "But everyone likes to watch movie trailers, even for movies that they know they won't like."
Greg Bartels, Iomega's director of project management for the Jaz line, said, "We've considered all kinds of things with our media. We agreed it added value for our customers, and so it was a pretty easy decision."
Disks including the trailer have been on the shelves since the middle of November and will be available until the film's release in early February. Executives at Iomega said they had received only positive reaction from their customers.
The trailer itself is a QuickTime file that occupies about 33 megabytes of the disk. (The file can also be played with Windows Media Player.) When the disk is popped into the drive, an icon appears on screen. The potential consumer has a choice to click on the icon to watch the two-minute trailer or delete the file.
"We wanted to give people the choice of whether to watch the trailer or not," Mr. Bartels said.
For both companies, the scheme was born out of economic necessity. Independent Films lacks the financial resources of large studios, which can spend more than $30 million to market a film.
Independent initially looked to the Web to generate some excitement for the film. But, Mr. Martin said, since the success of "The Blair Witch Project," which was heavily promoted on the Web, the large movie companies have overrun the online world.
"It's getting harder and harder to out-'Blair Witch' the other guy," he said. "Everybody has a ton of material on the Web. I started thinking of other platforms that people were buying anyway."
For Iomega, adding trailers or advertisements is an effort to create excitement in the market for magnetic storage cartridges, which has slumped recently as CD-rewritable drives have become more popular and new, larger storage formats like DVD-ROM have come onto the market. Sales of all magnetic storage cartridges in November fell more than 25 percent from the same time last year.
"This has been an interesting test for us," said Michael Ludgate, a general manager at Iomega. "This is a great marketing opportunity for us to get into the consumer entertainment." The company is already considering putting other kinds of advertising and content on their more popular line of Zip disks.
Although the Jaz disks bearing the trailer will have special packaging, people buy storage to fill it with their own files, not to watch advertising. And computers have thousands of other megabytes' worth of blank space available.
Will computer manufacturers start shipping PC's loaded with commercials for McDonald's, Ricky Martin singles or maybe a low-resolution director's cut of "The Matrix"?
"A friend of mine said this is a terrible thing," Mr. Martin said. "People will have to start paying premiums for truly blank storage."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: December 26, 2000, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Circuits on Thursday about an agreement with the Iomega Corporation to include a movie trailer on Iomega's Jaz data storage disks referred incorrectly to the movie and at one point misstated the name of the film company. The film, "The Prime Gig," is a thriller, not a comedy; the company is Independent Pictures, not Independent Films.

GRAPHIC: Photo: ON A DISK NEAR YOU -- Vince Vaughn and Julia Ormond in a scene from the film comedy "The Prime Gig."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: PRIME GIG, THE (MOVIE)

TICKER: IOM (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (72%); NAICS334613 MAGNETIC & OPTICAL RECORDING MEDIA MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: IOMEGA CORP; INDEPENDENT PICTURES IOMEGA CORP (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: IOMEGA CORP; INDEPENDENT PICTURES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ADVERTISING; MOTION PICTURES MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); FILM (89%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (71%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (55%); 

PERSON: HEADLAM, BRUCE VINCE VAUGHN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000



570 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2074 words

HEADLINE: The Little Guy Is on His Mind;
An Author Savagely Indicts Notions of a New Economy

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ 

DATELINE: CHICAGO

 BODY:
The telephone rings. It does not chirp or beep, it rings an actual clapper strikes brass bells and the 1940's Bakelite body shudders -- like a voice from another time, like a wake-up call.
Thomas Frank answers. He has been waiting, here in his home office in the Hyde Park neighborhood. On the other end of the line is an interviewer from a National Public Radio station at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, ready to fill an hour with a phone-in discussion of Mr. Frank's new book, "One Market, Under God: Extreme Capitalism, Market Populism and the End of Economic Democracy" (Doubleday). 
 In a sweeping, savage and witty indictment of American business, Mr. Frank, 35, slams the notion that the 1990's lived up to the promise of the new economy -- a sensibility summed up by commercials for WorldCom that ask, "Is this a great time, or what?"
Mr. Frank argues that the answer is "or what." Behind the go-go stock market and the feel-good atmosphere, he says, the American economy that bloomed in the 1990's is sick: the divide between rich and poor has widened, he insists, and mechanisms like government regulation and unions that traditionally protected underdogs have been hobbled.
Mergers and globalization, meanwhile, are homogenizing the world into one big Wal-Mart. Yet, he says, Americans have been sold the notion that the pixie-dust prosperity has touched almost everyone.
His timing could not be better: Mr. Frank is riding a nascent wave of antibusiness resentment that shows itself in everything from consumer complaints about health maintenance organizations to trashed Starbucks stores during last year's World Trade Organization meeting in Seattle. Vice President Al Gore knew the sentiment was there when he attacked "big tobacco, big oil, the big polluters, the pharmaceutical companies, the H.M.O.'s." And even Business Week asked on its Sept. 11 cover: "Too Much Corporate Power?"
"One Market, Under God" vivisects the libertarian manifestoes, management how-to books, academic gobbledygook, advertisements and finance-oriented cable networks to describe Mr. Frank's key bete noire: market populism.
This phrase, Mr. Frank argues, captures a new genre of spin that turns traditional populism on its head. Instead of the classic populist stance on behalf of the little guy, market populism hijacks the power-to-the-people language to glorify capitalism and its biggest winners. Yeoman farmer, make way for the Foosball-playing high-technology chief executive, courtesy of evangelists like George Gilder, the former Reagan administration icon turned tech cheerleader; Tom Peters, the management guru; Walter Wriston, once the chief executive of Citicorp; and the creators of the Motley Fool stock-pickers Web site.
Mr. Frank has been laying out elements of this argument for some time in his obscure magazine, The Baffler, and in earlier books, including "Commodify Your Dissent (W. W. Norton, 1997). But "One Market, Under God," published in November, is his manifesto. He attacks business pretensions, not with the cruel streak of Michael Moore in his films or the studied folksiness of Jim Hightower on radio, but with a cool, ironic wit that evokes the line of Elvis Costello, the rock star, who sang, "Oh, I used to be disgusted/
And now I try to be amused."
 Admire machines -- worship their inventors
-- newspaper advertisement for Merrill Lynch, pinned to Tom Frank's corkboard
 
 As he sits through the radio interview, elbows propped on his aged oak desk and head resting on his hands, Mr. Frank gives his spiel, its freshness faded by repetition over the course of a grueling book tour. He has returned just the night before from a California swing. But he limbers mentally as he speaks, his voice almost preppy and slightly nasal, holding up his part of the disembodied conversation, the anger rising. The sentences build and flow with the fluidity of hot jazz and the urgency of hard rock, one thought after another tumbling out.
With the business boom on the Internet, he says:
"A lot of business thinkers thought they had happened onto a kind of Golden Age, onto a new world. There's a business magazine out there calling itself Business 2.0, as if all of, all of history was, like, version 1.3, 1.4, that sort of thing -- and then now we've turned this Grand Corner, and market populism is kind of the expression of that feeling, of business at its most righteous, and at its most self-confident, and most willing to take on its enemies and, and shout them down if you will.
"Basically, market populism understands corporations and the workings of the market as more LEGITIMATE than government, as closer to the people, as something the people understand -- and that's why they, according to market populism, even C.E.O.'s as wealthy as Bill Gates are men of the people in a way that someone like Al Gore, because he spent his life in government, can never be."
Thanks to the attention his attack has drawn, the peripatetic Mr. Frank is showing up virtually everywhere, and virtually as well. In the online magazine Slate, he recently fought it out in the Breakfast Table, a daily debate feature, with David Brooks, an editor of the conservative Weekly Standard. Mr. Brooks also examined 90's-era prosperity in a book about what he calls "Bobos," or bourgeois bohemians: "Bobos in Paradise: The New Upper Class and How They Got There" (Simon & Schuster, 2000).
"We both think and write about consumption a lot," Mr. Brooks wrote to Mr. Frank in their discussion. "But whereas you have emerged as a left-wing critic of capitalism and consumption, I'm a right-winger who celebrates capitalism and consumption while finding them insufficient."
Mr. Brooks accused Mr. Frank, in so many words, of being a faux populist. In an acidic exchange, he chided Mr. Frank for saying that he would rather talk with "300 wage employees randomly chosen from Chi-Chi's, Cheddars, Chili's, Shoney's and Kenny Rogers of Rockford, Ill., over the entire punditocracy." Mr. Brooks retorted, "Why are you hanging around the University of Chicago editing a highbrow magazine and writing books if all the insightful people are over at Shoney's?"
Mr. Frank responded: "You have touched on an issue that comes up a lot at The Baffler. Where do such highbrows as us get off taking the side of the working class? Who do we think reads us, anyway?
"My colleague David Mulcahey, who is sipping a 40-ouncer at the next desk as I write this, suggests that our audience is largely made up of people who like good writing but feel like they're getting a raw deal at work. Think Microsoft temps or academic adjuncts. They are, in short, proletarian bohemians, or probos."
There seem to be a lot of probos out there -- a population of Americans who did not buy Microsoft stock in the early 1990's; who didn't reinvent their careers on the Internet; who feel that something is just wrong. He speaks for them, said Thomas Geoghegan, a lawyer and chronicler of the decline of the labor movement. "If enough people say it and do it, you know people are afraid to speak up and say, 'You know, this is nonsense.' "
In doing so, Mr. Frank has commodified his own dissent, "branded" himself and his critique of market populism. And it sells.
No one seems more surprised at this than Mr. Frank. As the radio interview progresses, his eyes grow wide in apparent disbelief. The callers are not going to argue with his premise, as some have, insisting that the Internet will make everything better. These are not even timid liberals, or disaffected Naderites. They are full-blown lefties. Asking questions about Karl Marx and quoting the turn-of-the century revolutionary Rosa Luxemburg.
In Urbana.
Who knew?
They may be lonely, but they are not alone.

 "Frank's 'One Market, Under God' is but another in a series of superficial, ill-informed, poorly thought-out screeds on the shortcomings of modern capitalism. . . we get a long and self-indulgent sneer from a writer who seems more intent on rallying his band of true believers than on marshaling facts and analysis that might enlighten a wider audience."
 -- Steven Pearlstein
 The Washington Post
 
 Many people, of course, hear no music in Mr. Frank's message. Mr. Pearlstein lampooned his notion that people like George Gilder and Walter Wriston actually have an effect on the mind of middle America. Jacob Heilbrunn, writing for National Review, lauds Mr. Frank as "hip and cool and authentic," but adds, "He ignores fundamental truths about today's economy, like, umm, the fact that it's been good for just about everybody."
Indeed, while the gap between rich and poor remains stubbornly wide, the wages of low and middle-income workers have risen faster than inflation since 1996 for the first time in years.
David Eggers, author of "A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius," said in an e-mail interview that he was a fan of Mr. Frank, but his book "isn't always fair, and it's often overstated." Still, he adds: "We need Tom Frank to take his stance, to be unwavering in his rage. If he didn't exist, we would have to invent him."
Mr. Frank claims not to have read the critiques. "Reviews can say whatever they want. I go after plenty of people in my book," he says. "I didn't invite Tom Peters to write a rebuttal."
After the radio interview, Mr. Frank drives to The Baffler offices, across the Midway Plaisance from the University of Chicago campus. It is the kind of run-down neighborhood where a shoestring budget can go a long way. "The secret to happiness is low overhead," Mr. Frank jokes.
The weathered brick building, a former parking garage, is not square nor rectangular, but a crazy rhombus, its shape defined by the crowding-in of other structures that were long ago torn down. Inside, the building contains the studio of an artist who often works from recycled materials, along with the workshops of a cabinet maker and a mechanic who restores abandoned bikes.
In such a place, The Baffler seems perfectly at home. Mr. Frank and the rest of the staff -- all of whom have other jobs to actually pay the bills -- applied the coats of peach-colored paint that cover the walls and weirdly curving ceiling. Two sets of heavy wooden shelves divide the room, with the University of Chicago law professor Cass Sunstein's name still taped below one cubbyhole. Other cabinets, hand built in the wood shop downstairs, separate Mr. Frank's desk from Greg Lane's, a fellow editor, and sport a sliding wooden window and screen retrieved from a junked confessional.
The Baffler, too, crafts its wares from found objects, from the commercials on the air to the sprawl of the suburbs and the blandification of the cities. The magazine's commentators take these things, clean them off and put them in a new context, a different light.
Mr. Frank is, in his way, trying to restore a languishing tradition -- social criticism -- and bring it to a popular audience, reaching back to the time of Edmund Wilson and the preternaturally cranky H. L. Mencken. One of the things Mr. Frank takes pains to show off in his offices is a shelf of Mencken's acerbic brainchild, The American Mercury magazine, whose format and design The Baffler freely imitates.
Mr. Frank does not, however, live entirely in the past. Yes, the telephone is older than he is, but he bought it on eBay. It sits next to a Bondi blue iMac. The Baffler has a Web site, thebaffler.com. "This isn't just Mencken redux," Mr. Geoghegan says. "This is somebody who's read everything since Mencken and gone back to him -- a more sophisticated and nuanced view."

 "Who Can Carry the Baton in the Race Toward 6,000?"
-- Headline trumpeting the surge of the Nasdaq index past 5,000, pinned to Mr. Frank's corkboard

 Seeing the recent precipitous decline to under 2,500 of the Nasdaq, the tech-rich market that was supposed to share the wealth with the little guy, Mr. Frank says he feels recession on the way, and no "soft landing," either. "It's going to be awful, awful." he said. "There's going to be a lot of efforts to put the blame at somebody's doorstep."
The blame game has already begun, he says, with fingers pointed from the editorial pages of The Wall Street Journal and elsewhere. The targets? Liberals and social critics.
"Not the investment bankers and the brokers, mind you," Mr. Frank says. "It's people like me. I'm really looking forward to that."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: December 28, 2000, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day last Thursday about Thomas Frank, the author of "One Market, Under God: Extreme Capitalism, Market Populism and the End of Economic Democracy," gave an erroneous name in some copies for a debate feature in which he took part in the online magazine Slate. It is "The Breakfast Table," not "Table Talk."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In his new book and in his magazine The Baffler, Thomas Frank, 35, contends that behind the go-go stock market and the feel-good atmosphere, the American economy that bloomed in the 1990's is sick, and that the divide between rich and poor has widened. (Photographs by Steve Kagan for The New York Times above ; Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times top ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ONE MARKET, UNDER GOD (BOOK)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); SBUX (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (53%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); STARBUCKS CORP (53%); NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (57%); NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (57%); NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; LABOR; ORGANIZED LABOR NEW ECONOMY (90%); WRITERS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXECUTIVES (85%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (75%); LITERATURE (75%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (75%); TRENDS (72%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (70%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (70%); RELIGION (70%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (65%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (65%); GLOBALIZATION (65%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (61%); PUBLIC RADIO (56%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (50%); 

PERSON: SCHWARTZ, JOHN; FRANK, THOMAS AL GORE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000



571 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 39; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: Tea And Transition

BYLINE: By Douglas Brinkley; Douglas Brinkley, director of the Eisenhower Center at the University of New Orleans, is author of "The Unfinished Presidency: Jimmy Carter's Journey Beyond the White House."

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS

 BODY:
Given the surreal closeness of Election 2000, and the impeachment of the sitting president less than two years ago, the White House transition from Bill Clinton to George W. Bush has so far been a stroll. In the past few days we've seen Hillary Rodham Clinton having tea with Laura Bush, a jovial Vice President Al Gore swapping niceties with Mr. Bush, and President Clinton behaving like a helpful holiday host to Mr. Bush at a nearly two-hour-long Oval Office meeting. Far from enduring the post-election acrimony most pundits predicted, we appear to be in the midst of one of the smoothest presidential transitions in recent memory. If this seems like an exaggeration, consider some far less cordial transfers of power in the past.
One came in 1953, when Dwight Eisenhower took over from Harry Truman after defeating Adlai Stevenson with 442 electoral votes. Stevenson took his loss with gentlemanly equanimity, but Truman disdained Eisenhower. "The general doesn't know any more about politics than a pig knows about Sunday," was one of his kinder remarks before Election Day. 
 Earlier, Truman had appointed Eisenhower to high military posts and had even flirted with the idea of working to nominate him as a Democratic candidate for president in 1948. But the two had never personally liked each other, and the 1952 campaign extinguished whatever good will there had been. Truman was enraged by Ike's pledge that if elected he would personally go to Korea, a promise Truman considered a shameful use of the bitter war there as a vehicle for self-promotion. And he disliked Eisenhower's acquiescence in the Republican witch hunts aimed at supposed Communist subversives.
Eisenhower, for his part, was incensed by Truman's belligerent attitude toward him. His strategy for dealing with people he detested was to write their names on index cards and file them away under "To Be Ignored." During the transition, he ignored Truman to the point of refusing Truman's invitation for a pre-Christmas White House lunch. On Inauguration Day, when it is customary for the president-elect to greet the outgoing president before the two depart together for the ceremony, Eisenhower refused not only to enter the White House but even to leave his car to greet Truman before they drove off together. "The hatred between the two men that day was like a monsoon," Clark Clifford said.
 The transition in 1981, from Jimmy Carter to Ronald Reagan, was scarcely better. In their race against each other the previous fall, Mr. Reagan had successfully painted President Carter as a spendthrift liberal responsible for sending America into a "depression." When economists criticized Reagan's rhetorical upgrading of what actually was a recession, he began telling audiences: "I'm told I can't use the word depression. Well, I'll tell you a definition. A recession is when your neighbor loses his job; depression is when you lose your job. Recovery is when Jimmy Carter loses his."
Meanwhile, Mr. Carter's advertisements suggested that Mr. Reagan was not to be trusted with access to the nuclear button.
Given the vigorous policy disagreements between the two, there was great apprehension before they met in the Oval Office soon after the election to discuss national security and nuclear policy issues. At the meeting, Mr. Carter grew dismayed that Mr. Reagan listened without comment and did not take notes. The Republican adviser Richard Darman now laughs at the awkwardness of that meeting. "We've both been governors," Mr. Darman remembered Mr. Carter telling Mr. Reagan, sounding like a concerned Sunday School teacher. "But let me tell you, it's different in the White House. The day begins early. A C.I.A. officer briefs you at 7 a.m." At that moment Mr. Reagan smiled and interrupted, "Well, he's sure going to have to wait a long while for me." Mr. Carter just stared, unamused.
Soon after this meeting, there was a stir over Nancy Reagan's "gentle hint," reported to Rosalynn Carter by the United Press International correspondent Helen Thomas, that the Carters move into Blair House a few weeks before Inauguration Day so Mrs. Reagan could redecorate the White House. And the president-elect's son Ronald told reporters he would refuse to shake President Carter's hand because Mr. Carter had "the morals of a snake."
Arthur Schlesinger Jr. once noted that the point of history is to remind us that our own times are not uniquely oppressive. We should be thankful that civility seems to have taken root in Washington now, however temporary it may prove to be. Vice President Gore deserves credit for his good-hearted concession speech on Dec. 12. President-elect Bush picked up the cue and has been behaving graciously, with no gloating. But it's President Clinton who has truly set the proper tone.
Since Election Day, Mr. Clinton has reassured foreign countries about the inherent stability of our government, assiduously stayed out of the partisan fray, and brought appropriate touches of light humor to the Florida recount charade. He has behaved, well, downright presidentially. Critics may mock him for always feeling our pain and feigning atonement, but for the past six weeks he has been a steadying force. As the transition proceeds, we can be grateful that Mr. Clinton, unlike some of his predecessors, seems to be keeping both national unity and good manners in mind.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Angus McWilton)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); CHRISTMAS (71%); ARMED FORCES (51%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BRINKLEY, DOUGLAS BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (73%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000



572 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2000

SECTION: Section W; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: Group of Countries Protests U.S. Change in Dumping Law

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON 

DATELINE: GENEVA, Dec. 21

 BODY:
A group of countries led by Japan and the European Union filed a joint complaint with the World Trade Organization today against a new American law that would award the proceeds of anti-dumping sanctions to the affected industry.
The countries challenged an amendment passed by Congress last month that changes the anti-dumping law barring the sale on American markets of foreign goods at prices below their cost of production. 
 The current law, which has been invoked by the embattled American steel industry against foreign imports, allows the United States government to impose tariffs against such below-the-market products.
The amendment, sponsored by Senator Robert Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia, would divert the tariff revenues from the Treasury and award them to the complaining industry. The amount involved could range from $40 million to $200 million a year, but it is uncertain because heavily taxed imports are less likely to be sold on the American markets, which would drive down any tariff income from them.
However, Japan, which has tangled with the United States over steel imports, and the European Union maintain that the tariff awards amount to giving complaining American industry a subsidy, which is barred by global free trade rules.
The Byrd amendment, championed by the lawmaker to protect his state's steel manufacturers, was attached to a farm spending bill that passed Congress just before the election. President Clinton signed it into law, but urged lawmakers to repeal it.
United States trading partners have complained that the law encourages American companies to make claims of dumping because they would receive a double reward -- less competition from imports and income from increased tariffs.
American trade officials had no immediate comment on the complaint, which will lead to a review by a W.T.O. dispute-resolution panel if agreement is not reached in 60 days.
Of the nine countries signing the complaint, most have been subject to duties on steel. In addition to Japan and the European Union, which have been fined by American trade officials for selling steel at prices lower than production costs, they are Australia, Brazil, Chile, India, Indonesia, Thailand and South Korea.
A few weeks ago, the European Union said it wanted W.T.O. consultations with the United States to negotiate import restrictions on steel wire rod and welded line pipe that the Clinton administration had imposed earlier this year. South Korea had already brought a complaint against the same measure.
Last month, the European Union began the dispute-resolution process over Washington's refusal to lift countervailing duties on European steel makers. Also in November, the W.T.O. panel issued a preliminary ruling against American anti-dumping duties on Korean stainless steel imports. It will issue a decision early next year on American anti-dumping duties imposed on Japanese hot-rolled steel. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (95%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); INDIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); THAILAND (69%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION AMERICAN STEEL FOUNDRIES (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; JAPAN; EUROPE; UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (95%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); INDIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); THAILAND (69%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); DUMPING (TRADE TERM); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); STEEL AND IRON TAXES & TAXATION (91%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); COUNTERVAILING DUTIES (78%); IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); STEEL ROLLING & DRAWING (76%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (66%); 

PERSON: BYRD, ROBERT C (SEN); OLSON, ELIZABETH ROBERT BYRD (87%); BILL CLINTON (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2000



573 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2000

SECTION: Section W; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: New Chief for Canada's Central Bank

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY PRITCHARD 

DATELINE: TORONTO, Dec. 21

 BODY:
David A. Dodge, the newly appointed governor of Canada's central bank, says his mandate "is to keep inflation low and stable," the legacy of his predecessor, Gordon A. Thiessen.
Other priorities may arise, however, because Mr. Dodge faces the uncertainties of slower economic growth after a decade of strong gains. 
 In these circumstances, it may prove advantageous that Mr. Dodge, 57, is moving from a senior job in the federal civil service, where he has been an adviser on fiscal policy, to become governor of the Bank of Canada, which sets monetary policy.
A surprise selection over the senior deputy governor, Malcolm Knight, Mr. Dodge is the first person outside the bank's hierarchy to get the top job in its 66-year history.
In Canada, as in the United States, it is accepted that the central bank should set monetary policy without political interference. Mr. Dodge is known to be independent minded, and most economists say they think he will remain so as governor. But they also say he may have more influence on broader economic policy than his predecessors.
"I am joining a body that has a reputation for independence," Mr. Dodge said at the news conference announcing his appointment on Wednesday. "I think as governor I can continue that." He said he favored the bank's current policy of keeping inflation within a 1 to 3 percent range. He also said that he would continue Mr. Thiessen's efforts to explain the bank's actions to the public -- a significant departure from the style of previous governors, who have ruled in silence.
Mr. Dodge has been a career civil servant and occasional academic for 28 years. As deputy minister of finance from 1992 to 1997, he worked with Finance Minister Paul Martin on the plan to eliminate Canada's budget deficits. That accomplished, he took a sabbatical, teaching at the University of British Columbia, before returning to Ottawa as deputy minister of health in 1998.
Having been inside government, Mr. Dodge is well acquainted with the Liberal government's plans to cut taxes sharply while increasing spending on social programs. That may be possible if the economy continues to expand, even at a more moderate pace. It will not be possible if Canada experiences a slowdown similar to what the United States is experiencing, unless the government goes back into deficit.
At present, Canada's economy is healthy. It grew at a 4.8 percent annual pace in the third quarter, more robust than the 2.2 percent annual rate of growth in the United States that quarter. Canadian inflation is running at only 2.8 percent -- 1.5 percent if energy prices are excluded. The unemployment rate of 6.9 percent is near a 25-year low.
But the economies of Canada and the United States are closely tied. Economic growth and interest rates south of the border are important indicators for Canadian policy makers, and the slowdown in the United States, which accounts for more than 80 percent of Canada's merchandise trade, is a cause for concern.
For the last decade, the Bank of Canada has followed most of the interest rate moves taken by the United States Federal Reserve, although Canadian rates are currently lower. The Bank of Canada rate, which is comparable to the federal funds rate, is currently a half-point lower at 6 percent. The prime lending rate in Canada is two points lower, at 7.5 percent.
Comparatively lower interest rates have weakened the value of the Canadian dollar, which was worth 82 United States cents when Mr. Thiessen began his seven-year term as governor. It has been as low as 63 cents in recent years and is currently trading at 65.67 cents. The low dollar has not seemed to concern the Bank of Canada, or the government, because it has bolstered Canadian exports. But that could change if high-cost imports begin to have more of an impact on inflation.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Dodge, the newly named head of the central bank, and Paul Martin, right, finance minister. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (73%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (58%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF CANADA BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF CANADA

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (73%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (58%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (92%); PUBLIC POLICY (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); TRENDS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); LIBERALISM (70%); POLITICS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (63%); INTEREST RATES (62%); GOVERNORS (58%); 

PERSON: PRITCHARD, TIMOTHY; DODGE, DAVID A; THIESSEN, GORDON; MARTIN, PAUL (MIN) PAUL MARTIN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2000



574 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 32; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 171 words

HEADLINE: Paid Maternity Leave: The Other Gold Standard

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "In a First for Swiss, Women in Geneva Gain Maternity Benefits" (news article, Dec. 17): 
 Paid and job-protected maternity leaves are standard not only for Western Europe but also for much of the world.
These leaves exist in 129 countries, including almost all the countries in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (excluding the United States and Australia) and all the countries in the European Union. The typical paid maternity leave in these countries lasts 16 weeks, and the cash benefits provided during the leave replace 70 to 100 percent of wages.
These leaves are important for the physical health of mothers and babies, the emotional well-being of babies and their parents, and the economic situation of families dependent on parents' earnings.
They are an essential component of any country's child and family policy.
 
SHEILA B. KAMERMAN
New York, Dec. 17, 2000
 
The writer is director of the Institute for Child and Family Policy, Columbia University. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); SWITZERLAND (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); SWITZERLAND (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: FAMILY LEAVES MATERNITY LEAVE (94%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); EUROPEAN UNION (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); 

PERSON: KAMERMAN, SHEILA B GENEVA GAIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2000



575 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

EURO RISE CONTINUES. The euro gained as a report on the United States economy reinforced expectations that the euro zone will outpace American growth. In New York, the euro settled at 91.43 cents, up from 90.83 cents.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the euro to the dollar, since July 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); TRENDS (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2000



576 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 420 words

HEADLINE: Growth Slows To 2.2% Pace, A 4-Year Low

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 21

 BODY:
The United States economy slowed sharply during the summer, to an annual growth rate of 2.2 percent, the weakest performance in four years, the Commerce Department reported today.
The report provided further evidence that boom times are over, and it sent economists scurrying to lower their economic forecasts for the coming months. 
 The department said the third-quarter increase in the gross domestic product -- the total output of goods and services -- was even weaker than previously thought, as the trade deficit deteriorated further. A month ago, third-quarter output was estimated to have risen 2.4 percent.
The performance in the July-September period represented a striking slowdown from a growth rate of 5.6 percent the previous quarter, April through June, and the weakest showing since a 2 percent increase in the third quarter of 1996.
The falloff in economic growth during the summer and mounting evidence of more recent weakness, including disappointing Christmas sales, have increased worries that a slowing economy might be in danger of toppling into recession.
In another report indicating weakness, the Labor Department said the number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits rose by a sharp 34,000 last week, to 354,000. That pushed the four-week moving average for claims to the highest level since July 1998.
The Commerce Department's report suggested that the slowdown was having the Federal Reserve's desired effect on inflationary pressures. An index tied to the G.D.P. rose at a rate of 1.6 percent in the third quarter, down from an estimate a month ago of 1.9 percent. That G.D.P. price gauge had risen at rates of 2.4 percent in the spring and 3.3 percent in the first quarter.
From June 1999 to May of this year, the Fed increased interest rates six times, seeking to pre-empt inflation. But recent economic statistics indicate that the central bank may have overdone its credit-tightening.
Those concerns prompted the Fed to switch its policy directive this week away from inflation worries to a concern about economic weakness -- a turnabout that signaled to economists that the Fed might begin cutting interest rates at its next meeting on Jan. 30-31.
Revised figures for the third quarter showed a larger trade deficit than previously estimated, reflecting weaker export sales.
The government also said that consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds of total economic activity, rose at an annual rate of 4.5 percent in the third quarter.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Real Economic Growth"
Chart shows annual rate of change in the value of the gross domestic product based on quarterly figures adjusted for seasonality and inflation since 1996.
 
(Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; LABOR ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INFLATION (89%); STATISTICS (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RECESSION (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); CHRISTMAS (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2000



577 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 278 words

HEADLINE: Fed Rejected a Shift in Stance Last Month

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 21

 BODY:
Federal Reserve policy makers debated in November whether the economy had slowed so much that they should announce that the risk of accelerating inflation no longer was greater than the risk of weaker growth, minutes of their meeting showed.
In the end, they decided price pressures were still evident and unanimously retained their statement from previous meetings that inflation was the bigger threat. They also unanimously approved leaving the overnight bank lending rate unchanged at 6.5 percent, minutes from the Federal Open Market Committee meeting on Nov. 15 showed. 
 "The members agreed that a stronger case could be made for a shift to a balanced risk statement than at the previous meeting," the minutes said. "Even so, they were unanimous in concluding that such a change would be premature at this time." Some members said measures of inflation excluding energy and food costs were still rising, and others said the economy "had slowed more quickly" than they expected.
"While the members could see an increased risk of a marked slowing of growth relative to the rapid rate of expansion of the economy's potential, the degree to which growth in demand might remain sufficiently damped to contain and offset those inflation pressures was quite uncertain," the minutes said.
Panel members also were concerned that an unexpected shift in their public statement of risks "might induce an undesirable softening in overall financial market conditions."
By their latest meeting on Tuesday, the economy had cooled enough that policy makers warned the slowdown posed a risk of further "economic weakness" that was greater than the inflation threat. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (79%); MONETARY POLICY (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2000



578 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 263 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Drop Sharply in Japan

BYLINE: By MIKI TANIKAWA 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Dec. 21

 BODY:
Japan's stock market fell sharply today as the benchmark Nikkei index dropped to its lowest level in nearly two years, deepening fears that Japan's feeble economic recovery might be losing ground.
Analysts said weakness in the United States market, particularly the Nasdaq index, contributed to the fall, but underlying the downturn were broader concerns about local economic conditions like weak consumption and the fear that resurgent corporate earnings may lose steam. 
 Particularly hard hit were leading technology companies like Softbank, down 7.8 percent; NTT DoCoMo, down 6.7 percent; and Sony, which lost 4 percent. The Nikkei fell 491 points to close at 13,423.
"To put it in a word, the market has awakened from an illusion," said Ryoji Musha, strategist at Deutsche Securities in Tokyo.
"People had thought the information technology revolution will save the economy," he said. Demand for personal computers, cellular phones and home electronics products expanded rapidly, he noted, pushing up technology stocks and fueling corporate investment in information equipment.
Japanese banks altogether hold 150 trillion yen of stocks and bonds, five times the value of their shareholder capital. A number of other factors also are making investors cautious.
They include the possibility of a global economic slowdown, particularly in the United States; a survey by the Bank of Japan released last week that showed a decline in business confidence among manufacturers of electronic goods; and the persistent deflation that is driving down prices in Japan. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NDCM (LSE) (91%); DCM (NYSE) (91%); 9437 (TSE) (91%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (91%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); 

COMPANY: NTT DOCOMO INC (91%); BANK OF JAPAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; NIKKEI STOCK AVERAGE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS STOCK INDEXES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); DEFLATION (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (75%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (53%); 

PERSON: TANIKAWA, MIKI

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2000



579 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: Pentagon Will Stop Importing Burmese Clothes for 1,400 PX's

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
The Pentagon announced yesterday that a Defense Department agency that runs 1,400 stores at military installations will stop importing clothing from Myanmar.
Pentagon officials announced this policy change after it was reported that the agency, the Army and Air Force Exchange Service, had imported $138,290 in clothing from Myanmar despite a ban by the Clinton administration on investing in that country. 
 "They have ceased to do business with Burma," a spokesman for the Pentagon, Maj. Tim Blair, said, using Myanmar's former name.
In 1997, President Clinton barred all new investment in Myanmar in the hope that such economic sanctions would weaken the junta in Yangon and help bring democracy. United States law does not prohibit imports from Myanmar, although Washington has frequently urged companies not to do business with the country.
Human rights groups, labor rights organizations and several members of Congress praised the Pentagon decision to halt the imports, saying it is important that the Defense Department procurement policies not be seen as helping prop up the Myanmar dictatorship.
"This is a clear victory for democracy," said Charles Kernaghan, executive director of the National Labor Committee, a group in New York that seeks to pressure overseas factories to upgrade working conditions. "We're all very pleased that the U.S. military did not delay in in doing the right thing, in dropping its purchases from Burma."
In 1988, Myanmar's military refused to recognize the election victory by the opposition party and its leader, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, a Nobel Prize winner who has been under house arrest for six of the last 11 years. Two weeks ago, Mr. Clinton awarded her the highest civilian honor of the United States, the Medal of Freedom.
The information about the clothing, first reported in The New York Times, caught the administration off guard, causing one foreign policy official to say, "One hand of the administration did not know what the other hand was doing." That official said the purchases violated the spirit of the sanctions.
This week, 14 members of Congress sent a letter to the General Accounting Office, urging it to investigate the purchasing practices of the Army and Air Force Exchange Service and the conditions in the overseas factories it uses. With $7.3 billion in revenues last year, the exchange service, a nonprofit arm of the Pentagon, is one of the nation's largest retailers.
A spokesman for the service, Fred Bluhm, did not return calls yesterday. On Monday, he defended the purchases from Myanmar, saying new investments there are banned, but not imports from the country.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MYANMAR (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: YANGON, MYANMAR (55%); 

COMPANY: ARMY AND AIR FORCE EXCHANGE SERVICE DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (64%); ARMY&AIR FORCE EXCHANGE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARMY AND AIR FORCE EXCHANGE SERVICE DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (64%); ARMY&AIR FORCE EXCHANGE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MYANMAR; MYANMAR (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); YANGON, MYANMAR (55%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARMIES (90%); IMPORT CONTROLS (89%); AIR FORCES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MILITARY BASES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); POLITICS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); AWARDS & PRIZES (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (69%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (67%); ACCOUNTING (61%); HOUSE ARREST (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN BILL CLINTON (79%); AUNG SAN SUU KYI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2000



580 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 33; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Double Duty

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
There was a letter to the editor the other day about a column I wrote on Colin Powell, scolding me for suggesting that Mr. Powell needs to have a concept for how he will approach things like the Clinton team's 1995 bailout of Mexico. The letter writer argued that economics will be the Treasury secretary's responsibility, not the secretary of state's.
I beg to differ. In fact, I predict it won't be long before Mr. Powell hangs a sign above his office door that reads: "It's the economy, stupid." 
 The key Clinton economic players understood, correctly, that America's national interest had been redefined in the past decade. It is now what I would call "sustainable globalization." After all, it is America's political ideals (the primacy of democracy) and economic ideals (the primacy of free markets), as well as America's technologies, styles, products, values, cultural norms, fast foods (good and bad) and Hollywood movies (good and bad) that are most being globalized today. Moreover, globalization has contributed to world economic growth and stability. Millions of Chinese, Brazilians, Mexicans and Indians, to name but a few, have been able to grow out of poverty by adopting market-oriented systems.
That's why our overriding national interest today is "sustainable globalization" -- sustaining this system from which America has benefited enormously and which has undergirded our political and economic interests around the world. How do we sustain it? One way is by providing the security for all this global integration to continue -- beating back the bad guys in Serbia, Iraq and North Korea. Another way is with generous economic assistance programs, and support for the global development banks, to help others build the institutions they need to be successful at globalization and to cushion its negative social and ecological side effects. Still another way you sustain it is by supporting reasonable bailouts of key countries if they collapse in crisis, such as Mexico, Korea, Thailand and Argentina.
But the most important way to sustain this system is to keep the American economy healthy. With Japan faltering and with Europe growing slowly, America has been the buyer of last resort for much of the world. It is America's appetite for imports that has enabled countries like Brazil, Mexico, Thailand, South Korea and China to export their way into the globalization system, and to recover quickly from economic crises.
But today's American-led globalization system has never been stress-tested. The real stress test comes when, and if, America goes into recession. If that happens, America will be telling people to get with the program and downsize, streamline, marketize and democratize -- but we can't buy your stuff anymore. That would be Colin Powell's nightmare. Not only will the global trend toward democratization and regional integration be stalled if the U.S. engine of global growth stalls, but you could see some serious, serious instability, both within and between countries, from Latin America to Asia to the Middle East.
So U.S. economic health is integral to U.S. foreign policy. What Bush team players say now is that when it comes to helping a country like Turkey, whose economy is teetering, they would be sympathetic -- because Turkey is a member of NATO. But when it comes to bailouts in general, key Bushies opposed Mexico and would be inclined to oppose others.
So what you have in the Bush team, notes the global analyst Richard Medley, are players who support aiding a country like Turkey for classic cold-war, geopolitical reasons, and players who oppose any economic bailouts of any countries for classic ideological reasons.
"But a lot of countries fall in between those two," notes Mr. Medley. "And what you don't see in the Bush team, as it's now shaping up, is anyone who argues that sustaining the system of globalization as a whole is now our overriding national interest. And to sustain the system, you can't just help NATO members or leave the market alone to sort it all out."
If President-elect Bush feels that our national interest is something other than sustainable globalization, it is important he articulate it. If he agrees that it is our overriding interest today, he needs a team that is willing to act accordingly. But whatever he decides will have a huge impact on Colin Powell's day job. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); BRAZIL (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SERBIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); IRAQ (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); THAILAND (67%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); BRAZIL (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SERBIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); IRAQ (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); THAILAND (67%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS GLOBALIZATION (91%); BAILOUTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (70%); EXPORT TRADE (66%); FILM (52%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (51%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2000



581 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: The Fed's Challenge: How to Cope With a Burst Bubble

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
ALAN GREENSPAN thought it might be a new era.
History, the Federal Reserve chairman said in January, may conclude that "at the turn of the millennium, the American economy was experiencing a once-in-a-century acceleration of innovation, which propelled forward productivity, output, corporate profits and stock prices at a pace not seen in generations, if ever." 
 Or, Mr. Greenspan said, history may conclude "that a good deal of what we are currently experiencing was just one of the many euphoric speculative bubbles that have dotted human history."
The stock market's verdict is in. It was a bubble.
Given the wild volatility of the stock market, one can hope that verdict will change. But if it does not, the Federal Reserve and corporate America will have to cope with a radically different world than the one visible a year ago -- and one whose changes they have not yet fully grasped.
A sign of those difficulties came this week from Microsoft. It plans to cut costs and raise salaries.
Raises are needed because real pay is down a lot at Microsoft and a host of other technology companies. The money used to be in stock options, but now more than half the outstanding options at Microsoft are underwater. "Reality has set in, here and industrywide," wrote Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft's president, as he announced the changes. "The world is not full of get-rich-quick opportunities."
Unfortunately, the fictional accounting permitted by generally accepted accounting principles did not treat all those options as compensation. So investors will see Microsoft's labor costs going up while workers know their income has fallen sharply.
Microsoft can afford to pay more cash. Many companies cannot, and the need to do so will squeeze already tight budgets. "Investment spending will shrink significantly next year," said Robert Barbera, the chief economist of Hoenig & Company. The biggest victim will be the biggest beneficiary on the upside -- the high-technology sector. The productivity figures that seemed so impressive will decline along with that sector's fortunes.
Consumer spending, already weakening, will fall as the wealth effect shifts into reverse. "Big cycles are self-reinforcing on both the upside and the downside," said Ray Dalio of Bridgewater Associates, a money management firm. "We expect falling stock prices to cause weaker economic and profit growth, which will weaken stock prices as earnings chronically disappoint, causing credit spreads to widen, which will constrict lending activity, which will hurt spending and lower investment rates."
That scary sequence is not widely accepted now, in part because it appeals most to those -- like Mr. Barbera and Mr. Dalio -- who thought there was a bubble before it burst. The Fed's statement this week, in which it noted signs of a sharp slowing in economic activity, "is an intelligent list of the symptoms the U.S. is suffering," Mr. Barbera said. But to treat it, "they need to make a diagnosis."
To deal with it, the Fed needs to cut interest rates substantially -- starting before the economic statistics confirm the weakness that is being telegraphed by the stock market. Tax cuts can also help, but it should be understood that the projections of huge budget surpluses were based in part on government revenues inflated by taxes on bubble-related income, particularly from stock options.
Post-bubble eras are not fun. But this one will be less painful if the Fed acts quickly.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart shows Microsoft's stock prices since 1998. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; MICROSOFT CORP MICROSOFT CORP (90%); HOENIG & CO INC (64%); HOENIG & CO LTD (64%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; MICROSOFT CORP FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; WAGES AND SALARIES US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (72%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%); ACCOUNTING (64%); INTEREST RATES (60%); TAXES & TAXATION (59%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); STEVEN A BALLMER (58%); RAY DALIO (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2000



582 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1515 words

HEADLINE: One More Time for Cendant;
Despite Sagging Shares, an Executive Plans to Rebuild

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON 

 BODY:
Can Henry R. Silverman do it all over again?
At a meeting last month with analysts and investors, Mr. Silverman, chairman and chief executive of the Cendant Corporation, talked about the "new" Cendant. The company, he told the assembled crowd, was actively going to pursue acquisitions to fuel growth. Its primary focus would be on building its travel and real estate businesses in brands like Ramada, Days Inn, Century 21 and Avis. 
 Basically, Mr. Silverman was talking about using the same strategy that had been such a success at the old HFS Inc., the company he built into a franchising powerhouse in the 1990's. A skilled deal maker, he had used HFS's rising stock price to make a dazzling array of acquisitions and amass some $13 billion in market value.
But HFS's disastrous merger with CUC International, a direct marketing company, to form Cendant in late 1997 erased much of that success. Just a few months after the deal closed, the discovery of what proved to be a huge earnings fraud at CUC sent the company into a tailspin. It has yet to recover.
Mr. Silverman may find the climb more difficult this time. At HFS, he benefited from a robust economy and a strong stock price. He now faces a slowing economy and a stock market that seems immune to his charms.
Although Cendant's stock rallied a bit in 1999, it has dropped about two-thirds so far this year and is now mired not too far off its 1998 lows, closing yesterday at $8.94.
To revive Cendant, Mr. Silverman said he planned once again to buy businesses where he can cut costs and increase revenues to generate the kind of earnings growth that investors reward with high stock prices.
"The good news is that the management who did that is still here," Mr. Silverman said in a recent interview at the company's headquarters in Midtown Manhattan. "I don't think we all grew stupid overnight."
Over the last few months, Mr. Silverman, 60, has started trying to prove that he has not lost the golden touch. Cendant announced several acquisitions, most of which are relatively small businesses that fit neatly into the company's existing portfolio. It added the AmeriHost brands to its hotel franchise operations, for example, and will buy Fairfield Communities, a time-share business.
In its largest acquisition, the company agreed to pay $935 million in equity for Avis Group Holdings, the rental-car business HFS spun off in 1997, keeping an ownership stake. Earlier this week, it said it would pick up virtually all of Merrill Lynch's mortgage business in a deal in which it will provide mortgages to Merrill customers as it does to customers of other financial services companies, like U.S. Bancorp.
"Henry Silverman is back," said Henry D. Cavanna, a portfolio manager with J. P. Morgan, which owns a fair number of Cendant shares. "While it may not be the same Henry Silverman with the same bravado as before, he seems to be good at making acquisitions."
Cendant is "very much in a show-me situation," he added, and needs to deliver several quarters of improved performance before investors are convinced.
Using a combination of smart acquisitions and the profits generated by the businesses Cendant already owns, Mr. Silverman predicted that he could deliver double-digit earnings growth beginning in 2002 that should eventually lift the stock. Cendant's shares trade at less than a quarter of the multiple investors award General Electric, although the companies expect to increase profits at about the same rate.
"We have one last shot at credibility," Mr. Silverman said. "If we don't execute this time, they will say, 'They really are bozos.' And they will have good reason."
The last three years have proved to be an extraordinarily ugly distraction. The combination with CUC to use its direct-marketing prowess to sell all of HFS's various services was supposed to be Mr. Silverman's crowning achievement, the deal that would eventually enable him to step down as chief executive on top of the world. He has instead spent much of his time trying to contain the damage done by the fraud.
After discovering "accounting irregularities" at CUC in April 1998, Cendant cooperated extensively with regulators to uncover the extent of the fraud -- some $500 million of false profits over three years -- in a scheme that took place for more than a decade. Three former CUC executives pleaded guilty in June to inflating CUC's earnings, and investigations by federal regulators continue. The company negotiated a $2.8 billion settlement with shareholders about a year ago.
Unable to do much while shareholder lawsuits were pending, Mr. Silverman retrenched. The company shed about $4.5 billion in assets, including the bulk of the businesses inherited from CUC. In an attempt to shore up its balance sheet and lift its stock, Cendant also bought back more than $3 billion worth of its shares.
While Cendant must still use money it would otherwise use to make acquisitions or invest in its own businesses to pay shareholders, it is now in a position to move forward, Mr. Silverman said. The impact on earnings should ease significantly in 2002. "The real cost is the opportunity cost," he said.
But despite Mr. Silverman's pointed belief that he was as much a victim as any of Cendant's shareholders, many investors blame Mr. Silverman for what happened. The company's decision to reprice Cendant options as a way of retaining people during the crisis has also been sharply criticized.
"The reality is that this is a company a lot of people -- unjustly in our opinion -- don't trust," said Henry A. Diamond, an analyst with Credit Suisse First Boston. Like most of his Wall Street colleagues, he has been recommending the purchase of Cendant. "It's like a wound that hasn't healed."
Mr. Silverman now acknowledges that the repricing of his own options was a mistake. But he is clearly impatient that some investors continue to shun his stock. "You can come up with a dozen excuses to own a stock or not own a stock," he noted.
Making acquisitions now represents a chance at a turnaround and is critical for morale. While Cendant has been able to retain nearly all the senior managers from HFS, their frustration about the events of the last few years is palpable. Making acquisitions, even small ones, is a relief.
"Within the travel division, there's a sense of renewal and energy because we're on the acquisition trail," said Stephen P. Holmes, a Cendant vice chairman who oversees the travel division. "Growing is exciting; shrinking is not."
Even Mr. Silverman, on whom all this has clearly also taken a toll, is most engaged when discussing the possible return to the days of doing deals and then using a rising stock price to do even more. He wants to return to "that virtuous circle," he said.
What stands in his way, now that the threat of litigation is largely over, is a changed environment. Some investors are wary of investing in a service company that could be hurt in an economic downturn. Mr. Silverman insisted that Cendant is "recession resistant," largely because its franchise business is immune to such cycles and because of the variety of businesses Cendant operates in. He also said Cendant would be able to increase its share of its markets even if the economy shrinks. "We will be O.K. in a recession," he said. "We will not grow as quickly, but we will still grow."
Still, Cendant's lackluster stock presents something of a Catch-22: without a strong currency in the first place, it is difficult to do very many deals, said Thomas Graves, an equity analyst at Standard & Poor's. Even November's meeting with investors, at which Mr. Silverman outlined his plans, has had little impact, with the shares still drifting downward.
Mr. Silverman acknowledged the quandary Cendant faces. "Unless we get the stock up," he said, "we will not be able to do a lot more than what we have identified unless we sell." If the stock does not recover, he explained, he will do just that: sell off some Cendant businesses that are not as closely related to its main operations to generate cash for acquisitions. The company would continue to make transactions, he said, shuffling its portfolio.
At least one major investor is willing to give Mr. Silverman a second chance. After making a $400 million investment in Cendant last December, Liberty Media increased its holdings to about 6 percent of Cendant's common stock last month, even after the stock price had fallen.
Mr. Silverman "had been terribly punished by the equity markets for CUC," said John C. Malone, chairman of Liberty Media, who also sits on Cendant's board. 
"It was a huge setback," he said. "I don't think it should be allowed to stop what was a masterly demonstration of skill."
Mr. Malone, for one, said Mr. Silverman may benefit from not being able to return to the glory days of HFS. "The best companies are built by their bootstraps, with limited resources, a limited ability to buy anything they want," he said. "You need to build it a brick at a time."
Mr. Silverman may have to do just that.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "Out of the Ashes"
HFS Inc. and CUC International merged in late 1997 to become Cendant. Henry R. Silverman has been struggling since.
 
APRIL '98
Cendant uncovers accounting irregularitiesat CUC International.
 
JULY '98
Walter A. Forbes, founder of CUC, leaves post as chairman. Cendant revamps its board.
 
SEPT. '98
Cendant says it will sell certain businesses to buy back shares.
 
JUNE '99
The company decides to spend as much as $1.1 billion to buy back stock.
 
DEC. '99
Cendant settles shareholder suits for $2.8 billion; receives $400 million investment from Liberty Media.
 
JUNE '00
S.E.C. brings charges against seven former employees of CUC; three admit to inflating profits.
 
AUG.-DEC. '00
Cendant starts buying again, acquiring Fairfield Communities, a timeshare business; Avis car rental; most of Merrill Lynch's mortgage business; and franchising rights to AmeriHost Inn.
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CAR (NASDAQ) (94%); USB (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (94%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (94%); NAICS532120 TRUCK, UTILITY TRAILER & RV (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE) RENTAL & LEASING (94%); SIC7519 UTILITY TRAILERS & RECREATIONAL VEHICLE RENTAL (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (51%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENDANT CORP AVIS BUDGET GROUP INC (94%); U S BANCORP (60%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); ARLINGTON HOSPITALITY INC (51%); AVIS GROUP HOLDINGS INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENDANT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; FINANCES EXECUTIVES (90%); FRANCHISING (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); MERGERS (77%); HOTEL CHAINS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); FRANCHISORS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); DIRECT MARKETING (73%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING (69%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%); 

PERSON: ABELSON, REED; SILVERMAN, HENRY R HENRY R SILVERMAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2000



583 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Sharp Production Cutbacks Are Announced by Ford

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Dec. 21

 BODY:
Joining its crosstown rivals in responding to a rapid deterioration in the auto market, the Ford Motor Company announced sharp production cutbacks today -- including the closing of 13 of its 18 North American factories during the third week of January -- and lowered its forecast of fourth-quarter earnings for the second time in three weeks.
The General Motors Corporation said separately today that 6 of its 25 North American assembly plants would be closed in the first week of January. Together with recent cutbacks in output at DaimlerChrysler, the moves by Ford and G.M. were the clearest signs yet that the auto industry, still the mainstay of the economy in the Great Lakes states, has slowed precipitously after nearly seven years of very strong sales. 
 Ford said its earnings would probably come in 10 cents short of analysts' expectations of 74 cents a share in the fourth quarter. On Dec. 1, Ford had also encouraged analysts to cut their forecasts by 10 cents. Today's additional warning was necessary, the company said, because production has been hurt this month by bad weather in North America and parts shortages overseas.
George Pipas, a Ford market analyst, said that the production cutbacks in the first quarter reflected a response to a drop in consumer demand, combined with a corporate decision not to keep sales high by offering ever larger rebates and other discounts. "This is a bold move," he said, "because our assessment of consumer demand in the next few months -- and it's harder to see farther than that -- is lower than what we previously thought."
Earlier this month, Ford had predicted that it would build 1,157,000 cars and light trucks in the first quarter, already a slower pace than in the first quarter of this year, when it made 1,270,000. But today, the company reduced its forecast to 1,050,000, down 17 percent from the total in the first quarter of this year.
Although automakers release monthly figures for sales by their dealerships, the automakers book sales for quarterly earnings purposes when they ship vehicles to dealerships. So their earnings are sometimes susceptible to weather-related production reductions of the sort that Ford blamed today in posting a second warning about earnings.
Ford announced today that the same factory, which builds Ford Expeditions and Lincoln Navigators, would be closed in the second week of January, a sign that even big sport utilities, one of the auto market's strongest segments since the early 1990's, is slowing. Ford will close one factory the first week of January and three in the second and fourth weeks, in addition to closing the 13 factories in the third week. The factory closings will furlough 2,200 workers in the first week, 5,000 in the second week, 33,600 in the third week and 4,600 in the fourth week, Mr. Pipas said. Under the Big Three's contracts with the United Automobile Workers union, workers continue to receive 95 percent of their pay excluding overtime when a factory is closed, with Ford topping up payments that the workers receive from state unemployment programs.
Lower profits for automakers will also translate into much smaller profit-sharing for workers, which could hurt sales of houses and even new cars. G.M. said last week that it would take a fourth-quarter charge of $1.5 billion to $2.5 billion for various projects, including shuttering its ailing Oldsmobile division and reducing its white collar work force by 10 percent. DaimlerChrysler warned on Monday that its once highflying Chrysler unit was expected to post a $1.2 billion loss in the fourth quarter.
Chrysler workers received $8,000 profit-sharing checks a year ago. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); GREAT LAKES (71%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS; FORD MOTOR CO; GENERAL MOTORS CORP FORD MOTOR CO (96%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS; FORD MOTOR CO; GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); GREAT LAKES (71%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; PRODUCTION; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); FINANCES LAYOFFS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); NEW CAR DEALERS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); PLANT CLOSINGS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); PROFIT WARNINGS (77%); WEATHER (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2000



584 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 32; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 389 words

HEADLINE: Global Money Launderers

 BODY:
America's security is threatened by the spread of international crime cartels -- a dark side of globalization. A valuable new White House report documents how the collapse of the Soviet Union, the lowering of trade barriers and advances in telecommunications have increased the reach of crime syndicates, from Russia and Eastern Europe to Asia, Latin America and the diamond-rich war zones of Africa. The Clinton administration has led an international campaign to crack down on an essential component of the problem, money laundering. But American banks are themselves among the world's leading conduits for laundered funds. Unless America's own laundering laws are strengthened, international efforts to curtail the flow of dirty cash will have limited impact.
In the wake of the Asian and Russian financial crises and last year's Bank of New York scandal, in which Russian oligarchs moved billions through accounts at the bank, the Group of 8 industrialized countries started a campaign to "name and shame" countries that were lax about laundering. The list included familiar targets like Panama and offshore havens in the Caribbean and the Pacific. It also included Israel, where banks have been suspected of laundering huge sums looted from Russia by Russian mobsters. The effort has had results. Seven of the listed countries, including Israel, have enacted laws to criminalize money laundering and allow closer scrutiny of suspect bank accounts. 
 But America's own house is hardly in order. A recent General Accounting Office report found it "relatively easy" for foreigners to launder money through American banks. Such laundering is defined as a crime if the money comes from drug trafficking, terrorism or bank fraud. But profits from prostitution, extortion, smuggled immigrants and arms trafficking can still be laundered through an American bank with no consequence to either the bank or the depositor. Corrupt dictators and their business partners can still legally deposit their loot in American financial institutions.
Efforts by the Clinton administration to toughen money-laundering legislation died in Congress earlier this year. The Bush administration and Congress will need to plug the loopholes in America's own money-laundering statutes if there is to be real progress in combating global crime. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (57%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (56%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (56%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (54%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (56%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (56%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (54%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; EDITORIALS; ORGANIZED CRIME MONEY LAUNDERING (94%); ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CORRUPTION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); EXTORTION (78%); CARTELS (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); SCANDALS (74%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); ACCOUNTING (64%); TERRORISM (63%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (63%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (63%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (84%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2000



585 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY;
Great Plains Software Purchased by Microsoft

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: REDMOND, Wash., Dec. 21

 BODY:
The Microsoft Corporation agreed today to buy Great Plains Software Inc. for $1.1 billion in stock in a deal that seeks to improve Microsoft's line of products for small and medium-size companies.
Microsoft said it would swap 1.1 of its shares for each share of Great Plains, a pioneer in computer-based accounting that is based in Fargo, N.D. That values Great Plains at $45.65 a share, or 29 percent more than Tuesday's close. Great Plains shares jumped to $48 at midafternoon today, but closed at $46.56. Microsoft rose $1.94, to $44.88. 
 Microsoft is pushing to sell more software and Web services to the 25 million small businesses that account for about half of the gross domestic product. It also is seeking new products and services to offer on its forthcoming .Net platform, which is akin to a new computer operating system based on the Internet.
"Great Plains has a depth of expertise in business-process applications and services which Microsoft doesn't have," said Jeff Raikes, who leads Microsoft's Productivity and Business Services Group.
The acquisition is expected to close in the first half of 2001.
Great Plains, with about 2,000 employees, will become the Great Plains division of Microsoft. It will continue to develop, market and support business-management software. Later, it will provide new products to complement Microsoft's Web service for small companies.
Great Plains aims it products at about 2 million businesses with $1 million to $500 million in annual revenue, said the company's chief financial officer, Tami Reller.
It was founded in 1981 and first sold shares to the public in 1997. It had fiscal second-quarter revenue of $75.5 million, up 59 percent from $47.4 million a year earlier. Sales for the fiscal year ended May 31 were $194.9 million.
The company's products are focused on accounting, record-keeping and similar business software.
The Great Plains chairman, Doug Burgum, and two relatives together own about 23 percent of the company. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (72%); 

CITY: FARGO, ND, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP; GREAT PLAINS SOFTWARE INC MICROSOFT CORP (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP; GREAT PLAINS SOFTWARE INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (72%); FARGO, ND, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; COMPUTER SOFTWARE SMALL BUSINESS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (78%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2000



586 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2000

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 4; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: SPORTS BUSINESS;
New Arena Plan Shifts Risk, But Still Doesn't Eliminate It

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR 

 BODY:
The YankeeNets are seeking to advance stalled negotiations aimed at financing a $325 million arena in downtown Newark by offering a revamped plan that they hope will be palatable to government officials and taxpayers.
The YankeeNets have been trying to persuade Gov. Christie Whitman of New Jersey to increase a $75 million commitment for infrastructure needs for the arena, which would house the Nets and Devils. 
 The state recently proposed adding $25 million more from the Department of Transportation, and the two sides have also discussed using local taxes that could pay off $100 million more in state-backed bonds.
Now, the YankeeNets are seeking an alternative: first, take the $100 million in hard money from the state off the table.
Second, use 80 percent of the state and local taxes generated by arena activity to pay off bonds that would be issued by the state and Essex County, but would be guaranteed by the arena and the teams.
"The newest thing is taking away the hard money and the risk," said Marc Ganis, a consultant to Newark Sports and Entertainment, which is developing the arena. "We think that this is politically acceptable."
Ganis said the YankeeNets are willing to assume the risk of estimating the amount of taxes generated by arena activity and reach into their pockets to pay off the bonds if revenues fall short. One form of revenues that can be estimated and used for bond repayment is the $4.5 million a year in what are called payments in lieu of taxes, which are to be paid by the arena's developer.
"The big risk for us is being able to issue the bonds without a governmental guarantee and having people buy them," Ganis said. "We'd have to persuade the investment community that the collateral is good."
The plan described by Ganis is called "tax increment financing," or T.I.F., and would have to be approved by the state legislature.
This form of financing rankles officials at the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority because it would mean that financing for the Newark building would be based in part on tax revenues paid at Nets and Devils games. The sports authority runs the Meadowlands Sports Complex, which includes Continental Arena.
Essentially, a T.I.F. isn't new revenue, but money shifted from one area to another. "Speaking as a former state treasurer," said James DiEleuterio, the president of the sports authority, "the concept of a T.I.F. has always been resisted in New Jersey by treasury folks," in part because actual tax revenues don't always meet the bond payments.
He declined to comment on his position if the state were relieved of guaranteeing payment of the bonds.
Ganis said the authority's concerns that the economic activity created by the Nets (whose lease expires in 2008 but contains escape clauses) and the Devils (whose lease expires in 2007) would go to Newark is based on their staying beyond their current leases. "They've said they won't play at the Meadowlands forever -- or for a few more years," Ganis said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY NETS; YANKEENETS; NEW JERSEY DEVILS NEWARK SPORTS (62%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (83%); NEW JERSEY NETS (83%); NEW JERSEY NETS (83%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS; YANKEENETS; NEW JERSEY DEVILS NEW JERSEY DEVILS (83%); NEW JERSEY NETS (83%); NEW JERSEY NETS (83%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK (NJ); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; STADIUMS AND ARENAS; HOCKEY, ICE SPORTS (90%); SPORTS BUSINESS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BONDS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); TAX LAW (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (72%); BASKETBALL (72%); WINTER SPORTS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); APPROVALS (72%); 

PERSON: SANDOMIR, RICHARD MARC GANIS (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2000



587 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: The Big City;
Gabby Drivers Have Nothing On Regulators

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY 

 BODY:
JUST in time for holiday travel, the city's leaders have contemplated a question for drivers with cell phones: When you reach out and touch someone, is your car going to reach out and smash someone else?
The answer is too often yes, say the politicians competing to restrict the use of hand-held phones. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and City Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone this week demonstrated the earpieces and headsets required by the bill they are supporting. Another bill before the Council would restrict calls even from those hands-free phones. 
 When a New York politician announces a plan to protect citizens from themselves, you can usually assume that most citizens will be the worse for it. In this instance, though, there might be a case to be made for regulation. But it's probably not the one that politicians are making.
The city's politicians, like the cell-phone prohibitionists in Suffolk and Rockland Counties who have already voted for restrictions, point to statistics showing that drivers who talk on cell phones are more likely to be in accidents. One much-quoted study in Canada found that talking and driving quadrupled your risk of being in a minor accident (one without injuries). The risk of serious accidents may not be so high, but researchers don't doubt there is some risk.
Whatever the toll may be, politicians operate on the principle that one death is one too many if they can get on the evening newscasts by promising to prevent it. The remedy becomes irresistible if it costs them nothing (no money out of their budgets, no interference with their phone calls from the back seats of chauffeured cars) and might even yield financial benefits (like campaign contributions from headset manufacturers).
But the cost-benefit analysis looks quite different to Robert W. Hahn, the director of the American Enterprise Institute-Brookings Joint Center for Regulatory Studies. He and two other economists at the center have published a paper in the journal Regulation examining proposals like the ones before the City Council.
By looking at spending on cell phones, and at research showing that 60 percent of all cell phone calls are made while driving, the economists calculate that American drivers put a value of $25 billion annually on the calls from their cars. That's about five times the social costs of the accidents involving cell phones, according to the economists' calculations.
Putting a dollar value on injuries and deaths appalls many people, but the figure is based on what Americans say they are willing to spend for extra safety measures. And the figure reflects the economists' calculations that a total ban on cell phones would reduce the number of accidents by less than 1 percent.
Even the more modest ban on just hand-held phones flunks the economists' test. They estimate that the costs of the headsets and other hands-free equipment would still slightly exceed the value of the extra safety. And it's still an open question, they say, whether these devices actually do as much good as their promoters say.
 WE simply don't know very much about the effectiveness of hands-free devices in preventing traffic accidents," Dr. Hahn said. "They show some promise, but we don't yet know enough to mandate them." By rushing to regulate, Dr. Hahn said, politicians could end up increasing other risks on the road.
Fewer cell phones in cars, for instance, could mean longer delays in summoning lifesaving equipment to accident scenes. If drivers are unable to use cell phones to call for directions, they might resort to reading maps and sending e-mail while driving 60 miles per hour. Or, if many drivers buy headsets and find them easy to use, they might spend much more time on the phone than they do now, perhaps becoming even more accident-prone.
"It's premature to regulate drivers' cell phones," Dr. Hahn said. "If there really is a serious problem, drivers and phone manufacturers and insurance companies will be looking for solutions. Mandating a solution now may forestall a better one in the future. The best course for the government now is to monitor the problem until we understand this technology better."
That may be the best advice for promoting the common good, but there's a selfish counter-argument that can be made for regulations in just New York City. Since many of us city residents don't drive cars, the costs of the ban wouldn't be borne directly by us. We nondrivers would instead reap the benefits: a slightly lower chance of being run over by a sports utility vehicle driven by a yapping suburbanite. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (53%); CITY COUNCIL (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (75%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (91%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); MAYORS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); BUDGETS (69%); STATISTICS (67%); 

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN RUDY GIULIANI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2000



588 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: Ontario Journal;
At California 'Swap Meet,' $1 Goes a Long Way

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: ONTARIO, Calif., Dec. 17

 BODY:
Latrice Rocha's eyes seemed to grow as big as grapefruits.
"Look," she said, turning to her sister, Angelina, and holding up a six-pack of athletic socks for $4. "In the mall, these would cost at least $10.99, plus tax. That's a huge difference. And here maybe they don't charge me the tax." 
 With such bargains, a way of life plays out every Saturday, Sunday and Tuesday here at the Ontario Swap Meet, a giant open-air flea market where a few bucks can fill a lot of bags. Around the country, flea markets, many of them decades old, are a booming industry, generating $7.5 billion a year in sales, said experts who monitor such things, and more than 100 new such markets open each year.
Particularly here among new immigrants in Southern California, the swap meets serve as a convenient alternative to malls. In towns like Ontario, a city of 145,000 people in San Bernardino County, east of Los Angeles, the large populations of working-class families that include many Hispanic and Asian immigrants find that even a modest savings can help stretch the budget considerably. Here at the Ontario market, which opened in 1936, a salesman will reduce the price of almost anything, even a $1 pair of shoes.
In California and other Sun Belt states, the cheap prices are available year-round, even if it is wise to remember you generally get what you pay for. Here, shoppers like Ms. Rocha, 18, spend hours strolling past booths that sell every imaginable product, even livestock and pets -- from roosters, ducks, hens and quail to rabbits, geckos, scorpions and snakes (plus the mice to feed them, at $1 each).
And such deals! At one booth, every item -- shoes, handbags and stuffed toys -- is $1. At a vegetable stall, $1 buys four softball-size avocados that would cost $2.50 each in Los Angeles. For $2, a shopper can take home a meaty chicken (live) or buy refurbished headlights for the car. Even expensive items can be a bargain. R. Eduardo Rodriguez, a vendor of sleek Italian-style leather jackets made in China bearing the "Tuskany" label, said he would lower the price of a $100 jacket to $70 or $80, if that was all a buyer could afford.
The number of markets, vendors and visitors is reaching record levels, according to the National Flea Market Association, a trade group based in Dallas that formed three years ago to organize vendors and track economic trends. But along with them come signs that flea markets may be growing too successful for their own good.
In the last Congress, bipartisan bills emerged in the Senate and House aimed at tightening restrictions on flea market vendors. Among other things, the measures would prohibit tampering with bar codes or expiration dates as a safeguard against selling products that have passed their prescribed period of effectiveness or that have been stolen.
No action was taken before Congress adjourned last week. But trade association officials, who fear that the bills will be introduced next year, saw them as reflecting concerns not so much about public well-being or stolen goods, as about protecting major retail and grocery trade groups. Flea markets, after all, are cutting into their sales.
Jerry A. Stokes, the executive director of the National Flea Market Association, said the legislation would unfairly burden flea market vendors by requiring them to keep more detailed records of their transactions.
"We would support a bill, if it's fair to everybody, but this is discrimination," Mr. Stokes said. "If flea market vendors have to do something, why shouldn't all other retailers have to?"
It is hard to gauge just how much of an impact flea markets are having on more traditional retailers. Phil Paleg, manager of the Kmart about a mile from the Ontario swap meet, said the year-round warm weather in Southern California and other Sun Belt states took away "dollars that have the potential to come into your store."
"If they go bye-bye," Mr. Paleg added, "obviously that would help our numbers as well as other retailers."
But he said that "dollar shops," which sell every item for $1 or less, presented more competition to stores like his, mainly because swap meets operated only a few days a week.
There is also the increasingly chaotic competition from within. As the number of flea market shoppers has shot up, so has the number of vendors, trying to undercut one another on prices.
Angela Alarcin's stall resembles a small department store, with all the "little junk I like to buy," she said. But many of Ms. Alarcin's items, like hair products and soccer balls, are available at other booths for less or at the adjoining area reserved for people selling used products.
"To me this is all junk," said Gracie Hurd, who was wandering through Ms. Alarcin's booth with her husband, Charles. "But I found a pair of gloves for $3. At Kmart, they would have been $5.99."
Mr. Rodriguez, the leather jacket salesman, said he rented a booth here in Ontario, rather than at a swap meet in a neighboring city, because no one else here was selling the same kind of outerwear.
"But you still have to keep the prices low to do business," he said.
While many shoppers said they were searching out deals because they wanted to, not because they had to, some found the swap meet more of a necessity. Alfredo Rosales, a gardener, was shopping for Christmas gifts for seven nieces. He bought each of them a doll, for a total of $21. The same ones in a store, Mr. Rosales said, might have cost him $80 or more.
"I come here every two weeks," he said. "For food. For everything."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Some Southern Californians, including many new immigrants, fight high living costs by doing all their shopping at swap meets, huge open-air flea markets, like this one in Ontario, Calif., where shoppers strolled last weekend. More than a 100 such markets open each year. (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SUN BELT RENTALS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FLEA MARKETS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); RETAILERS (88%); TRENDS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); FAMILY (71%); REFUGEES (69%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (65%); TRADE SHOWS (64%); TOYS & GAMES (64%); LEGISLATION (61%); MAMMALS (57%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL ANGELA ALARCIN (64%); LATRICE ROCHA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2000



589 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: New Partners Hope to Expand Harry Winston

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN 

 BODY:
Peter Lamm, the chairman and chief executive of Fenway Partners, a private equity company in New York, said he once invested in a family-owned Mexican frozen food business where "everyone was clawing each other's eyes out." That, it seems, is just the way he likes it.
"We love complicated, messy dysfunctional-family stories," he said yesterday while sitting in the elegant office of Ronald Winston, the jewelry magnate. 
 By that standard, Mr. Lamm seemed to have come to the right place. Fenway has just acquired a $50 million stake in Harry Winston Group, the jewelry business known for adorning celebrities with million-dollar baubles. The investment marks the final chapter of a nasty 12-year legal battle between Ronald and Bruce Winston over the future of the business founded by their father. In July, Ronald Winston and Fenway settled the case by agreeing to buy out Mr. Winston's younger brother for $54.1 million.
The newly minted partners make an odd couple, with Mr. Winston in suit and Gucci loafers and Mr. Lamm in jeans, a sweater and cowboy boots.
But they said they shared common goals for expanding the company without diluting its reputation. That means expanding its presence overseas, particularly in Asia, offering jewelry priced as low as $4,000 (the current "entry point" is $6,000) and making the vault-like flagship store on Fifth Avenue and 56th Street seem less forbidding to first-time "clients," as Winston's customers are known.
"We want people who can shop here to feel comfortable," said Mr. Winston, who will remain chairman of the company.
But don't expect to see a Winston in every mall. "People in America tend to want to come to the mother store, to see the full range of everything we have," said Mr. Winston, who also has a shop in Beverly Hills.
At a time when more Americans than ever are able to indulge themselves in jewelry costing $10,000 or more, limiting access this way is a flawed strategy, said Russell Shor, a jewelry industry consultant. "People are time-pressed," he said, "They want convenience, they want service."
Describing Winston as "an opportunity that's been in limbo for so long," Mr. Lamm predicted that the partners could increase the size of the $100 million business as much as fivefold over the next few years -- although a soft economy could delay that progress. The company employs about 210 people, Mr. Winston said.
But Mr. Shor said that Winston was facing an uphill battle, because most of the luxury business is consolidating, with the development of huge conglomerates like LVMH-Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, which offered this week to acquire Donna Karan International for $195 million.
"To keep up with companies that have revenues in the multiple billions, with resources around the world, is going to be very difficult," he said.
To most people, the name Harry Winston is associated with the one-of-a-kind necklaces that are made in a workshop above the Fifth Avenue store, in a corner building that the company has owned for 40 years. Mr. Winston, who inspects the diamonds and approves all the designs, said it took about a thousand hours to produce the most elaborate necklaces, which sell for upwards of $3 million each. A quarter of a million designs going back to the company's founding in 1932 are neatly stored in binders.
But there is more to the company than multimillion-dollar jewels. For the last 12 years, Harry Winston has also made watches, which are sold in jewelry stores around the world. The watches range in price from $10,000 to $100,000 and represent the fastest-growing part of the business, Mr. Winston said.
Winston also makes inexpensive jewelry in factories in Hong Kong and Rhode Island for mass-market retailers like J. C. Penney Company, which are not allowed to disclose the origin of the items. Mr. Winston said the unbranded jewelry represents about 20 percent of the company's business.
For Fenway Partners, Harry Winston represents its first foray into luxury retailing, Mr. Lamm said. The company has also invested in companies like Quality Farm and Country, an agricultural specialty retailer; Aurora Foods, which makes Aunt Jemima pancakes; and Simmons, the mattress manufacturer.
With his legal problems behind him, Mr. Winston said he should be able to attract the kind of first-rate executives who shied away when the company's future was uncertain. "As long as we've been in court, we couldn't always attract the best talent," he said. "I'm thin on top-level managers."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the Harry Winston store on Fifth Avenue and 56th Street, the "entry point," or cost of the least expensive piece of jewelry, is $6,000. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MC (PAR) (83%); LVMH (BIT) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (92%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (92%); SIC5094 JEWELRY, WATCHES, PRECIOUS STONES, & PRECIOUS METALS (92%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (83%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (83%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (50%); SIC5699 MISC. APPAREL & ACCESSORY STORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); ASIA (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: FENWAY PARTNERS INC; WINSTON, HARRY, INC HARRY WINSTON INC (92%); LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (83%); DONNA KARAN INTERNATIONAL INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: FENWAY PARTNERS INC; WINSTON, HARRY, INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); ASIA (55%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: JEWELS AND JEWELRY; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; SUITS AND LITIGATION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); FAMILY COMPANIES (90%); FINE JEWELRY (89%); JEWELRY (89%); FAMILY (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); FROZEN FOODS (77%); LUXURY GOODS (76%); LITIGATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); FROZEN FOODS MFG (72%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); 

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY; WINSTON, BRUCE; WINSTON, RONALD RONALD WINSTON (95%); PETER LAMM (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2000



590 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Northrop Grumman to Buy Litton in $3.8 Billion Deal
Northrop Grumman, the military contractor, agreed to buy Litton Industries, a supplier of military electronics and information systems and the nation's largest maker of surface combat ships, for $3.8 billion in cash.
 Under the terms of the deal, Northrop will pay $80 for each common share of Litton, a premium of 28 percent over the company's closing price of $62.63. It will also pay $35 for each Series B preferred share of Litton and assume $1.3 billion in debt. Page C2. 

Job Worries Curb Manufacturing
As the economy has slowed sharply, the manufacturing sector has been hit hardest because consumers have grown far more hesitant about making large purchases like appliances and cars. Many of the primary culprits -- tighter credit, higher energy costs and a falling stock market -- have been hampering the economy for the last year. What has changed in recent weeks, economists say, is that Americans have suddenly become more pessimistic about their job prospects in 2001. A1.
 
Xerox Issues Weak Profit Estimate
Xerox said that it had a solid stash of cash on hand but that its fourth-quarter earnings were likely to be dismal. Investors quickly registered their disappointment. Shares of Xerox, which had regained some ground last week when the company announced the sale of its China operations to the joint venture Fuji Xerox, dropped $1.19, to $4.81. C2.
 
Ford to Cut Back on Production
Ford announced sharp production cutbacks and lowered its forecast of fourth-quarter earnings for the second time. C2.
 
255 New Radio Licenses Granted
The Federal Communications Commission said that 255 churches, schools and other local organizations had qualified for licenses to operate low-power FM radio stations. C5.
 
Stocks Finish Slightly Higher
Stocks edged up after giving up most of their hefty early gains. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 168.36 points, or 1.6 percent, to 10,487.29. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 10.12 points, or 0.8 percent, to 1,274.86. The Nasdaq composite index ended up 7.34 points, or 0.3 percent, to 2,340.12. C7.
 
New Challenges for Central Banker
David A. Dodge, left, the newly appointed governor of Canada's central bank, says his mandate "is to keep inflation low and stable," the legacy of his predecessor, Gordon A. Thiessen. Other priorities may arise, however, because Mr. Dodge faces the uncertainties of slower economic growth after a decade of strong gains. World Business, Section W.
 
Rate Increase Seen in California
In a move to show Wall Street that California is committed to ensuring the health of its utilities, the California Public Utilities Commission said a rate increase was likely. A16.
 
KFC and Philips to Switch Agencies
Two big advertisers, KFC and Royal Philips Electronics, unexpectedly dismissed their longtime agencies in a sign of continuing tumult in competitive consumer product categories. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C5.
 
U.S. Bond Market Will Close Early
The United States bond market will close at 2 p.m. today in advance of the Christmas holiday on Monday. The stock markets will have regular trading hours today.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,487.29 up 168.36
Nasdaq composite -- 2,340.12 up 7.34
10-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.03% Unch.
The euro -- $0.9143 up 0.0060
The dollar -- 112.30 yen down 0.47
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows Durable Goods Orders and Personal Income since May.
 
Chart tracks Xerox since last Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: NOC (NYSE) (91%); XRX (NYSE) (55%); PHIA (BIT) (50%); PHIA (AMS) (50%); PHG (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (91%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (91%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (91%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (91%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (91%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (91%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (91%); XEROX CORP (55%); FUJI XEROX CO LTD (54%); KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS NV (ROYAL PHILIPS) (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMMON STOCK (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); PREFERRED STOCK (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); MILITARY VESSELS (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); NAVAL VESSELS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (71%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (71%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (68%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (68%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (68%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (68%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2000



591 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: THE 43RD PRESIDENT: THE VICE PRESIDENT-ELECT;
Cheney and Lieberman Agree to Agree on Some Issues

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 21

 BODY:
Vice President-elect Dick Cheney and Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, rivals in the bitterly contested election until just a week ago, met today and pronounced afterward that they would work together to improve the country's education system, national security and anything else where common ground could be found between Republicans and Democrats.
Unlike the tense, 15-minute meeting earlier this week between President-elect George W. Bush and Vice President Al Gore, today's meeting in Mr. Lieberman's Senate office had the air of nothing more serious than two old friends who ended up on opposite sides of a spirited touch-football game. 
 When asked by reporters after the 25-minute meeting, convened at Mr. Cheney's request, whether the two men disagreed on any matter, the vice president-elect glanced at Mr. Lieberman and said: "I can't think of a single area. Can you, Joe?"
Mr. Lieberman, without missing a beat, replied, "Only on the outcome of the election in Florida." (Amid laughter, Mr. Lieberman quickly added that he was only joking, and that the subject had never actually come up.)
If there are two players whose statures were enhanced during the bruising campaign, they may have been Mr. Cheney and Mr. Lieberman. Beginning with the studied civility in their debate on Oct. 6, the two understudies have avoided political warfare with each other.
Because of his government experience and authoritative demeanor, Mr. Cheney is in a position to be a major power broker on Capitol Hill, both as the tie-breaker in the 50-50 Senate and as a bridge to conservative House Republicans who might bridle at compromises Mr. Bush may want to make with Democrats.
For his part, Mr. Lieberman, a centrist known for working with Republicans, before Mr. Gore tapped him to be his running mate, the campaign gave him national stature that he can now wield on the issues he focuses on.
"We stressed the positive," Mr. Lieberman said.
Of course, there are limitations to cooperation, both men acknowledged.
Mr. Lieberman, for example, mentioned that he still supports demonstration programs for school vouchers -- a concept that is an anathema to most Democrats but supported by Mr. Bush and many Republicans -- but that such a plan would likely die in the Senate.
Mr. Lieberman said a bill to provide federal aid to schools in poor areas, which he and other moderate Democrats introduced earlier this year, contained similarities to the Bush plan on education, excepting vouchers "because we felt it would make the overall proposal a nonstarter. It's such a controversial idea."
"I haven't counted heads or anything," Mr. Lieberman added, "but my guess is that's still true, and that's something we'll have to work out."
Not that Mr. Cheney, who will be looking to shepherd some quick legislative accomplishments through the Congress to give the administration positive momentum, was pushing anything contentious.
"It was not a session to persuade each other about what ought to be in a bill," Mr. Cheney said. "We were simply comparing notes that there are major areas of agreement, and that we both thought this is an area where a new administration could work with the Congress and make some progress."
The two men, who first met during the Persian Gulf crisis when Mr. Cheney was secretary of defense and Mr. Lieberman was on the Armed Services Committee, also said that they agreed to work together to help modernize America's military arsenal and defend the country against a range of new threats, from terrorism to chemical weapons.
But Mr. Cheney did not remain completely above the partisan fray. The vice president-elect, who earlier this month came under fire from the White House for warning that the United States might be on the "front edge of a recession" today softened his rhetoric.
"We don't want to talk down the economy, clearly, and I think both President Bush and I have tried to be cautious in that regard," Mr. Cheney told reporters.
"There does seem to be a lot of evidence out there that in fact the economy has slowed down some," he said. "Whether or not this ultimately results in a recession, that is negative real growth, nobody knows at this time."
In a conference call with Connecticut reporters later in the morning, Mr. Lieberman said "we really didn't talk about the economy."
But the national economic adviser, Gene Sperling, criticized Mr. Cheney and others in the Bush camp for fueling fears of a steep economic downturn.
"By continually speculating on a worst-case scenario, they run the risk of hurting confidence and creating a self-fulfilling prophecy," Mr. Sperling said. "A president should not seek to paint the economy as significantly more rosy or significantly more pessimistic than the consensus forecasts for political purposes. Doing the latter can create unnecessary anxiety and have an adverse impact on the economy."
After meeting with Mr. Lieberman, Mr. Cheney paid a 30-minute courtesy call on former Senator Bob Dole, Republican of Kansas, who ran unsuccessfully against President Clinton in 1996. "They talked about transition business and legislation," said Juleanna Glover Weiss, Mr. Cheney's spokeswoman.
On Friday, Mr. Cheney will continue to work on transition matters from his office in McLean, Va., before leaving town on Saturday to spend the holidays at his home in Jackson, Wyo., Ms. Glover Weiss said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, left, and Vice President-elect Dick Cheney talked with reporters yesterday after a friendly meeting in Mr. Lieberman's office. "We stressed the positive," Mr. Lieberman said. (Pool photo by Ray Lustig)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US) CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); EDUCATION FUNDING (72%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC; CHENEY, DICK; LIEBERMAN, JOSEPH I (SEN) JOE LIEBERMAN (94%); DICK CHENEY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); AL GORE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2000



592 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 261 words

HEADLINE: Fund Adviser Accused of Fraud

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 21

 BODY:
A New Jersey hedge fund adviser was accused by federal regulators today of inflating portfolio holdings and hiding $71 million in losses from investors.
Michael L. Smirlock, a former partner at Goldman, Sachs & Company, was indicted in federal court in Manhattan on criminal charges and was sued by the Securities and Exchange Commission on civil charges, regulators said. 
 The commission also filed fraud charges against Mr. Smirlock's firm, Laser Advisers, of Short Hills, N.J. Mr. Smirlock resigned as president and chief executive of Laser Advisers, but he is still the chairman and majority shareholder, the commission said.
Mr. Smirlock, 44, of Loveladies, N.J., and his lawyer were unavailable for comment.
According to the commission, Mr. Smirlock handled the investment strategy of Steed Finance, a "hub" fund for three hedge fund clients: Shetland Fund, Mustang Investment, and Trakeher Fund. Mr. Smirlock was said to have bought for the funds options on interest rate swaps, known as swaptions, which are thinly traded and difficult to value. Once a month, Mr. Smirlock was required to get independent prices from broker-dealers for the swaptions, which were used to prepare periodic reports to investors. As interest rates fell from late 1997 through mid-1998, the hedge fund portfolios incurred losses, which the commission said Mr. Smirlock concealed by reporting inflated values for certain swaptions.
"By the time the fraud was discovered, the value of the investment fund portfolio was overstated by $71 million," the S.E.C. said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: LASER ADVISERS; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: LASER ADVISERS; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES VIOLATIONS SWAP TRANSACTIONS (91%); HEDGE FUNDS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); LITIGATION (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); INDICTMENTS (77%); LAWYERS (74%); BONDS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); 

PERSON: SMIRLOCK, MICHAEL L CLARE SHORT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2000



593 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1571 words

HEADLINE: As Consumers Turn Pessimistic, Factory Workers Feel the Chill

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
For much of the last two years, the Frigidaire washer-and-dryer factory in Webster City, Iowa, could barely keep up with demand. The work force in the squat building -- just off the Boone River, close to Iowa's geographical center -- had increased since 1998 by about 700 people, or nearly 50 percent, and the company continued hiring new employees as recently as early in November.
Then everything seemed to come to a halt. Consumer purchases of large appliances, which had leveled off during the summer, started dropping. In Webster City, overtime hours disappeared, employees say. Soon after Thanksgiving, Frigidaire announced that it would lay off 130 workers almost immediately. Last week, plant managers told workers that 28 more people would lose their jobs before the end of the year. 
 "When you're pushing all year long, and you've got foremen riding you all year long to push things out the door, it comes as a shock," said Kim Willson, a 15-year employee who has kept her job but now works fewer hours.
Over the last month, similar kinds of shocks have reverberated from factory floors to executive suites to the office of the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan. The economy has slowed sharply, with growth in the third quarter at 2.2 percent annually, the weakest in four years. Page C2.
The manufacturers have been hit hardest, partly because consumers have grown far more hesitant about making big purchases like appliances, cars and personal computers.
Many of the main culprits -- tighter credit, higher energy costs and falling stocks -- have been hampering the economy for much of the last year. What has changed in recent weeks, economists say, is that Americans have suddenly become more pessimistic about their job prospects in 2001, despite an unemployment rate that, at 4 percent, remains near a 30-year low.
With this pessimism comes the risk that spending will fall further, requiring companies to reduce excess inventories and cut their payrolls -- a situation that could potentially snowball into something much worse.
Whirlpool, General Motors and Gillette all announced large job cuts this month.
Yesterday, Lucent Technologies and the Ford Motor Company disclosed layoffs, as well.
The number of people who are not working as many hours as they would like -- either because their overtime has been cut back, as Ms. Willson's was, or because they are now working only part time -- has risen sharply. Almost half of Americans, nearly double the level in November, expect the jobless rate to rise next year, according to a recent consumer survey at the University of Michigan.
"For the first time in a long time, consumers have begun to believe a recession is possible," said Richard T. Curtin, the director of Michigan's surveys. Early this month, consumer sentiment dropped by the sharpest rate since August 1990, when Iraq invaded Kuwait. Retail sales fell last month, and many merchants say the holiday shopping season has so far been disappointing.
While service industries continue to expand at a healthy clip and most economists still think that a recession is unlikely next year, the roughly one-fifth of the American economy that manufactures goods is starting to move in reverse.
"I get reports every day of people seeing their orders drop sharply from the third quarter," said Jerry Jasinowski, the president of the National Association of Manufacturers in Washington.
The $37 billion appliance industry, with its reliance on consumers who are willing to spend hundreds of dollars at a time, provides a particularly telling example of how the economy has decelerated so quickly. As recently as September, shipments of major appliances, compared with a year earlier, were rising at a double-digit clip, as factories like the one in Webster City continued to stamp out thousands of machines a day. In the last two months, however, shipments have fallen more than 8 percent, according to the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers.
With companies already facing depressed earnings because of the strong dollar and higher costs, the sales fall-off forced the industry into painful actions. Whirlpool, the largest manufacturer, said on Dec. 13 that it planned to eliminate as many as 6,300 jobs, or one-tenth of its work force. The company also lowered its profit forecast for the second time in three months, saying it would earn about 25 percent less a share in the fourth quarter than it thought last summer.
The next day, Maytag, which had already lost its chief executive in November after a disappointing 15-month tenure, said it was lowering its fourth-quarter forecast for the second time.
Such about-faces have come with stunning speed. Between the start of 1998 and this summer, Americans increased their spending on appliances by 18 percent, according to the Department of Commerce, despite the fact few people own more than one of each appliance. A little earlier, in prosperous times, companies persuaded people to replace their existing machines with more expensive models -- ones that cooked more quickly or washed with less water, for example -- while a surge in new-home sales provided another lift.
"We've had three years of very, very robust sales," said Tina Settecase, vice president for home appliances at Sears, which sells more appliances than any other retailer. Sears sales remained strong through November, even as the industry turned down, Ms. Settecase said. But the first two weeks of December were weak.
Partly as a result of the appliance boom, household spending on durable goods rose to its highest share in at least 50 years. Appliances, cars, houses and other long-lasting items accounted for 19 percent of spending earlier this year, up from about 15 percent in 1990, according to James W. Paulsen, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management.
The spending fattened the manufacturers' bottom lines, but it also meant that many homeowners owned new machines in their kitchens and basements -- machines that were unlikely to need replacing any time soon. With the future looking less certain, consumers as a whole have pulled back.
"There has been a more precipitous drop than we historically see," said David R. Whitwam, Whirlpool's chief executive. "This is a pretty predictable industry normally."
The industry downturn has left many workers worried about the coming months. "I don't think people are opening their eyes and seeing what's going on," said Laura Nichols, who has worked for seven years on the assembly line at Whirlpool's plant in Clyde, Ohio, the town that was the basis for Sherwood Anderson's novel, "Winesburg, Ohio."
"People don't want to accept the fact that things are getting worse," Ms. Nichols said.
The newfound reluctance of consumers is rippling beyond Whirlpool, General Electric, Maytag and Frigidaire. Across the country, manufacturers that sell parts, raw material and machines to the appliance companies -- as well as to automakers and computer manufacturers -- are starting to suffer, too.
About 40 percent of the December orders for metal-stamping machines at Murata Wiedemann in Charlotte, N.C., have been pushed back until at least January, said Larry Hanzo, the company's director of corporate accounts. "It came rather suddenly," Mr. Hanzo said, although no order has yet been canceled. The company employs 110 people, down from 120 to 125 earlier this year.
The situation is more severe at Coe Press Equipment, a maker of steel-unwinding machines in Sterling Heights, Mich., that sells to G.E. and Whirlpool. In the second half of 2000, sales will be about 50 percent lower than in the first half. In response, the company's president, John C. Coe, said he had called off plans for a $650,000 plant expansion and put all the manufacturing employees -- about 50 people and almost half the company's payroll -- on leave for the next two weeks.
Kirt T. Howard is one of the workers who will begin collecting unemployment insurance on Monday. Six months ago, Mr. Howard, 28, was making almost $1,100 a week, thanks to 20 hours of overtime. Recently, his weekly salary had dropped to $620.
Mr. Howard said he had been able to make only the minimum payments on his three credit card bills lately. Now, he and his girlfriend will skip buying Christmas presents for their parents and instead get gifts only for the two family members whose names they have drawn as part of an annual tradition.
"Right now, it looks kind of rocky," Mr. Howard said.
Analysts have recently been saying similar things about the American economy, although most continue to predict growth of 2 to 3 percent next year. Yesterday, the government revised its measure of third-quarter growth to 2.2 percent, below the 2.5 percent annual growth rate that President Clinton on Tuesday said that many forecasters expected.
On Tuesday, as well, the Federal Reserve, while keeping interest rates unchanged, announced a reversal in its emphasis, saying that it now considered a recession to be a greater risk than inflation. Many economists predict that the Fed will cut rates early next year after six increases since mid-1999.
Mr. Whitman, Whirlpool's chief executive, said he expected the appliance industry's sales to decline in the first half of 2001 but to recover thereafter. "It's not a robust picture we see for our economy next year," he said, "nor is it a terrible one."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeanette and Frank Frost found new appliances intriguing at a Home Depot in Naples, Fla., this spring. Such shoppers have lately turned wary. (David Carson)(pg. C6)
 
Chart: Some of country's biggest manufacturing companies have announced large layoffs this year.
 
General Motors: 15,000
Whirlpool: 6,300
Motorola: 2,870
Gillette: 2,700
Unisys: 2,000
(Source: Challenger Gray & Christmas)(pg. A1)
 
Chart: "Reversing Course"
After growing rapidly in the late 1990's, sales of major home appliances have dropped sharply in recent months.
 
Chart shows year-to-year change in shipments of home appliances since 1996.
(Association fo Home Appliance Manufactures)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); ALU (PAR) (63%); ALU (NYSE) (63%); ALU (BIT) (63%); GM (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (63%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NAPLES, FL, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: FRIGIDAIRE FORD MOTOR CO (84%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (63%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: FRIGIDAIRE

GEOGRAPHIC: WEBSTER CITY (IOWA); UNITED STATES (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NAPLES, FL, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; LABOR; HOME APPLIANCES; OVERTIME; WAGES AND SALARIES; HIRING AND PROMOTION; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; STOCKS AND BONDS; WASHING MACHINES; DRYERS; SALES LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); OVERTIME (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); RECESSION (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MFG (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); CHRISTMAS (70%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (70%); BONDS (62%); MARKETING SURVEYS (56%); THANKSGIVING (55%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (51%); 

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID ALAN GREENSPAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2000



594 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 86 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
HONDA SAYS IT EXPECTS TO INCREASE U.S. SALES IN 2001

BYLINE: AP 

 BODY:
The Honda Motor Company said yesterday that it expected to sell 1.2 million vehicles in the United States in 2001, 3.4 percent more than in 2000, even though overall demand for autos appears to be falling because of uncertainty over interest rates, stock prices and gasoline prices. Demand for Honda's light trucks, especially the Odyssey minivan, will remain robust in 2001, the company predicted. It also expects strong growth of demand in Japan, and will step up global vehicle production by 6.3 percent.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HMC (NYSE) (93%); 7267 (TSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); JAPAN (85%); 

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: HONDA MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (88%); JAPAN (85%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRODUCTION MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); SALES FIGURES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (87%); MINIVANS (86%); OIL & GAS PRICES (84%); GASOLINE MARKETS (84%); GASOLINE PRICES (84%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (82%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2000



595 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: Era Closes at Rockefeller Center With $1.85 Billion Deal on Sale

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
A billionaire Chicago family has teamed up with Jerry I. Speyer, the New York developer, in a $1.85 billion deal to purchase Rockefeller Center, the 22-acre complex that stands as an international symbol of commerce and capitalism.
The deal severs the Rockefellers' remaining links to the historic complex that bears the family's name. For the first time since the family built the center 70 years ago, in the midst of the Depression, the Rockefellers will have no involvement with the 10 landmarked office buildings, Radio City Music Hall or the Rainbow Room. 
 Under the terms of the pending deal, Mr. Speyer and Lester Crown's family from Chicago, who together owned 5 percent of the complex, will be acquiring the interests of their partners: David Rockefeller, the former chairman of Chase Manhattan Bank; the Goldman Sachs Group; the Agnelli family of Italy; and the estate of the Greek shipping magnate Stavros Niarchos.
"We are thrilled to continue as stewards of a world-class landmark," said Mr. Speyer, who ran Rockefeller Center for the last four years as president of Tishman Speyer, a real estate company. "It has endured over the years because of its central location, its beauty and its functionality."
It is unlikely that there will be any major changes at Rockefeller Center when the deal is completed next spring. But the sale is another indication of a booming real estate market in New York, where over the last four years the giant financial services and media companies have expanded and tourists have flocked to the city. Rockefeller Center itself has doubled in value since the Goldman Sachs Group bought it in 1996 for the equivalent of $900 million. At that point, Rockefeller Center had slipped into bankruptcy and the Japanese company that owned the complex had walked away from what it thought was a losing investment.
Ten major buildings totaling about eight million square feet of space make up Rockefeller Center, which sits between 48th and 51st Streets, from Fifth Avenue to the Avenue of the Americas.
Mr. Speyer and the Crowns, who own a major share of the General Dynamics Corporation, the giant defense contractor, and the Chicago Bulls basketball team, also have stakes in another New York institution, the Yankees.
Mr. Speyer's sudden announcement last night came as a surprise to many people in the New York real estate industry and especially to the bidders competing for Rockefeller Center, which had been put on the auction block earlier this year. The value of the deal, however, fell short of the $2.2 billion or $2.5 billion many real estate executives said Goldman Sachs had been seeking. The investment bank's real estate fund owns half the complex and had set off the sale process earlier this year.
The deal did not come without some intrigue.
"I wish them well," said Mortimer B. Zuckerman, chairman of Boston Properties and a bidder for the complex. "It's a full price, but it's also a wonderful asset."
Mr. Zuckerman was one of the four finalists who submitted bids in September, along with the Fisher real estate family; Sam Zell, chairman of Equity Office Properties; and Steven Roth, chairman of Vornado Realty Trust. While all the tycoons wanted to own the property, the highest bids began moving downward to about $1.8 billion, according to two of the bidders.
In recent weeks, the Fishers, Mr. Zell and Mr. Zuckerman, who said he would not go as high as $1.8 billion, dropped out of the bidding. "We felt we could invest our money elsewhere at better returns," Mr. Zuckerman said.
At the same time, Mr. Roth of Vornado sought to forge a joint venture with Mr. Zell and the Fishers, believing that Rockefeller Center was too big for any one company to own. But no firm offer emerged.
Some of the bidders said they were upset that Mr. Speyer, an insider, ended up as the winning bidder.
In any event, the partners were considering refinancing the property when Mr. Speyer joined with the Crown family to offer $1.85 billion for the property, $50 million more than the tentative bid from Mr. Roth.
Daniel Neidich, chairman of Goldman's real estate fund, did not return calls requesting comment.
"We had had no intention of having anything to do with this purchase," Mr. Speyer said. "It was only in the last couple of days that we thought that the price was so compelling. On Wednesday morning, we talked to our partners, saying we were prepared to pay more."
David Rockefeller, 85, said that the pending change of ownership made him nostalgic. "In one sense, it seems sad," Mr. Rockefeller said last night. "But the fact that the new owners are good friends makes a big difference. I'm comfortable that Jerry Speyer will maintain the same quality and sense of public obligations that we tried to."
Mr. Rockefeller said his first memory of Rockefeller Center dated to 1929, when he poked his head through a peephole in a plywood fence to watch the excavation for the complex. He said so many people were interested in the construction project that his father, John D. Rockefeller Jr., had workers cut the holes in the fence.
The complex opened in 1933 and became both a sought-after corporate address and a tourist attraction, for visitors who wanted to skate on ice or admire the bronze Prometheus gliding above a fountain and the towering limestone buildings.
In 1985, the Rockefeller family began divesting some of its stake in the complex. The family borrowed $1.3 billion from a real estate investment trust and eventually sold 80 percent of Rockefeller Center and the Rockefeller Group to Mitsubishi Estate, which provoked an outcry over what was described as the sale of American patrimony to the Japanese.
But Mitsubishi's ownership proved short-lived. A recession cut deeply into profits, prompting the Japanese company to walk away from its investment rather than continuing to make payments on the mortgage. Rockefeller Center tumbled into bankruptcy.
The group led by Goldman Sachs and Mr. Speyer bought the property in 1996, paying $306 million for the mortgage and assuming $845 million in debt and other obligations. Simultaneously, the group sold a condominium interest in 30 Rockefeller Center to NBC for $440 million.
Mr. Speyer moved quickly to improve management of the complex and raise profits. He signed lucrative leases with the Cipriani family for the Rainbow Room and with Cablevision Systems to lease Radio City Music Hall for about $13 million a year. Mr. Speyer also renovated the retail space, signing leases with more upscale tenants, like Christie's auction house.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing: A pending sale could yield a Rockefeller Center that is Rockefeller in name only.
 
Chart/Diagram: "WHAT IT COSTS: $1,850,000,000"
Tishman Speyer Properties and the Crown family of Chicago have teamed to buy Rockefeller Center in a deal worth $1.85 billion.
 
Diagram shows the G.E. Building, Radio City Music Hall, NBC studios, Rockefeller Center Business Center, Associated Press.
(Source: Tishman Speyer Properties)(pg. B12)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (94%); GD (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (94%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (94%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (94%); NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (63%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (94%); GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (63%); CHICAGO BEARS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP CHICAGO BEARS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: ROCKEFELLER CENTER (NYC); COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES REAL ESTATE (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); AUCTIONS (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (71%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (70%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (69%); BASKETBALL (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (65%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (65%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); 

PERSON: SPEYER, JERRY I; CROWN, LESTER; ROCKEFELLER FAMILY; ROCKEFELLER, DAVID; BAGLI, CHARLES V; AGNELLI FAMILY; NIARCHOS, STAVROS LESTER CROWN (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2000



596 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-14
 
Israel Admits Killings Of Palestinian Militants
Senior Israeli officials have acknowledged a new tactic of hunting down and killing individuals whom Israel holds responsible for planning or making attacks on its citizens. The disclosures have provoked an outcry among Palestinian officials, who call such actions "state terrorism." A12
 
Shimon Peres, a former prime minister and a Nobel Peace laureate, lost his short-lived bid to run for prime minister when the leftist Meretz Party voted against endorsing him. A12 

Mad Cow Fear in Germany
The cabinet held crisis talks to respond to Germans' concern over warnings that some sausages might contain suspect beef. A3
 
No Apology to South Korea
The Clinton administration has decided not to issue an apology to South Korea for the Army's role in the shooting of civilians early in the Korean War, nor will it offer financial compensation to victims. A5
 
No Burmese Imports for PX's
The Pentagon said the federal agency that runs 1,400 stores at military installations would stop importing clothes from Myanmar. A6
 
U.N. Dues Deadlock Continues
The United States and the European Union failed to end a deadlock over how to revise dues for member nations in order to give Washington reductions it is demanding. A12
 
Report on Illegal Diamonds
A report to the United Nations Security Council on illegally sold diamonds and arms for guerrillas in Africa focused on a new generation of international smugglers. A12
 
New Fighting in Sri Lanka
Goverment forces launched an offensive against Tamil rebels a day after the rebels declared a monthlong cease-fire, expressing hope that the government would reciprocate. A11
 
World Briefing A8
 
WEEKEND E1-40; E41-54
 
Golden Globe Nominations
"Gladiator" and "Traffic" each drew five nominations for the awards given by the Hollywood Foreign Press Association. E3
 
NATIONAL A16-30
 
Bush Choice for Defense Is Slowed by G.O.P. Split
Republican officials said President-elect George W. Bush had delayed his choice for secretary of defense and would broaden his search because he was not entirely satisfied with the two principal candidates, former Senator Dan Coats of Indiana, a favorite of Senate Republican leaders, and Paul D. Wolfowitz, a former Pentagon official who has the support of influential Republican foreign policy experts. A1
 
Mr. Bush, in a bipartisan meeting with Congressional centrists, laid out educational proposals highlighting early literacy and school accountability. But he heard warnings that waging a battle to funnel taxpayer money to private schools through vouchers could endanger his plans. A28
 
Vice President-elect Dick Cheney and Senator Joseph I. Lieberman met in Washington and said they would work together to improve the education system, national security and anything else where common ground could be found between Republicans and Democrats. A30
 
Mr. Bush resigned as Texas governor. Rick Perry, the Republican lieutenant governor, was sworn in. A28
 
Democrat Party Challenge
Maynard H. Jackson, the former Atlanta mayor, said that he would challenge the fund-raiser Terry McAuliffe for the chairmanship of the Democratic National Committee and that his campaign would emphasize the need to reinvigorate the party's grass-roots organizing efforts. A30
 
'Retail Profiling' Settlement
Massachusetts said the Children's Place, a national chain of retail children's clothing stores, had agreed to take action to resolve complaints of bias against black shoppers. A18
 
Judge Balks at New Trial
A South Carolina judge refused to order a new trial for a death row inmate, Edward Lee Elmore, who had submitted new DNA evidence. The judge said it was insufficient. Mr. Elmore's lawyers will appeal. A27
 
Rate Rise Seen for California
The State Public Utilities Commission said that a rate increase for consumers was likely and that over the next weeks it would inspect the books of the two major utilities to decide how much was reasonable. A18
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-16
 
$1.85 Billion Deal For Rockefeller Center
The developer Jerry I. Speyer and the Crown family of Chicago, who together own 5 percent of Rockefeller Center, have reached agreement to acquire their partners' interests, including that of Goldman Sachs and David Rockefeller, 85, the last of his family with a stake in the 22-acre complex, which opened in 1933. A1
 
A Diocesan Write-Off
Bishop Thomas V. Daily said the Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn, which includes Queens, was forgiving $118 million in loans made to dozens of parishes, schools and church agencies in the last 40 years. B1
 
New Jersey Mayor Convicted
A federal jury found Mayor Milton Milan of Camden guilty of 14 of 19 corruption charges, including taking bribes from organized crime figures, money laundering and insurance fraud. He is the third of the last five mayors of the hard-pressed city to be convicted of corruption in office. B1
 
East Side Race Is Resolved
Liz Krueger conceded after her slim lead over State Senator Roy M. Goodman, a 16-term Republican, vanished in a count of absentee votes. B1
 
Neediest Cases B5
 
SCIENCE/HEALTH
 
Prescriptions' Fine Print
The F.D.A. will simplify information sheets that doctors rely on in prescribing medications, which may help reduce deadly medication mixups and other prescribing errors. A24
 
OBITUARIES B14
 
Roebuck Staples
Widely known as Pops, the founding father of the Staple Singers, the family gospel group that developed a huge pop following, was 85. B14
 
Mickey Mantle Jr.
The son of the Yankees' Hall of Fame center fielder was 47. The cause was complications of cancer, his family said. B14
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-14
 
Signs of a Slowdown
Lucent said it would lose more money than expected this quarter, the third revision of its outlook. It also expects the quarter's revenue to fall 20 percent, and it will cut $1 billion in costs in 2001, partly with layoffs. C1
 
Ford announced sharp production cutbacks and lowered its fourth-quarter earnings forecast for the second time in three weeks. C2
 
The economy slowed sharply during the summer, to an annual growth rate of 2.2 percent, its weakest performance in four years. C2
 
F.C.C. Slap at AT&T
The F.C.C. ordered the telephone and cable giant to sell its interest in Time Warner Entertainment after concluding that AT&T had been trying to wriggle out of a commitment it made to win government approval of its acquisition of MediaOne. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
World Business W1
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
The $40 Million Woman
Reebok's five-year endorsement contract with Venus Williams is the biggest ever for a female athlete. D1
 
EDITORIAL A32-33
 
Editorials: Mrs. Clinton's book deal; global money launderers; scuttle the Everglades airport; repairing bilingual education.
 
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman.
 
Crossword E55
TV Listings E42
Public Lives B2
Weather B15
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: RCP (NYSE) (56%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); GERMANY (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%); SRI LANKA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PRESS ASSOCIATION LTD (53%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); GERMANY (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%); SRI LANKA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (79%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); LIBERALISM (75%); ARMIES (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); KOREAN WAR (74%); TERRORISM (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); SMUGGLING (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (65%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (63%); FOREIGN POLICY (61%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (60%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (60%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (60%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (76%); SHIMON PERES (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); RICK PERRY (54%); DAN COATS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2000



597 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Europe Trade Proposals to End U.N. Dues Deadlock

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Dec. 21

 BODY:
New proposals from the United States and the European Union failed today to end a deadlock over how to revise the dues for member nations in order to give Washington reductions it is demanding. As midnight approached, diplomats said they expected to be in session until dawn, with no promise of an agreement.
In a last-ditch effort to break the deadlock over American payments, Ambassador Richard C. Holbrooke offered for the United States to pay the $34 million that other nations would be charged collectively over the next year to make up the shortfall if the United States' demand for a reduction was met. 
 Mr. Holbrooke had told diplomats -- informally over the last week and formally early this morning -- that the money would come from discretionary State Department funds. But tonight in an interview, he said that Ted Turner had offered the money to the government through his United Nations Foundation, which has supported a number of programs at the organization.
Mr. Holbrooke said that Timothy E. Wirth, the former senator from Colorado who is president of the foundation, had asked him not to disclose the source of the money. The Washington Post first reported that it was Mr. Turner. Mr. Holbrooke described it as a "visionary gesture" and added that Mr. Turner had first suggested the grant about six weeks ago as a way to avoid having to confront Congress for more money.
Other diplomats described the offer as a sweetener that does not deal with the longer-term problem of other nations' having to compensate for a reduction in American dues after the first year. Moreover, the $34 million would cover a gap only in the regular operating budget of the organization, not the peacekeeping fund. Other nations have said they wanted to solve the problems of the two budgets at the same time.
Diplomats said tonight that many other problems remained as nations bickered over their assessments. Mr. Holbrooke said just before midnight that a division had widened between the Europeans, who have said that they will not pay more, and developing countries who say they cannot afford to accept increases. The Russians, however, agreed to double their contributions, but their dues are only a very small fraction of the American assessment.
Earlier today, with the General Assembly bargaining strenuously over how to revise dues, the Europeans introduced an idea that could complicate negotiations further for the United States. Ambassador Jean-David Levitte of France said the Europeans were proposing that if Washington wins the cut in dues that it is seeking, Congress would have to release the money to pay all American debts by 2003. If that deadline is not met, he said, "then we will have to see whether we will have to push up the United States again."
Congress did not imagine such a condition when it demanded a cut in payments before releasing $800 million in already appropriated funds -- not to mention $700 million that the United Nations calculates it is owed but that Congress disputes.
Mr. Holbrooke, who has worked to push through a resolution to the issue for more than a year, would have to sell an agreement in the waning days of the Clinton administration. He has had the help of Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Delaware Democrat who is the ranking minority member on the Senate foreign relations committee. Mr. Biden said here last week that there was not much flexibility on the committee, whose chairman is Senator Jesse Helms, Republican of North Carolina. Now some of the senators could see the conditional proposal as a threat.
Within the United Nations, the idea of giving the United States a reduction conditioned on paying arrears in full could satisfy some nations that do not believe Washington can be trusted to pay once it has won a reduction, or fear that the Americans will come back asking for more cuts in three years, when budget assessments are reviewed again.
Mr. Levitte did not disguise his distaste for the American position today. He called the Congressional ultimatum "an absolutely unjustifiable demand" and repeated the position that European nations collectively pay far more than the United States and are not asking for cuts.
The General Assembly is planning to adjourn on Friday. By then, its finance committee should complete work on the two budget systems, one of about $1 billion for regular operations and the other of $3 billion for peacekeeping.
But the hard bargaining does not come until the 11th hour. "That's what we're doing -- in pain, recrimination, screaming," Mr. Levitte said today. "But we are moving ahead."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS; UNITED NATIONS FOUNDATION; EUROPEAN UNION WASHINGTON POST CO (55%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS FOUNDATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS FOUNDATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS; UNITED NATIONS FOUNDATION; EUROPEAN UNION UNITED NATIONS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS FOUNDATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS FOUNDATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); COLORADO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); BUDGETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); 

PERSON: HOLBROOKE, RICHARD C (AMB); TURNER, TED; CROSSETTE, BARBARA RICHARD HOLBROOKE (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2000



598 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 15; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 169 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business Briefing;
JOB GROWTH CONTINUES

BYLINE: By Leslie Eaton 

 BODY:
Despite the slowing national economy and the turmoil on Wall Street, New York City employers continued to hire workers at a blistering pace in November, according to data released yesterday by the New York State Department of Labor. Between October and November, the number of new jobs in the city rose by 33,100, or 0.9 percent, far faster than the statewide average increase of 0.4 percent. While some of the job growth came from stores hiring clerks for the holiday shopping season, big gains were also reported in business services, motion pictures and education. The financial sector also showed an increase, despite declining employment at banks as Chase Manhattan began its takeover of J. P. Morgan. The unemployment rate in the city was unchanged, but when adjusted for seasonal factors it edged up to 5.6 percent from 5.4 percent. The unemployment rate in the state also rose slightly, to 4.6 percent from 4.4 percent, as did the national average, to 4 percent from 3.9 percent. Leslie Eaton
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (NYS) J P MORGAN DELAWARE (56%); J P MORGAN DELAWARE (56%); NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (NYS) NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; HIRING AND PROMOTION EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); JOB CREATION (88%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (87%); BANKING & FINANCE (86%); 

PERSON: LESLIE EATON (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2000



599 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 15; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 97 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business Briefing;
RECORD LOW JOBLESS RATE

BYLINE: AP 

 BODY:
Connecticut's unemployment rate decreased by 0.3 percentage points to an all-time low of 1.7 percent in November, the United States Labor Department said yesterday. Officials cautioned that they needed to see more data to determine whether the record was an anomaly. The rate was 1.2 percentage points below that of November 1999 and 2.3 percentage points below the national rate. Nonfarm jobs totaled 1,698,500 last month, up 20,300 from one year ago, the Labor Department said. The largest gain, 1,100 jobs, was in government, including American Indian tribal government.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (88%); NATIVE AMERICANS (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2000



600 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 45; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 4691 words

HEADLINE: ART GUIDE

 BODY:
A selective listing by critics of The New York Times of new or noteworthy art, design and photography exhibitions at New York museums and art galleries. Addresses, unless otherwise noted, are in Manhattan. Most galleries are closed on Sundays and Mondays, but hours vary, especially during the holiday season, and should be checked by telephone. Museum hours through New Year's Day may also vary and should be checked before visiting. Gallery admission is free. * denotes a highly recommended show.
 
Museums
 
"GIORGIO ARMANI," Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500 (through Jan. 17). The Guggenheim has served up another plateau of urban history: a retrospective of the Milanese fashion designer Giorgio Armani. What it lacks in depth it makes up for with sparkle, and Robert Wilson's architectural transformation of the museum's rotunda may be the best yet. In an inverted version of a life class, instead of the undraped body, the show offers just the drapes. The mannequins have been pared down to the edges of the costumes, and they cluster in groups in the building's structural bays, spatial modules with the proportions of shop windows. Hours: Sundays through Wednesdays, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. Admission: $12; $8 students and the elderly (Herbert Muschamp). 

* "ART AND THE EMPIRE CITY: NEW YORK, 1825-1861," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through Jan. 7). The point is that during the antebellum years New York began to become, well, New York, America's megalopolis and an international crossroads. The great metaphor was the plan to grid Manhattan: unsentimental, open-ended, utilitarian and democratic, it created the blank sheet on which the city could draw its future. Amusing, gigantic, only marginally an art exhibition, the show is really an ostentatious illustrated history lesson via hundreds of pieces of old crockery, etchings, paintings, rosewood firescreens, daguerreotypes and mother-of-pearl folding fans. Custom-made for today's acquisitive age, the exhibition is probably the only occasion on which a 19th-century brown ceramic water cooler and a six-sided pitcher with pictures of the presidential candidate William Henry Harrison have been presented in the style of the treasures of the pharaoh's palace in "The Ten Commandments." Hours: Sundays and Tuesdays through Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:15 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays until 8:45 p.m. Admission: $10; $5 for students and the elderly (Michael Kimmelman).
 
 * "THE DRAFTSMAN'S ART: MASTER DRAWINGS FROM THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF SCOTLAND," Frick Collection, 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700 (through Feb. 25). This beautiful exhibition of 70 master drawings from the 16th to 19th century, many of them recently acquired, has been organized with an eye to achieving a harmonic convergence of diversity, continuity, quality, fame and obscurity. Leonardo, Raphael, Boucher and Seurat are here, in outstanding form, but so is an exquisitely detailed rendering of two Restoration gentlemen by David Paton, a Scottish miniaturist, and an almost cinematic genre scene that is considered the masterpiece of Etienne Jeaurat, a contemporary of Chardin. In between are works by Zuccaro, Pietro Testa, Pietro da Cortona, Hans Baldung Grien, Hendrick Goltzius and much more. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 6 p.m. Admission: $7; $5, students and the elderly (Roberta Smith).
 
 "HIP-HOP NATION: ROOTS, RHYMES AND RAGE," Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000 (through Dec. 31). The complex cultural amalgam of music, poetry, break dancing, art and fashion that is hip-hop poses a serious challenge to any art museum, but with the proper resources and curatorial expertise, it could have been met. Instead this show offers a partial outline of hip-hop history, conveyed by photographs, posters, magazine and album covers, memorabilia and monotonous expanses of clothes that make the show nearly indistinguishable from the gift shop. Garnished with graffiti art, it bypasses many other equally interesting connections to contemporary art. Because the show omits music videos, it manages to be virtually devoid of the sounds, words and moving bodies that are the essence of hip-hop. The results are a cross between a mall and a mausoleum. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. (until 11 p.m. on the first Saturday of each month); Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $4; $2 for students and the elderly (Smith).
 
 * "SOL LEWITT: A RETROSPECTIVE," Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3676 (through Feb. 25). Unexpectedly, the most beautiful exhibition by a living artist in a New York museum in a long time and an antidote to the nonsense in several other museums around town. Just about every other wall is covered with wall drawings, alternately eye-popping and gossamer. Those out there (you know who you are) who run from any artist linked to Conceptualism may want to stop and re-evaluate your views after seeing what's here. The master of chaste white cubes has undergone a transformation since his last retrospective in the late 70's. Now opulence emerges from the same seemingly prosaic instructions he came up with years ago. The appeal is still to patient observation, a lesson for everyone, delivered elegantly. Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays and Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays, 1 to 9 p.m. Admission: $10; $8 for students and the elderly (Kimmelman).
 
 * HENRY LUCE III CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF AMERICAN CULTURE, New-York Historical Society, 2 West 77th Street, (212) 873-3400 (permanent). Nearly two-thirds of the museum's holdings of fine art and decorative objects is now on full public view. The fourth floor has been remade to house a brilliant display of nearly 40,000 objects, from paintings and furniture to Tiffany lamps, porcelain, pottery, silverware and women's fans. Among the nearly 500 American paintings on display are works by Albert Bierstadt, Frederic E. Church, Thomas Cole, Asher Brown Durand, Childe Hassam, Eastman Johnson and John James Audubon, neatly deployed in glass-fronted cases. With audio tours and other devices, the material is as accessible to the public as it is to scholars. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission: $5; $3, students over 12 and the elderly (Grace Glueck).
 
 *"MOROCCO: JEWS AND ART IN A MUSLIM LAND," Jewish Museum, 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200 (through Feb. 11). When Arab Muslims arrived in Morocco, Jews had already been living there for centuries, and the two cultures formed a cooperative and uneasy bond. Their relationship is explored in this show, which offers a little bit of many things, mostly dating from the 19th and 20th centuries. In elaborate jewelry, shimmering textiles, liturgical objects and folk amulets, Jewish and Islamic ingredients often form a distinctive hybrid blend. A selection of European Orientalist paintings provides a firsthand outsider view of a once-vibrant interaction. Hours: Sundays through Thursdays, 11 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; Tuesdays to 8 p.m. Admission: $8; $5.50 for students over 11 and the elderly (Holland Cotter)
 
 * "OPEN ENDS," Museum of Modern Art, 11 West 53rd Street, (212) 708-9480 (through Jan. 2). The third and final cycle of "MOMA 2000" covers 1960 to the present and fills nearly the entire museum with almost a dozen different theme shows. "White" is one theme. Memorial art is another. Childhood and lost innocence is yet another. Like previous installments in this year-and-a-half-long navel-gazing reconsideration by the museum of how to present its permanent collection in anticipation of its future home, the show has the effect of being clever and a little too solipsistic: it's about smart curators' making occasionally vivid and previously unseen connections among disparate works without making particularly fresh sense of the period as a whole. It's artistic game playing, highly pleasurable up to a point. The themes are always arguable, which is part of the game. This also becomes an occasion for the museum to parade acquisitions of the last decade, which include Gerhard Richter's series of paintings based on the Baader-Meinhof gang, occupying an entire room and probably the exhibition's high point. Hours: Saturdays through Tuesdays, and Thursdays, 10:30 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; Fridays, 10:30 a.m. to 8:15 p.m. Admission: $10; $6.50, students and the elderly (Kimmelman).
 
 * "RAIN OF THE MOON: SILVER IN ANCIENT PERU," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through April 22). Symbols of power and prestige in ancient Peru, gold and silver were equally revered, and Peruvian metalsmiths acquired great skill in the techniques of working them. This show deals with silver, harder to capture and preserve than gold, dating from the late first millennium B.C. to the Spanish conquest in the 16th century. The objects range from nose ornaments and ear pieces, some of them amazingly large, to human and animal figures, like a famous Inka llama whose hanging fleece is evoked by the rippled, crumpled sheet of silver that covers its body. As most gold and silver objects in Peru were melted down by the Spanish conquistadors, this show -- half from the Met's collection and half from loans -- amounts to a bonanza. It is the first devoted to the subject of pre-Columbian Peruvian silver. Hours and admission: See above (Glueck).
 
 * SCYTHIAN GOLD. "The Golden Deer of Eurasia: Scythian and Sarmatian Treasures From the Russian Steppes," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through Feb. 4). "Gold of the Nomads: Scythian Treasures From Ancient Ukraine," Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000 (through Jan. 21). Certain kinds of art are box-office gold. Art made of gold is one of them, and there's a Fort Knox-size supply of the precious stuff in these two opulent exhibitions. The Brooklyn show is a survey-style glimpse at some exquisitely wrought 14-carat objects drawn from museums in Ukraine, where the Scythians put down roots in the first millennium B.C. The Met has drop-dead museological rarities from the State Hermitage Museum, but the focus here, which gives the proceedings a kind of treasure-hunt thrill, is on a cache of objects excavated fairly recently from tombs belonging to non-Scythian people whose identity is something of a mystery. Ideally, the two shows should be seen together: they offer a really substantial archaeological update on the last big Scythian showcase in these parts, the Met's smash-hot "In the Land of the Scythians" of 25 years ago. Hours and admission: See above (Cotter).
 
Galleries: Uptown
 
* JAMES CASTLE, "The Common Place," Knoedler, 19 East 70th Street, (212) 794-0550 (through Jan. 13). Though deaf, speechless and illiterate, Castle (1900-77) drew with miraculous originality and steadfastness of purpose for most of his life. This exhibition presents more than 100 drawings, assemblages and small books, all created using homemade and found materials. The artist's strangely somber views of the ordinary rooms and grounds of the Idaho farm where he grew up have a haunting, deeply moving presence (Johnson).
 
 JOAN MIRO, "16 Late Masterworks," Salander-O'Reilly, 20 East 79th Street, (212) 879-6606 (through Jan. 6). Claims may be made for the Zen-like freedom of the paintings dating from 1966 to 1978 here, but in truth they look mostly unfinished. Miro's vocabulary of calligraphic signs, funny creatures, erotic symbols and radically simplified landscapes is familiar, but with the exception of a large, physically substantial collage on yellow sandpaper, most of the canvases look hastily and negligently made -- albeit with splattery energy -- and have none of the sensuous grace of Miro at his best (Johnson).
 
Galleries: 57th Street
 
"TIBOR DE NAGY GALLERY: THE FIRST 50 YEARS," Tibor de Nagy, 724 Fifth Avenue, (212) 262-5050 (through Jan. 20). This substantial exhibition of paintings celebrates the 50th anniversary of a gallery that started out as one of the most adventurous of its time. Selections from exhibitions of the past include Larry Rivers's famous life-size portrait of the poet Frank O'Hara wearing nothing but boots; a large, boldly calligraphic abstraction by Helen Frankenthaler in 1951; a wallpaper-like field of flowers by Joe Brainard; and a muted picture of buildings in the snow by Jane Wilson (Johnson).
 
Galleries: Chelsea
 
* "THE IMPERIAL GAZE," Sepia International, 148 West 24th Street, (212) 645-9444 (through Dec. 30). The British photographer Samuel Bourne was in India for only seven years (1863-70), but he took thousands of pictures, established a lucrative business and became well known for his cityscapes and pictures of architectural monuments. Like many quest-driven travelers, though, he wanted, even needed, something from India: in his case, an experience of the Sublime in nature. In Kashmir, he encountered an earthly Eden, and on arduous treks to the Himalayas he discovered the meaning of hugeness. The pictures that resulted are part of one of the richest bodies of photographic work to emerge from British India (Cotter).
 
 "MODERNISM DEFINED: JULIUS SHULMAN AND RICHARD NEUTRA," Yancey Richardson, 535 West 22nd Street, (212) 343-1255 (through Jan. 6). Now 90, Mr. Shulman began photographing the buildings of the modernist architect Richard Neutra in 1936. His black-and-white images of clean, airy, minimally furnished houses from the 1940's and 50's are more than just lucid documents; each glowing miniature conveys a heavenly vision of modern serenity (Johnson).
 
 "RECONFIGURING THE NEW YORK SCHOOL," Center for Figurative Painting, 115 West 30th Street, (212) 868-3452 (through Jan. 27). This show brings together 17 artists who continued to paint representationally over the last half-century despite the triumph of Abstract Expressionism. Ranging from Fairfield Porter's vividly painterly "View Through the Laundry Room Window" to a hyper-realist nude by Philip Pearlstein to Lennart Anderson's goofy neo-classical "Idyll," the show is incoherent and uneven but not uninteresting. Other works worth seeing are by Larry Rivers, Albert York and Louisa Matthiasdottir (Johnson).
 
 * CINDY SHERMAN, Metro Pictures, 519 West 24th Street, (212) 206-7100, (through Jan. 6). With her latest untitled series Ms. Sherman is back in front of the camera lens again, disguised as women who, you might say, used to be somebody, maybe. They grin at the camera in clownish make-up, wobbly wigs and discount blouses, proud, valiantly oblivious to, or simply defiant of, our condescension, like the beauty pageant queen who drops her baton in the talent contest but keeps beaming. Formal devices by Ms. Sherman get overlooked because of the human element: the pattern of pigtails against plaid shirt; the purplish freckled face of a woman with purple shirt and purple cap. This formal order becomes a rational structure that gives to the work its mix of frigidity and heat, a perfectly ambiguous cocktail for an ambiguous moment and an antidote to the weary sophistication of which there is too much in art now (Kimmelman).
 
 "THRIFTING," Lombard Freid, 531 West 26th Street, (212) 967-8040 (through Jan. 6). Seven emerging Texas artists who cleverly recycle found materials. Bill Davenport makes eccentrically poetic works, like a group of blue cans bearing mounds of fake snow; Katrina Moorhead transforms a piece of Styrofoam packing material into a wonderful little swimming pool using miniature tiles and real grout; Brad Tucker produces funky conjunctions of words, materials and objects; and Francesca Fuchs merges consumer products and abstract wall painting (Johnson).
 
 FATIMAH TUGGAR, Greene Naftali, 526 West 26th Street, (212) 463-7770, (through Jan. 6). Born in Nigeria, educated at Yale, Ms. Tuggar works in a variety of media to sensitize viewers to the gulf between African and Western experience. In large computer-processed photomontages, she mixes and layers disconnected images -- placing Western fashion models in an open-air African meat market, for example -- to surrealistic and politically provocative effect (Johnson).
 
 MARY WEATHERFORD, Debs & Co., 525 West 26th Street, (212) 643-2070 (through Jan. 6). Since bursting on the scene at the end of the 80's with her feminist revisions of Noland, Johns and Warhol, Ms. Weatherford has followed an unpredictable path. Her new canvases, punctuated by starfish, seashells and sponges, hover uneasily between faux-naif landscape and sophisticated Color Field painting (Johnson).
 
Galleries: SoHo
 
"COLLECTOR'S CHOICE," Exit Art, 548 Broadway, near Spring Street, (212) 966-7745 (through Dec. 30). Exit Art asked eight New York art collectors, "If you had $50,000 to spend on art, what would you buy?" The resulting sprawl of more than 100 works reflects the general complexion of the semi-hip marketplace more than any distinctively selective vision. Highlights include little colored balls in a corner by Tom Friedman, romantic paintings of toylike plants by Sally Ross and a mesmerizing video installation by Leo Villareal (Johnson).
 
 "FIGURE IN THE LANDSCAPE," Lehmann Maupin, 39 Greene Street, (212) 965-0753 (through Jan. 13). Organized by the conceptual artist Ronald Jones, this suggestive meditation on the influence of Philip Guston's viscerally cartoonish late work includes Matthew Ritchie's delirious, quasi-scientific mindscapes; Carroll Dunham's hilariously hostile macho-men; Monique Prieto's jaunty updates of Color Field painting; Anna Gaskell's mysterious photographic narrative about nurses; and an inert essay in art historical appropriation by David Salle. All revolve around a 1979 Guston work said to be a portrait of the artist's wife (Johnson).
 
 "FROM INSIDE THE BODY: CHINESE NEW PHOTOGRAPHY AND VIDEO," Ise Cultural Foundation, 555 Broadway, near Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 925-1649 (through Jan. 6). Most of the 11 participants in this show are appearing for the first time in the United States, and together they give some idea of ways in which many young Chinese artists, with access to international art magazines, museum catalogs and the Internet, are tailoring global styles to culturally specific ends. Some cook up contemporary riffs on traditional genres; others dive straight into a hallucinatory present, with themes that sometimes dovetail with those in recent work by artists in New York (Cotter).
 
 KEVIN LARMON, Curt Marcus, 578 Broadway, near Prince Street, (212) 226-3200 (through Jan. 6). Mr. Larmon, who has been exhibiting regularly in New York since 1984, updates the old Surrealist-Abstract Expressionist connection. Working toward the centers of raw plywood panels, he layers grisaille glazes over loose, swirling pencil lines, creating murky depths, serpentine biomorphic forms and tension between illusory dream space and the raw immediacy of paint and wood (Johnson).
 
 ARNOLD MESCHES, "Echoes, a Century Survey," Donahue/Sosinski Art, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, (212) 226-1111 (through Dec. 30). An impassioned Expressionist painter, Mr. Mesches, now 77, has stayed with figuration through all the art world "isms" of his time. His work combines his interest in 20th-century history -- wars, strikes, the Holocaust, class and economic struggles -- with his own immigrant family saga. He gets it down with the energy, bold colors and lively humor (if not great painting) that keep you looking. An old-fashioned show about feelings in an era of art world ironies, it nevertheless works. The painting helps: its rough, guileless, straight-from-the-tube abruptness strikes just the right note (Glueck).
 
 "A NEW YORK CIRCLE," Susan Teller, 568 Broadway, at Prince Street, (212) 941-7335 (through Dec. 30). Selected by a veteran New York modernist painter, Fannie Hillsmith, this exhibition of works by friends and acquaintances evokes a midcentury period when the progressive art world was far smaller and more intimate than today and the common language was Cubism. Besides Ms. Hillsmith's own robust Cubist still lifes, the show includes fine small works by such luminaries of American art as Louise Nevelson, Suzy Frelinghuysen, A. E. Gallatin, Alice Trumbull Mason and Charles Shaw (Johnson).
 
Other Galleries
 
* SIAH ARMAJANI, "Glass Room," Senior & Shopmaker Gallery, 21 East 26th Street, (212) 213-6767 (through Jan. 6). You couldn't live in this endearingly homespun "glass room," but then, it's not meant for that. Made of glass and plexiglass bricks and set on wagon wheels like a prairie schooner, it is packed with fanciful allusions and tributes: to country carpentry, old-style American farm life, vernacular rural architecture and, at the same time, the futuristic visions that glass seems to offer. Despite its transparency, it has a more private aspect than the long roster of bridges, houses, reading rooms, gardens and other structures -- some functional, some purely aesthetic -- with which Mr. Armajani has adorned the built world. Enigmatic yet accessible, sturdily constructed but for contemplation only, "Glass Room" is a sparkling addition (Glueck).
 
 ELIZABETH CAMPBELL AND GUY RICHARDS SMIT, Roebling Hall, 390 Wythe Avenue, at South Fiurth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 599-5352 (through Jan. 15; closed tomorrow through Jan. 9). In a more-than-promising local solo debut, Ms. Campbell has created a kind of stage set of a lived-in bedroom, then replicated it, connecting the two versions by a short hallway. The tossed-back bed sheets in one room are identical in every crease and fold to those in the other; the contents of the wastebaskets are piled up in precisely the same way. The results feel both wryly businesslike and basket-case-obsessive. Also on view is a wacky film by Mr. Smit titled "The Ballad of Bad Orpheus," a rock-opera retelling of the Greek myth filtered through Genet, Fassbinder and "On the Town" (Cotter)
 
 * "HARD PRESSED: 600 YEARS OF PRINTS AND PROCESS," AXA Gallery, 787 Seventh Avenue, at 51st Street, (212) 554-4818 (through Jan. 13). A thumbnail history of exploration in the field of fine art prints, from earliest woodcuts to digital technology, running from Durer to Kiki Smith, from Rembrandt to Robert Rauschenberg and beyond. Woodcuts, intaglio prints, drypoint etchings, lithography and newer techniques are carefully explained and illustrated, with notable early examples like Rembrandt's drypoint "Three Crosses" and more current events like Peter Halley's unlimited edition "Superdream Mutation" (1993), which existed only on a computer screen (Glueck).
 
 * RICHARD NONAS, "A Ghost in Every Kayak," Five Myles, 558 St. Johns Place, Crown Heights, Brooklyn, (718) 783-4438 (through Dec. 30). Established by the theater director and performer Hanne Tierney in memory of her son Myles, a news photographer killed in Sierra Leone in 1998, this maverick gallery has an entrancing show put together by Mr. Nonas. Examples of his floor-hugging post-minimalist work run down the center of the gray-painted space. Walls are hung with an extraordinary collection of boats, full-scale replicas and near-abstract models fashioned by the artist (Cotter).
 
 PAUL PFEIFFER, the Project, 427 West 126th Street, Harlem (212) 662-8610 (through Jan. 7). The emotional, almost religious intensity that infuses Mr. Pfeiffer's tiny wall-mounted video tapes, and created such a buzz around the artist last spring, is all but absent in this show. The power of his work stems from intimate encounters with small, moving images lifted from pre-existing footage and ingeniously Pfeifferized. Thus a large installation and some manipulated photographs founder on the seas of one-liner cerebralness. Only "The Long Count (I Shook Up the World)," based on the 1964 Clay-Liston fight, reflects Mr. Pfeiffer's poetic understanding of the meanings to be found at the nexus of the body, the camera and American life (Smith).
 
 "TO BE CONTINUED," Art in General, 79 Walker Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-0473 (through Jan. 8); Parlour Projects, 214 Devoe Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (917) 723-8626 (Sundays, noon to 4 p.m., through Jan. 7); Bellwether,150 Franklin Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 389-3213 (Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 6 p.m., through Jan. 7.) This collaborative show of Brooklyn artists is spread over the three galleries: all 13 artists appear at Art in General, and selectively at the smaller Brooklyn spaces. Anissa Mack's video "First Person/Third Party" starts everything off on just the right upbeat, networking note in Manhattan. At Parlour Projects, pieces by Anoka Faruqee and Douglas Ross look good, as do the works by Danica Phelps, Perry Meigs, Michelle Hines and Eli Sudbrack at Bellwether, which also has flatfiles to delve into (Cotter).
 
Last Chance
 
KIM DINGLE, "Never in School," Sperone Westwater, 121 Greene Street, SoHo, (212) 431-3685 (through today). In dainty dresses and Mary Jane shoes, two small troublemakers, Fatty and Fudge, use classroom and playground for their subversive antics: fighting, taking off their clothes, writing dirty words on a blackboard and generally mess-making. What brings it all off is Ms. Dingle's chronicling of their cartoony doings in a satirical painting mode usually reserved for high-art subjects. Velazquez, meet Fatty and Fudge (Glueck).
 
 * "FROM THE ARTIST'S STUDIO: UNKNOWN PRINTS AND DRAWINGS BY MARY CASSATT," Adelson Galleries, 25 East 77th Street, (212) 439-6800 (through today). This extraordinary exhibition presents 120 prints and drawings from a heretofore privately held collection. Covering the entire course of Cassatt's printmaking career, it features multiple states of many of the great color etchings that she produced after seeing a show of Japanese woodcuts in Paris in 1890. These intimate images of women in private domestic moments or tending children are as striking for their abstract structure as for their incipiently erotic sensuality (Johnson).
 
 LASZLO MOHOLY-NAGY, Ubu, 16 East 78th Street, (212) 794-4444 (through today). Moholy-Nagy (1895-1946), the once hugely influential Modernist and Bauhaus educator, is today only hazily remembered. The show is like a hall of mirrors that palely reflect many more interesting artists: Rodchenko, Mondrian, Man Ray and others. Moholy-Nagy's dream of fusion among art, science and industry shows in a Constructivist formalism that, while not unplayful, has a bland, corporate impersonality (Johnson).
 
 LORDY RODRIGUEZ, "States," Clementine, 526 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 243-5937 (through tomorrow). Mr. Rodriguez's extraordinarily detailed, beautifully handmade ink-on-paper maps look normal from a distance, but up close you discover they are totally zany. Following a systematically re-imagined United States geography, New York has been moved to Michigan; Connecticut occupies a western coast and is engulfed by Montana; the capital of Kansas is Miami. These plausibly rendered yet fantastic revisions of reality are oddly exhilarating (Johnson).
 
 LAURIE SIMMONS, "Tourism, 1984," Skarstedt Fine Art, 1018 Madison Avenue, at 78th Street, (212) 737-2060 (through tomorrow). Known for her photography of constructed miniscale scenes, Ms. Simmons concocted "Tourism, 1984" after a harried visit to the Acropolis that year. She decided that such glamour destinations might be better experienced in reproduction, the way most of us know and remember them anyway. So she photographed her doll-size "Teenettes" against sites blown up from bad slides: Las Vegas, the Great Wall of China, the Taj Mahal and other cliche attractions. To make it more fantastical, the stiff little mannequins that stand agape at the backdrops take on the coloration of the slides (Glueck).
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Detail from an untitled work by James Castle, in an exhibition of his drawings, assemblages and small books at Knoedler on East 70th Street. (Knoedler); A silver "panpiper vessel" in "Rain of the Moon," at the Metropolitan. (Metropolitan Museum of Art)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SCOTLAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (82%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (82%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SCOTLAND (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (97%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); PAINTING (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); FASHION DESIGN (73%); DRAFTING (73%); FASHION & APPAREL (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (50%); 

PERSON: GIORGIO ARMANI (91%); GIORGIO ARMANI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2000

 
