

1 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; UPDATE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: Tour Iran? Operators Hope So

BYLINE: By EMILY BRENNAN

 BODY:
At the top of the agenda of Iran's new president, Hassan Rouhani, is fixing the country's crumbling economy, and promoting international tourism is part of his solution. 
Mr. Rouhani wants the number of foreign visitors to more than double, to 10 million from 4 million, each year, according to a report last month in The Washington Post. Such an increase, The Post reported Mr. Rouhani as saying, would ''create jobs for 4 million people, solving the problem of 3.5 million unemployed people in this country.''
That goal is welcome news to Hamid R. Tavassoli, founder of Iranian Tours, a Tehran-based agency that runs guided trips to cities like Yazd and Shiraz.
''I believe the Iranian culture, nature, hospitality and infrastructure very well deserves a much larger number of tourists to visit the country,'' he said.
Mr. Tavassoli said he credits Mr. Rouhani's election in June for an increase in inquiries -- double the number, he estimated, of last August -- that he has received from foreign tourists, mostly from neighboring countries and from Europe.
Mr. Rouhani, a moderate cleric, has indicated that he is open to working with the outside world to lift the international economic restrictions connected to Iran's nuclear program. The Iranian parliament's recent confirmation of an American-educated diplomat as foreign minister suggested that Mr. Rouhani was moving forward in his campaign promise to engage with the United States.
The shift has led the World Affairs Council of Philadelphia, an educational organization, to resume tours to Iran, starting with a trip in April 2014. The organization had suspended such tours in 2011 after tensions between Iran and the United States escalated over the imprisonment of three American hikers who had been detained for two years on espionage charges, but who were later released that year.
Iran, once a popular stop along the overland ''hippie'' trail from Europe to India in the 1970s, has plenty to pique the interest of foreign tourists. It boasts 16 Unesco World Heritage sites, including the ruins of Persepolis dating to 518 B.C. and the 17th-century monumental arcades of Imam Square in Isfahan.
The renewed interest in Iran among Americans, however, is not shared by the United States State Department. When contacted last month by e-mail, the department noted its travel warning for Iran, which it updated on May 24. ''Since 2009, Iranian authorities have prevented the departure, in some cases for several months, of a number of Iranian-American citizens,'' the warning read. ''Iranian authorities also have unjustly detained or imprisoned U.S. citizens on various charges, including espionage and posing a threat to national security.''
The United States government has not had diplomatic or consular relations with Iran since the hostage crisis, which began in 1979 and lasted for 14 months. The warning stated that the United States cannot provide protection or routine consular services to its citizens (the Swiss government serves as protecting power for United States interests in Iran).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The ruins of Persepolis are among Iran's Unesco World Heritage sites. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALBUM/PRISMA, VIA NEWSCOM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (91%); TOURISM (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); ESPIONAGE (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HIKING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); TRAVEL WARNINGS (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (65%); HOSTAGE TAKING (62%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS EDUCATIONAL SCIENTIFIC & CULTURAL ORGANIZATION (59%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: HASSAN ROUHANI (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SHIRAZ, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%); ESFAHAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); INDIA (79%); IRAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013



2 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL | 2014 BMW 328 I SPORTS WAGON; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: Arriving in Style Just as the Tailgate Party Winds Down

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
Considering the rarity of station wagons in America, BMW's new tailgating 3 Series set me wondering: who exactly spends $50,000 or more on a compact wagon, instead of going the usual American route with an S.U.V. or a crossover?
In certain locales scented with artisanal coffee and self-affirmation -- college towns, gentrified urban blocks, Ralph Lauren suburbs -- the natives have circled the wagons for what may be their last stand. Strangely, considering the station wagon's wood-paneled role in American cultural history, today's downsized models rarely seem to have children on board. Instead, they seem to be favored by bearded software developers, practical-performance iconoclasts and empty nesters in mourning for the boxy old Volvos and Subarus they once drove.
Like many people who write about cars, I also have a thing for wagons, the more out-there, the better. For instance, the Cadillac CTS-V, Mercedes E63 AMG and Ferrari FF wagons -- the latter the most unexpected of all -- make a combined 1,784 horsepower, and their average top speed is nearly 195 m.p.h. But you're as likely to see a Lamborghini at your local Dairy Queen as to spot any of those exotic family haulers pulling up for Xtreme Blizzards. 
To ensure their survival, even mainstream wagons may soon need a nature preserve -- perhaps a simulated ''Leave It to Beaver'' environment of pink houses and picket fences.
This year, Americans have just nine wagon models to choose from, down from 24 in 2004, according to LMC Automotive, an industry research firm. Their percentage of the market, not strong to begin with, slipped to 1.1 percent last year, to a paltry 165,000 sales. (A single model, the Subaru Outback, accounted for 112,000 of those.)
As the enlarged version of the latest 3 Series sedan, the 328i xDrive does its part to keep wagons from extinction.
It's an especially handsome member of its herd, with a squinty version of BMW's twin-kidney grille and a streamlined, scalloped fuselage.
Compared with the former model, the Sports Wagon has grown 3.5 inches in length and almost 2 inches in wheelbase. The BMW's track, or the space between the opposing wheels, is 1.2 inches wider up front and 1.6 inches in back. The result is nearly an inch more of legroom in the back seat and an 8 percent increase in cargo volume, to 53 cubic feet.
For all of a wagon's advantages over S.U.V.'s -- reduced weight, better aerodynamics and mileage, generally superior handling -- its relatively low roofline remains the biggest practical demerit. BMW's X3 crossover S.U.V. can fit 62 percent more gear behind its second row and nearly 20 percent more over all. That includes taller, bulkier items -- furniture, bicycles, boxes -- than the wagon can swallow.
Yet the new BMW makes the most of its modest dimensions. The redesign, which includes more high-strength steel, carves out a larger hatch opening. The load floor is lower to the ground, too, for easier lifting of cargo.
A power tailgate opens via the remote key or an interior button. If you order the Comfort Access feature, the tailgate swings open when you wiggle a foot under the rear bumper, a useful hands-free feature first offered by Ford.
The rear seat folds flat in a 40-20-40 arrangement, making it easy to haul, say, four sets of skis for four passengers. The cargo area gets four tie-downs, a 12-volt outlet and coat hooks. With run-flat tires eliminating the spare, there's extra space under the floor; in a clever touch, the retracting rear luggage cover detaches for storage below deck when it's not needed. A rear-view camera with a 360-degree top-down view, part of a $1,900 Driver Assistance Package, made it a breeze to park without scraping the pretty 18-inch alloy rims on the curb.
Figuring there's no sense importing myriad models to satisfy a tiny cult of American wagon enthusiasts, BMW offers only xDrive all-wheel-drive versions with the excellent 8-speed automatic transmission. So there's no rear-drive version, no manual transmission and no 335i variant with its turbocharged 300-horsepower in-line 6.
What BMW does offer is gasoline and diesel engines whose performance and mileage are unmatched in its field. The 328i gets the 2-liter turbo TwinPower 4 with 241 horses and 258 pound-feet of torque. That gas-burning wagon hustles to 60 m.p.h. in six seconds, with the free-revving brio and wall-to-wall torque that's a signature of this remarkable motor.
Stand outside, and you'll hear the engine's tick-tick idle and direct-injector noise, but the uncouth behavior disappears once the car is under way. The same can't be said for the standard engine stop-start function, which restarts the car at stoplights with an intrusive shudder.
The 328i is also rated at 22 miles per gallon in town and 33 on the highway, and that's no fooling. Set to its EcoPro mode, the BMW actually indicated 35 m.p.g. over a long 60 m.p.h. cruise -- commendable economy for such a strong, relatively spacious car.
Premium fuel, of course, is required.
That Eco Pro setting saves gas by softening the accelerator response, selecting higher gears and dialing back the power to systems like the heated seats and climate control. Drivers can select Comfort and Sport settings as well.
As in other BMWs with this small-caliber engine, the wagon sipped responsibly even when my driving was anything but. Hammered from New York to Boston in a convoy with a Corvette and two German sedans, the BMW still returned 30 m.p.g.
A truly miserly wagon master can opt for the diesel version, the 328d xDrive, which starts at $43,875, a reasonable $1,500 premium over the gasoline-sipping car. The 328d's 2-liter turbodiesel -- with 180 horsepower and 280 pound-feet of torque -- is rated 31 m.p.g. city, 43 highway. (The same diesel engine in the rear-drive 328d sedan achieves 32/45 m.p.g.)
Nor is the diesel wagon a slouch in acceleration, moving from a standstill to 60 m.p.h. in 7.7 seconds.
BMW says the new wagon's structure is 10 percent stiffer. Ride quality, even with the run-flat tires, is smoother than Robin Thicke at a Ladies' Night.
Yet there's a growing chink in the BMW's once-impregnable armor. This is the softest, spongiest 3 Series I can recall, with too little feedback from the electric power steering. The steering is accuracy itself, and the BMW will still fly through curves. But on initial flights, neither the car nor the driver gains the confidence you expect from this handling benchmark. Opting for the $1,000 Dynamic Handling Package, which adds variable sport steering and a stiffer M sport suspension, should help firm the flab. But let's hope that the coming 4 Series coupe can provide a template for BMW to get the 3 Series back on the fun-to-drive track.
As ever with BMW, if you get the options, the options get you. Savvy dealers will invite prospects to luxuriate inside models with Sport Line, Luxury Line, Modern Line or M Sport Line packages, which run from $2,200 to nearly $4,000. That still leaves many more option packages to dither over: Lighting ($900), Cold Weather ($950), Driver Assistance Plus ($1,900), Premium ($2,200) and Technology ($3,150). I scoured BMW's online configurator for the Money Saving Package, but couldn't find it.
From a $42,375 base, an exploding piñata of options blew the window sticker of my 328i test car to $55,900. Even the gray metallic paint added $550.
That's a lot of money for a compact wagon, even one as resplendent and advanced as the BMW. Perhaps that's why bearded software developers in Silicon Valley are still fond of German sport wagons: they can actually afford one.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DRINK PREFERENCE?: The Sports Wagon comes in gasoline or diesel versions, both with all-wheel drive only. (AU1)
 CARRY ON: A larger rear opening and lower floor add utility. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BMW OF NORTH AMERICA) (AU8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); SEDANS (78%); HISTORY (75%); RODENTS (69%); EMPTY NESTERS (69%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (54%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (54%)

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL DAIRY QUEEN INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5046 COMMERCIAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (55%)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013



3 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2194 words

HEADLINE: A Data Broker Offers a Peek Behind the Curtain

BYLINE: By NATASHA SINGER

 BODY:
IT can be disconcerting to learn what, not to mention how much, marketers know about us. Consider a consumer like Scott E. Howe.
The Acxiom Corporation, a marketing technology company that has amassed details on the household makeup, financial means, shopping preferences and leisure pursuits of a majority of adults in the United States, knows that Mr. Howe is 45, married with children, the owner of a house in the 2,500-square-foot range, and is interested, among other things, in tennis, domestic travel, cooking, crafts, sweepstakes and contests. Those intimate details, Mr. Howe says, are entirely accurate.
''I am crazy about that stuff,'' he says of the sweepstakes and contests.
Mr. Howe is one of the first Americans to get a detailed glimpse of his own marketing profile because he happens to be the chief executive of Acxiom. But most consumers never learn the specific pieces of information that have been compiled about them by marketers. 
That is about to change. Acxiom, one of the most secretive and prolific collectors of consumer information, is embarking on a novel public relations strategy: openness. On Wednesday, it plans to unveil a free Web site where United States consumers can view some of the information the company has collected about them, just as Mr. Howe did.
The data on the site, called AbouttheData.com, includes biographical facts, like education level, marital status and number of children in a household; homeownership status, including mortgage amount and property size; vehicle details, like the make, model and year; and economic data, like whether a household member is an active investor with a portfolio greater than $150,000. Also available will be the consumer's recent purchase categories, like plus-size clothing or sports products; and household interests like golf, dogs, text-messaging, cholesterol-related products or charities.
Each entry comes with an icon that visitors can click to learn about the sources behind the data -- whether self-reported consumer surveys, warranty registrations or public records like voter files. The program also lets people correct or suppress individual data elements, or to opt out entirely of having Acxiom collect and store marketing data about them.
With about $1.1 billion in revenue in its 2013 fiscal year, Acxiom is a leading player in an industry called data brokerage. The company collects, stores, analyzes and sells consumer data with the aim of helping its clients -- including well-known banks, credit card issuers, insurance companies, department stores and carmakers -- tailor marketing to their most valuable current customers or identify new customers.
A credit card issuer, for instance, could ask Acxiom to help aim a campaign for elite-level cards with concierge services at people above a certain income who live in certain suburbs or drive luxury cars. To do that, Acxiom, like many of its competitors, often uses its own proprietary classification system to segment consumers into socioeconomic marketing categories, like ''Frugal Families'' or ''McMansions and Minivans.''
Some federal regulators and privacy advocates warn that this kind of data-mining could be used to aim at consumers vulnerable to predatory lending practices, for instance, or to favor certain high-value consumers with instant, attentive customer service while relegating other people to interminable wait time.
Mr. Howe says he wants to counter such fears by making industry practices more transparent. A former Microsoft executive, he came to Acxiom as C.E.O. in 2011, bringing the online industry's enthusiasm for data sharing to what had been a hermetic company.
''We are not going to get anywhere by hiding,'' he said in a recent interview at Acxiom's headquarters in Little Rock, Ark. ''You have to make things visible.''
But AbouttheData.com is as much ruthlessly pragmatic as idealistic. Mr. Howe recognizes that regulation of his industry may be coming and that it's better for Acxiom to be seen as a part of the solution than a part of the problem.
ONE afternoon in late August, Mr. Howe sat in an executive conference room at Acxiom's headquarters overlooking the Arkansas River, demonstrating a version of AbouttheData.com that was still a work in progress. Having filled out an identity verification form that asked for his name, birth date, address and the last four digits of his Social Security number, he landed on a page that gave him a choice of six data categories to examine.
Visitors who log in may be surprised at the volume of information that may be available and the detailed picture it can give of their personal lives. The household interest section, for instance, listed Mr. Howe as interested in health and medical issues (he subscribes to health industry trade journals and founded a site called Health123.com); crafts (he periodically works with stained glass); woodworking (he paid for his undergraduate education at Princeton in part by working as an apprentice carpenter); tennis (he was on his high school team); gardening (his wife subscribes to Fine Gardening magazine); and ''religious/inspirational.''
''I don't know how inspirational I am,'' Mr. Howe said. ''I am Methodist. My uncle is a Methodist preacher. I go to church very regularly.''
But consumers, he said, should not expect all information to be current or correct. For instance, the site listed Mr. Howe as the father of two; in fact, he is the father of three. It had also pegged him as Italian, but he is actually of Norwegian descent. (The system predicts likely ethnicity based on surname and is clearly imperfect.)
The home section, meanwhile, which listed such details as the year his house was built and its estimated market value, had incorrect information about his mortgage. ''I don't have a loan on my house anymore. It's drawing on old data,'' Mr. Howe explained. ''That's one I would absolutely go in and change.''
If a personal detail is corrected on the site, the new entry will appear with an aside noting the previous, incorrect entry, letting consumers see what they amended. Mr. Howe acknowledged that the system was fallible because Acxiom obtains information from many different suppliers, and the latest data is not always available in its databases. He said he couldn't predict how Acxiom's clients might react to a system that lets consumers update profiles and perhaps fictionalize them, or opt out altogether from Acxiom's marketing database.
''What happens if a flock of people who are 45 decide to be 39?'' Mr. Howe asked. ''What happens if 20 percent of the American population decides to opt out? It would be devastating for our business.''
If past consumer behavior is any sign, the number of opt-outs isn't likely to be high. For instance, Forrester Research reported this year that only 18 percent of Web users had activated an option in their browsers, called Do Not Track, that informs sites and ad networks that they don't want their browsing histories tracked for marketing purposes.
''It's a little bit of a risk,'' Mr. Howe added of the opt-out provision. ''But I feel it's the right thing to do.''
It may be both the right and the timely thing. The new consumer site should help Acxiom get out in front of potential regulation -- at a time when the company is about to introduce a more powerful consumer-targeting engine for its corporate clients that may well set off an outcry from privacy advocates. Last year, some members of Congress opened inquiries into the business practices of data brokers in light of an investigation by The New York Times.
Unlike consumer reporting agencies, which are required by the federal Fair Credit Reporting Act to show consumers free copies of their credit reports every 12 months and let them correct errors, information resellers like Acxiom aren't required to share marketing data with consumers and allow corrections. But some legislators and regulators believe that they should be.
''Citizens don't know what of our personal information is on file or how it is being used,'' Julie Brill, a member of the Federal Trade Commission, wrote in an op-ed article in The Washington Post in August, asking companies like Acxiom to make their practices more transparent. She added: ''This frames the fundamental challenge to consumer privacy in the online marketplace: our loss of control over our most private and sensitive information.''
Industry representatives say it is unnecessary to show consumers their marketing data because, they say, reputable companies limit that data's use to innocuous purposes; they also contend that such consumer services would be too technically challenging and expensive to develop. In an open letter to Ms. Brill responding to her article, the Direct Marketing Association, a trade group, said consumer access programs ''would lead to more fraud and limit the efficacy of companies and data.''
Acxiom's new site seems calculated to allay regulators' concerns, at least in part, and to challenge the industry status quo at the same time.
''You may be surprised to know that we are in favor of heightened industry regulation, but we want to make sure we have a voice in the process,'' Mr. Howe said. Aboutthedata.com is Acxiom's bid to have a say in any legislative or regulatory developments. ''If we are on our front foot, if we innovate and we are learning,'' he said, ''we think that earns us a seat at the table.''
MR. HOWE calls himself a ''data geek'' and believes that every business decision could be made better with ''the intelligent application of data.'' He uses that strategy to inform his own pursuits.
When he was new to Little Rock and wanted to find great barbecue, he canvassed Acxiom employees by e-mail and received several hundred responses. He visited the 10 most recommended places and later sent his rankings, with the reasons behind them, to employees. (The winner was the Whole Hog Cafe.)
As Mr. Howe envisioned an Acxiom consumer portal, he used a similar method, researching how other industries have responded to consumer concerns about lack of transparency. He saw how Subway, the sandwich chain, made nutrition information clearer and introduced a customer, Jared Fogle, to personify healthier menu options. Mr. Howe also consulted executives at credit reporting bureaus for advice on how a business-to-business industry could create a service for consumers.
''Everybody said the hardest thing was changing the culture,'' he said. ''Take Acxiom. For 40 years, we talked about our three constituencies: our shareholders, our associates and our clients. But there's a fourth constituency: consumers.''
Even so, Aboutthedata.com is a self-serving endeavor, promoting Acxiom's take on data-powered marketing to consumers. In fact, Mr. Howe sees the potential for developing a consumer business at Acxiom in which people could customize the kinds of advertising they want to see by selecting the activities and brands that interest them via AbouttheData.com. Consumers are going to receive ads no matter what, he said, so they may as well elect to receive pitches for stuff they enjoy.
Acxiom plans to add more data elements to the site regularly. Eventually, Mr. Howe said, the site may even ask people for more information about themselves in exchange for special services, online subscriptions or discounts. ''Could this be a new utility for consumers, having a user agent where they can choose the information they want to share?'' he said.
Although the site shows visitors a few facts that some might consider sensitive, like race and ethnicity, it initially omits, at least in the version I saw, intimate references -- like ''gambling,'' ''senior needs,'' ''smoker in the household'' and ''adult with wealthy parent'' -- that Acxiom markets to corporate clients but that might discomfit consumers if they knew they were for sale. (Acxiom said that the site includes the ''core'' facts it has collected about consumers, but that it might add ''derived'' data, like propensity for gambling, at a later date.)
This kind of anodyne presentation of data-mining, says Joseph Turow, a professor at the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania, could prompt people to collude in their own surveillance by perfecting their profiles. That would improve the quality and resale value of the data for Acxiom, he says, perhaps to consumers' detriment.
''Bits of Acxiom data that seem totally benign on their own could be matched with other data and used in ways that consumers don't want it to be used,'' said Professor Turow, who had not yet seen the new Acxiom site.
Privacy advocates like Professor Turow warn that this kind of system could influence consumers to provide more information than is good for them. ''It's just a game they are playing for marketing purposes and to make regulators feel better,'' he said of the Acxiom project.
But Mr. Howe said Acxiom planned to solicit and respond to feedback once the site opens. ''Some people are going to say, 'That's not nearly good enough,' '' he said. ''This is a first step.''
YOU FOR SALE: This is the fifth in a series about the business of consumer data. Previous articles are at nytimes.com/business

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Acxiom, led by Scott Howe, has a new strategy: openness with consumers. (BU1)
''You have to make things visible,'' says Scott Howe, who demonstrated a Web site that will let consumers see some of Acxiom's data about them. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JACOB SLATON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU6) DRAWING (BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SWEEPSTAKES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); RETAILERS (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (73%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (66%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); CREDIT CARDS (60%); INSURANCE (60%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (60%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (60%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); EXECUTIVES (53%); TEXT MESSAGING (50%)

COMPANY: ACXIOM CORP (94%); ACXIOM FRANCE SAS (85%)

TICKER: XIM (FRA) (94%); ACXM (NASDAQ) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (94%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (94%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (94%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (94%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013



4 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: Those Who Elect for All

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
As conventional wisdom has it, New Yorkers are seeking a striking change in tone in the coming mayoral election, one that makes the selection of a Democratic mayor seem almost inevitable and the party's primary process likely to represent the conclusion of the story rather than the plot-escalating middle. As we've also been made to understand, a relatively small number of voters will determine the outcome of the primary race.
In the fall of 2001, after the historic calamities of 9/11, just over 785,000 people voted in the Democratic primary, which marked a robust showing, particularly since voting had been put off two weeks because of the terrorist attack. If similar numbers are achieved in this year's primary, on Sept. 10 -- and that is hardly assured -- then one-sixth of the city's electorate and a tenth of its population could in effect be choosing our next mayor. 
Who constitutes our class of decision makers? History is by no means predictive, but voting patterns in the city are at once not altogether surprising and defiant of certain assumptions. In New York, as in most parts of the country, presidential elections draw more voters than local ones. The ethos that compels us to buy bacon cured from the meat of pigs raised within a 100-mile radius does not reflexively translate into a sense of urgency about how our communities are governed.
Approximately 2.6 million people in New York City voted in the general election that gave President Obama his first term, while 1.5 million people voted in the general election that gave Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg his -- even though the impact of any individual vote cast in a presidential election in New York City is obviously less meaningful than one vote for a state or city office.
There is also no certainty that because we find ourselves at a compelling juncture, after Mr. Bloomberg's long reign, that tens of thousands of previously dormant or new voters will emerge. This past spring, Los Angeles, facing high unemployment and fiscal deficits, elected its first new mayor in eight years, the youthful Eric Garcetti. He won with fewer votes than any newly elected mayor since the 1930s, according to The Los Angeles Times. Only 23 percent of registered voters cast ballots.
In New York City the electorate is older than the adult population on the whole, and skews more female. The dependable voting blocs in Democratic primaries are union members, Jews and the Fairway demographic of the affluent and educated.
Within that universe, no part of the city has grown more popular over the past decade, or laid greater claim to media attention (and parody) than brownstone Brooklyn, the mindscape with which Bill de Blasio is most closely aligned. But its outsize image as a liberal Eden is not matched by its level of political engagement. Turnout is relatively strong but not astonishing. Data compiled by the longtime political consultant Jerry Skurnik looking at the percentage of Democrats who voted in at least one primary since 2009, in ZIP codes across the city, found neighborhoods like Fort Greene and Brooklyn Heights to have turnout rates of approximately 30 percent, which is six points above the citywide average. Poor neighborhoods typically vote in considerably lower proportion.
But this also means that 70 percent of the registered Democrats in Park Slope did not vote in a recent primary. And while Park Slope has healthy turnout, it has by no means the highest. Forest Hills, in Queens, a neighborhood that in the minds of many New Yorkers might have no particular resonance beyond the fact of ''Strangers on a Train,'' had a primary turnout of 40 percent.
While we are on the subject of anthropologically fussed-over urban social categories, what of the Earnest Young Hipster? Are there significant political consequences to the existence of such a person? Mr. Skurnik's data has the colonies inhabited by this archetype, Greenpoint and Bushwick in Brooklyn, with turnout rates of about 22 percent.
After the 2008 presidential election, a group called the New Kings Democrats formed to capitalize on the incredible enthusiasm Mr. Obama generated among young voters and to funnel that passion into challenging the old-school politics of the Brooklyn Democratic machine, then run by Vito J. Lopez. Five years later, the New Kings have fewer than 200 dues-paying members, one of its founders, Lincoln Restler, told me.
Last year, when Mr. Restler, who is 29 and looks like Al Franken, ran to keep his seat as the Democratic leader in Brooklyn's 50th Assembly District, he lost by 19 votes to a candidate backed by Mr. Lopez.
Driving up voter registration is also a challenge. Two years ago, the New Kings began an effort to encourage Brooklynites in their 20s and 30s toward more active political participation. The group registered more than 1,000 people. ''It sounds like not so big a number in a borough of two and a half million people,'' Mr. Restler told me, ''but the main targets are people who've moved recently and people who've been through the criminal justice system and don't believe they can vote.''
''It's hard work,'' he said. ''We'd have three people spending two and three hours at the McCarren farmers' market and getting eight or nine people.''
Another question is what role Hispanics will play in the election, given that their numbers have grown over the past decade. John Mollenkopf, a political science professor at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York who analyzes voting patterns in New York, identified 736,000 voters in the city with Hispanic surnames. Of those, 193,000 have voted in at least one Democratic primary at the federal, state or city level since 2000. But only 7 percent of those primary voters registered in the past five years, Professor Mollenkopf said, with the median year of registration being 1997.
''And the Dreamers,'' he noted, ''by definition aren't going to vote.''
E-mail: bigcity@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Conventional wisdom calls for a Democrat to be elected mayor in November. Two of the leading Democratic candidates are Bill de Blasio, above left, and Christine C. Quinn. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (94%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); MAYORS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); TERRORISM (70%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (54%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (81%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013



5 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 271 words

HEADLINE: Sonali Bloom, Ilan Gutherz

 BODY:
Sonali Reddy Bloom, the daughter of Lakshmi Reddy Bloom and David E. Bloom of Weston, Mass., is to be married Sunday afternoon to Ilan Weiner Gutherz, a son of Carmi Weiner Gutherz and Rabbi Thomas A. Gutherz of Charlottesville, Va. The groom's father is to officiate at the Gardens at Elm Bank, an event space, at the Massachusetts Horticultural Society in Wellesley, Mass. 
The couple met in 2009 at Yale, from which the bride graduated and the groom received a master's degree in environmental management.
The bride, 25, will be keeping her name. She is the co-founder and the chief merchandising officer of Curio Road, an e-commerce site in Washington featuring jewelry, accessories and lifestyle products handmade in the United States. She is on the board of the Rose & Gold Foundation in Columbus, Ohio, which supports youth fencing and does community outreach through fencing to underprivileged youth in the Midwest.
Her father is the Clarence James Gamble professor of economics and demography at the Harvard School of Public Health in Boston. Her mother is the founder and chief executive of Data for Decisions, a consulting firm specializing in labor and employment law-related economics, in Weston.
The groom, 30, is an associate focusing on environmental and energy law at Van Ness Feldman, a Washington law firm. He graduated from the University of Virginia and received a law degree summa cum laude from Pace. Until 2011, the groom's mother worked as a family nurse practitioner at Endocrinology Associates, a group practice in Charlottesville. His father is a rabbi at Congregation Beth Israel, also in Charlottesville.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (93%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); HORTICULTURE (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); WORKING MOTHERS (72%); LEGAL SERVICES (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (68%); FAMILY PRACTICE (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); ENDOCRINOLOGY (66%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (54%); NURSES & NURSING (50%)

COMPANY: VAN NESS FELDMAN PC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (55%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (74%); BOSTON, MA, USA (73%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (69%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013



6 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 160 words

HEADLINE: The Chatter

 BODY:
''There's room for improvement, and we've seen some missed opportunities.''
Debbie Walsh, the director of the Center for American Women Politics at Rutgers University, talking about President Obama's record in appointing women to top posts. She is watching to see whether he might choose Janet L. Yellen as the first woman to lead the Federal Reserve. 
''I am positive that we have reached the bottom and this is the beginning of a recovery, although not a fast one whatsoever.''
Manuel Costa Reis, an economist at Present Value Consulting in Lisbon, talking about Portugal, which is increasing exports as a way to pull out of a recession.
''Everyone wants six or seven bedrooms and their pool and their tennis.''
Joe Farrell, president of Farrell Building, which has more than 20 new homes under construction, or scheduled for construction, in the Hamptons on Long Island. The big-spending ways that characterized the prefinancial-crisis era have returned to the area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (90%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); RECESSION (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); REAL ESTATE (85%); CONSTRUCTION (85%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PORTUGAL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013



7 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1349 words

HEADLINE: Silver Lining in China's Smog As It Puts Focus on Emissions

BYLINE: By CHRIS BUCKLEY

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- Jiang Kejun may be one of the few Beijing residents who see a ray of hope in the smog engulfing the city. A researcher in a state energy institute, he is an outspoken advocate of swiftly cutting China's greenhouse gas output, and he says public anger about noxious air has jolted the government, which long dismissed pollution as the necessary price of prosperity.
The grimy haze blanketing Beijing and other Chinese cities comes from motor vehicles, factories, power plants and furnaces that also emit carbon dioxide, the main global warming gas from human activities. The widespread ire about air pollution has forced China's new leadership to vow firmer, faster measures for cleaner air that are likely to reduce carbon dioxide output, especially from coal, experts said. ''The public concern about the air pollution has helped raise awareness about broader environmental problems,'' said Mr. Jiang, a researcher at the Energy Research Institute, which advises the Chinese government. ''This will be a big help in pushing China.'' 
Mr. Jiang is an unusual hybrid -- part policy insider, part maverick -- in a growing debate among Chinese officials, policy advisers and academics about how fast and far to limit greenhouse gas pollution, which now well exceeds that of any other country. The debate, increasingly vigorous but in typical Chinese fashion playing out largely behind the scenes, pits the demands of industrialization and urban growth against the realities of global warming.
Defying the habitual caution of government advisers, Mr. Jiang has developed a proposal to swiftly limit the growing volume of carbon dioxide that China produces from consuming fossil fuels, which constitute over a quarter of the world's total such emissions. In his blueprint, China's emissions would reach a peak by around 2025, at least five years earlier and at a much lower level than many Chinese experts have said is possible.
''I'm not saying it will be easy, but it's feasible,'' Mr. Jiang said. ''Time for effective action is very limited.''
His plan appears far from winning government endorsement, but is ''one of those trial balloons that wouldn't be floated unless there's serious discussion opening up about what China should do,'' said Barbara Finamore, Asia director at the Natural Resources Defense Council, a New York-based advocacy group.
Chinese policy advisers have developed proposals to control greenhouse gases in the nearer term, government-sponsored studies show. They include a carbon tax on fossil fuels, and beginning in 2016 setting annual guiding limits for carbon dioxide emissions from energy use. China will explore expanding nascent local carbon credit markets into a nationwide plan starting in 2015, Xie Zhenhua, an official who oversees climate change policy, said in late July.
In part, China is responding to international pressure, as governments negotiate a proposed new global agreement on climate change, scheduled to be settled in 2015 and go into force in 2020. In June, President Obama and President Xi Jinping agreed to discuss how to phase out hydrofluorocarbons, a potent class of manufactured greenhouse gases.
But domestic economic, energy and environmental worries are also forcing China's leaders to consider policies that could limit greenhouse gases, analysts said. The new leadership wants to reinvigorate the economy by reducing reliance on heavy industry that produces high amounts of pollution. Mr. Xi and Prime Minister Li Keqiang have vowed to clean up contaminated soil, air and water, and achieving those goals could also bring carbon reductions in their wake.
''Air pollution was the perfect catalyst,'' said Wai-Shin Chan, director of climate change strategy in Asia for HSBC Global Research in Hong Kong. ''Air pollution is clearly linked to health, and the great thing is that everybody -- that's government officials and company executives alike -- breathes the same air.''
There are, though, formidable obstacles facing proponents of rapidly cutting China's emissions. Robust economic growth remains imperative for leaders, who fear that slowing growth and rising joblessness would imperil the Communist Party's rule. China remains dependent on coal, the source of about 70 percent of the country's energy. And officials and companies in China are likely to resist steps they fear could jeopardize their industrial investments.
''They will not be happy to see that the investment in new capacity they made a few years ago may have to be scrapped,'' said Wang Tao, an expert on climate change and energy issues at the Carnegie-Tsinghua Center for Global Policy in Beijing. ''It really all depends on how quickly China can transform the current economic structure.''
In April, Mr. Xie, the climate change official, announced a reassessment of when and how high China's greenhouse gas pollution could peak. ''There is very limited room for putting more carbon emissions into the atmosphere,'' said Yang Fuqiang, an expert on Chinese climate change policy at the Natural Resources Defense Council. ''Determining when China could peak, and what the level will be, is extremely important for everyone and for working out a global pathway.''
The magnitude of that issue is evident in every Chinese city. Factories and homes run on power from plants that overwhelmingly use coal; and in the winter, many heating boilers in the north also burn coal. More cars and trucks crowd the roads. The expanding cities consume cement, steel and chemicals -- all industries that emit large amounts of carbon dioxide.
China has been the world's biggest emitter of carbon dioxide from fuel use since about 2006, when it passed the United States. In 2009, the Chinese government introduced a policy to reduce the carbon dioxide emitted in the production of each unit of economic activity by 40 to 45 percent by 2020, compared with levels in 2005. That means emissions grow along with China's economy, but at a slower rate than if there were no improvements.
Even with such efforts, China's size and feverish growth have pushed its emissions well past those of the United States. By 2011, China's carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuels accounted for 28 percent of the global total, and the United States' for 16 percent, according to the Global Carbon Project, a consortium of researchers. The International Energy Agency estimates that China's emissions grew by another 3.8 percent in 2012.
''I do not see anything coming out of China that would suggest a significant change in emissions in the short term,'' said Glen Peters, a researcher at the Center for International Climate and Environmental Research in Oslo. ''There would need to be some really radical policies to come out of China for a large change in the pathway to occur.''
Mr. Jiang, who has studied energy emissions for two decades, has that grand shift in mind. China must expand wind, solar and nuclear power beyond current targets, and curb heavy industry, forcing carbon dioxide emissions to peak within a dozen years, he argues. If China's effort is accompanied by big emissions cuts by rich countries, he says, then there is a good chance of avoiding rises in the global average temperature of beyond 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit above the preindustrial average, which most governments have agreed is a dangerous threshold.
But other Chinese government experts said their country must not risk its prosperity on such a shift.
Wang Zheng, a researcher at the Chinese Academy of Sciences, estimated that China's emissions were likely to reach their peak by around 2030 at up to almost a fifth higher than Mr. Jiang wants. ''If we aim for earlier, that may mean wrecking stable economic growth and triggering an economic crisis,'' Mr. Wang said.
Mr. Jiang said he would keep trying to persuade scientists and officials to back his proposal. Several years ago, some scoffed at his earlier, less ambitious idea for an emissions peak by 2030, which is now widely accepted.
''I've been in constant communication with the government,'' he said. ''They're listening, and at least they haven't yet said no.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DAYS OF HAZE: Top, a typical smoggy day in Tiananmen Square in Beijing this year. Above, Jiang Kejun, a researcher in a state energy institute, is an outspoken advocate of swiftly cutting China's greenhouse gas output, and he has developed a plan to accomplish that goal. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDY WONG/ASSOCIATED PRESS
SIM CHI YIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A6)
 Cooling towers in Beijing. China has been the world's biggest emitter of carbon dioxide from fuel use since about 2006. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DIEGO AZUBEL/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOG (91%); AIR POLLUTION (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); AIR QUALITY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); POWER PLANTS (77%); ENERGY RESEARCH (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); CITIES (73%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); CARBON OFFSETS (72%); FUEL TAX (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (92%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013



8 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINIONATOR; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: Who Will Prosper in the New World

BYLINE: By TYLER COWEN

 BODY:
Self-driving vehicles threaten to send truck drivers to the unemployment office. Computer programs can now write journalistic accounts of sporting events and stock price movements. There are even computers that can grade essay exams with reasonable accuracy, which could revolutionize my own job, teaching. Increasingly, machines are providing not only the brawn but the brains, too, and that raises the question of where humans fit into this picture -- who will prosper and who won't in this new kind of machine economy?
Who will do well? 
THE CONSCIENTIOUS Within five years we will are likely to have the world's best education, or close to it, online and free. But not everyone will sit down and go through the material without a professor pushing them to do the work.
Those who are motivated to use online resources will do much, much better in the generations to come. It's already the case that the best students from India are at the top in many Coursera classes, putting America's arguably less motivated bright young people to shame. ''Free'' doesn't really help you if you don't make an effort.PEOPLE WHO LISTEN TO COMPUTERS Your smartphone will record data on your life and, when asked, will tell you what to do, drawing on data from your home or from your spouse and friends if need be. ''You've thrown out that bread the last three times you've bought it, give it a pass'' will be a text message of the future. How about ''Now is not the time to start another argument with your wife''? The GPS is just the beginning of computer-guided instruction.
Take your smartphone on a date, and it might vibrate in your pocket to indicate ''Kiss her now.'' If you hesitate for fear of being seen as pushy, it may write: ''Who cares if you look bad? You are sampling optimally in the quest for a lifetime companion.''Those who won't listen, or who rebel out of spite, will be missing out on glittering prizes. Those of us who listen, while often envied, may feel more like puppets with deflated pride.
PEOPLE WITH A MARKETING TOUCH There will be a lot more wealth in this brave new world, but it won't be very evenly distributed because a lot of human labor won't seem like a special or scarce resource. Capturing the attention of customers with just the right human touch will command an increasing premium. Don't forget that Mark Zuckerberg was a psychology major in addition to being a tech genius. Sheer technical skill can be done by the machines, but integrating the tech side with an attention-grabbing innovation is a lot harder.
MOTIVATORS A lot of jobs will consist of making people feel either very good or very bad about themselves. Coaches, mentors and disciplinarians will spread to many areas of life, at least for those of us who can stand to listen to them. These people will cajole us, flatter us and shame us into improving our lives, our work habits and our consumption. That's why so many people go to yoga class instead of relying on the podcast. Managers who are motivators of first-rate talent will see their earnings continue to rise.
Who will be most likely to suffer from this technological revolution?
PEOPLE WITH DELICATE FEELINGS Computing and software will make it easier to measure performance and productivity.
It will be harder to gloss over our failings and maintain self-deception. In essence everyone will suffer the fate of professional chess players, who always know when they have lost a game, have an exact numerical rating for their overall performance, and find excuses for failure hard to come by.
Individuals will have many measures of their proficiency. They will have an incentive to disclose that information to get the better job or social opportunity. You'll assume the worst about those who keep secrets, and so openness will reign. Many of us will start to hate the idea of Big Data.
PEOPLE UNLUCKY IN HEALTH CARE Quality surgery and cancer treatment cannot be automated very easily. They will be highly expensive, and unlucky health breaks will be all the more tragic because not everyone will be able to afford the best treatments.
With marvelous diagnosis available online, some people will get the right treatments early on, whereas others will know exactly what they are dying from.
PEOPLE WHO DON'T NEED MONEY We are used to thinking in terms of rich, poor and middle class, but those categories will change. Berlin's eastern neighborhoods and Williamsburg, Brooklyn, are a window onto our future. These urban areas are full of people who are bright, culturally literate, Internet-savvy and far from committed to the idea of hard work directed toward earning a good middle-class living. We'll need a new name for the group of people who have the incomes of the lower middle class and the cultural habits of the wealthy or upper middle class. They will spread a libertarian worldview that working for other people full time is an abominable way to get by.
POLITICAL RADICALS: A mechanized, computer-driven, highly unequal future is sometimes viewed as a recipe for rebellion. But the Edward J. Snowden saga shows this won't be easy, as tech is at least as much an instrument for surveillance and control as it is for revolt. We're also aging rapidly, and that tends to make society more peaceful, less violent and less extreme in all directions. It was the 1960s, a peak era for manufacturing jobs and the American middle class, that brought so much social turmoil and unrest. The more that work is done by machines, the less compelling is the case for putting your manufacturing in a distant country where wages are low. If there is any big winner from all of these trends, it is probably the good ol' United States.
Tyler Cowen is a professor of economics at George Mason University and the author of the forthcoming book ''Average is Over,'' from which this essay is adapted.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC
 DRAWING (DRAWING BY RON BARRETT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); TRUCK DRIVERS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); SPORTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); TEXT MESSAGING (50%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013



9 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: An American Cyberoperations Offensive

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Newly disclosed budget documents for America's intelligence agencies show how aggressively the United States is now conducting offensive cyberoperations against other nations, even as the Obama administration protests attacks on American computer networks by China, Iran and Russia.
The documents, obtained by The Washington Post from Edward J. Snowden, the former National Security Agency contractor, and described by the paper in its Saturday editions, indicate 231 such operations in 2011, a year after the first evidence emerged of an American- and Israeli-led cyberattack against Iran's nuclear-enrichment center. 
That number suggests that President Obama was not deterred by the disclosure of the Iranian operation, which became evident because of a technological error, and is pressing ahead on using cyberweapons against a variety of targets.
The Post did not publish the documents. Last week, it said it had withheld most of the 178 pages of documents at the request of government officials because of the sensitivities of the spying operations they describe.
Unlike drone attacks, which the administration has begun to acknowledge publicly and provide legal justifications for, cyberattacks are still regarded as part of a secret arsenal that officials will not discuss.
The attacks described in the budget documents appear to be on a far smaller scale than the series of attacks on Iran, which were part of a classified operation called Olympic Games.
The Post reported a parallel effort, code-named GENIE, which it described as an effort by American intelligence officials working for the N.S.A. and the military's Cyber Command to insert surreptitious controls into foreign computer networks. That computer code, a form of malware, allows American officials to hijack the computers or route some of their data to servers that enable American espionage.
It is unclear how many, if any, of those 231 operations were merely for espionage or data manipulation, and how many may have been intended to destroy or disable infrastructure. Computerized espionage is not new, though the sophistication and scale of it has increased in recent years.
Offensive operations intended to alter data, turn off networks or destroy machines -- which is what made the Iran operation so complex and unusual -- are a far newer phenomenon. President Obama, in an executive order signed last year, has reserved the right to decide when the United States should conduct such operations. It is not clear how many of the 231 he approved.
Diplomatically, the disclosure of the latest Snowden documents poses a new challenge to Mr. Obama. He has pressed China to cease its own cyberoperations in the United States, many of which are aimed at the theft of intellectual property including corporate secrets and the plans for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, the country's most expensive new weapons system.
The Chinese have responded that America also conducts extensive cyberoperations, including against China, and will doubtless use the most recent disclosures to press that case. So far, Mr. Obama's effort to get the Chinese engaged in a deeper dialogue on cyberissues has yielded discussions, but little fruit.
The Pentagon has insisted that the United States does not engage in economic espionage, the specialty of Chinese forces like Unit 61398, a People's Liberation Army operation behind many of the intrusions into American systems.
But it does conduct what specialists call ''network exploitation,'' which it distinguishes from ''attacks,'' to obtain military or intelligence secrets and intercept cell and digital communications. Attacks, at least as defined by the military, would involve destruction of computer equipment or the facilities those networks run.
The Post said a budget document defined network exploitation as ''surreptitious virtual or physical access to create and sustain a presence inside targeted systems or facilities.'' That appears to be part of the offensive operations, and can often pave the way to ''facilitate future access,'' the document said.
The documents indicate that the N.S.A. spent $25 million on ''covert purchases of software vulnerabilities.'' These are often flaws in commercial software, often in the near-ubiquitous Windows operating system, that make it possible to secretly enter and manipulate data.
The bulk of the work inside the N.S.A. is conducted by the Tailored Access Operations group, one of the most secretive units in a secretive agency.
Recently, Gen. Keith B. Alexander, who directs the N.S.A. and commands the military's Cyber Command, spoke publicly of creating 40 cyberteams, including 13 focused on offensive operations.
The defensive operations include protections for the American military and other government agencies, and efforts to detect broad cyberattacks launched on the United States.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Edward J. Snowden provided documents describing intrusions into foreign computers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THE GUARDIAN, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CYBERCRIME (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (90%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MALICIOUS SOFTWARE (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); INFORMATION WARFARE (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (64%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (50%); OLYMPICS (50%); PROPERTY CRIMES (50%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (76%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%)

PERSON: EDWARD SNOWDEN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013



10 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Decision Bewilders Syrian Civilians and Draws Out Their Suspense

BYLINE: By ANNE BARNARD and HALA DROUBI; Anne Barnard reported from Beirut, and Hala Droubi from Dubai, United Arab Emirates. Hwaida Saad contributed reporting from Beirut; employees of The New York Times from Beirut and Damascus, Syria; and Karam Shomali from Antakya, Turkey.

 BODY:
BEIRUT, Lebanon -- At the end of a nerve-racking day in the cross hairs of American gunships, Syrians gathered around televisions to watch President Obama announce the start of an expected American missile strike.
When he instead declared that he would seek Congressional approval for the strikes -- telling them, essentially, never mind, for now -- Syrians were shocked. Also relieved, bewildered, confused, triumphant and angry.
Mohammed, 24, who opposes the government, watched the speech with friends who support it -- not an uncommon situation in Damascus, where, especially among the wealthy and educated, people on both sides still interact, and argue, freely. 
''They all suddenly turned into political analysts,'' he said. ''Some of them said he looked very scared in his speech, and some said he decided to backtrack because the decision was hasty, and others thought it's just a game he's playing and he's going to strike tonight.''
''I think there is a lot of fear among people,'' added Mohammed, who gave only his first name for safety reasons. ''They are trying to hide it, but they are afraid.''
Umm Hana, 58, watched Mr. Obama's speech with her husband and children in the central city of Homs, where government opponents have faced some of the country's fiercest army shelling. She said she regretted wasting time on him.
''It is just so clear -- they are playing us like puppets, but they all want him to stay,'' she said, referring to President Bashar al-Assad of Syria. ''Obama is full of talk. He's so weak and useless.''
For another Homs resident, Abu Bassam, 31, the only possible response was black humor.
''Man, I wish Bush was the president,'' he said. ''He would have reacted right away. He may have invaded Cyprus or Jordan instead of Syria by mistake, but you know he would have done something at least.''
But even some government opponents were relieved. Abeer Basal, a Damascus resident, had waited with clenched anxiety since word of an American strike began to circulate, along with reports that the government was moving political prisoners to military bases or leaving them in security offices that could be targets. Her brother was arrested eight months ago, and her family feared he could be killed, one of the many potential unintended consequences of a strike.
''While Obama was speaking,'' she said, ''my mother didn't stop crying and praying that they decide against the military involvement in Syria.''
Many Syrians feel deeply ambivalent about a strike, hoping it curbs the government's indiscriminate use of force -- by punishing Mr. Assad for deadly chemical attacks on Aug. 21 that American officials blame on his government -- but also fearing it could unleash new chaos.
Khalid al-Shami, a humanitarian aid worker in Damascus, summed up the quandary.
''I am against the military intervention in Syria if it will turn the country into the new Iraq,'' he said. ''I stand for it if it will in any way help to save souls.''
He said Mr. Obama appeared to be trying to keep the promise on which he was elected, to avoid repeating the mistakes of the American invasion of Iraq by limiting the scope of the strike and seeking consensus. It made sense, he said, that Mr. Obama would conceal the ''zero hour'' of the strike, and that he would take care to ensure it did not ''contradict his electoral program about keeping the U.S. away from further wars.''
But government supporters said Mr. Obama had backed down, either out of uncertainty over the evidence linking the government to the attacks, or out of fear.
Amin, 29, a Damascus resident, called the president ''a rational and intelligent man'' who, he said, ''won't get involved in a war when he's not certain the regime is behind the chemical attacks.''
He said Mr. Obama wanted to avoid the possibility of a deeper entanglement leading to regional spillover or American casualties, adding, ''I won't mention their concern for civilians, because it is the least of their concerns.''
Most of all, Syrians realized that their emotional roller coaster ride would continue. The postponement seemed bound to lengthen the period of suspense that has lingered for days.
Before the speech, Syrians spent the day discussing, debating and preparing for the attacks. They scoured corner shops for canned food, flashlights and candles; official news channels blasted patriotic music; and soldiers decamped to mosques and schools as the government tried to disperse its forces and arms into civilian buildings.
In central Damascus, where families still gather on weekends in parks with neatly planted flowers and splashing fountains, some people were sure the attacks would bring new dangers -- of what kind, they could not be sure -- while others said that whatever came next could not be worse than what they were used to.
One woman, a 29-year-old marketing executive, joked that the only difference would be the sounds: trading the thumps of both sides' mortars and the screech of the government's Russian-made MIG fighter jets for the thunder of Tomahawk missiles.
Syria's state broadcast channels synchronized their programming, continuing the solemn wartime programming that had played all day. They had canceled movies and dramas, mixing triumphal montages of cheering crowds and military exercises with more sedate fare. A report about the government's plans to offer free feed to herders suffering from the war's economic effects lingered over images of fat sheep grazing in dusty fields.
Across the country, rebels, government troops and civilians alike scurried to prepare. Fighters in the Free Syrian Army rebel coalition, who have long begged the United States to aid them more forcefully, honed plans to storm government bases, while their sometime allies in extremist Islamist groups -- convinced they were as much a target as the government -- scrambled for cover, taking down banners outside Shariah courthouses and headquarters and moving to new locations.
''We're very stressed here,'' said Abu Yoarob, a fighter with the Ansar al-Islam brigade in the northern province of Aleppo. ''It's affecting our nerves.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Syrian family crossed the border into Turkey on Saturday as people across the country scurried to prepare for American strikes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREGORIO BORGIA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (78%); APPROVALS (72%); ARRESTS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (90%) SYRIA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); LEBANON (92%); CYPRUS (79%); TURKEY (79%); JORDAN (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013



11 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DATAPOINTS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 263 words

HEADLINE: Income Gap Grows Wider (And Faster)

BYLINE: By ANNA BERNASEK

 BODY:
INCOME inequality in the United States has been growing for decades, but the trend appears to have accelerated during the Obama administration. One measure of this is the relationship between median and average wages. 
The median wage is straightforward: it's the midpoint of everyone's wages. Interpreting the average, though, can be tricky. If the income of a handful of people soars while everyone else's remains the same, the entire group's average may still rise substantially. So when average wages grow faster than the median, as happened from 2009 through 2011, it means that lower earners are falling further behind those at the top.
One way to see the acceleration in inequality is to look at the ratio of average to median annual wages. From 2001 through 2008, during the George W. Bush administration, that ratio grew at 0.28 percentage point per year. From 2009 through 2011, the latest year for which the data is available, the ratio increased 1.14 percentage points annually, or roughly four times faster.
The reasons for the widening income gap aren't entirely clear. Yes, the nation has had a big recession, but recessions typically tend to lessen inequality rather than increase it.
''We're seeing the continued effects of the weak labor market and the long-term trends involving technology and globalization,'' said Lawrence Katz, an economics professor at Harvard, ''Our self-inflicted wounds from austerity are also exacerbating things.''
It's always possible that the data for 2012 will show a narrowing of the gap, but Professor Katz says he wouldn't count on it.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHICS: 2009 through 2011 (Source: Social Security Administration) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (94%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (91%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (91%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRENDS (90%); STATISTICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%)

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013



12 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Catching Up With France on Day Care

BYLINE: By PAMELA DRUCKERMAN. 
A journalist and the author of ''Bringing Up Bébé: One American Mother Discovers the Wisdom of French Parenting.''

 BODY:
PARIS -- PRETTY much from the moment I got pregnant, neighbors and friends began urging me to apply for a spot in one of France's state-run day care centers.
I'd just smile politely. I figured this was another of those foreign habits -- like eating horse meat -- that I'd observe from a respectful distance. I couldn't fathom government employees changing my baby's diapers. And I couldn't really fathom day care in general. Didn't it cause attachment issues, or worse? I planned to hire a nanny.
Eventually -- propelled by curiosity, a looming book deadline and the fact that everyone else was doing it -- I applied for a spot in the ''crèche'' (rhymes with ''mesh''). It was a long shot anyway; in our area, only one in three applicants got in. I heard that it helped to sound desperate. So once my daughter was born -- my first child -- I sent a follow-up letter with my sob story: a full-time job, no family in France to help out, and a 5-week-old baby who, tragically, was hearing almost no French. 
Strangely, this worked. She got a spot for the fall, when she'd be 9 months old. Before long, I was dropping her off at the crèche around the corner four days a week. To my surprise, it wasn't a baby gulag. The people who worked there were caring and capable. It was subsidized by the state, with a sliding scale based on income, so I could afford it. My daughter seemed delighted. And I was getting my work done. Six years later, I've sent three kids through both the crèche and France's free universal public preschool and come out converted.
Nowadays, when I describe this conversion to my American friends -- about how I can't believe that in the United States parents are practically on their own until kids turn 5 -- I no longer feel like a brainwashed alien. Something is changing in America. A new interest in early childhood is driven by studies showing how powerfully and permanently children's brains are shaped when they're very young, and how the enormous gap between rich and poor children is already in place when they start kindergarten. The latest research by academics, including the Nobel laureate for economics James J. Heckman, says that fixing that gap is much easier when children are very small. Crucially, it's also much cheaper.
President Obama has pledged to get all poor and low-income 4-year-olds into prekindergarten, continuing a trend started by states like Oklahoma and Georgia. The city of San Antonio is starting a much watched pre-K program. Hillary Rodham Clinton recently announced ''Too Small to Fail,'' a project aimed at children ages 0 to 5.
Other countries are focusing on these years too. Preschool enrollment now averages 77 percent in developed countries, up from about 30 percent in 1998. In Germany, where many mothers are still expected to fetch their children from school at lunchtime, a new law guarantees state day care for all children older than a year. Even in Japan -- home of the salaryman -- the prime minister just announced plans to create more day care so mothers could work.
This isn't the first time Americans have urged the government to do more. In the early 1970s a sweeping national child care bill made it to President Richard M. Nixon's desk. But he vetoed it, pushed by conservatives who claimed that if it was too easy for women to work, the traditional American family was doomed.
It was doomed anyway. According to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development's most recent figures, 54 percent of American women with children age 3 and under are in the work force, as are 63 percent of those with children ages 3 to 5. Over all, 67 percent of women with children under 15 go to work. In other words, the dearth of decent child care isn't keeping mothers at home; it's just making their lives much harder.
Those private day care centers, preschools and nannies that most Americans pay for out of pocket are among the most expensive in the world, and their quality is uneven at best. In all those debates about whether women should ''lean in'' and how to juggle work and small children, increasingly someone is pointing out the elephant in the room: it would all be a lot easier if parents were getting some help.
None of this means that French-style crèches will soon be popping up in American cities. American solutions will have to be home grown. Still, one pocket of America already has a program that looks a lot like the French crèche. Babies are accepted from 6 weeks old. Fees are subsidized, and charged on a sliding scale. Quality is carefully monitored. There's usually a big scramble to get a spot. It's the Department of Defense, which runs one of the country's largest networks of day care centers, for the children of American servicemen and -women. I bet that, like me, they had no trouble getting used to it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); CHILD CARE (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); CHILDREN (89%); CHILD POVERTY (76%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (76%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (67%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (63%); US PRESIDENTS (61%); NOBEL PRIZES (60%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (74%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013



13 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 281 words

HEADLINE: Ashley Farmer, Adewole Adamson

 BODY:
Ashley Dawn Farmer and Dr. Adewole Shomari Adamson are to be married Sunday evening at the Carroll Slater Sifly Piazza of the High Museum of Art in Atlanta. The Rev. Cheryl Moore Adamson, a Baptist minister and a paternal aunt of the groom, will officiate. 
The bride, 28, who will keep her name, is a postdoctoral fellow, focusing on African-American women in the black power movement, at the Clayman Institute for Gender Research at Stanford. She graduated summa cum laude from Spelman College and received a master's in history from Harvard, from which she also received a doctorate of philosophy in African-American studies.
She is a daughter of Absolom C. Farmer of Nashville and the late Dr. Madeline Farmer. The bride's father retired as a psychologist in Nashville. Her mother, a psychiatrist, was the medical director focusing on mental health at Magellan Health Services in Nashville.
The groom, 30, is a second-year resident in dermatology at four Dallas hospitals: Parkland Hospital, North Dallas Veterans Affairs Hospital, St. Paul Hospital and Children's Hospital, all through the University of Texas Southwestern. He graduated magna cum laude from Morehouse College and received a master's in public policy at Harvard, from which he also received a medical degree.
He is a son of Charisse A. Adamson and Dr. Nelson L. Adamson of Silver Spring, Md. The groom's mother is a senior program analyst focusing on the budget of the policy program and planning bureau of the United States Agency for International Development in Washington. His father is a radiation oncologist at CentraCare Health-Monticello, a hospital in Monticello, Minn., and St. Cloud Hospital, in St. Cloud, Minn.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); PSYCHIATRY (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (77%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (76%); PSYCHOLOGY (76%); HOSPITALS (73%); ONCOLOGY (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); RADIOLOGY (68%); MENTAL HEALTH (68%); VETERANS HOSPITALS (67%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (67%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (67%); PUBLIC POLICY (67%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (50%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: MAGELLAN HEALTH SERVICES INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (53%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (51%)

TICKER: MGLN (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS622210 PSYCHIATRIC & SUBSTANCE ABUSE HOSPITALS (54%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); SIC8069 SPECIALTY HOSPITALS EX. PSYCHIATRIC (54%); SIC8063 PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (92%) TENNESSEE, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013



14 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; GRAY MATTER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: Weather And Violence

BYLINE: By MARSHALL BURKE, SOLOMON HSIANG and EDWARD MIGUEL. 
Marshall Burke is a Ph.D. candidate in the department of agricultural and resource economics, Solomon Hsiang is an assistant professor of public policy and Edward Miguel is a professor of economics, all at the University of California, Berkeley.

 BODY:
AS temperatures rise, tempers flare. Anyone who has experienced the hostility of a swelteringly hot summer day in the city can attest to that.
But researchers are now quantifying the causal relationship between extreme climate and human conflict. Whether their focus is on small-scale interpersonal aggression or large-scale political instability, low-income or high-income societies, the year 10,000 B.C. or the present day, the overall conclusion is the same: episodes of extreme climate make people more violent toward one another.
In a paper published this month in the journal Science, we assembled 60 of the best studies on this topic from fields as diverse as archaeology, criminology, economics, geography, history, political science and psychology. Typically, these were studies that compared, in a given population, levels of violence during periods of normal climate with levels of violence during periods of extreme climate. We then combined the results from those studies that concerned modern data in a ''meta-analysis,'' a powerful statistical procedure that allowed us to compare and aggregate findings across the individual studies. 
We found that higher temperatures and extreme rainfall led to large increases in conflict: for each one standard deviation change in climate toward warmer temperatures or more extreme rainfall, the median effect was a 14 percent increase in conflict between groups, and a 4 percent increase in conflict between individuals.
The studies in our analysis covered all major regions of the world and showed remarkably similar patterns across a wide range of settings. For example, they documented that spikes in temperature increased violent crime in the United States and Australia, that years of low rainfall increased domestic violence and ethnic conflict in South Asia, that extreme rainfall events increased land invasions in Brazil and that warmer temperatures increased civil conflict throughout the tropics. These studies also documented the role that climate played in the collapse of many of human history's iconic civilizations: the Akkadian empire in Syria around 2000 B.C., the Maya in Mexico in the ninth century A.D. and Angkor Wat in the 1400s.
Our findings held at very high levels of statistical confidence. To illustrate the consistency of the results: of the 27 quantitative studies we looked at that examined a link between temperatures and modern conflict, all of them found that higher temperatures were associated with more violence. This sort of pattern in the results was extremely unlikely to happen by chance. (Imagine trying to get 27 ''heads'' in a row when flipping a coin.)
What explains the strong link between climate and conflict? Different mechanisms are most likely operating in different settings, but the two most important factors appear to be aggression and scarcity. The aggression factor is intuitively easy to understand (again, recall summer in the city), and it probably underlies the finding that anomalously hot months have significantly higher crime rates in cities in the United States. As for scarcity, the logic is only slightly more complex. In low-income countries largely dependent on agriculture -- like those in much of sub-Saharan Africa and parts of Asia and Latin America -- when the rains fail and temperatures scorch, crops wilt and die. This leaves many people dangerously close to the edge of survival, which can lead to social strife and even civil war.
Our findings help us better understand both the past and the present, but they are particularly important for what they imply about the future. Many global climate models project global temperature increases of at least 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit (2 degrees Celsius) over the next half century. Our results imply that if nothing changes, this rise in temperature could amplify the rate of group conflicts like civil wars by an astonishing 50 percent in many parts of the world -- a frightening possibility for a planet already awash in conflict.
As the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change finalizes its long-awaited assessment report, due next year, these possibilities should loom large. The report, a draft of which was recently leaked to the press, will inform the public and our leaders about current and future changes in our climate. In the discussion that follows, our leaders must consider how they will guide the world through its hotter, stickier future.
Decision makers must show an understanding that climate can fundamentally shape social interactions, that these effects are already observable in today's world and that climate's effects on violence are likely to grow in the absence of concerted action. Our leadership must call for new and creative policy reforms designed to tackle the challenge of adapting to the sorts of climate conditions that breed conflict -- for instance, through the development of more drought- and heat-resistant agricultural technologies.
In the absence of such efforts, our results suggest that our children and grandchildren could face an increasingly hot and angry planet.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OLIMPIA ZAGNOLI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); WEATHER (90%); CRIME RATES (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (78%); GEOGRAPHY (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); VIOLENT CRIME (75%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (75%); PSYCHOLOGY (73%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (72%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (72%); STATISTICAL METHOD (72%); STATISTICS (72%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (70%); ARCHAEOLOGY (69%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013



15 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Beauty and The Beasts

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF. 
Thomas L. Friedman is off today.

 BODY:
DURING an August vacation with my family, I enjoyed lodgings so spectacular that not even Bill Gates or Warren Buffett could ever buy or rent them.
The scenery was some of America's finest: snowcapped mountains, alpine lakes, babbling brooks. The cost? It was free.
We were enjoying some of America's public lands, backpacking through our national patrimony. No billionaire can acquire these lands because they remain -- even in a nation where economic disparities have soared -- a rare democratic space. The only one who could pull rank on you at a camping spot is a grizzly bear. 
''This is the most beautiful place in the world,'' my 15-year-old daughter mused beside a turquoise lake framed by towering fir trees. She and I were hiking 200-plus miles on the Pacific Crest Trail, joined for shorter bits by my wife and sons.
We imbibed from glacier-fed creeks, startled elk, and dallied beside alpine meadows so dazzling that they constitute an argument for the existence of God. At night, if rain didn't threaten, we spread our sleeping bags under the open sky -- miles from any other human -- and fell asleep counting shooting stars.
You want to understand the concept of a ''public good''? It's exemplified by our nation's wilderness trails.
In some ways, this wilderness is thriving. Cheryl Strayed's best-selling book ''Wild,'' about her long backpack on the Pacific Crest Trail, has inspired hordes of young women to try the trails. Reese Witherspoon is starring in a movie of ''Wild,'' made by her production company, and that will undoubtedly send even more out to feed the mosquitoes.
The talk of the trail this year was of a woman named Heather Anderson who shattered a record by backpacking from Mexico to Canada on the Pacific Crest Trail, without support, in 61 days. That's nearly 44 miles a day over tough terrain. She says she graduated from high school at 200 pounds and found purpose -- and lost 70 pounds -- on the trails. On this trek, she had encounters with five rattlesnakes, eight bears and four mountain lions. (For more on Heather Anderson's extraordinary journey, visit my blog at kristof.blogs.nytimes.com.)
Yet America's public goods, from our parks to ''Sesame Street,'' are besieged today by budget-cutters, and it's painful to hike some trails now. You see lovingly constructed old bridges that have collapsed. Trails disturbed by avalanches have not been rebuilt, and signs are missing.
''Infrastructure is really crumbling,'' Interior Secretary Sally Jewell, herself a backpacker, told me. She notes that foreign tourists come to visit America's ''crown jewels'' like Yosemite and are staggered by the beauty -- and flummoxed by the broken toilets.
It's even worse at the Forest Service, which is starved of funds partly because firefighting is eating up its budgets. The Forest Service has estimated that only one-quarter of its 158,000 miles of trails meet its own standards.
About once a year, my family hikes the spectacular Timberline Trail, constructed in the Great Depression around Mount Hood in Oregon as a public works project. But one section washed out in 2006, and it still hasn't officially reopened.
What our ancestors were able to create when we were a poor country, we are unable to sustain even now that we are rich. That's not because of resources. It's because they were visionaries, and we are blind.
Wallace Stegner called our national parks America's ''best idea.'' The sequester, which I would call ''America's worst idea,'' was supposed to save money, but when sloping trails aren't maintained every year or two, they erode and require major repairs that cost even more.
Republicans praise the idea of citizen volunteers and public-private partnerships. But our agencies are so impoverished that they can't take full advantage of charity.
Mike Dawson of the Pacific Crest Trail Association says that volunteers could provide about 250,000 hours repairing the trail each year. But the Forest Service doesn't have the resources to organize and equip all the volunteers available, so it will be able to use only one-third of that free labor this year, he says. That's crazy.
All this is symptomatic of a deeper disdain in some circles for the very idea of a public good: Who needs a national forest? Just buy your own Wyoming ranch!
This fall will probably see a no-holds-barred battle in Washington over fiscal issues, and especially the debt limit. But, in a larger sense, it's a dispute over public goods. So, considering how ineffective Congress is, perhaps we should encourage all 535 members to take a sabbatical and backpack the Pacific Crest Trail. I'm not sure we'd miss them for five months. And what an entertaining reality show that would make!
It would also have a serious side. Maybe when dwarfed by giant redwoods, recalcitrant politicians would absorb a lesson of nature: We are all part of something larger than ourselves. Perhaps they would gain perspective and appreciate the grandeur of our public lands of which they are such wretched stewards.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAMMALS (89%); MOUNTAINS (89%); BACKPACKING (89%); HIKING (89%); WOMEN (78%); CAMPING (78%); LAKES (72%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (72%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (70%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (65%); WILD CATS (64%); BESTSELLERS (50%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%)

COMPANY: PURESPECTRUM INC (58%); STATON INSTITUTE INC (58%); AMERICA'S FINEST PRODUCTS (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335129 OTHER LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3648 LIGHTING EQUIPMENT, NEC (58%); NAICS541990 ALL OTHER PROFESSIONAL, SCIENTIFIC & TECHNICAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (58%); SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (58%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (73%); WARREN BUFFETT (73%); REESE WITHERSPOON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013



16 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: For Some Afghans, Cost of Doing Business Includes U.S. Lawyers

BYLINE: By MATTHEW ROSENBERG

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- Dollar for dollar, Mahmood Karzai may well hold the title for getting the least value out of his pricey American lawyers. Mr. Karzai, a brother of President Hamid Karzai, paid one of them $100,000, and all he got was a single meeting and one follow up e-mail -- and then the lawyer died.
Now he is looking for someone new to sue the estate of the dead one. ''I need to find a good lawyer,'' he said in an interview.
While it may not be surprising that a Karzai has access to high-powered legal help, thanks to an economic boom underwritten by the United States, there are more Afghans than one would imagine who have the money to pay legal talent from places like New York and Washington -- and who have the reasons to need it. 
It was probably inevitable that lawyers would follow American dollars to Afghanistan, and the arrival of some of the most prestigious law firms on the scene in recent years says a lot about just how good a business opportunity this war has been for many people.
First came the military contracts: deals with Afghans to do all kinds of things, including shipping supplies for American troops and hauling out human waste from military outposts.
Then came the crackdowns, and lawsuits, when jobs did not get done right, or the money simply went missing.
And now many Afghans who grew wealthy off American contracting are learning that the price of keeping their good names, their revenue streams and, potentially, their freedom starts with a six-figure retainer.
''We paid them when they started our work, and we paid them when they finished,'' said Ahmad Rateb Popal, chairman of the Watan Group, an Afghan security and logistics firm. There was, he noted, ''no bargaining.''
The lawyers in question were from Venable of Washington. The Watan Group hired the firm after being banned in 2010 from doing work for the United States government over allegations that it had paid off the Taliban to keep supply convoys safe.
It cost almost $1 million in legal fees to get the ban reversed in 2011, and Watan still had to agree not to guard convoys for three years, Mr. Popal said. At the time, much of the $25 million to $30 million a year Watan was making on work for the United States was for convoy security.
Venable did not respond to a request for comment.
Before its run-in with the Pentagon, Watan was spending nothing on legal fees, Mr. Popal said. Now, as it has branched out into other business, like oil exploration, it has added to its stable of legal talent, seeking advice on structuring deals and reviewing contracts from other firms. Mr. Popal said they include Fulbright & Jaworski, one of the largest in the United States, based in Houston.
It is hard to say just how many Afghans have sought outside legal counsel to smooth their dealings with the United States -- neither the entrepreneurs nor their clients are eager to advertise their relationships. But in general, the owners of big Afghan businesses seem to fall into two categories: those who already have legal problems with the United States government, or those who anticipate they will have them soon enough. To that end, the firms they favor tend to have big Washington practices.
To be clear, most of the billions of dollars spent by the United States in Afghanistan have gone to American companies, which then subcontracted work to Afghans firms -- and, when needed, provided their Afghan partners with referrals for legal counsel in the United States. Many of the American companies have also run into legal troubles of their own, but most are used to paying top dollar for legal help as the price of doing business.
It can feel a bit more surreal when the Afghan owner of a used car and spare parts garage in the United Arab Emirates, Yousef Zaland, stops an interview and mentions that perhaps it would be best to call his lawyer in the United States.
''He is in Washington. He is at Patton Boggs,'' Mr. Zaland, a businessman who has been accused of aiding the Taliban, said during the interview in July.
He waved off questions about how a man from rural Afghanistan who speaks no English, has never visited the United States, and owns companies that the Commerce Department says provided the Taliban with bomb-making materials used to kill American soldiers, came to work with one of Washington's most influential law firms.
In an e-mail in July, Travis M. Seegmiller, a partner at Patton Boggs, said that the firm no longer represented Mr. Zaland and that most of the work it did for him was in 2011.
Neither Mr. Zaland nor Patton Boggs said why the relationship had ended. But the complications that clients like Mr. Zaland might present for a high-profile American firm illustrate the peculiar risks posed by taking work in Afghanistan, where loyalties can be hard to track and it is nearly impossible to run a business without paying bribes, at the very least.
But some lawyers ''view Afghans as easy cash cows,'' said Gerald Posner, a lawyer and writer who has advised relatives of President Karzai. ''They've got millions to spend, and some of them are not really the most sophisticated of clients.''
That is probably how many would see Mahmood Karzai. But he seems to have done well with his first two lawyers. Mr. Posner has served more as a crisis consultant, trying to help the family shape its public image, and Mr. Karzai speaks highly of Henry W. Asbill, a criminal defense lawyer at Jones Day in Washington whose rates run around $1,000 an hour.
He is less happy about the results with his third hire: Thomas P. Puccio, who made a name for himself in the 1980s as a pugnacious defense lawyer willing to take on notorious clients. His biggest success was the 1985 acquittal of Claus von Bülow, a socialite accused of trying to kill his wife.
Mr. Karzai had been looking for a lawyer in 2011 to find out more about why federal prosecutors in New York were said to be weighing charges of extortion, racketeering and criminal tax evasion against him. He did preliminary interviews with lawyers in New York via Skype, he said, and then Mr. Puccio agreed to meet in Paris at his own expense, which Mr. Karzai liked.
Mr. Puccio was ''full of confidence'' when they sat down together in April 2011, Mr. Karzai said. He gave Mr. Puccio a $100,000 retainer.
It took Mr. Puccio six months to get back in touch: he sent a terse e-mail saying that he had met with the prosecutors and that ''maybe they weren't interested in me anymore,'' Mr. Karzai said. Mr. Puccio promised to follow up later -- that was October 2011. The next Mr. Karzai heard of Mr. Puccio was in March 2012, when news broke that he had died of leukemia.
Mr. Karzai is still waiting for a full readout on what, if anything, prosecutors in New York might be planning.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mahmood Karzai, right, a brother of President Hamid Karzai, has faced investigations by federal prosecutors in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JALIL REZAYEE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (91%); TALIBAN (79%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (71%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (66%); ARMED FORCES (66%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (50%)

COMPANY: FULBRIGHT & JAWORSKI LLP (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013



17 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; CAPITAL IDEAS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: A Rarity: A Democrat to Lead the Fed

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
David Leonhardt is the Washington bureau chief of The New York Times.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- FOR more than a quarter century, Republicans have held a lock on two of the most important jobs in the federal government.
Since Alan Greenspan became the chairman of the Federal Reserve in 1987, no Democrat has held the job, despite the election and re-election of two Democratic presidents in that time. The Republican hold on the office of chief justice of the United States has lasted even longer, all the way back to the 1950s.
Now President Obama seems poised to end one of those streaks -- at the Fed. His selection process so far has been dominated by debate over whether he should choose Lawrence H. Summers, a lightning rod for both criticism and admiration, or Janet Yellen, the Fed's current vice chairwoman. 
Whatever their differences, though, both are clearly Democrats (as are several longer-shot candidates). Mr. Summers and Ms. Yellen have each spoken about the ills of inequality and the economic role for government.
Some parts of the Fed chairman's job are removed from those political questions, just as much of the chief justice's job involves basic bureaucracy. But for all the ways that the Fed and Supreme Court cultivate an image of technocratic remove, the ideology of their leaders still matters enormously.
At the court, the last three chief justices -- John G. Roberts Jr., William H. Rehnquist and Warren E. Burger -- have used the power to assign the writing of decisions to justices to influence those decisions' scope. The chief justice also selects which federal judges serve on special surveillance courts, and Chief Justice Roberts in particular has picked conservative Republican appointees.
At the Fed, Mr. Greenspan -- a former aide to Presidents Richard M. Nixon and Gerald R. Ford and an Ayn Rand protégé -- used the job's prestige to support George W. Bush tax cuts and changes to federal retirement benefits. He also lobbied for the repeal of financial regulations and, perhaps most famously, sidelined colleagues who wanted to crack down on easy mortgage lending.
''On a very large range of issues,'' Alan S. Blinder, a Democratic economist who was vice chairman under Mr. Greenspan, said, ''there is a clear right-left divide.''
THE Republican hold on the jobs stems in part from circumstance. After senators scuttled the nomination of Abe Fortas for chief justice -- Lyndon B. Johnson's choice to replace the liberal Republican Earl Warren -- the chance to fill the post fell to a newly elected Mr. Nixon, in 1969. Since then, each chief justice has resigned or died during a Republican presidency.
The Fed chairman's job has stayed in Republican hands partly because the party had more credibility on inflation for much of the late 20th century. Bill Clinton twice renominated Mr. Greenspan, both times in presidential-election years. Mr. Obama renominated the current chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, with the financial crisis still simmering.
The same forces that led to these renominations may now be helping Mr. Summers. While the differences between him and Ms. Yellen have at times been exaggerated, he does seem to be somewhat to her right, on monetary policy and regulation. Some aides who were advising Mr. Clinton when he selected Mr. Greenspan are now advising Mr. Obama, and it is not hard to imagine why they may see Mr. Summers as a more natural bridge from a Republican-run Fed.
Some Fed watchers think Mr. Summers may be more worried than Mr. Bernanke about the risks of the Fed's efforts to lift economic growth. But views on monetary policy do not always track neatly with ideology. Both Mr. Greenspan and especially Mr. Bernanke took positions on interest rates that might have seemed more typically liberal.
The area where politics matters most is probably regulation, Mr. Blinder noted. The next leader of the Fed will have a large role in implementing the Dodd-Frank financial regulation law. The Fed will face multiple decisions about when markets should function without interference and when regulators should try to protect consumers or deflate nascent bubbles.
Almost as intriguing, the next leader will have to decide whether to enter the political fray now and then (as Mr. Greenspan did) or avoid it (as Mr. Bernanke generally has). The most obvious topic for a Democratic Fed leader to emphasize is the sharp growth in income inequality, which many scholars think has destabilized the economy. With many families facing stretched budgets, they have taken on large debts and become less able to spend.
''I think the defining issue of our time is: Does the economic, social and political system work for the middle class?'' Mr. Summers has said. Ms. Yellen, a monetary-policy expert by training, has spoken less about the topic but has described it as ''disturbing.''
Any modern Fed chairman is likely to use a series of boilerplate phrases about the economy -- on the importance of education and fiscal rectitude, among other things. The larger choice is whether to go further, as Mr. Greenspan did, and try to influence the country's economic debate.
Of course, avoidance is also a political decision. By waiting until the last couple of years to make plain his unhappiness with austerity, Mr. Bernanke had less impact on fiscal policy than he otherwise might have. With Congress making cuts, the Fed has had to do more work to help the economy recover.
We do not yet know how the next Fed leader will define the job. But we can be pretty confident that the person will bring a different set of beliefs than any chairman in a long time.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS CHART: Political Choices: Leadership of the Federal Reserve and Supreme Court after World War II. (Sources: Federal Reserve
 Supreme Court) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INFLATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); JUDGES (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); TAX LAW (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (61%); WORLD WAR II (59%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (72%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); JOHN ROBERTS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013



18 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Risks Aside, ARMs Gain Ground

BYLINE: By MARCELLE SUSSMAN FISCHLER

 BODY:
With mortgage rates inching up and homeowners often refinancing before the end of their loan terms, adjustable-rate mortgages are becoming more enticing to more borrowers.
In July, for example, 6.5 percent of mortgage applications nationwide were for adjustable-rate loans, while a year ago, the percentage was 4.2, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association, which expects demand to continue. ''We expect ARMs to increase,'' said Matthew J. Robinson, a spokesman.
Because adjustable-rate loans carry more risk, rates on them are lower than those on fixed-rate loans. After an initial period of fixed interest, rates may rise -- though such loans also come with a lifetime cap that limits ups and downs. 
For some borrowers, the initial savings may be worth the risk. By taking an adjustable-rate mortgage with a 5/1 term (with the rate fixed for the first five years) at 3.21 percent rather than a fixed 30-year jumbo mortgage at 4.69 percent, someone borrowing $750,000 could save $637.68 a month off the $3,885.28 payment, enough to ''lease a nice car or more,'' Keith Gumbinger, the vice president of the financial publisher HSH.com, said in an e-mail.
After 60 months, the borrower would have paid $54,565.92 less in interest, or $114,181.61 rather than $168,747.53. Kept in a piggy bank, it would be ''enough to put your kid through at least one year of a good college,'' Mr. Gumbinger added.
The potential hitch is that borrower may need to refinance or sell the home before the fixed portion of the loan ends -- or possibly ''be exposed to significantly higher interest rates and monthly payments,'' Mr. Gumbinger said, ''which could wipe out the savings pretty quickly, not to mention causing you budgetary duress.''
According to Freddie Mac's Primary Mortgage Market Survey, for the week ended Aug. 29, a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage averaged 4.51 percent, while a five-year Treasury-indexed hybrid adjustable-rate mortgage averaged 3.24 percent.
John Aita, a retail sales supervisor for Wells Fargo Home Mortgage in Melville, N.Y., says fewer borrowers these days seem likely to get stuck with a higher rate when the fixed portion of the ARM expires. ''People never keep the loans that long anymore,'' he said, citing six years as the average. ''Either they refinance or they move.''
For first-time buyers who plan to move up to larger quarters as their families grow, or for young professionals whose income will rise in a few years, adjustable-rate mortgages are ''a fantastic deal,'' Mr. Aita said.
''If you are planning to use the house as a steppingstone and not going to stay 30 years,'' he said, ''take the adjustable.''
Those planning to downsize after their children go off to college can also benefit.
Six months ago, Beth Zucker, a single mother from Bucks County, Pa., whose twins are 13, refinanced from a 7/1 ARM to a 10/1 interest-only ARM at 3 percent.
She's not worried about where interest rates will be when the rate adjusts in a decade. ''When my twins go off to college,'' said Ms. Zucker, who is a financial adviser, ''I'm going to sell the house and downsize.''
The most common adjustable-rate mortgages are designated 3/1, 5/1, and 7/1, according to freddiemac.com.
A 3/1 ARM has a fixed interest rate for the first three years. After that, the rate can change annually. A similar rule applies for a 5/1 and 7/1 ARM. If the rates increase, monthly payments increase. And if rates dip, payments may not decrease, depending upon the initial interest rate. Typically, an adjustment ''cap'' limits how much the interest rate can jump or fall at each adjustment period.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE LOANS (95%); INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); RETAIL SALES (50%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013



19 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; THE WEEK AHEAD | POP; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 186 words

HEADLINE: Putting Poetry Above Politics

BYLINE: By JON PARELES

 BODY:
The songwriter Mohsen Namjoo stirs things up in Iran. Mr. Namjoo, who performs Saturday at the Asia Society, plays the setar, a long-necked lute, and is steeped in Persian classical and literary traditions. But in Iran, where Western music was banned in 2005, Mr. Namjoo decided to fuse Persian music with rock and jazz and to sing -- in a voice that can push from the nuances of Persian improvisation to the rougher attack of the blues -- about the conditions facing his generation: unemployment, repression, violence. Though he was not allowed to perform in public or licensed to sell CDs, his music spread in private events, on the black market and via YouTube and radio. 
Eventually, he went into exile and settled in California -- though he recently moved to Brooklyn. Some of his songs, which still reach his audience in Iran, have grown more forthright; ''Strange Times'' warns, ''Don't dare the danger of thinking.'' But he prizes allusive poetry and musical exploration above politics. His 2012 album, ''13/8,'' is full of compositional complexities. (8 p.m., 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, asiasociety.org)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); POETRY (90%); SONG WRITING (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); MUSIC STORES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: THE ASIA SOCIETY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (53%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013



20 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: Liberal Education in Authoritarian Places

BYLINE: By JIM SLEEPER. 
A lecturer in political science at Yale and the author of ''Liberal Racism.''

 BODY:
CLASSES are beginning at New York University's new ''portal'' campus in Shanghai -- the latest attempt by an American university to export its teaching and prestige abroad.
But there is no actual campus yet for the inaugural cohort of 295 students, half of whom are Chinese, and half from the United States and other countries. A planned 15-story academic building is still under construction. Classes are being held at East China Normal University, N.Y.U.'s partner in this joint venture. It's an apt metaphor: a not-quite-real campus for a not-quite-real liberal education.
In April 2011, at a conference in Washington on ''people-to-people exchange'' between the United States and China, Hillary Rodham Clinton, then the secretary of state, praised N.Y.U.'s president, John Sexton, for his ''vision to expand his university internationally while maintaining its reputation for excellence and academic freedom.'' 
But his meaning of ''freedom'' seems elastic. ''I have no trouble distinguishing between rights of academic freedom and rights of political expression,'' he told Bloomberg News later that year. ''These are two different things.'' This was a startling statement, coming from a scholar of constitutional law. And along with the controversy over a stand-alone campus that N.Y.U. opened in Abu Dhabi in 2010, it contributed to Mr. Sexton's rising unpopularity back home: the arts and science faculty, N.Y.U.'s largest, voted ''no confidence'' in him in March. Both overseas campuses were financed primarily with foreign subsidies.
Mr. Sexton seemed oblivious to the experiences of Johns Hopkins University, whose School of Advanced International Studies has a longstanding center in Nanjing, China, that has faced restrictions on political discussion: the halting of an on-campus public screening of a documentary about the Tiananmen Square uprising of 1989 and a ban on off-campus distribution of a journal started by an American student with articles by classmates.
Diplomats have good reason to encourage educational collaborations with strategically vital nations. And higher education is under great strain in the United States -- witness President Obama's plans to make colleges more affordable and accountable by rating them -- so the temptation to raise money by expanding into rapidly growing (or resource rich) countries is understandable.
But if you look past their soaring rhetoric, you'll see globe-trotting university presidents and trustees who are defining down their expectations of what a liberal education means, much as corporations do when they look the other way at shoddy labor and environmental practices abroad. The difference, of course, is that a university's mission is to question such arrangements, not to facilitate them.
I'm no opponent of collaborative research programs in law, business, medicine and technical training in countries that are wealthy or authoritarian or both. Many students in those countries may want to broaden their social and political horizons as well as their career skills. But pretending that freedom of inquiry can be separated from freedom of expression is naïve at best, cynical at worst.
There is perhaps no better example of such cynicism than at Yale, where I teach. Its decision to create a new undergraduate college in a joint venture with the National University of Singapore touched off one of the strongest controversies in the 20-year presidency of Richard C. Levin, who retired this summer as Yale's president -- a year after a nonbinding faculty resolution expressed grave reservations about the project.
Yale promised that the newly hired faculty at Yale-N.U.S. would ''rethink liberal education from the ground up'' in a campus built and financed by Singapore -- an authoritarian city-state with severe restrictions on freedom of speech.
''We must look at 'liberal' in the sense of broad, rather than free,'' Kay Kuok, a businesswoman who leads the Yale-N.U.S. governing board, told the government-controlled Straits Times. ''It's freedom of thought; I'm not necessarily saying freedom of expression.''
Mr. Levin promised that students would be free to form associations ''as long as they are not intolerant of racial or religious groups.'' But the Singapore campus's president, Pericles Lewis, said they would not be free to form explicitly political associations, much less stage protests of government policies, even on campus.
''In a host environment where free speech is constrained if not proscribed, faculty will censor themselves, and the cause of authentic liberal education, to the extent it can exist in such situations, will suffer,'' the American Association of University Professors warned last year in a letter criticizing the Singapore venture. The letter posed 16 questions that Yale hasn't answered; it won't even disclose to its faculty the full terms of the Singapore deal.
Reporters Without Borders this year ranked Singapore No. 149 out of 179 in press freedom -- down from No. 135 last year. Faculty members at the Claremont Colleges, in California, and University of Warwick, in Britain, cited concerns about academic freedom when they rebuffed Singapore's offers to fund liberal arts colleges there -- before Yale accepted.
Academic freedom isn't the only ideal at risk. In 2009, when the University of Wisconsin at Madison was invited by the Central Asian nation of Kazakhstan to help create a biotechnology program, the Americans proposed instead to design a school for the humanities and social sciences, one inspired by ''the Wisconsin Idea,'' a progressive vision of labor rights and open government. Something very different was built: a $2 billion university, run by a consortium that includes the University of Wisconsin, and named for the autocratic president Nursultan A. Nazarbayev, who has a representative on the board of trustees. Human Rights Watch and other groups have documented extensive labor rights violations in the United Arab Emirates, where migrant workers, who make up more than 70 percent of Abu Dhabi's residents but enjoy few legal protections, are still building the N.Y.U. campus on Saadiyat Island, a luxury tourist and residential site.
When authoritarian regimes buy American universities' prestige and talent, they ''shortcut a process that took centuries to create,'' Harry R. Lewis, a former dean of Harvard College, recently wrote in the South China Morning Post.
Universities' mad scramble to expand reflects not so much grasping, imperialistic overreach as fundamental weakness: not only financial and market pressures, but also a drift in purpose and mission. University presidents have bought into an incorrect premise, espoused by thinkers like Fareed Zakaria and Kishore Mahbubani, that countries that liberalize economically will also liberalize politically. Universities need to recover a more ''missionary,'' freedom-seeking approach to their host countries, pedagogically and even politically. Or they should follow the model of Columbia and other universities that have created learning centers with much lighter footprints, not full-fledged campuses.
At its best, a liberal education imbues future citizen-leaders with the values and skills that are necessary to question, not merely serve, concentrations of power and profit. Universities that abandon this ideal are lending their good names to the decline of liberal education; turning themselves into career-networking centers for a global managerial work force that answers to no republican polity or moral code; and cheapening the value of the diplomas they hand out, at home and abroad.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: New York University's campus in Abu Dhabi, in the United Arab Emirates, opened in 2010. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HOLBROOKE/CORBIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC FREEDOM (90%); LIBERALISM (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (79%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (75%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (72%); JOINT VENTURES (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (61%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (50%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%); ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (86%) EAST CHINA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); JIANGSU, CHINA (58%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (94%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013



21 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Loving Softball Is Easier Than Living It

BYLINE: By DAVE SEMINARA

 BODY:
ROSEMONT, Ill. -- At 26, Amber Patton is in the prime of her softball career, a top player on a leading professional team that just played for its league championship. But she broke down in tears recently as she explained that she is considering walking away from the game, not because she has lost her love for it or her ability to play it at the highest level.
Patton is thinking of quitting because she is not sure she can afford to play softball anymore. 
''I just really, really hope that this league takes off and people aren't faced with this decision,'' she said after her team, the Chicago Bandits, recently lost in the decisive game of the National Pro Fastpitch championships. ''It's tough, but you have to make a living.''
The obstacles that Patton and other pro softball players face as they balance ambition and economics are different from the ones that rule in major men's sports, where talent is often the only barrier to professional and financial success.
Patton said she was contemplating trading her promising career as a third baseman for one in her off-season occupation, sales. Her Bandits teammate Megan Wiggins, 24, is heading to Japan, which has a 12-team pro softball league that plays in the spring and fall and pays elite American players far more than they can make at home.
Elite softball players are not the only top female athletes leaving the United States to secure bigger paychecks. After the Indiana Fever won the W.N.B.A. title last year, nearly every member of the team immediately departed for more lucrative gigs in Israel, Turkey, China, Russia and elsewhere. And for years, members of the United States women's soccer team have split their time among foreign clubs and a variety of American pro leagues.
Wiggins is one of the few Americans able to make a living playing pro softball. National Pro Fastpitch, the top American league, has four teams, based in cities as diverse as Chicago; Akron, Ohio; and Kissimmee, Fla. A fourth club, the New York-New Jersey Comets, played at four home fields this year, including one in Pennsylvania.
Franchises have rosters of up to 20 players -- many of them former college players, including a number of former Olympians who continue to play even though the sport was dropped from the Games -- but they have a $150,000 salary cap.
Most players make $5,000 to $20,000 for the season, a 48-game summer schedule followed by a championship tournament like the one that ended Aug. 24 outside Chicago. The top players can supplement their income by playing in Japan's pro league, where American stars can command $60,000 or more playing for corporate-sponsored teams. But only the best players draw offers.
The players' reliance on foreign income led to an embarrassing conclusion to last year's National Pro Fastpitch championship series, which was disrupted by rain and then canceled without crowning a champion. One factor in the decision was that important players on both teams were scheduled to leave for the start of the second half of the Japanese season.
Despite better luck at this year's series, which ended with the Florida-based U.S.S.S.A. Pride beating Chicago in perfect weather before a capacity crowd of 2,000, team owners said their franchises still struggled to break even. Cheri Kempf, the league commissioner, acknowledged that N.P.F. had no nonsoftball-related sponsors.
''Corporate America has a standoffish attitude toward women's professional sports,'' she said. ''If we had half the exposure that M.L.B. gets, our sport would be huge, but we don't get the exposure.''
It also does not produce the ratings. National Pro Fastpitch pays ESPN to broadcast its games, Kempf said, but the final produced a rating of 0.1. Even the lowest-rated major league baseball games draw 10 times as many viewers.
As a result, Joey Arrietta, the owner of the Akron Racers, acknowledged that her goal of turning a profit ''wasn't in the cards for now.''
Bill Sokolis, who owns a construction company and the Chicago franchise, said he bought the team because female athletes ''don't get a fair shake.''
''The men make ugly amounts of money, and they don't exert even half the effort our players put forth,'' he said.
The action over the final weekend backed up his point. Over 27 hours, the Pride's star pitcher, Cat Osterman, threw two complete games, then two and a third innings of scoreless relief to clinch the title.
Fans seemed to enjoy the loose, family-friendly atmosphere. Parking was free at Rosemont Field, where tickets cost as little as $5. After losing in an elimination game, several members of the Akron team milled around with bats poking out of their backpacks, mingling with fans. After the Pride sealed the championship, hundreds of fans lined up to get autographs.
But few players could afford to stay long. Natasha Watley, the Pride's 31-year-old shortstop, plays for a Toyota-sponsored team in Japan. Ayumi Karino, a Japanese outfielder who played for Akron, works an office job for her Japanese team's sponsor six days a week.
''I hate my job; I wish I could just play softball,'' she said through an interpreter. ''But if you're good at softball, your performance in the office doesn't matter.''
The unending cycle of international travel, training and games can take a personal toll.
''It's hard to establish a relationship, it's hard to maintain a relationship, it's hard to even meet people,'' Watley said. ''That's why I've thought about retirement. I'd like to have kids and start a family. If I was a man at 31, I could do that and keep playing, but as a woman, you can't do that.''
Wiggins said that despite the difficulties, she wanted to keep playing because softball still beat having a ''real job.'' Her mother has told her that this is the last season she will care for her two pit bulls while she is in Japan, but Wiggins said even that would not drive her out of the game.
Patton just doesn't want to say goodbye.
''I'm still a kid on the field -- I don't want to grow up,'' she said. ''But it's getting to that point where it's one or the other.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Monica Abbott, top, pitching for the Chicago Bandits against U.S.S.S.A. Pride, which won the National Pro Fastpitch title. Players were popular with young fans, who received autographs and took swings. But ratings on ESPN were anemic. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MEGAN BEARDER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOFTBALL (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS (89%); BASEBALL (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); ATHLETES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (78%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); SOCCER (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AKRON, OH, USA (52%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); CHINA (79%); ISRAEL (68%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013



22 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2159 words

HEADLINE: Squirrel Power!

BYLINE: By JON MOOALLEM. 
A contributing writer for The New York Times Magazine and the author of ''Wild Ones: A Sometimes Dismaying, Weirdly Reassuring Story About Looking at People Looking at Animals in America.''

 BODY:
SOME say the world will end in fire. Some say ice. Some say coordinated kamikaze attacks on the power grid by squirrels.
At least, some have been saying that to me, when they find out I've spent the summer keeping track of power outages caused by squirrels.
Power outages caused by squirrels are a new hobby of mine, a persnickety and constantly updating data set that hums along behind the rest of my life the way baseball statistics or celebrity-birthing news might for other people. It started in April, after I read about a squirrel that electrocuted itself on a power line in Tampa, Fla., cutting electricity to 700 customers and delaying statewide achievement tests at three nearby schools. I was curious, just enough to set up a Google news alert: squirrel power. But as the summer progressed, and the local news reports of power outages caused by squirrels piled up in my in-box, my interest in power outages caused by squirrels became more obsessive and profound. 
I know: it's hard to accept that a single squirrel can disrupt and frustrate thousands of people at a time, switching off our electrified lives for hours. But since Memorial Day, I've cataloged reports of 50 power outages caused by squirrels in 24 states. (And these, of course, are only those power outages severe enough to make the news.) Fifteen hundred customers lost power in Mason City, Iowa; 1,500 customers in Roanoke, Va.; 5,000 customers in Clackamas County, Ore.; and 10,000 customers in Wichita, Kan. -- and that was just during two particularly busy days in June. A month later, there were two separate P.O.C.B.S., as I've come to call power outages caused by squirrels, around the small town of Evergreen, Mont., on a single day.
Squirrels cut power to a regional airport in Virginia, a Veterans Affairs medical center in Tennessee, a university in Montana and a Trader Joe's in South Carolina. Five days after the Trader Joe's went down, another squirrel cut power to 7,200 customers in Rock Hill, S.C., on the opposite end of the state. Rock Hill city officials assured the public that power outages caused by squirrels were ''very rare'' and that the grid was ''still a reliable system.'' Nine days later, 3,800 more South Carolinians lost power after a squirrel blew up a circuit breaker in the town of Summerville.
In Portland, Ore., squirrels got 9,200 customers on July 1; 3,140 customers on July 23; and 7,400 customers on July 26. (''I sound like a broken record,'' a spokesman for the utility said, briefing the press for the third time.) In Kentucky, more than 10,000 people lost power in two separate P.O.C.B.S. a few days apart. The town of Lynchburg, Va., suffered large-scale P.O.C.B.S. on two consecutive Thursdays in June. Downtown went dark. At Lynchburg's Academy of Fine Arts, patrons were left to wave their lighted iPhone screens at the art on the walls, like torch-carrying Victorian explorers groping through a tomb.
One June 9, a squirrel blacked out 2,000 customers in Kalamazoo, Mich., then 921 customers outside Kalamazoo a week later. A local politician visited the blown transformer with her children to take a look at the culprit; another witness told a reporter, ''There was no fur left on it. It looked like something from 'C.S.I.' '' She posted a photo of the incinerated animal to her Facebook page.
WHEN I tell people about power outages caused by squirrels -- and trust me when I say that I tell people about power outages caused by squirrels quite often -- I wind up hearing a lot of the same snarky jokes. People say the squirrels are staging an uprising. People say the squirrels are calculating, nut-cheeked saboteurs trying to overthrow humanity. Like the apes in ''Planet of the Apes,'' or the Skynet computer network in ''The Terminator,'' the squirrels represent a kind of neglected intelligence that's suddenly, sinisterly switching on.
Don't panic, I say. Squirrels have been causing power outages since long before I started cataloging power outages caused by squirrels. (In 1987, a squirrel shut down the Nasdaq for 82 minutes and another squirrel shut down the Nasdaq again in 1994 -- a seminal bit of P.O.C.B.S. history that was sometimes noted in coverage of the power outage at the Nasdaq in August, which was a power outage not caused by squirrels. ''This is a terrible pain in the neck,'' the president of one brokerage firm told The Wall Street Journal in 1994 -- which, I've found, is still a typical reaction to power outages caused by squirrels.)
Matthew Olearczyk, a program manager with the Electric Power Research Institute, explains that typically a squirrel will cause a blackout by scampering across electrical equipment and touching simultaneously both an energized component, like one of the cylindrical transformers at the top of a utility pole, and a grounded piece of equipment. The squirrel completes the circuit, generating an arc. There is an instantaneous flash of blue light. At its center is the squirrel, combusting. (In one news story, the squirrel was said to make a ''popping sound'' when it ignited.)
And yet the grid is actually designed to handle this violent interruption. As soon as the dead animal drops to the ground, eliminating the interference, the flow of electricity should resume. But if the squirrel doesn't fall off the equipment -- if its charred carcass is lodged there -- the squirrel can trigger a so-called continuous fault, interrupting the restarted flow of electricity all over again. It's a zombie attack: a lingering, second wave of obstruction. The lights go out when our electrical grid can find no way around this stuck hunk of dead weight that used to be a squirrel.
The aftermath can be gnarly. Often, there are burned-out circuit breakers or other costly, obliterated equipment to clean up or replace. And occasionally, a P.O.C.B.S. will generate an idiosyncratic storm of ancillary mayhem, too. I've read about a squirrel that, last February, chewed into high-voltage lines near a water-treatment facility, setting off ''a chain of improbable events'' that forced the city of Tampa to boil its water for the next 37 hours, and I've read about a flaming squirrel that allegedly fell from a utility pole in April and started a two-acre grass fire outside Tulsa, Okla.
Mr. Olearczyk insists that there is no credible way to estimate the number of power outages caused by squirrels nationwide. (He explained that attempting a tally would mean consulting a particular piece of paperwork from every local utility in the country, and that some of those forms might not even have the information I was looking for. Though he told me encouragingly, ''You're after something important, so let us know if you find out!'')
What exists, instead, are only flecks of information, the partial outline of a very annoying apparition. In Austin, Tex., squirrels have been blamed for 300 power outages a year. Other utility companies have claimed that between 7 and 20 percent of all outages are caused by some sort of wild animal, and a 2005 study by the State of California estimated, hazily, that these incidents cost California's economy between $32 million and $317 million a year. Feral cats, raccoons and birds are also nuisances. Last month, reports surfaced in Oklahoma of great horned owls dropping snakes onto utility poles, thereby causing frequent power outages. Still, no one seems to dispute the disruptive primacy of squirrels.
However, Mr. Olearczyk believes strongly that power outages caused by squirrels are on the decline. For at least a decade, utility companies have been tricking out their equipment with an array of wildlife deterrents to combat the problem, like ''arrester caps'' and ''bushing covers,'' the Southwire SquirrelShield, the E/Getaway Guard and free-spinning baffles to make squirrels lose their balance.
The industry has also researched discouraging squirrels by spraying utility poles with fox urine and painting equipment red, though both of these tactics have failed; it's not even clear whether squirrels can see the color red. Some utilities have installed the kind of plastic owl used to keep pigeons off building facades. However, an industry study notes, ''one utility reported that the fake owl was attacked by a hawk which in turn caused a substation outage.''
AT some point this summer -- I think it was around July 31, when just under 13,000 customers got hit by a P.O.C.B.S. in Hendersonville, Tenn. -- I found myself trying to imagine power outages caused by squirrels from the squirrels' point of view. So I called John L. Koprowski, a squirrel biologist at the University of Arizona, Tucson.
There have been very few squirrel specialists throughout history. The most accomplished was Vagn Flyger, a University of Maryland biologist who trapped squirrels with a mixture of peanut butter and Valium and then affixed them with radio transmitters; his major contribution to squirrel science was mapping the so-called Great Squirrel Migration of 1968 across the Eastern Seaboard. (Mr. Flyger also liked to eat squirrels.) Mr. Koprowski started studying squirrels as a biology student in Ohio because he needed to study some sort of wild animal and he didn't own a car.
Essentially, Mr. Koprowski explained, power outages caused by squirrels are the product of a cascade of coincidences -- of various forces, including basic squirrel behavior, colliding.
Squirrels chew through electrical wiring because the animals are constantly teething. An adult squirrel's incisors never stop growing -- they can grow as much as 10 inches per year -- and the animals must chew constantly to keep them worn down. Squirrels gnaw or burrow their way into transformers for the same reason they enter rotting cavities of aging trees: hollow spaces offer them den sites and safety from predators. Squirrels break into equipment at substations because the seeds and insects they eat get sucked into that machinery by cooling fans, or are pooled inside by the wind. Mr. Koprowski described the flat tops of transformers as perfect spots for squirrel ''basking behavior,'' when squirrels sprawl out in the sun to warm up, or in the shade to cool down, and also ideal ''runways'' from which squirrels can start their flying leaps into the canopy.
''Squirrels value many of the same things that humans value,'' Mr. Koprowski explained. It's why they're among America's most successful synanthropes, what biologists call species that thrive alongside humans, in the landscapes we dominate. The beautiful, shade-producing, property-value-raising trees that we've filled our neighborhoods with, like oaks, walnuts, maples and elms, also produce the seeds, nuts and acorns at the core of the squirrel diet. Thirty-five percent of America's urban areas are now covered with trees, while sprawl and exurban development have pushed homes further into formerly natural areas. Squirrel habitat and our habitat are increasingly converging. And we are only now reaching what may be peak P.O.C.B.S. season. In late August and September, squirrels are both abundant and most active: skittering around, stockpiling food, hustling to get stuff done before winter -- more prone to crossing paths with the path of our electricity.
''People are living in areas with higher squirrel densities now,'' Mr. Koprowski said. It's as simple as that. We're getting in their way, too. It's easy to forget that the party most inconvenienced by a power outage caused by a squirrel is the squirrel that caused it.
WHAT has my interest in power outages caused by squirrels taught me, ultimately? Why do I find power outages caused by squirrels so meaningful?
Naturally, I've been giving these questions some serious thought.
I've come to see each P.O.C.B.S. as a reminder of our relative size on the landscape, recalibrating our identity as one set of creatures in a larger ecology. We are a marvelously successful set of creatures, though. A power outage caused by a squirrel feels so surprising only because we've come to see our electrical grid -- all these wires with which, little by little, we've battened down the continent -- as a constant. Electricity everywhere, at the flick of a switch, seems like the natural order, while the actual natural order -- the squirrel programmed by evolution to gnaw and eat acorns and bask and leap and scamper -- winds up feeling like a preposterous, alien glitch in that system. It's a pretty stunning reversal, if you can clear the right kind of space to reflect on it, and fortunately power outages caused by squirrels do that for you by shutting off your TV and Internet.
After the city of Fort Meade, Fla., suffered more than two dozen P.O.C.B.S. in a year, a resident told a reporter: ''I just didn't think a squirrel could make the lights go out. They're just tiny little things.'' A century ago, a shrewd squirrel might have been equally skeptical about our ability to make so many lights go on, watching a few little humans raise the first wooden pole.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY R. KIKUO JOHNSON) (SR1
SR6-SR7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (94%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); CELEBRITIES (76%); CITIES (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (64%); AIRPORTS (50%)

COMPANY: TRADER JOE'S CO (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (76%); WICHITA, KS, USA (73%); ROANOKE, VA, USA (71%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (54%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013



23 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: No Need To Duck. Just Diversify.

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
IT'S a very risky environment for the markets right now. It's also a very good time to be an investor.
These two propositions may seem contradictory, but they're not -- at least in the view of David P. Kelly, chief global strategist at J.P. Morgan Funds.
''There are many problems in the economy and in the markets, certainly,'' Mr. Kelly said in an interview. Short-term losses could easily be on the way, and they could be painful. ''But the answer for a long-term investor isn't to avoid risk,'' he said. ''It is to be extremely diversified -- and to invest in equities. You're likely to do much better that way than if you stay out of the markets.''
Still, he concedes, it's very easy to make the case that the factors affecting the stock, bond, currency and commodity markets are spectacularly harrowing at the moment. 
Just consider some of the more obvious problems.
The prospect of Western military intervention in Syria has rattled the markets, sending oil and gold prices higher, driving down the value of emerging-market currencies and stocks and unsettling the stock and bond markets in the United States.
In Washington, the fiscal clock is ticking toward two irksome deadlines. At the end of September, the federal government will run out of money unless Congress takes action, and even if it does, the government will hit its debt ceiling in mid-October, the Treasury says. At that point, unless there is a meeting of the minds in Congress and the White House, the United States won't be able to pay all of its bills, and it could default on its debt.
And in mid-September, the Federal Reserve is widely expected to begin reducing its $85 billion monthly purchases of fixed-income securities, in a move known as ''the taper.'' Longer-term interest rates have already begun to rise in anticipation.
The prospect of Fed action has sporadically unsettled the markets, playing a role in the sell-off of emerging-market debt and raising fears of a vicious feedback loop, in which bond prices, currencies and the real economies in countries like India, Turkey and Indonesia plummet and threaten to spread contagion elsewhere around the world.
THIS is not a pretty picture, and Mr. Kelly doesn't claim that it is. ''We could have some very difficult moments,'' he said. ''The one thing you can expect is volatility.''
But in a trenchant summary of the prospects for investing under current conditions, Mr. Kelly said last week that the global economy had improved considerably since the collapse of Lehman Brothers five years ago. The economy is ''more balanced'' today, he said, with developed countries like the United States regaining strength and the world no longer needing to rely so heavily on growth in countries like China, India, Indonesia and Turkey.
Most important, relatively low interest rates have made stocks, as an asset class, more attractive than bonds. And he says ''this should remain the case'' even if interest rates rise over the next few years, as expected.
To be sure, people holding long-term Treasury bonds should expect to bear some losses if interest rates rise. (As I've noted recently, rates and bond prices move in opposite directions.) Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, has said that rates are likely to rise; that's another way of saying that bond prices are likely to fall further, so investors should consider themselves forewarned.
But Mr. Kelly says that most investors shouldn't be holding only long-term Treasuries -- or only domestic stocks, or only cash, for that matter. ''If you perceive that risk is rising, then you need to be extremely well-diversified, because no one can predict which asset will rise and which will fall in any given time,'' he said in a conversation last week.
He advocates investing based primarily on valuation, buying assets that are cheaply priced and are likely to rise, rather than on momentum, buying assets whose prices are already rising. Momentum works for a while -- until the momentum shifts, which could happen at any time, leaving investors with overvalued assets that they may have to sell in a market rout. ''That's not a very attractive strategy,'' he said.
Current valuations suggest that developed-market equities are a better buy than developed-market bonds, Mr. Kelly said, and will remain so for several years even if interest rates rise. One valuation measure points this out: the difference between the yield on 10-year sovereign bonds, like United States Treasuries or German Bunds, and the earnings yield on equities. (The earnings yield is earnings per share divided by the current share price; it is the inverse of the price-to-earnings ratio, or P/E.)
Using this measure, the United States stock market remains quite attractive. The difference between the 10-year yield and the earnings yield is now 4.25 percentage points. German stocks are even more appealing, according to this metric, he said, with a comparable figure of 7.1 percentage points. And because he believes that both the German and American economies are strengthening, Mr. Kelly favors overweighting investments in their stock markets while underweighting investments in their bond markets.
But, he said, he didn't want ''to oversell the probabilities of any one investment being successful in a given period of time.''
''All we can say is that based on history, some approaches are more likely to be successful than others,'' he said. And because it is very easy to be ''wrong-footed'' -- to assume that an asset class is about to rise just when it is about to fall -- a diversified and balanced portfolio should have bonds and stocks in a proportion that is appropriate for one's individual needs and preferences.
SHORT-TERM risks like an expansion of the conflict in Syria or a spiraling currency crisis in vulnerable emerging economies could create turmoil in the markets, he said, but long-term investors should be prepared to ride them out.
''As a strategist, I am assuming that whatever happens in Syria, it won't close off the flow of oil in the Persian Gulf, and that the markets will rebound quickly, even if they fall,'' he said. ''I have to make that assumption, based on past history.''
Short-term bets on the flow of oil or the direction of a currency like the Indian rupee aren't likely to be productive for most people, Mr. Kelly said. Nor are investments in supposed safe havens such as gold, which he says is ''the ultimate speculative asset, since it pays no dividend'' and is useful only as a symbol of value in the eye of the beholder. Far better to make long-term bets on the growth of the economy, through diversified holdings of stocks and bonds. Even in risky times, he said, that's likely to be a good long-term bet.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KOREN SHADMI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOND MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CURRENCIES (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); DEBT CEILING (69%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); INDONESIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013



24 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: Labor, Then and Now

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
On Thursday, the day after the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington, thousands of fast-food workers in 60 cities walked off their jobs, the latest in an escalating series of walkouts by low-wage workers demanding higher pay and the right to organize without retaliation. 
The parallels, though inexact, are compelling. A half-century ago, the marchers called on Congress to increase the minimum wage from $1.15 an hour to $2 ''so that men may live in dignity,'' in the words of Bayard Rustin, one of the chief organizers of the march. Today, the fast-food workers also seek a raise, from the $9 an hour that most of them make to $15.00 an hour. That's not much different from what the marchers wanted in 1963; adjusted for inflation, $2 then is $13.39 an hour today.
The strikers are targeting their employers -- profitable companies like McDonald's, Yum Brands (which includes Taco Bell, Pizza Hut and KFC) and Wendy's. But Congress could help. Today's minimum wage is a miserly $7.25 an hour -- which is actually lower, adjusted for inflation, than it was 50 long years ago. Raising it would support the legitimate demands of the strikers and underscore the pressing needs of the country's growing ranks of low-wage workers.
President Obama has noted, correctly, that increases in labor productivity have long failed to translate into higher wages for most Americans, even while income for the richest households has skyrocketed. His proposed remedies, however, leave much to be desired -- a pathetic increase in the minimum wage, to $9 an hour by 2016, plus hopeful assertions that revolutions in energy, technology, manufacturing and health care will create good-paying jobs.
On its own, however, growth will not raise wages. What's missing are policies to ensure that a large and growing share of rising labor productivity flows to workers in the form of wages and salaries, rather than to executives and shareholders. Start with an adequate minimum wage. Provide increased protections for workers to unionize, in order to strengthen their bargaining power. Provide protections for undocumented workers that would limit exploitation. Add to the mix regulations to prevent financial bubbles, thereby protecting jobs and wages from ruinous busts. Adopt expansionary fiscal and monetary policies in troubled times to sustain jobs and wages.
Low-wage workers would also benefit from executive-branch orders to ensure fair pay for employees of federal contractors. All workers need stronger enforcement of labor law so they are not routinely misclassified in ways that deny wages, overtime and benefits. They also need a tax system that is more progressive to shield wage earners from unduly burdensome tax increases or government cutbacks.
They need, in brief, pro-labor policies that have been overlooked for decades, with devastating results: from 1979 to 2012, typical workers saw wage increases of just 5 percent, despite productivity growth of nearly 75 percent, while wage gains for low-wage workers were flat or declined.
Recent experience has been even worse. In the decade from 2002 to 2012, wages have stagnated or declined for the entire bottom 70 percent of the wage ladder. The marchers had it right 50 years ago. The fast-food strikers have it right today. Washington has it wrong.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); STRIKES (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); OVERTIME (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); TAX LAW (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); FOREIGN LABOR (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (62%); SHAREHOLDERS (61%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (60%); MONETARY POLICY (50%)

COMPANY: YUM! BRANDS INC (56%); PIZZA HUT INC (55%); TACO BELL CORP (55%)

TICKER: YUM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (56%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013



25 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL | NOTEBOOK; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 374 words

HEADLINE: New York's Living Wilderness

BYLINE: By ELEANOR RANDOLPH

 BODY:
For those who cherish New York State's magnificent Adirondack Park, Gov. Andrew Cuomo's summertime efforts to promote tourism there -- like racing Mayor Michael Bloomberg in a white-water rafting competition on the Indian River -- have offered diversions from local economic worries, uncertain weather and supersized mosquitoes. He has also been busy hawking the region's wine, beer, food, hikes and kayaking. 
But there is an even better way for Mr. Cuomo to show his affection for the Adirondacks: provide strong protections for thousands of recently acquired timberland acres whose ecological value could easily be compromised by unregulated motorized use.
Last year, Mr. Cuomo announced the purchase of 69,000 acres from the Nature Conservancy that would be added to the state forest preserve over five years. The land, near the center of the six-million-acre park, is the biggest single addition to the park preserve in more than a century.
Mr. Cuomo's immediate task is to decide how the first segment of these forest preserves and nearby forest lands -- about 39,000 acres -- will be classified. Classifications range from fully protected wilderness to intensive use, with various degrees of protection in between.
Some people would open the entire area, which encompasses lands around the Essex Chain of Lakes and the Hudson Gorge, to snowmobiles and four-wheeled vehicles. This would gravely threaten some of the most important and fragile ecosystems in the region, like one of the park's highest waterfalls and spring ice formations that help preserve numerous endangered plant species. Some wilderness advocates would put the area off limits except, say, to backpackers.
An attractive compromise endorsed by the Adirondack Council, an advocacy group, would allow motorized vehicles like snowmobiles on paths between towns and in less fragile areas. But most of the area would be preserved as wilderness where people can hike and canoe.
The Adirondack Park Agency is expected in the next few weeks to recommend how this area should be used. But the real decision rests with Mr. Cuomo, who has vacationed in the Adirondacks since he was a young man. He knows the value of this wilderness, and he should give it the strong protections it deserves.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Blue Mountain Lake in the Adirondacks, a six-million-acre park. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS MURRAY/AURORA -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORESTS & WOODLANDS (91%); PLANT CONSERVATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); BOATING & RAFTING (90%); WILDERNESS (90%); EXTREME SPORTS (90%); RIVERS (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HIKING (89%); MAYORS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (86%); BACKPACKING (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (77%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (75%); TOURISM (73%); LAKES (72%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (72%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NATURE CONSERVANCY (56%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (90%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013



26 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 243 words

HEADLINE: Shira Toeplitz, Eli Center

 BODY:
Shira Ransom Toeplitz and Eli Bryan Center are to be married Sunday at the Heinz Hall for the Performing Arts in Pittsburgh. Pastor Bob Wilson, a United Methodist minister, is to officiate at a nondenominational ceremony incorporating Jewish traditions, including a canopy and the breaking of a glass wrapped in a Pittsburgh Steelers towel. 
The bride, 30, works in Washington as the politics editor at Roll Call, a newspaper owned by The Economist that covers Capitol Hill. She graduated from Northwestern.
She is a daughter of the Rev. Dr. Gail S. Ransom of Pittsburgh, and of the late Gideon Toeplitz, who lived in Richmond, Mass. From 1987 to 2003, the bride's father was the managing director of the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, which performs in Heinz Hall. Her mother is the director of Christian education at First United Methodist Church of Pittsburgh and is the all-faith chaplain at Chatham University in Pittsburgh.
The groom, 34, is a vice president and campaign consultant at the political consulting firm McLean/Clark in Washington, focusing on digital media and fund-raising. He graduated from Indiana University.
He is a son of Kyleen R. Center and Robert B. Center of Madison, Ind. The groom's mother is the safety coordinator at the Indiana-Kentucky Electric power plant in Madison. His father works as a master electrician throughout central Kentucky as a member of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 369 in Louisville.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (91%); RELIGION (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); POLITICS (76%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (65%); POWER PLANTS (65%)

COMPANY: MADISON INDUSTRIES (52%); INDIANA-KENTUCKY ELECTRIC CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH STEELERS (57%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (52%); INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013



27 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: A Carbon Fee That America Could Live With

BYLINE: By N. GREGORY MANKIW. 
N. Gregory Mankiw is a professor of economics at Harvard. He was an adviser to President George W. Bush.

 BODY:
THIS summer, the Obama administration released the President's Climate Action Plan. It is a grab bag of regulations and policy initiatives aimed at reducing the nation's carbon emissions, which many scientists believe contribute to global warming.
This got me to thinking: What might I do to reduce my own carbon emissions? Here are some things I came up with. Think of them as Greg Mankiw's Climate Action Plan. 
I could buy a smaller, more fuel-efficient car.
I could swap my traditional car for one with new technology, like a hybrid or an electric vehicle.
I could car-pool to work.
I could use public transportation.
I could move closer to my job.
I could buy a smaller house that requires less energy to heat and cool.
I could adjust the thermostat to keep my home cooler in winter and warmer in summer.
I could put solar panels on my roof.
I could buy more energy-efficient home appliances.
I could eat more locally produced foods, which need less fuel to transport.
I could go on, but by now you get the idea. Every day, we all make lifestyle choices that affect how much carbon is emitted. These decisions are personal but have global impact. Economists call the effects of our personal decisions on others ''externalities.''
The main question is how we, as a society, ensure that we all make the right decisions, taking into account both the personal impact of our actions and the externalities. There are three approaches.
One approach is to appeal to individuals' sense of social responsibility. This is what President Jimmy Carter did during the energy crisis of the 1970s. He encouraged Americans to adjust their thermostats and insulate their homes. I can still picture Mr. Carter sitting in the chilly White House, wearing his cardigan sweater.
It's true that as a socially responsible economist, I always weigh the global costs and global benefits before pushing the ignition button on my car. (Yes, my tongue is firmly planted in my cheek.) But expecting most people to act this way is unrealistic. Life is busy, everyone has his or her own priorities, and even knowing the global impact of one's own actions is a daunting task.
THE second approach is to use government regulation to change the decisions that people make. An example is the Corporate Average Fuel Economy, or CAFE, standards that regulate the emissions of cars sold. The President's Climate Action Plan is filled with small regulatory changes aimed at making Americans live more carbon-efficient lives.
Yet this regulatory approach is fraught with problems. One is that it creates an inevitable tension between the products that consumers want to buy and the products that companies are allowed to sell. Robert A. Lutz, the former General Motors executive, laments that CAFE standards are ''a huge bureaucratic nightmare.'' He says, ''CAFE is like trying to cure obesity by requiring clothing manufacturers to make smaller sizes.''
Yet another problem with such regulations is that they can influence only a small number of crucial decisions. In a free society, the government can't easily regulate how close I live to work, whether I car-pool with my neighbor or how often I don a cardigan. Yet if we are to reduce carbon emissions at minimum cost, we need a policy that encompasses all possible margins of adjustment.
Fortunately, a policy broader in scope is possible, which brings us to the third approach to dealing with climate externalities: putting a price on carbon emissions. If the government charged a fee for each emission of carbon, that fee would be built into the prices of products and lifestyles. When making everyday decisions, people would naturally look at the prices they face and, in effect, take into account the global impact of their choices. In economics jargon, a price on carbon would induce people to ''internalize the externality.''
A bill introduced this year by Representatives Henry A. Waxman and Earl Blumenauer and Senators Sheldon Whitehouse and Brian Schatz does exactly that. Their proposed carbon fee -- or carbon tax, if you prefer -- is more effective and less invasive than the regulatory approach that the federal government has traditionally pursued.
The four sponsors are all Democrats, which raises the question of whether such legislation could ever make its way through the Republican-controlled House of Representatives. The crucial point is what is done with the revenue raised by the carbon fee. If it's used to finance larger government, Republicans would have every reason to balk. But if the Democratic sponsors conceded to using the new revenue to reduce personal and corporate income tax rates, a bipartisan compromise is possible to imagine.
Among economists, the issue is largely a no-brainer. In December 2011, the IGM Forum asked a panel of 41 prominent economists about this statement: ''A tax on the carbon content of fuels would be a less expensive way to reduce carbon-dioxide emissions than would a collection of policies such as 'corporate average fuel economy' requirements for automobiles.'' Ninety percent of the panelists agreed.
Could such an overwhelming consensus of economists be wrong? Well, actually, yes. But in this case, I am confident that the economics profession has it right. The hard part is persuading the public and the politicians.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ISTOCKPHOTO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); CLIMATOLOGY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (75%); LIFESTYLE TRENDS (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); SOLAR ENERGY (70%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (70%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); JIMMY CARTER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013



28 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: Land of Mystery

BYLINE: By MARK ATWOOD LAWRENCE. 
Mark Atwood Lawrence teaches history at the University of Texas at Austin. His most recent book is ''The Vietnam War: A Concise International History.''

 BODY:
BROTHERS AT WARThe Unending Conflict in Korea
By Sheila Miyoshi JagerIllustrated. 605 pp. W. W. Norton & Company. $35.THE REAL NORTH KOREALife and Politics in the Failed Stalinist UtopiaBy Andrei LankovIllustrated. 283 pp. Oxford University Press. $27.95.
A quarter-century ago, North Korea seemed to teeter on the brink of collapse. The end of the cold war in the late 1980s and the disintegration of the Soviet Union in 1991 suggested that the era of reclusive Communist dictatorships was over. How, asked hopeful observers around the world, could Kim Il-sung's Stalinist wasteland possibly survive under the pressure of its spectacular economic failures and the tide of democracy and capitalism rising around its borders?
Things got even worse for North Korea in the years that followed. Chinese leaders lost interest in propping up a regime they believed to be doomed. Deprived of foreign support, North Korea descended into a hellish famine that killed between 600,000 and one million of its citizens, an astonishing 3 to 5 percent of the total population, between 1995 and 1998. Perhaps most dangerous of all to the government in Pyongyang, desperate North Koreans responded to starvation by planting private gardens and setting up local markets, displays of grass-roots entrepreneurship that struck at the core of the government's authority. 
And yet North Korea not only survived the 1990s but lives on today with no end in sight. Despite some concessions to economic necessity, North Korea's essential character remains unchanged, and the family dynasty founded by Kim Il-sung in the 1940s persists without apparent challenge.
How can we explain the remarkable longevity of a regime that, by all rights, should have landed in the dustbin of history long ago? This question lies at the heart of two superb new books. As both studies argue, understanding North Korea, too often dismissed as a merely irrational and reckless pariah, is the starting point for devising sensible policy to manage the dangers that it poses.
Sheila Miyoshi Jager, a professor of East Asian studies at Oberlin College, and Andrei Lankov, a professor of history at Koomkin University in Seoul, South Korea, approach the question in different but equally fascinating ways. In ''Brothers at War,'' Jager focuses on the international arena, examining how the United States, China and Russia have competed for control on the Korean Peninsula since World War II. More than half of the book provides an elegant and balanced, if not especially innovative, history of the Korean War. Thereafter, Jager enters less familiar terrain, examining why the division of North and South Korea has endured ever since the fighting stopped in 1953.
One reason was the willingness of the superpowers to provide economic and military aid to their Korean protégés, including, on the South Korean side, the stationing of thousands of American soldiers. But stability did not result solely from a balance of military power on the peninsula. By the 1970s, Jager shows, the status quo had become a comfortable fact of life for almost everyone in the region. Revealingly, when President Jimmy Carter proposed withdrawing United States forces in the late 1970s, he encountered resistance not only in Seoul and Tokyo but also in Moscow and Beijing. All of them saw that a new crisis might mean bloodshed, humanitarian disaster and huge flows of refugees that no one wanted.
After the cold war, when Soviet aid disappeared, Pyongyang lost its most important benefactor. Yet North Korean leaders refused to embrace reform, fearful that any opening to the wider world would invite rebellion by enabling their people to see the enormous gap between their deprivation and the fantastic prosperity south of the demilitarized zone.
The key to the regime's survival, Jager argues, was its dramatic acceleration of the decade-old nuclear program. When North Korea disavowed the nonproliferation treaty in 1993 and threatened to turn Seoul into ''a sea of fire,'' Americans reasonably feared a dangerous escalation of tensions. But Jager insists that North Korean saber-rattling was aimed mostly at extorting economic aid from Washington, Seoul and other governments anxious to preserve peace at almost any price.
Playing the ''nuclear card'' worked just as the North Koreans hoped. Washington decided against confronting Pyongyang, instead negotiating a compromise that sent American economic aid in return for small North Korean concessions. More recent North Korean provocations, including nuclear tests beginning in 2006, have been similarly aimed, Jager makes clear, at extracting foreign assistance crucial to the North's survival.
Lankov agrees with all of these conclusions, but his book, ''The Real North Korea,'' concentrates not so much on international affairs as on the nature of North Korean society. Lankov is unusually well placed to take this approach. Born in the Soviet Union during the cold war, he enjoyed access to North Korea as a student and clearly benefits from a network of acquaintances and informants in the country.
The book, an engaging blend of scholarship, reportage and memoir, offers striking details about daily life in a country reminiscent of George Orwell's ''1984.'' Lankov describes, for example, the government's efforts to assure that every household displays portraits of the ruling family and maintains them properly. Elsewhere, Lankov cites a 2011 North Korean report about a study showing that North Koreans were the second-happiest people on earth, behind only the Chinese, while citizens of the United States and South Korea ranked at the bottom.
Such absurdities underscore one of the most important reasons, in Lankov's view, for North Korea's persistence: its ability to prevent the vast majority of the population from receiving information about the outside world. But he points to other factors as well, including the sheer resourcefulness of ordinary North Koreans who manage to eke out a living under conditions unimaginable in most other parts of the world.
Whether such stability will last over the long term is a different matter. Both Jager and Lankov contend that North Korea cannot resist change forever, though they offer different visions of the nation's likely future. Jager foresees the country's gradual absorption into an economic sphere controlled by Beijing. Lankov touches on that scenario but stresses the possibility of dramatic political upheaval resulting in the disintegration of the North Korean regime.
Such a crisis might lead to Korean unification but would be exceedingly dangerous in the short term. Both books make clear that the government in Pyongyang will never surrender its nuclear weapons, North Korea's sole source of international leverage, and is unlikely to go down without a fight. Yet Jager and Lankov offer glimmers of hope. The mysterious new leader who took power in 2011, Kim Jong-un, may prove to be a reformer. Alternatively, the spread of radio and DVD players in the North may gradually create a better-informed population that will leave him or his successors no choice but to opt for union with the South. The best reason to hope for a soft landing, however, may be the same basic fact that has prevailed since the 1970s: No major power concerned with East Asia, including China, has any interest in another Korean War.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: North Korean girls stand at attention at the end of a performance of mass games in Pyongyang in July, on the eve of the 60th anniversary of the Korean War armistice. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GUTTENFELDER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); COLD WAR (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); FAMINE (78%); HISTORY (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); WORLD WAR II (76%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (60%); ARMED FORCES (60%)

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%); OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (90%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013



29 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1472 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Dialogue: Economics' Ups and Downs

 BODY:
Readers discuss the nature of economics and science.
To the Editor:
Re ''What Is Economics Good For?'' (Sunday Review, Aug. 25):
I disagree with Alex Rosenberg and Tyler Curtain's characterization of science in general and economics in particular. They claim that a scientific discipline is to be judged primarily on its predictions, and on that basis, they suggest, economics doesn't qualify as a science.
Prediction is certainly a valuable goal in science, but not the only one. Explanation is also important, and there are plenty of sciences that do a lot of explaining and not much predicting. Seismology, for example, has taught us why earthquakes occur, but doesn't tell Californians when they'll be hit by ''the big one.''
And through meteorology we know essentially how hurricanes form, even though we can't say where the next storm will arise. 
In the same way, economic theory provides a good understanding of how financial derivatives are priced (notwithstanding Mr. Rosenberg and Mr. Curtain's snarky reference to the Black-Scholes model). But that doesn't mean that we know whether the derivatives market will crash this year.
Perhaps one day earthquakes, hurricanes and financial crashes will all be predictable. But we don't have to wait until then for seismology, meteorology and economics to become sciences; they already are.
ERIC S. MASKIN Cambridge, Mass., Aug. 26, 2013
The writer, a university professor at Harvard, is a 2007 Nobel laureate in economics.
Readers React
It seems that every discipline, not just economics, wants to be a science. We have social science, political science, and even religion wants to be a science -- witness Christian Science and creation science. And all the science wannabes can ''explain'' many things.
But none of them, including economics, can predict anything with significantly better than random success. Professor Maskin tries to compare economics with meteorology, but if economists could predict the next day's stock market move with anywhere near the accuracy that meteorologists can predict the next day's weather, they would be billionaires in short order.
Economics is great at ''explaining'' the past, but has nothing even remotely reliable to say about the future. So I'm afraid that the honest assessment is that none of the social ''sciences,'' including economics, really deserve the name as yet.
DAVID GOLDSCHMIDT Oakland, Calif., Aug. 29, 2013
Seriously? Alex Rosenberg and Tyler Curtain claim that economics doesn't qualify as a science because a science should be ''judged primarily on its predictions.''
In the past eight years, several economists have used standard economic models to correctly diagnose the housing bubble, as well as predict the crash of 2008, the subsequent Lesser Depression and the stalled recovery because of inadequate stimulus. These are the models taught in Macroeconomics 101 and 102, not obscure or esoteric theories.
Other economists' and politicians' willful ignorance of these models, to disastrous results, does not mean that economics is not a science. It means that, as argued in a recent Op-Ed essay by Adam Frank, we live in the ''age of denial,'' during which it is acceptable to prioritize personal prejudices over scientific fact, regardless of the consequences.
Someday we'll look back on this era as the period of idiocy that it is.
JONATHAN CAREY San Francisco, Aug. 29, 2013
Mr. Maskin's distinction between prediction and explanation as different but equally valuable goals of science is a false one -- the two are inextricably linked. The ability to predict is both what makes our explanations useful, and what confirms that our explanations are correct.
Mr. Maskin's choice of meteorology as example is a good one. It's true that in the long run ''we can't say where the next storm will arise,'' but we are now very good at forecasting the short-term futures of tropical storms, so good that we can predict landfalls within miles and within hours, and give populations ample time to protect themselves (if people would only listen).
If only economics could make such a claim! If only we could see a market crash developing in the mid-Atlantic and accurately predict that it would likely become a Category 4 hurricane and strike the Carolina coast within a few days!
And more important, if only we could make such a prediction about market behavior without the prediction's entirely changing the behavior of the markets! That's the other critical difference between economics and meteorology, or physics, or any of the disciplines we properly call scientific.
Economies are entirely man-made -- their behavior is an aggregate of human behavior, not the product of deterministic mathematical principles. Economics looks like math, but that look is a misrepresentation, the most destructive expression of which is our unjustifiable reverence for market forces.
DAVID BERMAN New York, Aug. 29, 2013
Mr. Maskin argues that economics is a science like seismology in that it primarily provides explanations rather than predictions. But seismology does make predictions. For example, it would be substantial evidence against current seismological theories if most earthquakes in the next five years were not in the Pacific Ring of Fire.
Moreover, if a theory did not make any confirmed predictions, why would we ever accept its explanations?
In fact, economists make predictions, and their status as scientists should be judged by their willingness to revise their theories when these predictions do not bear out.
SAMUEL RUHMKORFF Florence, Mass., Aug. 29, 2013
The writer is an associate professor of philosophy at Bard College at Simon's Rock.
Alex Rosenberg and Tyler Curtain claim that economists can predict very little. Mr. Maskin agrees that they cannot predict financial crises.
But the Revere Award was given in 2010 to economists who did just that. First prize went to Steve Keen, who arrived at his predictions by modeling the economy as a chaotic system -- precisely the way meteorologists are able to model (though not to predict) phenomena like hurricanes.
His view is that mainstream neoclassical economics fails to appreciate the chaotic dynamics of the modern debt-driven economy; it can neither predict nor explain financial instability. This debate so far seems to be focused on neoclassical economics, but the most mainstream part of a discipline is not guaranteed to be the most scientific.
ALEX DOUGLAS London, Aug. 29, 2013
The writer is a research fellow in philosophy at King's College, London, and the Institute of Philosophy.
Mr. Maskin seems to consider prediction and explanation -- those two pillars of scientific practice -- as entirely distinct. But explanations in physics and biology, the two most advanced sciences, are tested by submitting them to the crucible of predictive success. Explanation and prediction are simply not separate goals.
Mr. Maskin's comparison of economics with nonlinear sciences like seismology and meteorology, which do not yield long-term predictions, is to no avail. While recent economic models use nonlinear equations, they are controversial and it is unclear what explanation even means in these sciences.
More important, few, if any, public policies are based on meteorology and seismology, while economics is the basis of significant, life-changing policies. Those policies assume that economics is a predictive science, that its explanations have survived empirical tests.
Do we really want economics to be regarded as a science in the same way that meteorology is a science? The victims of unpredictable earthquakes and storms may not think so.
JOHN DOUARD Montclair, N.J., Aug. 29, 2013
The Writer Responds
Messrs. Berman, Ruhmkorff and Goldschmidt all point out that even though seismology or meteorology can't predict particular earthquakes or storms, they still make useful predictions of a more limited sort. These writers, as well as Mr. Douard, seem to think that the same isn't true of economics.
But economic theory makes significant, if circumscribed, predictions, too. For instance, a sequence of celebrated journal articles in the 1980s and 1990s warned of the financial meltdown that could befall us if many banks were to make highly leveraged loans at the same time (loans in which most of the money comes from other banks), a premise that became reality in the time before the financial crisis of 2008.
(To be clear, these papers didn't say there'd be a catastrophe for sure or exactly when it would occur, only that it was a serious possibility.)
If financial regulators had heeded this work and had placed reasonable limits on leverage, recent economic history would likely have been quite different.
For a nontechnical account of some of these papers, see fivebooks.com/interviews/eric-maskin-on-economic-theory-and-financial-crisis.
ERIC S. MASKIN Cambridge, Mass., Aug. 30, 2013

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LILLI CARRÉ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); WEATHER (90%); METEOROLOGY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (87%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (76%); EARTHQUAKES (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); WRITERS (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (73%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (72%); HOUSING BUBBLE (67%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (67%); HOUSING MARKET (66%); CREATIONISM (63%); RELIGION (63%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (61%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013



30 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4947 words

HEADLINE: World of Grief and Doubt After an Adoptee's Death

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Rachel L. Swarns reported from Gardendale, Tex., and David M. Herszenhorn from Russia.

 BODY:
GARDENDALE, Tex. -- Kris loved to soar on the swings. Max liked to fly down the slide.
So when their mother, Laura Shatto, opened the door on that January afternoon, the toddlers -- two newly adopted brothers from Russia -- headed for the backyard with their three dogs bounding along. They were captivated by the swing set, with its bright blue slide, trampoline and glider.
Mrs. Shatto played with her sons for about 20 minutes, she recalled, before she had to run to the bathroom. She considered taking the boys inside, but it had been a stressful day for Max, with tears and tantrums. The backyard was fenced in. And it would just be a few minutes.
''Mama's going to be right back,'' she remembers reassuring them. 
It was a split-second decision, she says, the kind of quick calculus that parents make all the time, weighing what seems like taking the smallest of risks against disrupting precious moments of peace. But when Mrs. Shatto returned, Max, 3, was lying in the grass, she said. He was not breathing.
In the next frantic minutes, Mrs. Shatto, then paramedics and emergency room physicians, tried unsuccessfully to revive the child. It seemed like a terrible accident -- a severe allergy attack or perhaps a seizure -- until the doctors saw the multicolored collage of bruises on Max's body.
They marked his chest, his groin, his thigh, his left arm, his right arm, his chin, his neck, his face. Suddenly, Mrs. Shatto was no longer a grieving mother struck by calamity. She was a murder suspect, a symbol of the worst fears about adoption.
''They're saying I killed my baby!'' Mrs. Shatto, 44, cried in a telephone call to her mother.
Max's death set off an international furor, one that has reached far from this tiny, windswept oil town where Mrs. Shatto, a former teacher, lives with her husband, Alan, 51, a petroleum engineer. Russian legislators and news anchors assailed the couple as criminals. Thousands of protesters marched through the streets of Moscow -- some carrying photos of Max and Kris aloft -- in support of a ban on adoptions by Americans that took effect before Max's death.
''I wanted to kill them,'' Yulia V. Kuzmina, the boys' biological mother, said about the Shattos.
The police, prosecutors and medical examiners in Texas eventually concluded that Max's death on Jan. 21 was an accident, resulting from internal injuries probably caused by a fall from the swing set. Max's bruises were self-inflicted, they said, by a deeply troubled child who clawed his skin raw, banged his head against walls and hurled his body on the floor. But child welfare officials here, who have not disputed the finding about Max's death, said they could not determine who caused the bruises on his body, leaving the Shattos under a cloud of suspicion.
And the authorities in Russia remain unconvinced of the couple's innocence. Accusing them of ''cruel treatment'' and ''inappropriate care,'' Russian officials have said they were moving to annul Kris's adoption and have demanded the 2-year-old's return. They have accused the couple of fabricating Max's history of self-injury to cover up their mistreatment.
The Shattos have become pariahs in their own community, indelibly stained by the tragedy. Anonymous callers have left death threats on their answering machine. Shoppers have accosted Mrs. Shatto and shouted ''Murderer!'' as she stood in line at the supermarket. Some friends no longer visit or return phone calls.
The couple, speaking to The New York Times in their first public discussion of the case, say they did nothing to cause Max's injuries or death. They say they loved the boy with the shy smile who burst into song the first moment he stepped into his bedroom, ate pecans straight from the tree in the backyard and curled up at night with his fuzzy brown bear. They describe themselves as victims of an adoption system that failed to disclose the severity of Max's problems.
The short, sad life of the boy who was born Maksim Nikolaevich Kuzmin has become more than the story of one child, a boy who was neglected by his biological mother, consigned to an institution and finally chosen by a family here in Texas. His death came at a time of sharply souring relations between the United States and Russia, becoming another point of contention between the countries. (State Department officials say that any annulment of Kris's adoption by the Russian authorities would not be recognized in the United States.)
It has also exposed the often unspoken tensions between parents in the United States and the countries where they find children to adopt, strains often tinged by the chasm of class. Some countries -- including Cambodia, Guatemala and Vietnam -- that once sent children to the United States have slowed or stopped foreign adoptions because of baby-selling scandals, corruption or efforts to encourage more domestic adoptions.
In Russia, passions over the treatment of adoptees have been inflamed in recent years. Three years ago, an American mother sent her 7-year-old adopted son on a flight back to Russia alone, saying she had become overwhelmed by his emotional problems. Russian officials have declared that Max was the 21st Russian adoptee to die from abuse or neglect while living with families in the United States. Among them was a toddler who died of heatstroke after his adoptive father left him in a parked vehicle for nine hours on a hot day in 2008. After Max's death, the Russian government rebuffed efforts by the United States to finalize adoptions for several hundred American families who had met their prospective children before the ban was imposed.
The New York Times reviewed Max's autopsy report, adoption and medical records, and other documents; it also interviewed officials in Texas and Russia, medical experts, Max's biological relatives, and friends and relatives of Mrs. Shatto. Those reports and interviews helped bolster the Shattos' account: Max's pediatrician, Mrs. Shatto's mother and three friends all said the couple had expressed concern about the child's behavior as it developed over a period of weeks. Detectives interviewed other relatives and friends who said they witnessed Max's violent episodes, prosecutors said. And the Shattos sought help from Max's doctor and their adoption agency.
Yet doubts persist among the authorities in Russia, who say they have been denied access to investigate reports and documents in this case, and among child welfare officials in Texas, who say they were ''unable to determine'' whether Max had been physically abused by his parents.
Here in Gardendale, Mrs. Shatto said she often lay sleepless at night, haunted by Max's death and tormented by questions. If the ambulance had arrived sooner, would Max still be alive? If she had been more adept with CPR, would he still be alive? If she and her husband had known about Max's problems and gotten him help from the start, would he still be alive?
''I was completely broken; there wasn't a lot of me left,'' she said, remembering how she feared that she might have inadvertently injured Max while she performed CPR, though the medical examiner found no evidence of that. ''I kept wondering: 'Did I hurt my baby? Did I hurt my baby?' ''
And, of course, the most unanswerable question of all: if she had not stepped away for those crucial minutes, would Max still be alive?
''All I ever wanted to be was a mom,'' Mrs. Shatto said. ''We didn't expect that 'Ozzie and Harriet' thing. We know that doesn't happen. All we wanted was a family.''
Happy Journey
The first e-mail the Shattos received about Max gave no hint of the trouble to come. He peered solemnly out of the photographs that the Gladney Center for Adoption sent, a little boy with big brown eyes and wispy brown hair.
''Max is very serious guy and it is not easy to make him smile, but sometimes he does smile!'' said the description from the Russian orphanage that accompanied the photos. ''He has a younger brother, Kirill. Boys need loving parents.''
Mrs. Shatto was at her desk at Midland Senior High School, where she taught economics, when the e-mail popped into her in-box. It was May 24, 2012, and for months she had been telling everyone she knew about her plans to adopt.
''She was so excited,'' recalled Peyton Howard, 19, a student in Mrs. Shatto's class that day. ''Things were finally going right for her.''
The Shattos, who grew up in Ruston, La., and married in 2006, had been trying for years to have a baby, struggling through multiple fertility treatments and three miscarriages. Heartbroken, they decided to adopt from Russia, where they hoped to find two dark-haired, blue-eyed children who would look just like family.
A big woman with raven hair, Mrs. Shatto is a mile-a-minute talker with a Louisiana drawl who hugged away her students' worries. But she also has an eye for detail, and she immersed herself in the adoption paperwork. She had a ready partner in her husband, who is burly and white-whiskered with an engineer's affinity for facts, figures and precision.
They underwent criminal background checks and a home inspection and applied for visas. They studied Russian, went through new-parent training and spent hours corresponding with Gladney caseworkers. Based in Fort Worth, Gladney is one of the nation's oldest adoption agencies and had been bringing Russian adoptees to the United States for nearly two decades.
The Shattos spent most of their savings, in addition to money they inherited from a parent, to cover the costs: roughly $31,000 for one child, an additional $12,000 for a sibling, and the cost of the three required trips to Russia, according to Gladney's estimates.
Soon Mrs. Shatto was peppering her friends and colleagues with questions. While she had cared for her nieces and nephews, being a mother was different.
''She was always asking us: 'How do you do this? What is the response to that?' '' said Christopher Hightower, a parent and fellow teacher at Midland High who offered advice about surviving teething and illness. ''She had worked so hard to get these kids. She didn't want to leave anything to chance.''
The one thing Mrs. Shatto did not worry about was whether taking on two young children at once would be overwhelming. Experts warn that adopting siblings, particularly toddlers, can take a considerable toll. ''With two children coming home at 2 or 3, it is likely that one or both will have behavioral issues,'' said Dr. Lisa Albers Prock, the director of the adoption program at Boston Children's Hospital. ''I tell parents to proceed with caution.''
But the Shattos said they could not wait to adopt a second child. Mr. Shatto was 48 when they began the process; they worried that he would be deemed ineligible to adopt an infant or toddler by the time he was 50.
The couple's biggest concern was about fetal alcohol syndrome, which is pervasive in Russia and can lead to physical, mental and emotional problems.
There were other issues, too. Kris had a clubfoot, his profile said. Max appeared to have a heart defect. Both boys had developmental delays, common to children who have been institutionalized or have endured neglect. At the age of 2 years and 3 months, Max was more equivalent to a child of 1 year and 9 months, according to information provided to Gladney by the Russian orphanage.
The Shattos sent the boys' medical information to Dr. Dana E. Johnson, a pediatrician at the International Adoption Clinic at the University of Minnesota. Right away, Dr. Johnson said, he saw a problem: Max's head seemed a bit small. ''Brain size is one of the few measures of cognitive ability that we have early in life,'' he said.
But he was not sure of the accuracy of the measurements described in the profile. So in June, when the Shattos arrived at the orphanage in Pskov near the Estonian border, they were armed with a tape measure in addition to their Russian-English dictionary, a camera, clothes and gifts.
At their age, they had decided, they could not handle a child with serious cognitive or developmental needs. They had to be prepared to say no, they told each other, if the children did not seem healthy.
But they were overcome by emotion when they finally met Max and Kris. ''I saw them, and I just started crying,'' Ms. Shatto said. ''When you've been waiting to be a mother for so long, well, they could have had horns and we were still going after them.''
The couple spent about four hours with the boys that day. They also measured the boys' heads and took photos from myriad angles. They said they noticed scratches on Max's face -- documented in the photographs they took during that trip and the two that followed -- that they said orphanage officials described as inevitable in an institution filled with children. No one mentioned any self-harming behaviors.
But the Shattos said the orphanage officials did offer some disturbing information: Max and Kris's biological mother might have been drinking while she was pregnant, the couple remembers them saying, though the officials offered few details.
The Shattos were shocked, given that the profile from Gladney did not mention any history of parental drinking. (Heidi B. Cox, general counsel at Gladney, said the agency was never told that the mother drank.)
The couple hesitated, but not for long. No one at the orphanage seemed worried about the issue. Perhaps the mother had only a drink or two, the Shattos told each other.
''You know, you hope for the best,'' Mr. Shatto said.
So the Shattos decided to sign the paperwork necessary to commit to adopting the boys. When the final assessment from Dr. Johnson arrived on June 15, just two days before they headed back to Texas after that first trip, they felt enormous relief.
''I remember very explicitly looking at the photographs of the kids,'' said Dr. Johnson, who was authorized by the Shattos to share his medical evaluation of their son. ''I thought their growth was fine, and their development appeared good.''
There was a caveat: even children with normal facial features can have subtle brain damage if they have been exposed to alcohol, Dr. Johnson warned.
But the Shattos were moving ahead. On Nov. 3, they brought their boys home.
Trouble at Home
Max, pensive and serious, loved hugs and toy cars and staring up at the sky. He sang and made music wherever he went, tapping on overturned flowerpots like miniature drums. He liked to assemble and disassemble toys and watched his father carefully to see how things worked.
Kris was gregarious and seemed more athletic, even with his clubfoot. He liked watching football with his father, who could not help but dream about his sons' futures.
''Max was the more intellectual type; I thought he was the one we would send to M.I.T.,'' Mr. Shatto said. ''Kris was the one we would send to Notre Dame, more the sporting side.''
The Shattos had been reassured about the boys' well-being by a visit to Dr. Bruce Eckel, a pediatrician in Fort Worth who specializes in foreign adoptees and examined the boys a few days after they arrived in Texas. Dr. Eckel, who declined a request for an interview, determined that they were fine, the Shattos said.
Still, the couple worried. Max was waking up almost every night screaming. He hoarded food in his toy cars, in his Big Wheel -- and in his cheeks. At dinnertime, the family tried to make a game out of getting him to chew.
Mrs. Shatto told some of her colleagues about Max's meltdowns and head banging. ''She tried to take him out of the house, and he would just scream,'' Mr. Hightower, the Midland teacher, recalled Mrs. Shatto saying. ''It honestly just sounded like this kid had some anxiety issues or something worse.''
By December, the Shattos said they had installed a motion detector and a video camera in the boys' bedroom that would start recording whenever Max got out of bed. (He sometimes got up to hurt himself or to attack his little brother, the Shattos said; they said they later gave the videotapes to the police.) They said they were also calling Dr. Eckel to report what was happening.
But an explosion was often followed by several days of peace. ''Initially I figured it was just adjustment issues,'' Mr. Shatto said. ''We thought it would pass.''
Instead, the Shattos said, it escalated.
The couple moved Max's bed away from the wall and put gloves on his hands to keep him from scratching himself. They said they continued calling Dr. Eckel's office and spent hours searching for answers online and talking to friends and relatives.
''She would call and say, 'Mama, he's hurting himself, he's hurting himself, why is he hurting himself?' '' recalled Mrs. Shatto's mother, Peggy Worley, 73. ''She'd be crying on the phone. She had never seen anything like it, and neither had I.''
On Jan. 4, the Shattos went to see Dr. Eckel again. He would later tell investigators that the boy arrived in his office with a hemorrhage in his left eye and scratches and bruises all over his body, according to the medical examiner's report.
Convinced that Max had serious psychological problems, the report said, Dr. Eckel prescribed risperidone, an antipsychotic medicine sometimes prescribed to children and teenagers who have autism and engage in self-injurious behaviors. It is not typically prescribed to children under 5, experts say.
''The behaviors that the parents were describing,'' Dr. Eckel told an investigator from the medical examiner's office, according to the report, ''were consistent with a severe case.''
The Shattos drove home that day with a prescription in hand but no real answers. The pediatrician also referred them to a psychologist for Max. The Shattos gave the medication to Max for a few days, but stopped after he suffered from side effects. ''He was like a zombie,'' Mrs. Shatto said.
They did not pursue therapy, they said, after meeting with Gladney caseworkers who told them that Max was too young for medication or therapy. (Ms. Cox at Gladney denied that caseworkers had discouraged the Shattos from such assistance.)
''They told us we needed to love him more,'' Mrs. Shatto said.
Splintered Family
She is pale and thin, a wisp of a woman who averts her eyes when she speaks, as if to distance herself from her own history. At 24, Yulia Kuzmina, Max's birth mother, is a jobless high school dropout, described by her neighbors and her own father as an alcoholic who preferred carousing to caring for her children.
Just like Max, Ms. Kuzmina came from a family splintered by drink, violence and strife. She was a mother who knew precious little about mothering.
Ms. Kuzmina's own mother was an alcoholic, and her parents separated when she was 11. Her stepsister ended up in an orphanage. Last year, her brother hanged himself, and her mother vanished and is believed dead.
When she was in her early 20s, Ms. Kuzmina gave birth to Max and Kris, the sons of two different men. She said Max's father nearly killed her, attacking her with an ax before the baby was born. By then, she was drinking heavily, according to her father, a neighbor and local child welfare officials.
In an interview, Ms. Kuzmina said that social workers in her hometown never gave her the support she needed. ''I wanted them to give me a chance,'' she said. Of her sons, she added, ''I think they would have been better off with me.''
Her father, Andrey Kuzmin, scoffed at that notion. He was quick to assign blame to his daughter, saying, ''She is the one who doomed the boy.''
Mother and son briefly shared a run-down concrete-block house without running water or a furnace in Gdov, southwest of St. Petersburg near the border with Estonia. Tourists still flock to the sandy beaches and fish-filled waters of nearby Lake Peipus. But there is no such draw in Gdov, a ramshackle village where potholes scar the rutted roads.
The poultry farm, the hog farm, the cattle farm, the milk factory have all closed, Ms. Kuzmina said. ''Everybody is leaving,'' she said, ''because there are no jobs.''
For a time, Ms. Kuzmina, who dropped out of school after ninth grade, sold mushrooms and berries that she collected in the woods after Max was born, Russian court records show.
She was estranged from Max's father. So she and Max lived with her mother, until she landed a job on a road construction crew in the city of Pskov, the regional capital, about 90 minutes from Gdov.
Max was an infant when she left him with her mother, who was drinking heavily. In September 2010, social workers visited the house and found him ''dirty, hungry and untended.'' They sent him to the local children's hospital, the records said. He was 8 months old.
''When I came back, the child was already taken away,'' said Ms. Kuzmina, recalling the day she returned from Pskov to visit. ''My mother said, if you had arrived one hour earlier, you would have seen him.''
Two months later, court records show, Ms. Kuzmina requested that her son be placed in a state institution because she lacked ''enough means to provide for the child.'' In February, Max was transferred to an orphanage in the town of Pechory, more than two hours from Gdov. He never saw his mother again.
Ms. Kuzmina said she tried to visit him, but was told she could not because the orphanage was under quarantine. Orphanage officials say Ms. Kuzmina called but never visited. They also say she promised to take Max home in August 2011 but never did.
By then, Ms. Kuzmina had Kris -- his given name is Kirill -- who was about 7 months old. But he, too, was taken away after child welfare workers reported that they found him dirty and neglected, and without any milk or baby formula, court records show.
Ms. Kuzmina insists that she was a good mother to Kris, and that she drank only on special occasions. She said the social workers had to tear him out of her arms. ''I clenched him,'' she recalled. ''I was yelling at them and cursing them.''
By October 2011, the courts had taken away Ms. Kuzmina's parental rights. Neither her father nor other relatives were willing or able to take the boys in.
Ms. Kuzmina said she thought the children would end up with a rich Russian family. She learned that the boys were in America only when she heard about Max's death this year.
In the weeks after his death, Russian officials paraded Ms. Kuzmina on television, where she wept for the cameras and pleaded for Kris's return. But her anger at the Shattos has subsided with the passing months.
''After I learned about it, I was ready to kill them,'' she said. ''But now, I don't know. God will judge.''
'It Wasn't Real'
The Shattos buried Max -- who had lived with them for just 79 days -- on Jan. 30 in their hometown in Louisiana, in a cemetery that glimmers with yellow wildflowers and white dogwoods in spring. Then they returned home to deal with the criminal and child welfare investigations.
The Shattos said the child welfare worker assigned to the case repeatedly accused Mrs. Shatto of abusing Max and killing him and barred her from living with Kris to ensure his safety. (A spokesman for the Texas Department of Family and Protective Services said that the Shattos' complaints about the caseworker's unprofessional conduct were addressed internally and that the employee has since resigned.)
Mr. Shatto's sister came from Louisiana to help him care for the toddler. Mrs. Shatto, who was allowed to visit Kris only two hours a day, stayed with a friend and at a hotel. It would be more than two months before she returned home.
''They tell you your baby's dead, but you think the weirdest things,'' said Mrs. Shatto, recalling those first weeks after Max's death. ''Is he cold? Does he have his teddy bear? Is he by himself? It wasn't really real.''
But it was. And the news of Max's death was spreading through Washington. Officials at Gladney had informed Senator Mary L. Landrieu, a Louisiana Democrat who is an adoption advocate.
At the time, Ms. Landrieu was trying to persuade Russia to finalize the adoptions of children that were under way before President Vladimir V. Putin banned all adoptions to Americans in late December. Mr. Putin signed the measure into law in retaliation for an American law that bars Russians suspected of violating human rights from traveling to the United States and owning assets here. But Russian officials also cited the death and mistreatment of Russian adoptees in the United States to rally support for the ban.
Hoping to prevent an outcry overseas, Ms. Landrieu informed the Russian ambassador about Max's death, reassuring him that Texas officials were investigating the matter.
Soon after, a fact-finding team of Russian diplomats knocked on the Shattos' front door. On Feb. 18, Pavel A. Astakhov, Russia's child rights commissioner, tapped out this post on Twitter: ''Urgent! In the state of Texas, an adoptive mother killed a 3-year-old Russian child.''
Soon, reporters were camping out on the Shattos' driveway, and the family was receiving death threats. Mr. Shatto turned off the ringers on their home phones and disconnected the doorbell. The Shattos had also hired a lawyer, Michael J. Brown, a former federal prosecutor, who had arranged for them to hand over their adoption and Max's medical records. He also arranged for the Shattos to meet with the detectives who were investigating their son's death.
The criminal investigation by the local authorities was quietly taking a turn away from the initial suspicions. The preliminary autopsy results suggested not a homicide, but an accidental death, ''probably the consequence of a fall from playground equipment in his yard,'' the report said.
The investigators interviewed the Shattos and their pediatrician and reviewed the coroner's report and medical records. ''These are self-injury bruises, not abuse,'' Sheriff Mark Donaldson of Ector County recalled the detectives saying. ''We got a whole different situation here.''
On March 1, Bobby Bland, the district attorney, announced that four pathologists had reviewed the autopsy report and determined that Max's death was accidental. Two weeks later, he said a grand jury had concluded that there was no evidence the Shattos had committed any crime.
In his final autopsy report, the medical examiner determined that the cause of death was a tear in the small bowel mesentery, a mesh of blood vessels that carry blood to the small intestines, caused by a blow to the abdomen. ''Most likely the child fell off playground equipment, or on playground equipment, or was hit by playground equipment,'' said Mr. Bland, who said that Max may have fallen off the slide onto the handle of the glider or may have been struck by it.
Dr. Timothy D. Kane, the chief of pediatric surgery at Children's National Medical Center in Washington, said he saw a handful of such cases a year. ''We see it quite often in car accidents and blunt trauma,'' he said.
''Some external force, a seat belt or a fall on some blunt object, such as on a bike handle or a broom handle, that can pin the mesentery against a hard structure like the spine and tear the blood vessel,'' Dr. Kane explained. ''The result can be life threatening.''
But doubts lingered. On April 23, Texas child protective services officials closed their case, saying they found no evidence of neglect in Max's death. But they said they were unable to determine whether the Shattos had abused him.
In Russia, Dr. Natalia A. Vishnevskaya, a pediatrician who runs the orphanage where Max and his brother once lived, charged that Mrs. Shatto had lied about Max's self-injurious behavior. ''I have the impression that she is trying to justify her negligence toward these two children,'' she said in an interview. Friends and relatives have urged the Shattos to move on, to sell their house and return to Louisiana, where they can rebuild their lives in a place unencumbered by painful memories.
''They've made her out to be a child killer; they've tarnished her name,'' said Michelle Cavett, a family friend. ''How is she going to pull her life back together?''
These days, Mrs. Shatto rarely leaves the house with Kris, terrified that someone will call her a terrible name in front of him or that a Russian official will kidnap him. She cannot bear to step into the backyard without her husband, even though he removed the blue slide and the glider. She has been trying to cast aside the ''what if'' questions, but they still torment her.
Sometimes she talks angrily about the orphanage officials in Russia, whom she accuses of hiding Max's condition. Sometimes she speaks bitterly of the child welfare officials who split up her family during the investigation. She fears that their inconclusive finding, which left open the possibility that she and her husband had physically abused Max, may have effectively ended her teaching career.
But she often reserves her harshest criticism for herself, wondering whether Max would still be alive if she had stayed in the backyard that afternoon and worrying about how she will ever tell her surviving son what happened to his brother.
The Shattos have yet to explain Max's absence. And they say Kris has not asked.
At the orphanage in Russia, he grew accustomed to seeing children come and go. For a time, the Shattos found comfort in the fact that he did not seem to remember his brother, his violent episodes or his death. It meant, they thought, that there was more time for healing, more time to find the right words to explain.
But in life, they have learned, there is no willing the memories gone. When Mrs. Shatto shared some photographs of Max with a visitor one day, Kris quickly clambered onto his mother's lap to take a look.
He stared at the family photo from the Shattos' first visit to Russia, the day he and his big brother met the couple who would become their parents.
Then he pointed with a tiny finger.
''Max!'' Kris said delightedly. ''Max!''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Laura Shatto, above with her family, on how she felt after her son's death (A1)
A DAY AT HOME TOGETHER: The Shatto family at home in Gardendale, Tex. Since the death of their son Max, Laura and Alan Shatto have become pariahs in their community
A GRAVESIDE GIFT: Max was buried in Ruston, La., the Shattos' hometown, a few months after they adopted him. (A18)
FIRST LOOK: Max's introduction file was sent to the Shattos by a Texas adoption agency. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
WHO WILL BE CHOSEN?: Children at the orphanage in Pechory, Russia, where Max and Kris lived. Max's death set off an international furor and strained ties between Russia and the United States.
 TROUBLED PAST: Yulia V. Kuzmina, the boys' biological mother, grew up in a family splintered by drink and violence. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SERGEY PONOMAREV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (89%); CONTUSIONS (87%); ADOPTION (77%); DOGS (72%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); MURDER (69%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); CHILD WELFARE (66%); PARAMEDICS (66%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (64%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (62%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (62%); ALLERGIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%) TEXAS, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2013



31 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; FRUGAL TRAVELER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2575 words

HEADLINE: America: The Center Cut

BYLINE: By SETH KUGEL. 
Seth Kugel writes the Frugal Traveler column for The Times.

 BODY:
''The udder on this cow just keeps getting better and better as the day goes on,'' remarked Barry Visser, Kandiyohi County Fair dairy cattle judge, over the PA system. A boy led his prizewinning Holstein away as a friendly crowd of western Minnesotans, and one out-of-place New Yorker, looked on from the modest stands. The dairy cow competition was nearing its end; the rabbits, hens and pigs had already had their days of judgment -- no udders required -- and were unwinding one building down. Up the hill, workers prepared rides and games and funnel cake stands to open. 
Most of the audience in the 4-H arena that morning was barely paying attention. But I was riveted by Mr. Visser's patter. He put together sentences the likes of which I had never heard, praising open ribs and clean hocks and the overall ''dairyness'' of animals that young people from all over the county had raised and brought to the fairgrounds in Willmar. This annual summer ritual takes place on county fairgrounds across the United States, but I had somehow never been to one. A longtime city slicker, I had decided to flip the traditional coast-to-coast journey 90 degrees, zigzagging from Baton Rouge, La., to Fargo, N.D., through a large swath of the nation that we coast dwellers often dismiss as flyover country. By that Friday in August, I was nearly a month and more than 4,000 miles into my summer road trip.
I suspected that spending most of my adult days in New York City and the rest largely outside the country had left significant gaps in my knowledge of America, not to mention unfair biases about the 10 heartland states I would be visiting, many of which I had never set foot in before.
My suspicion turned out to be true. Vague notions of the region were replaced by what I gleaned from museums and historical markers as well as from residents' stories of their great-grandparents' struggles as settlers. The simple question I asked of every farmer I met -- How many acres does it take to make a family farm profitable? -- launched conversations in which I learned infinitely more than you could by reading articles about farm bills. The trip suited me in another way: it was inherently frugal, even after shunning the cheap prices to be had at national fast-food and low-end motel chains. Independent motels were easy to find and always under $70 a night (sometimes way under). Plentiful farmers' markets and inexpensive local specialties -- barbecued pork sandwiches in Memphis, smoked trout in the Ozarks, fried chicken in southeast Kansas -- kept food costs down. And activities, like visits to some unusual museums and festivals, were always cheap and often free.
But the greatest take-away from my five weeks on the road was how much I could learn without crossing any borders. I've made my way through Latin America, the Mediterranean, Scandinavia and southern China. But a spin through the middle of my own country was every bit as, well, exotic -- revealing you don't have to go abroad to experience new music, annual rites and political views far different from what you find at home. Below are some of the lessons from the road.
The Path Less Beaten
I had allotted about five days in each state -- an exercise in futility. Planning turned out to consist of deciding what I could bear not to do. This was made all the more difficult after I asked readers for suggestions: they launched a mammoth tip offensive of more than a thousand comments, Twitter and Facebook posts and e-mails.
I tried to filter out the obvious and look for off-the-beaten-path ideas. But there was very little to filter out. People told me about local drive-ins, urged me to stop for services at their church, suggested gas stations that offered stellar barbecue. That shouldn't have been a surprise, I suppose. With very few and worthwhile exceptions -- Mount Rushmore, for example, or the National Civil Rights Museum in Memphis -- a path through the central swath of the country has simply not been beaten.
For example: the stop I made in Chanute, Kan., population, 9,000. A reader had suggested the Martin and Osa Johnson Safari Museum, dedicated to a husband-and-wife team widely celebrated in the 1920s and '30s for their filmed documentation of headhunters in the South Seas and the wild beasts of Africa. Their approach to the subject was intriguing -- they made little distinction between ''savages'' and wild animals. (One of the film's subtitles: ''Adventures Among the Big Apes and Little People of Congo.'')
Obviously, the world has changed and the way (most) Americans think and speak of foreign cultures has as well: part of the allure of the museum is just how simultaneously appalling and heroic the couple comes across -- and what it reveals about American world views during a very specific window of time.
Of course, societal attitudes can still be appalling. On my way out of Chanute I was drawn off route by a sign pointing me down a side road toward the Hillbillie's Store, which sells ''everything you can't get in Walmart." There are a lot of intriguing items -- swords (for home décor), incense, a wide selection of leather apparel. But they lost me on bumper stickers and T-shirts featuring cringe-inducing slogans: ''Men age like wine, women age like milk'' was one of the tamer ones.
And when I was wandering about at a farmers' market surrounding the Baxter County Courthouse in Mountain Home, Ark., I was drawn to Ike Yates, a stout man in overalls and a snowy white beard who was hawking $10 bags of worm castings. (''Worm poop,'' he explained.) He was every bit the jovial, storytelling type -- until he asked me if I believed in the Bible.
I hedged. (Thou shalt not kill? On board. World 6,000 years old? Not so much.) He wasn't having it: ''It's all or nothing,'' he proclaimed. This led to talk of religion in the schools, the Constitution and his views on gun laws. Despite my gentle prodding, his absolutist positions made the conversation pretty one-sided, but I was gratified to be outside the New York City echo chamber.
Things got more challenging when he denigrated President Obama's ancestry and followed that up with a one-question pop quiz: ''Where was Obama born?'' Needless to say, Hawaii was not the right answer. ''You've got to get some education under your cap,'' he said.
For every Ike Yates, though, there was someone like Mary Thomas, the owner of the Family Pie Shop in tiny DeValls Bluff, Ark., identifiable only by the words ''PIE SHOP'' painted messily on the side of a modest white home.
It was the kind of place you dream of stumbling across, but I have to admit I heard about it on Twitter. (You guys are thorough.) Ms. Thomas, who has been selling pie from this location since 1977, is a 78- year-old great-grandmother, which I note not to establish her wisdom but to explain her use of child labor: during my visit, her 10-year-old great-grandson Kameron Lewis.
If you're hoping the pie would be good enough and the woman kind enough that you'd would want her to be your great-grandmother, you're in luck. The generous $3.75 piece of coconut cream pie, slapped unceremoniously into a Styrofoam container and served by Kameron, was an outrageously dense, gloriously goopy, utterly enthralling dessert that would be a runaway hit at twice the price if sold from a Manhattan food truck. A move, though, seems unlikely. ''I visited once,'' she said. ''Lord, that was the biggest city I ever seen in my life.''
Windshield Wonders
With notable exceptions like the Ozark hills and the picture-perfect main streets of places like Cottonwood Falls, Kan., and Pella, Iowa, the center swath of the United States is not visually riveting -- unless you find soy fields mesmerizing.
Yet I averaged something like three hours a day alone in the car without going stir-crazy. For that I can in part thank local radio, like KILI, a station run by the Oglala Lakota nation out of the Pine Ridge Reservation in South Dakota. Members of the tribal council spoke about an effort to bring in solar energy to the reservation, whether cellphone companies should bill them for local taxes and how frustrating it can be to work with the federal Bureau of Indian Affairs. I also got a crash course on country music from the Ozarks' 99.5 FM (''the Rooster''), and laughed (and perked up) when an NPR affiliate in Iowa warned that corn stalks were now high enough to impede views of oncoming traffic at intersections. You don't hear that sort of thing on WNYC.
At other times, signs offered moments of insight into the places I was whizzing by. Often that was when a small town had incongruously proclaimed itself the world capital of something. Le Mars, Iowa, for example is the ''Ice Cream Capital of the World.'' That's because it is home to the Blue Bunny brand; drive through town and you'll see colorful fiberglass ice cream sculptures just like the fiberglass cows that have decorated more urban landscapes. Then there was Stuttgart, Ark., self-declared ''Rice and Duck Capital of the World,'' perhaps the only world capital to provide both a main course and a side.
More than once these signs lured me from my car. In Yates Center, Kan., I pulled over, took a picture of the sign proclaiming it the ''Hay Capital of the World'' and posted it to Instagram, adding a caption: ''Also home to the world's most challenging needle-finding contest.'' But within a few days, as I drove past field after field studded with bales that stretched to the horizon, it became clear that hay deserved more respect than I was giving it, important as it was to both the local economy and the quality of my landscape photography.
Rural architecture also intrigued me. I stopped more than once to shoot picturesque barns and the grain elevators that tower with alarming incongruity over otherwise flat landscapes. And I couldn't get over the old cars and rusty machinery that dotted many people's lawns. ''People are very junky in the Ozarks,'' said Fred Pfister, a Missourian who had helped me find a real-deal fiddle jam. ''They save everything because they think they might be able to cannibalize it someday.''
Cultural Legacies Can Be Delicious
I like to brag about how my New York neighborhood is home to Tibetan, Colombian, Pakistani and Russian markets and restaurants, all within a few blocks. But now I realize an Iowan might rightfully respond: ''What, no Dutch letters or Czech kolaches?''
Of course, like New York City, the rural Midwest was the place many Europeans migrated when they came to the New World. There's just been much less turnover, so more cultural relics have endured. My first clue came in the form of ''Dutch letters,'' S-shaped pastries for sale at the Downtown Farmers Market in Des Moines. Figuring it was just a one-off, I shrugged. (By which I mean I bought one and gobbled it up, loving the hidden layer of almond paste.) But then I spotted another stand selling almond bread with the pitch ''Tastes like a Dutch letter!''
I investigated further, and soon was driving out to the town of Pella, settled in 1847 by 800 Dutch whose imprint is still strong. Yes, there are businesses named Van Den Berg's and De Pelikaan, but there's also a functioning windmill downtown, built in 2002 in the Netherlands before being transported and pieced together on site, a recreated Dutch village ($10 entry), and, most importantly, a strong Dutch identity. How else to explain the impressive crowds at Jaarsma, one of the town's Dutch bakeries, where I bought a loaf of the Dutch apple bread, slathered in maple frosting, for $3.89, and then asked the young attendant if the Dutch letter only came in ''S.'' Turns out they could make any letter with advance notice, though she did not know if ''W'' cost more than ''I'' because it was bigger. (I can be a very annoying customer.)
Then there was the ''Czech Village'' in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, where Czechs first arrived in the mid-19th century. There, the Sykora Bakery serves kolaches, a Danish-like treat, in 16 varieties for $1.50 each. Across the street, the Blue Toad restaurant sells an old-school lunch of caraway-crusted pork, sauerkraut, cabbage and dumplings. Kids take Czech summer classes at a school nearby. I didn't find it as compelling a stop as bustling Pella, but that was perhaps because I was there on a Sunday, and the grand National Czech & Slovak Museum & Library was closed.
Later that day, heading west on two-lane Iowa Highway 3 toward South Dakota, I had a hunch that immigration to Iowa did not end in the 19th century. So I pulled over alongside a soy field and did the Google Maps search most likely to reveal more recent immigrant groups: ''restaurants.'' A red dot popped up just six miles ahead, in 4,500-person Hampton, the Franklin County seat. Ten minutes later, I walked through the unsigned La Frontera grocery store and into the back-room restaurant, which was crammed with Mexican concrete workers on their day off. As had become routine on this trip, I was leaving a state sure I had only just scratched the surface.
It's Interesting What You Find Interesting
Experienced travelers know that most of the time, no matter how tightly their itinerary is planned or how much they read about where they're going, the most memorable moments will be the unexpected.
When I spent a week with several hundred thousand of my non-fellow motorcycle enthusiasts at the annual Sturgis rally in South Dakota, I figured I would be wowed by the noise, the spectacle and the sheer concentration of leather clothing. All true. But I didn't expect to learn all about motorcycle lawyers, a specialty I did not know existed (they are needed because after accidents, the justice system tilts against two-wheelers, I was told). I was also intrigued by what it felt like to be in a four-wheel minority, feeling clumsy and outnumbered on the road. And parking in this motorcycle heaven? It's like trying to park a limo in Manhattan -- you need to find two open spaces together, which is basically impossible. I also will forever think of Mount Rushmore's granite faces and the rock formations of Badlands National Park framed by Harley-Davidson jackets.
But it was really the county fairs I attended -- three in total -- that won the Frugal Traveler blue ribbon for favorite activity. I didn't even know what the 4 H's in 4-H stood for before this summer (for the record: head, heart, hands, health), let alone that the institution shapes childhoods in much of the country. Later, when I realized that several county fairs are within a two-hour drive of New York City, I felt rather ignorant.
But in the meantime, I was too busy enjoying myself, especially at the premium auctions that ended each fair, like that one in Kandiyohi County. Children and teenagers show the animals they've raised, and as auctioneers prattle away, local businesses and deep-pocketed individuals bid to ''buy'' the animals. But there's no lamb chop or rabbit stew feast forthcoming, just a donation to the young person who raised them.
Forty-eight hours after the Kandiyohi fair, I crossed the finish line into Fargo, N.D., spending two days on and around its revived main drag, Broadway, writing in cafes, eating for cheap and catching a film at the restored Art Deco masterpiece, the Fargo Theater. A main drag called Broadway where street parking is free and plentiful, restaurants are reasonably priced, blondes are legion and a movie ticket is $9? America far from New York City is a strange and exotic place indeed.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Left, Becker County Fair in Minnesota. Above, from top, crossroads in Missouri
a fiddle jam in McClurg, Mo.
remains of the day in Arkansas
polenta-stuffed zucchini at the Gathering Table, a farm restaurant in Orient, Iowa. (TR1)
SIGHTS AND BITES: Top, from left, sunflowers in South Dakota
Whitaker Point, in Missouri
traffic jam in Pella, Iowa. Center right, a man from the Sturgis Motorcycle Rally admires Mount Rushmore. Above, edible treats, from top, Dutch letters in Pella, Iowa
barbecued pork sandwich at Payne's in Memphis
Mary Thomas and her great-grandson Kameron Lewis in the Family Pie Shop, DeValls Bluff, Ark.
FINDS AND SIGNS: Below, from left, National Civil Rights Museum in Memphis
taking in a Memphis Redbirds game
embryonic corn syrup in Iowa
peaches at the Mountain Home, Ark., farmers' market
 demolition derby at the Becker County Fair in Detroit Lakes, Minn. Above, from top, signs, from Kansas, Arkansas, and again Kansas and Arkansas. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SETH KUGEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (TR6-TR7) MAP (TR6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAIRY FARMING (89%); CIRCUSES & CARNIVALS (89%); FOOD PRICES (78%); FESTIVALS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%); FAMILY FARMS (65%); FAST FOOD (63%); HISTORIC SITES (61%); HOTEL CHAINS (60%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (94%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); FARGO, ND, USA (54%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



32 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; IN THE RUNNING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1810 words

HEADLINE: Advocate's Post Gave de Blasio Platform for Political Ambitions

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM and JAVIER C. HERNÁNDEZ; David W. Chen and David M. Halbfinger contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The anxious executive cornered Bill de Blasio in an elevator, with an urgent plea.
New York City was planning to allow thousands of new taxis to operate outside Manhattan, directly threatening his car and limousine business. Would Mr. de Blasio, the city's public advocate, help block it?
It was hard to imagine Mr. de Blasio, a Brooklynite who built his reputation on standing up for the boroughs beyond Manhattan, opposing a proposal to improve transportation for his chronically taxi-starved neighbors.
But soon after the elevator encounter that day in 2011, the car service executive, Avik Kabessa, heard back from the public advocate's office.
The message, Mr. Kabessa recalled, was clear: ''Bill is looking to help.'' 
Mr. de Blasio would emerge as the taxi plan's most prominent opponent, leading sidewalk rallies and using his office to fight it in court -- and confounding allies who found his stance incongruous with his typical stands.
''I was flabbergasted,'' said David S. Yassky, the taxi and limousine commissioner whose former City Council district borders Mr. de Blasio's. ''After hearing all his rhetoric about standing up for the outer boroughs, here's a program that actually would help 80 percent of New York City, and he did everything he could to stop it.''
The powerful taxi and limousine industry, which bitterly opposed the city's plan, made its gratitude clear, sending about $200,000 in contributions to Mr. de Blasio's mayoral campaign in the last two years, far more than his rivals received. And Mr. Kabessa, the chief executive of Carmel Car and Limousine Service, now sits on the campaign's finance committee and was a host of a fund-raiser for Mr. de Blasio this spring.
Before becoming a Democratic front-runner in this year's race for mayor, Mr. de Blasio was an ambitious Park Slope City Councilman who scrambled into the public advocate job in 2009, looking to turn the often-overlooked office into a fierce champion of neglected communities and the downtrodden.
But a review of his years as public advocate shows that the office often served another aim: Elevating Mr. de Blasio's political ambitions and his profile in anticipation of a run for mayor.
Aides to Mr. de Blasio say he kept a sharp focus on bettering the lives of his least-empowered constituents. Despite a meager budget and a small staff of 40, his office has handled some 20,000 complaints from residents, helping tenants avoid eviction and assisting small-business owners with disputes over utility charges and city fees.
But early on, Mr. de Blasio, a former strategist who cut his teeth on Bill and Hillary Rodham Clinton's political campaigns, also showed a shrewdness in identifying issues that would yield political benefits and sometimes connect with financial backers.
His most visible advocacy work was on an issue far removed from the kind of workaday complaints that the office typically grapples with: campaign finance reform, a cause that earned Mr. de Blasio enormous media attention, especially on liberal outlets like MSNBC, despite doubts from financial experts about its impact.
And even as he gained acolytes by warning of the excesses of Wall Street, Mr. de Blasio nurtured a relationship with George Soros, the billionaire financier, whose foundation became the single biggest benefactor of an obscure nonprofit organization that paid for Mr. de Blasio to promote his advocacy work around the country.
In an interview on Friday, Mr. de Blasio said he approached the office not only as a community organizer, seeking to empower residents to correct injustices in their neighborhoods, but also as a strategic consultant, finding new ways to maximize the impact of a position with few pre-existing powers.
''The office needed a lot more creativity, a lot more strategic innovation if it was going to have a meaningful role,'' Mr. de Blasio said.
About the bill to expand taxi service to boroughs outside Manhattan, Mr. de Blasio said he initially supported the idea, but became concerned after meeting with Mr. Kabessa's trade association and other members of the taxi and car service industry. He also objected to the bill being considered in Albany, rather than the City Council.
He did not offer an alternative plan, saying in the interview: ''I want to make sure it's done in a way that doesn't undermine the economics of the current industry.''
Mr. de Blasio emerged from a crowded field in 2009 to win the job of public advocate, a post created in 1993 to serve as a watchdog over city government but frequently considered as a target for elimination because of its ill-defined mandate and the usurping of its services by the city's 311 phone system.
His aides said he re-energized the office, creating a watch list of negligent landlords, organizing rallies against school and hospital closings, and helping residents receive medical attention and relief funds after Hurricane Sandy.
Among his proudest accomplishments, Mr. de Blasio said, was pushing for new protections for at-risk children after the death of Marchella Pierce, a 4-year-old Brooklyn girl who was beaten and starved by family members, in 2010. Mr. de Blasio helped lead an effort to overhaul city services for vulnerable children, winning accolades even from some of his sparring partners in the Bloomberg administration.
''It's easy to turn things into a three-ring circus,'' said John B. Mattingly, a former children's services commissioner. ''He was willing to listen and work together to get results, rather than simply to grandstand and get public attention.''
But it was an effort Mr. de Blasio undertook on a national issue that brought him to the attention of influential figures in the world of liberal politics.
After the Supreme Court ruled in January 2010 in the Citizens United case that corporations could spend unlimited amounts to influence elections, Mr. de Blasio seized on the issue and began an effort that he predicted would have broad impact on corporate involvement in politics.
''I just literally found myself on a human and ideological level fundamentally unwilling to be silent,'' he recalled.
His office had no oversight over campaign finance regulation. Still, in 2010, he sought meetings with major investment banks, including Goldman Sachs, and later announced that four of the banks would voluntarily refrain from taking advantage of the ruling.
But virtually no major American corporation has made the type of unfettered independent political expenditures permitted by Citizens United, and officials at the banks said that -- even before Mr. de Blasio asked -- there was never an intention to do so.
A former Goldman official, who requested anonymity to speak frankly about private deliberations, said the bank was fully aware of the public criticism it would confront if it engaged in ''super PAC''-style spending; the official recalled Mr. de Blasio's staff seeking a statement from Goldman that acknowledged the role of the public advocate, which the bank declined to provide.
Roy Smith, a professor of finance at New York University and a former Goldman partner, said the pledges announced by Mr. de Blasio's office amounted to grandstanding. ''It's giving up nothing, because they weren't doing this anyway,'' Mr. Smith said. ''It would be completely stupid for a large bank to be an active political donor in a hostile public-relations context.''
Mr. de Blasio dismissed the criticism, saying that, at the time, no one knew for sure how the banks would behave.
''I am sure that from this remove, it looks like, 'Oh, there was nothing that could have happened,' '' he said. ''I never assumed that.''
Mr. de Blasio's crusade on Citizens United -- and the savvy choice of Wall Street as a target -- earned headlines. He became a regular on the media circuit, delivering scathing critiques of the Supreme Court decision and earning praise on MSNBC and from Mother Jones, which described him as the ''Citizens United Avenger.'' Since 2010, he has held more than 80 meetings on the topic with aides, activists and other officials, according to records of his schedule.
His advocacy brought him into contact with a powerful ally: Mr. Soros, who had long deplored the influence of corporations in the political system, even as he poured millions of his own fortune into campaigns.
The billionaire banker and the Brooklyn activist met on an autumn evening in 2010, when Mr. de Blasio spoke on a panel about Citizens United held in Mr. Soros's grand Fifth Avenue home. The two chatted afterward, and Mr. de Blasio promised to stay in touch.
Four months later, Mr. Soros's foundation pledged $400,000 to the Fund for Public Advocacy, a sleepy nonprofit group created in 2002 to support the work of the public advocate's office.
The donation was the largest single contribution to the fund, a tax exempt 501(c)(3), during Mr. de Blasio's tenure. And by last year, more than half of the fund's spending was dedicated to issues related to campaign finance reform.
It was a marked shift for the nonprofit organization that, under Mr. de Blasio's predecessor, Betsy Gotbaum, had focused mostly on local issues, like public school governance. But Mr. de Blasio was thinking bigger.
One of his first actions was to bring in an old friend and mentor as the fund's president: Harold M. Ickes, a prominent figure in the Clinton White House. Mr. Ickes, who resides in Washington, was initially skeptical of Mr. de Blasio's entreaties.
''I said, 'Do you really want a non-New Yorker?' '' Mr. Ickes recalled in an interview.
But Mr. de Blasio was insistent. ''He thought it would be an asset,'' said Mr. Ickes, who also advises Mr. de Blasio's mayoral campaign.
The infusion from Mr. Soros's group expanded the ambitions of the Coalition for Accountability in Political Spending, an entity Mr. de Blasio created to organize officials around the country to rein in corporate influence.
Mr. de Blasio predicted big changes would follow: he called for pledges from a quarter of the nation's leading 100 companies to restrict campaign spending; a dozen states to pass legislation limiting such expenditures; and expanding his coalition to at least 100 elected officials across the country.
Other backers of Mr. de Blasio's political operation joined the cause. One was Bernard L. Schwartz, a retired communication executive who had given the maximum $4,950 to his mayoral bid, then poured $25,000 into the Fund for Public Advocacy.
But despite the generosity of wealthy supporters and the hours spent by Mr. de Blasio and his staff, the effort has fallen short of his goals. Only a few companies have made the pledge. The group's social media, never robust to begin with, all but ceased last year. And as of Friday, the coalition counted only 12 public officials as members.
In the Running: Articles in this series are examining the lives and careers of the major candidates for mayor of New York.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bill de Blasio, the public advocate and a Democratic front-runner in the mayor's race, campaigning on the Upper West Side. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Mr. de Blasio at a news conference outside a Goldman Sachs shareholders meeting in 2010, when he took up the issue of campaign finance reform after the Citizens United ruling. Right, Mr. de Blasio last year in Park Slope, Brooklyn, where he was a councilman. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 ÁNGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); EVICTION (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); FUNDRAISING (73%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (72%); BUDGETS (68%); POLITICS (67%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



33 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: Verizon Is Expected to Pay $130 Billion for Stake in Vodafone Joint Venture

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED and MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: Verizon Communications neared a deal on Sunday to buy the 45 percent stake in its wireless business held by Vodafone of Britain for about $130 billion, people briefed on the matter said, potentially completing a corporate breakup over a decade in the making. 

 BODY:
Updated, 9:35 p.m. | Verizon Communications neared a long-anticipated deal on Sunday to buy the 45 percent stake in its wireless business held by Vodafone of Britain for about $130 billion, heralding a continued sweeping realignment within the global telecommunications landscape.
Though a deal may have little effect on Verizon Wireless's nearly 100 million subscribers at first, it would ripple through the telecommunications industry and Wall Street, with both having closely watched the back-and-forth of the negotiations for months.
The companies were expected to announce the deal on Monday, barring last-minute hiccups, according to people briefed on the matter.
A sale would be the third-biggest takeover in corporate history and would give Vodafone a sudden windfall that might lead the British phone company to further acquisitions of its own. It would also furnish the banks working for both sides with a bonanza of fees. 
Under the expected terms of the transaction, Verizon is to pay both cash and stock. Vodafone's board was scheduled to meet on Sunday to vote on the deal, with Verizon's directors meeting sometime afterward.
Vodafone confirmed in a statement on Sunday afternoon that it was in "advanced discussions" with Verizon over the sale of its stake in Verizon Wireless, but declined to provide further detail. Verizon declined to comment.
Verizon would gain full control of perhaps its most important business and a vital beachhead in the growing fight over mobile broadband connections. Verizon Wireless is America's biggest cellphone service operator, claiming 98.9 million subscribers to AT&T's roughly 77.9 million.
The work of connecting smartphones, tablets and other devices yields big bucks. Last year, Verizon Wireless reported $21.8 billion in operating income and $75.9 billion in operating revenue.
For Verizon, an acquisition would finally realize a dream of unwinding a partnership that stretches back 14 years. Verizon Wireless was born of the combination of Vodafone's nascent American cellphone operations with those of Bell Atlantic, a Verizon predecessor, in 1999.
Since then, Verizon Wireless has grown tremendously, spearheading a long stretch of consolidation within the telecommunications industry alongside AT&T, refocusing the American phone market around the two biggest survivors of the breakup of Ma Bell nearly 30 years ago.
Both sides in the joint venture have held discussions for years about unwinding it. Those discussions had frequently fallen apart over issues like price and the potentially big tax hit that Vodafone would take if it sold its stake.
In recent months, however, Verizon and Vodafone rekindled their negotiations, having come to terms over major sticking points while moving ahead of the specter of rising interest rates in the United States. A sale now is not expected to generate a big tax bill for the British company, for example.
Buying out Vodafone's stake would involve breathtaking amounts of financing, including over $60 billion worth of bonds and loans arranged by an army of banks. Verizon's chief executive, Lowell C. McAdam, has said publicly that his company can afford a big deal.
And deal makers are confident that the markets can absorb a surge of new issuance of corporate debt. American corporations issued about $1.4 trillion of new debt last year, according to the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association. Companies issued new debt at an average rate of about $113 billion a month last year.
Verizon is expected to hold onto its current investment-grade credit rating.
Helping to arrange the debt package are JPMorgan Chase, Morgan Stanley, Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Barclays, the people briefed on the matter said. Verizon's advisers also include Guggenheim Partners and Paul J. Taubman, a former high-powered deal maker at Morgan Stanley, while Vodafone has been working with UBS and Goldman Sachs.
The deal would give Vodafone two of the biggest deals on record: its $202.8 billion takeover of the German cellphone operator Mannesmann in 2000, and the $181.6 billion merger of AOL and Time Warner in 2001, are the top two corporate deals, according to Thomson Reuters.
For Vodafone, the sale would provide a much-needed injection of cash to help rejuvenate its European business. Despite holding a strong presence in many European markets, including Germany and Britain, the telecommunications giant has suffered from sagging sales and increased competition from international rivals - including Carlos Slim Helú's América Móvil - which are expanding across the Continent.
Among Vodafone's highest priorities is returning cash to its long-suffering shareholders, most likely in the form of share buybacks. The British company's share price has slumped around 40 percent since the creation of Verizon Wireless, and investors are eager to see a cut of the proceeds, especially since a sale would eliminate billions of dollars in dividends that the joint venture pays out every year.
In the longer term, an influx of cash could maintain the recent spate of mergers and acquisitions in the European telecommunications sector. As consumers increasingly use cellphones and tablets to stream high-speed Internet, local carriers have been eager to bolt on extra services like cable and fixed-line operations through deals to offer customers so-called bundled telecom packages.
Vodafone already has expanded its presence in Germany after agreeing to buy the domestic cable operator Kabel Deutschland this year for $10.1 billion. Potential targets may include John C. Malone's Liberty Global, which is scooping up assets across Europe.
International players, including Liberty Global and América Móvil, also have taken advantage of the depressed share prices of European companies to secure footholds. América Móvil, for instance, has offered $9.5 billion for the Dutch carrier KPN, while Liberty earlier this year acquired the British cable company Virgin Media. AT&T also has expressed interest in potential European acquisitions.
Analysts said a number of smaller cellphone operators, particularly in economically depressed markets like Spain and Italy, could become acquisition targets for the likes of a cash-rich Vodafone. The British carrier may also look to expand its cable offerings, yet it may face competition from European and foreign rivals, which also are looking to increase their market shares.
"A move for Liberty would offer Vodafone a decent footprint in cable to overlap with its mobile assets," said Paul Marsch, a telecommunications analyst at Berenberg Bank in London. "It also could look at companies like Fastweb in Italy."
European antitrust officials would most likely give quick approval to any prospective deals, despite a track record of blocking cross-border deals in telecommunications, according to a number of analysts. European Union officials are eager to create a single market for cellphone, broadband and other services, and are increasingly supportive of deals that would consolidate the industry around a number of large incumbents like Telefónica of Spain and Deutsche Telekom of Germany.
"The E.U. is getting more relaxed about approving deals," said Gyanee Dewnarain, a research director at the analyst firm Gartner in London. "If Vodafone sells its stake in Verizon Wireless, it would have the cash to go out and do something big."
 Mary Williams Walsh contributed reporting. 

        
Verizon Seals $130 Billion Deal to Buy Out Vodafone's Wireless Stake
        
In Talks With Vodafone, Verizon Banks on Wireless Future

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (93%); DIVESTITURES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); JOINT VENTURES (89%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); SMARTPHONES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); BROADBAND (73%); WIRELESS BROADBAND (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); COMPANY REVENUES (68%); TAX LAW (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Verizon Communications Inc; Vodafone Group Plc; Wireless Communications; Verizon Communications Inc|VZ|NYSE; Vodafone Group Plc|VOD|NASDAQ; Mergers & Acquisitions; Telecommunications; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: VERIZON WIRELESS INC (96%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); VODAFONE GROUP PLC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Verizon Communications Inc; Vodafone Group Plc

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); VOD (NASDAQ) (92%); VOD (LSE) (92%) Verizon Communications Inc; VZ; NYSE; Verizon Communications Inc; VZ; NYSE; Vodafone Group Plc; VOD; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (96%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2013



34 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1878 words

HEADLINE: Walking While Black in the 'White Gaze'

BYLINE: GEORGE YANCY


HIGHLIGHT: Even 50 years after &#8220;I Have a Dream,&#8221; the racial logic that equates black bodies with danger persists. 

 BODY:
I.
 "Man, I almost blew you away!" 
Those were the terrifying words of a white police officer - one of those who policed black bodies in low income areas in North Philadelphia in the late 1970s - who caught sight of me carrying the new telescope my mother had just purchased for me.
"I thought you had a weapon," he said.
The words made me tremble and pause; I felt the sort of bodily stress and deep existential anguish that no teenager should have to endure. 
This officer had already inherited those poisonous assumptions and bodily perceptual practices that make up what I call the "white gaze." He had already come to "see" the black male body as different, deviant, ersatz. He failed to conceive, or perhaps could not conceive, that a black teenage boy living in the Richard Allen Project Homes for very low income families would own a telescope and enjoyed looking at the moons of Jupiter and the rings of Saturn.
A black boy carrying a telescope wasn't conceivable - unless he had stolen it - given the white racist horizons within which my black body was policed as dangerous. To the officer, I was something (not someone) patently foolish, perhaps monstrous or even fictional. My telescope, for him, was a weapon.
In retrospect, I can see the headlines: "Black Boy Shot and Killed While Searching the Cosmos."
That was more than 30 years ago. Only last week, our actual headlines were full of reflections on the 1963 March on Washington, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King's "I Have a Dream" speech, and President Obama's own speech at the steps of the Lincoln Memorial to commemorate it 50 years on. As the many accounts from that long ago day will tell you, much has changed for the better. But some things - those perhaps more deeply embedded in the American psyche - haven't. In fact, we should recall a speech given by Malcolm X in 1964 in which he said, "For the 20 million of us in America who are of African descent, it is not an American dream; it's an American nightmare."
II.
Despite the ringing tones of Obama's Lincoln Memorial speech, I find myself still often thinking of a more informal and somber talk he gave. And despite the inspirational and ethical force of Dr. King and his work, I'm still thinking about someone who might be considered old news already: Trayvon Martin.
In his now much-quoted White House briefing several weeks ago, not long after the verdict in the trial of George Zimmerman, the president expressed his awareness of the ever-present danger of death for those who inhabit black bodies. "You know, when Trayvon Martin was first shot, I said that this could have been my son," he said. "Another way of saying that is Trayvon Martin could have been me 35 years ago." I wait for the day when a white president will say, "There is no way that I could have experienced what Trayvon Martin did (and other black people do) because I'm white and through white privilege I am immune to systemic racial profiling."
Obama also talked about how black men in this country know what it is like to be followed while shopping and how black men have had the experience of "walking across the street and hearing the locks click on the doors of cars." I have had this experience on many occasions as whites catch sight of me walking past their cars: Click, click, click, click. Those clicks can be deafening. There are times when I want to become their boogeyman. I want to pull open the car door and shout: "Surprise! You've just been car-jacked by a fantasy of your own creation. Now get out of the car."
The president's words, perhaps consigned to a long-ago news cycle now, remain powerful: they validate experiences that blacks have undergone in their everyday lives. Obama's voice resonates with those philosophical voices (Frantz Fanon, for example) that have long attempted to describe the lived interiority of racial experiences. He has also deployed the power of narrative autobiography, which is a significant conceptual tool used insightfully by critical race theorists to discern the clarity and existential and social gravity of what it means to experience white racism. As a black president, he has given voice to the epistemic violence that blacks often face as they are stereotyped and profiled within the context of quotidian social spaces.
III.
David Hume claimed that to be black was to be "like a parrot who speaks a few words plainly." And Immanuel Kant maintained that to be "black from head to foot" was "clear proof" that what any black person says is stupid. In his "Notes on Virginia," Thomas Jefferson wrote: "In imagination they [Negroes] are dull, tasteless and anomalous," and inferior. In the first American Edition of the Encyclopaedia Britannica (1798), the term "Negro" was defined as someone who is cruel, impudent, revengeful, treacherous, nasty, idle, dishonest, a liar and given to stealing.
My point here is to say that the white gaze is global and historically mobile. And its origins, while from Europe, are deeply seated in the making of America.
Black bodies in America continue to be reduced to their surfaces and to stereotypes that are constricting and false, that often force those black bodies to move through social spaces in ways that put white people at ease. We fear that our black bodies incite an accusation. We move in ways that help us to survive the procrustean gazes of white people. We dread that those who see us might feel the irrational fear to stand their ground rather than "finding common ground," a reference that was made by Bernice King as she spoke about the legacy of her father at the steps of the Lincoln Memorial.
The white gaze is also hegemonic, historically grounded in material relations of white power: it was deemed disrespectful for a black person to violate the white gaze by looking directly into the eyes of someone white. The white gaze is also ethically solipsistic: within it only whites have the capacity of making valid moral judgments.
Even with the unprecedented White House briefing, our national discourse regarding Trayvon Martin and questions of race have failed to produce a critical and historically conscious discourse that sheds light on what it means to be black in an anti-black America. If historical precedent says anything, this failure will only continue. Trayvon Martin, like so many black boys and men, was under surveillance (etymologically, "to keep watch"). Little did he know that on Feb. 26, 2012, that he would enter a space of social control and bodily policing, a kind of Benthamian panoptic nightmare that would truncate his being as suspicious; a space where he was, paradoxically, both invisible and yet hypervisible.
"I am invisible, understand, simply because people [in this case white people] refuse to see me." Trayvon was invisible to Zimmerman, he was not seen as the black child that he was, trying to make it back home with Skittles and an iced tea. He was not seen as having done nothing wrong, as one who dreams and hopes.
As black, Trayvon was already known and rendered invisible. His childhood and humanity were already criminalized as part of a white racist narrative about black male bodies. Trayvon needed no introduction: "Look, the black; the criminal!"
IV.
Many have argued that the site of violence occurred upon the confrontation between Trayvon and Zimmerman. Yet, the violence began with Zimmerman's non-emergency dispatch call, a call that was racially assaultive in its discourse, one that used the tropes of anti-black racism. Note, Zimmerman said, "There's a real suspicious guy." He also said, "This guy looks like he's up to no good or he's on drugs or something." When asked by the dispatcher, he said, within seconds, that, "He looks black." Asked what he is wearing, Zimmerman says, "A dark hoodie, like a gray hoodie." Later, Zimmerman said that "now he's coming toward me. He's got his hands in his waist band." And then, "And he's a black male." But what does it mean to be "a real suspicious guy"? What does it mean to look like one is "up to no good"? Zimmerman does not give any details, nothing to buttress the validity of his narration. Keep in mind that Zimmerman is in his vehicle as he provides his narration to the dispatcher. As "the looker," it is not Zimmerman who is in danger; rather, it is Trayvon Martin, "the looked at," who is the target of suspicion and possible violence.
After all, it is Trayvon Martin who is wearing the hoodie, a piece of "racialized" attire that apparently signifies black criminality. Zimmerman later said: "Something's wrong with him. Yep, he's coming to check me out," and, "He's got something in his hands." Zimmerman also said, "I don't know what his deal is." A black young male with "something" in his hands, wearing a hoodie, looking suspicious, and perhaps on drugs, and there being "something wrong with him," is a racist narrative of fear and frenzy. The history of white supremacy underwrites this interpretation. Within this context of discursive violence, Zimmerman was guilty of an act of aggression against Trayvon Martin, even before the trigger was pulled. Before his physical death, Trayvon Martin was rendered "socially dead" under the weight of Zimmerman's racist stereotypes. Zimmerman's aggression was enacted through his gaze, through the act of profiling, through his discourse and through his warped reconstruction of an innocent black boy that instigates white fear.
V.
What does it say about America when to be black is the ontological crime, a crime of simply being?
Perhaps the religious studies scholar Bill Hart is correct: "To be a black man is to be marked for death." Or as the political philosopher Joy James argues, "Blackness as evil [is] destined for eradication." Perhaps this is why when writing about the death of his young black son, the social theorist W.E.B. Du Bois said, "All that day and all that night there sat an awful gladness in my heart - nay, blame me not if I see the world thus darkly through the Veil - and my soul whispers ever to me saying, 'Not dead, not dead, but escaped; not bond, but free.' "
Trayvon Martin was killed walking while black. As the protector of all things "gated," of all things standing on the precipice of being endangered by black male bodies, Zimmerman created the conditions upon which he had no grounds to stand on. Indeed, through his racist stereotypes and his pursuit of Trayvon, he created the conditions that belied the applicability of the stand your ground law and created a situation where Trayvon was killed. This is the narrative that ought to have been told by the attorneys for the family of Trayvon Martin. It is part of the narrative that Obama brilliantly told, one of black bodies being racially policed and having suffered a unique history of racist vitriol in this country.
Yet it is one that is perhaps too late, one already rendered mute and inconsequential by the verdict of "not guilty."
 George Yancy is a professor of philosophy at Duquesne University. He has authored, edited and co-edited 17 books, including "Black Bodies, White Gazes," "Look, a White!" and (co-edited with Janine Jones) "Pursuing Trayvon Martin." 

        
How Dr. King Shaped My Work in Economics
        
The Plight of the Black P.O.W.
        
The Enlightenment's 'Race' Problem, and Ours
        
Imagining the Court
        
A Cold Current

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRAYVON MARTIN SHOOTING (86%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); RACIAL PROFILING (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); FAMILY (77%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (77%); ETHNICITY (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (70%); SHOOTINGS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); CIVIL RIGHTS (66%); VERDICTS (60%) Blacks; Discrimination; King, Martin Luther Jr; Martin, Trayvon; Philosophy; Race and Ethnicity; Racial Profiling; The Stone

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%) King, Martin Luther Jr; Martin, Trayvon

GEOGRAPHIC: SATURN (79%); JUPITER (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013



35 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: A New Kind of Union

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN I SACHS. 
Benjamin I. Sachs is a professor of law at Harvard.

 BODY:
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. -- THE financial challenges low- and middle-income Americans face are daunting. But the poor and middle class are in an equally serious, if less well recognized, political predicament: the government has become almost entirely unresponsive to them.
This a profound political failure. A democracy in which government policy responds to the rich and not to the poor or the middle class is a democracy unworthy of the name. 
For several decades now, we have tried to deal with the problem of money in politics with campaign finance regulation, but reform has failed. Political actors, enabled by the Supreme Court, have responded to regulations simply by redirecting their spending in unregulated directions.
The end of campaign-finance reform, however, is not the end of the line. Although we pay too little attention to this fact, there are still sources of power in American politics that are not dependent on wealth. Primary among these is political organization. In fact, the best hope for restoring political equality is to make it easier for the poor and middle class to organize politically.
Throughout much of the 20th century, we had a legal system in the United States that was remarkably successful at promoting just this kind of political organizing. That legal system was labor law, and it is not a coincidence that during these same decades the labor union was able to serve as a highly successful political voice for the lower and middle classes.
Unions, after all, represent workers, nearly all of whom are in the income classes currently lacking effective political representation. Unions turned out their members to vote and consolidated millions of modest contributions into powerful campaign and lobbying operations. Sometimes, unions pushed for politically liberal causes, and sometimes for conservative ones. But when they were powerful, unions were able to insist that government policy respond to the views of the poor and the middle class.
In contemporary America, however, there is a nearly insurmountable impediment to unions' ability to serve as a collective political voice for workers. It stems from the legal requirement that unions bundle political organization with collective bargaining, which means that in order to take advantage of the union as a form of political organization, workers must organize economically for collective bargaining purposes.
This bundling of functions, an artifact of how unions formed historically, is a major problem for political organizing today. This is true most obviously because managerial opposition to collective bargaining has become pervasive. It is also true because changes in markets have made the practice of collective bargaining difficult. And because substantial numbers of American workers say they do not want to collectively bargain with their employers, traditional unions are not an attractive form of political organization for many.
All of this has contributed to a dramatic decrease in unionization rates, which has in turn played a central role in the declining responsiveness of government.
But what if we unbundle the union and allow workers to organize politically without also organizing for collective bargaining? If we shift our aim away from reviving collective bargaining and toward enabling political organizing by underrepresented groups, we would allow workers to organize ''political unions'' even when they don't want to organize collective bargaining ones.
It's more straightforward than it sounds. The key is that we would make the workplace available as a site for political organization. While the law would continue to protect workers' right to organize traditional unions, it would also protect workers' right to organize strictly political ones. Workers would have the right to talk about politics with one another at work, as long as they did so during nonworking time.
Employers would be prohibited from retaliating against their employees who organized politically, and if the workers did form a political union, they would be entitled -- as traditional unions are -- to use voluntary payroll deductions to finance their activities. But these political unions would be prohibited from collective bargaining, and no worker would ever be required to pay dues to a political union -- or to be represented by one -- unless she chose to be.
The types of policies that political unions chose to pursue would be entirely up to their members. Some might fight for bread-and-butter issues like a higher minimum wage, but others might concentrate on social issues or even foreign policy. But whatever issues they chose to pursue, these unions would give a political voice to those in America who currently lack one.
Campaign-finance reform has failed because it does nothing to address the underlying disparities in wealth distribution that produce political inequality in the first place. Legal reforms that enable political organizing are fundamentally different because organization, like wealth, is its own source of political power.
Allowing workers to organize for politics, even when they decide not to organize for collective bargaining, would help restore balance to a democracy that wealth has so badly skewed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZING (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (87%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LOBBYING (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2013



36 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 267 words

HEADLINE: Economic Reports for the Week of Sept. 2

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Information to be released this week includes construction spending for July and the Institute for Supply Management index of manufacturing activity in August (Tuesday); the United States trade deficit for July, the Federal Reserve's beige book regional economic report, and the Challenger, Gray & Christmas report on job cuts in August (Wednesday); weekly jobless claims, ADP employment for August, and factory orders for July (Thursday); and the United States unemployment report for August (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies scheduled to report results include H&R Block (Tuesday); Dollar General (Wednesday); Smith & Wesson (Thursday); and Smithfield Foods (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATES On Monday, banks, financial markets, government offices and many businesses will be closed in observance of the Labor Day holiday.
On Wednesday, automakers are scheduled to report on North American vehicle sales in August.
OVERSEAS On Monday, the German finance minister, Wolfgang Schäuble, will brief a government budget committee on Greece's third financial assistance package, and the governor of the Bank of England, Mark J. Carney, will hold a news conference before the meeting of the Group of 20 nations.
On Tuesday, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development will issue its assessment of the economies of the Group of 7 industrialized nations and China.
On Thursday, the Group of 20 nations will begin its annual two-day conference in St. Petersburg, Russia; and the Bank of England and the European Central Bank will issue decisions on interest rates and monetary policy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (79%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (79%); BUDGETS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US LABOR DAY (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); FACTORY ORDERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); CHRISTMAS (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); AUTOMAKERS (53%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (61%); CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (57%); H & R BLOCK INC (56%); SMITHFIELD FOODS INC (55%); SMITH & WESSON CORP (55%); DOLLAR GENERAL CORP (55%); BANK OF ENGLAND (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (52%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (50%)

TICKER: HRB (NYSE) (56%); SFD (NYSE) (55%); DG (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (56%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (56%); NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (55%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (55%); NAICS112210 HOG & PIG FARMING (55%); NAICS332994 SMALL ARMS, ORDNANCE & ORDNANCE ACCESSORIES MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3484 SMALL ARMS (55%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (55%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (55%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%)

PERSON: WOLFGANG SCHAEUBLE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (65%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); GREECE (78%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (68%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2013



37 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Surveillance At a Restaurant

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
Surveillance is certainly much in the news lately. Most notably, of course, there is the continuing outcry over the National Security Agency's call-tracking program, disclosed in the documents leaked by Edward Snowden.
But surveillance even surfaced as a subject in last week's televised debate among the Democratic candidates for mayor in New York. The office seekers were asked whether New York City should have more surveillance cameras. Six of the seven, card-carrying liberals all, replied without hesitation, yes. (Only Anthony Weiner said no.)
Most of the public discussion of surveillance technology and its use revolves around the question: Is it spooky or reassuring? 
But another issue is the effect of surveillance on behavior. And a new research paper, published on Saturday, shows in detail how significant the surveillance effect can be.
The paper, ''Cleaning House: The Impact of Information Technology Monitoring on Employee Theft and Productivity,'' is the work of three academics: Lamar Pierce, an associate professor at the Olin Business School at Washington University in St. Louis; Daniel Snow, an associate professor at the Marriott School at Brigham Young University; and Andrew McAfee, a research scientist at the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
The researchers measured the impact of software that monitors employee-level theft and sales transactions, before and after the technology was installed, at 392 restaurants in 39 states. The restaurants were in five ''casual dining'' chains. The paper does not name the five, but it cites examples of the casual dining category including Applebee's, Chili's and Olive Garden.
Employee theft and fraud is a big problem, estimated at up to $200 billion a year across the economy. In the restaurant industry, analysts estimate the losses from employee theft at 1 percent of revenue. That does not seem like a lot, but restaurant profit margins are slender, typically 2 to 5 percent. So cutting down on theft can be an important contributor to a restaurant's financial health.
Most of the restaurant industry pays its servers low wages and they depend on tips. Employee turnover is high. In that environment, a certain amount of theft has long been regarded as a normal part of the business.
Unethical behavior runs the gamut. There is even a how-to book on the subject, published in 2004, ''How To Burn Down the House: The Infamous Waiter and Bartender's Scam Bible by Two Bourbon Street Waiters.'' A simple example is a bartender's not charging for a round of drinks, and urging the customers to ''take care of me'' -- with a large tip. Other tactics are more elaborate.
But monitoring software is now available to track all transactions and detect suspicious patterns. In the new study, the tracking software was NCR's Restaurant Guard product, and NCR provided the data. The software is intentionally set so that a restaurant manager gets only an electronic theft alert in cases that seem to clearly be misconduct. Otherwise, a manager might be mired in time-consuming detective work instead of running the restaurant.
The savings from the theft alerts themselves were modest, $108 a week per restaurant. However, after installing the monitoring software, the revenue per restaurant increased by an average of $2,982 a week, or about 7 percent.
The impact, the researchers say, came not from firing workers engaged in theft, but mostly from their changed behavior. Knowing they were being monitored, the servers not only pulled back on any unethical practices, but also channeled their efforts into, say, prompting customers to have that dessert or a second beer, raising revenue for the restaurant and tips for themselves.
''The same people who are stealing from you can be set up to succeed,'' said Mr. Pierce of Washington University.
In the research, the data sets were sizable. For example, there were more than 630,000 transactions by servers tracked and collected each week over the course of the project.
But more significant, the researchers say, is what the data analysis might contribute to fields of study like social psychology and behavioral economics -- and the business discipline of human resources management.
In human resources, much emphasis is placed on employee selection: if you pick the right people, they will do the right thing. Instead, this research suggests that the surveillance effect on employee behavior is striking.
''What's surprising is the weird effectiveness of the intervention, once the monitoring technology is in place,'' said Mr. McAfee of M.I.T.
Not surprisingly, NCR is delighted by the results. ''It validates the customer data we've seen,'' said Jeff Hindman, a vice president at NCR. ''But this is done by outside experts with the academic standards and statistical rigor they bring to the analysis.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); EMPLOYEE PRIVACY (89%); LARCENY & THEFT (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (87%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (87%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (86%); CASUAL DINING RESTAURANTS (86%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (86%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (79%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (79%); NATIONAL SECURITY (79%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (75%); PRODUCTIVITY (74%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (74%); ETHICS (74%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); MAYORS (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (62%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (84%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%); BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: EDWARD SNOWDEN (73%); ANTHONY D WEINER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2013



38 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: Lost in the Summer Crowds

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- Here in Hollywood, the land of false-front movie sets and business-has-never-been-better studio spin doctors, summer ticket sales are being summed up with a single word: blockbuster.
Ticket revenue in North America for the period between the first weekend in May and Labor Day totaled $4.71 billion, a 10.2 percent increase over the same period last year, according to analyst projections. Attendance rose 6.6 percent, to about 573 million. Higher ticket prices contributed to the rest of the growth.
But behind that rosy picture lurk some darker realities.
Ticket sales rose in part because Hollywood crammed an unusually large number of big-budget movies into the summer, a period that typically accounts for 40 percent of box office revenue. Studios released 23 films that cost $75 million and up (sometimes way up), 53 percent more than in the same period last year. 
The audience fragmented as a result, leaving films like ''The Wolverine'' and ''The Hangover Part III'' wobbling when they should have been slam dunks.
''Turbo'' the animated snail was squished, taking in $80 million at North American theaters -- one of the smallest totals in DreamWorks Animation history. (Only the unfortunately titled ''Flushed Away'' from 2006 did worse.)
''We're very pleased with the overall strength of the summer,'' said John Fithian, president of the National Association of Theater Owners, ''but there was almost too much product. Some of these individual movies would have made more money if studios had spread them out a little more.''
Mr. Fithian noted that the $4.71 billion in total summer ticket sales represents a new high-water mark for the industry, not accounting for inflation, and the growth comes after several years of largely flat sales or declines.
It is not surprising that more films sold more overall tickets, but the total does demonstrate a resilience for cinema as competition for consumer attention continues to spike.
''To keep the exhibition business alive, we have to give people a darn good reason to put down all their electronics and get in their cars and get into theaters, and this summer we did it,'' said Nikki Rocco, president of distribution at Universal Pictures, which printed money with ''Despicable Me 2'' and ''Fast & Furious 6,'' both of which took in roughly $800 million worldwide.
Still, appearances can be deceiving. ''Pacific Rim,'' for instance, has taken in more than $400 million worldwide -- no small feat. The picture's price tag, however, made it an everyone-or-nothing enterprise. Legendary Entertainment and Warner Brothers spent about $330 million to make and market the film, which could end its run in the red since theater owners take roughly 50 percent of ticket revenue.
With the notable exception of Paramount, which released just two films, ''Star Trek Into Darkness'' and the surprisingly successful ''World War Z,'' every studio suffered at least one major dud. In many cases, big hits were offset by big flops.
Disney, for instance, had the summer's No. 1 movie in ''Iron Man 3,'' which took in $408.6 million in North America, for a global total of $1.2 billion. Disney's Pixar also scored with ''Monsters University,'' a prequel that generated more than $700 million in global ticket sales.
But Disney also had the summer's No. 1 box office bomb: ''The Lone Ranger,'' which cost at least $375 million to make and market, and has taken in about $232 million worldwide. After theater owners take their cut, Disney is looking at a write-down of $160 million to $190 million on the film.
Higher-priced 3-D tickets took another tumble, at least in the United States and Canada, as more consumers decided the visual gimmick was not worth paying a $2 to $5 premium per ticket. Family films fared the worst -- those glasses don't fit little faces very well -- with ''Turbo'' setting a new industry low for the format, according to analysts: 3-D screenings accounted for only 25 percent of its opening-weekend results. (Last summer's low was 35 percent.)
Over the weekend, the 3-D concert documentary ''One Direction: This Is Us'' took in $17 million at domestic theaters, enough for first place, according to Hollywood.com, which compiles box office data. Sony, which has had a particularly rough summer, spent $10 million to make the film. A Sony spokesman on Saturday wrote in an e-mail, ''We are off to a fantastic start!''
''Instructions Not Included,'' a Spanish-language comedy from Pantelion and Lionsgate, came out of nowhere over the weekend to take in $7.5 million at only 347 locations, an indication of the growing power of Hispanic moviegoers. ''Getaway,'' the only other new release of note, drove into a ditch, taking in just $4.5 million. The thriller, which was released by Warner, cost about $18 million to make and stars Ethan Hawke and Selena Gomez. It was the worst-reviewed wide-release film of the summer, according to the review-aggregation site RottenTomatoes.com.
As usual, Hollywood paraded out a cavalcade of stars over the warm-weather months; as usual, only a very few emerged with their star power undiminished.
Brad Pitt pulled off ''World War Z,'' which took in more than $527 million worldwide and proved that studios can surmount negative advance chatter if they work hard enough. Sandra Bullock and Melissa McCarthy had the No. 1 comedy with ''The Heat,'' which took in $210 million worldwide for 20th Century Fox -- not quite ''Bridesmaids'' money, but not chump change, either.
At the same time, Will Smith, Johnny Depp, Ryan Reynolds, Owen Wilson, Vince Vaughn, Jamie Foxx, Channing Tatum and Matt Damon, among others, failed to turn out ticket buyers, at least to the degree that studios needed. In particular, a box office era ended when Mr. Smith's ''After Earth,'' which cost Sony $135 million to produce and roughly $100 million to market worldwide, opened to $27.5 million in ticket sales, by far the worst summer showing of the once-infallible actor's career. Its global sales were $244 million.
Movie companies continued to make most of their profits with sequels; eight of this summer's top 12 films came from continuing franchises. And at least one major new series was born in ''Man of Steel.'' Warner has already announced casting for a sequel to that movie, which returned Superman to theaters and took in more than $290 million in North America, for a global total of about $650 million.
But audiences also revolted against more of the same, especially if quality came up short. ''The Smurfs 2,'' ''Kick-Ass 2,'' ''Red 2,'' ''The Hangover Part III'' and ''Percy Jackson: Sea of Monsters'' all struggled and all received largely negative reviews.
In many ways, the summer belonged to smaller original movies, at least when it came to turning out larger-than-expected audiences.
Lionsgate's ''Now You See Me,'' an old-fashioned midrange thriller, took in almost $300 million worldwide; it cost about $75 million to make. ''This Is the End,'' an R-rated apocalypse comedy from Sony, cost an estimated $32 million to produce and took in $114 million. With a budget of just $3 million, ''The Purge,'' a thriller starring Mr. Hawke, sold about $85 million in tickets for Universal.
And ''The Conjuring,'' a horror movie that cost New Line Cinema about $20 million to make, is closing in on ticket sales of $240 million worldwide.
''Films from other genres did exceptionally well this summer, proving that counterprogramming can work,'' wrote Doug Creutz, an analyst at Cowen and Company, in a research note released on Thursday.
Still, Mr. Creutz did not seem to hold out much hope that Hollywood paid attention. ''Looking ahead to next summer,'' he wrote, ''it already appears as if we are likely to have another sizable batch of money-losing blockbusters.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (B1)
''The Lone Ranger,'' above, with Armie Hammer, Johnny Depp and Helena Bonham Carter, was the summer's top bomb. Disney expects a write-down of $160 million to $190 million on the film. ''Turbo,'' below, had dismal numbers for its 3-D screens. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER MOUNTAIN/WALT DISNEY PICTURES
 DREAMWORKS ANIMATION/20TH CENTURY FOX) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TICKET SALES (91%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (78%); ANIMATION (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ANIMATED FILMS (78%); MOVIE REVENUES (78%); US LABOR DAY (77%); MOVIE THEATERS (77%)

COMPANY: DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (56%); UNIVERSAL PICTURES (51%)

TICKER: DWA (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (56%)

PERSON: JOHNNY DEPP (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2013



39 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: Arrests of 3 Mayors Reinforce Florida's Notoriety as a Hothouse for Corruption

BYLINE: By NICK MADIGAN

 BODY:
HOMESTEAD, Fla. -- Even by Florida standards, the arrests of three suburban Miami mayors on corruption charges within a month were a source of dismay, if not exactly a surprise.
On Wednesday, Steven C. Bateman, 58, the mayor of Homestead, was arrested. He is accused of accepting under-the-table payments from a health care company that sought to build a clinic in town, the state attorney's office for Miami-Dade County said. Mr. Bateman was turned in by City Council members and staff, said employees interviewed Friday at City Hall.
On Aug. 6, Manuel L. Maroño, 41, the mayor of Sweetwater and president of the Florida League of Cities, and Michael A. Pizzi, 51, the Miami Lakes mayor, were picked up along with two lobbyists. The United States attorney's office has accused them of involvement in kickback and bribery schemes concerning federal grants. 
Prosecutors said Mr. Maroño had received more than $40,000 in bribes and Mr. Pizzi $6,750. The defendants, who were targets of an F.B.I. sting operation, are charged with ''conspiracy to commit extortion under color of official right'' and could face 20 years in prison if convicted.
Gov. Rick Scott suspended all three mayors while the criminal cases proceed.
''We bought the trifecta,'' said Carla Miller, the ethics officer for Jacksonville and a former federal prosecutor. ''It's bad when three mayors get led out in handcuffs. What's left of the public trust gets ground into little pieces.''
Not that such situations are unusual in Florida, which led the country in convictions of public officials -- 781 -- between 2000 and 2010, according to Department of Justice figures.
''Florida has become the corruption capital of America,'' said Dan Krassner, the executive director of a watchdog group, Integrity Florida, citing statistics going back to 1976 and the ''significant number of public officials arrested this year and last.''
Florida, and especially Miami and its environs, has long had a reputation as a place where the odd and the eccentric mix with the furtive and the felonious. Last century, organized crime figures from Chicago and New York set up lucrative gambling, extortion and loan-sharking endeavors in Miami Beach and elsewhere, and beginning in the 1980s, South Florida's economy, culture and reputation were transformed by drug trafficking.
With so much money sloshing about, it was perhaps inevitable that a parade of officials would enrich themselves illicitly at the public trough.
One was Alex Daoud, who in 1985 became the mayor of Miami Beach and six years later was indicted on 41 counts of bribery. He served 18 months in prison, and has since written a memoir.
Last year in Miami Beach, City Manager Jorge Gonzalez, who was making $273,000 a year and had been mired in a web of investigations, was forced to step down after seven of his employees were arrested in a federal corruption investigation. His six-figure pension remained intact.
The arrests of the three Miami-Dade mayors followed news in July that the Securities and Exchange Commission had charged the City of Miami and one of its former budget directors with securities fraud, only a few years after the commission reprimanded the city for similar behavior. In May, a former mayor of Hialeah, Julio Robaina, and his wife, Raiza, were charged with failing to report income from high-interest loans totaling more than $1 million that they had made under an informal system involving friends and associates. The Robainas said they were innocent.
In 2011, in the largest municipal recall election in the country, the mayor of Miami-Dade County, Carlos Alvarez, was removed from office after he gave large pay raises to close aides and then pushed for a significant increase in property taxes.
This year, the State Legislature approved two ethics bills and six that focus on government transparency and accountability -- the first time in 36 years that state lawmakers had passed ethics legislation. Mr. Krassner and others think legislators could do more. But many people seem resigned to the prevalence of officials who appear oblivious to ethical boundaries.
''They get drunk on power,'' said Katy Sorenson, who served on the Miami-Dade Board of County Commissioners for 16 years and runs the Good Government Initiative at the University of Miami, which educates elected officials about ethics and related issues.
''There's a certain psychology to some of the people who run for office here -- they don't think they're going down the wrong track, but there's a slippery slope,'' she added. ''There's a lack of self-awareness, an immaturity, a brazenness, of feeling like a big shot. So when they're arrested, they're very surprised.''
The persistence of political malfeasance -- often involving the stereotypical envelopes stuffed with cash, delivered with knowing nods -- perplexes those for whom public service is a noble calling.
''Maybe it's the heat,'' said Ruth Campbell, 93, a former City Council member here and the curator of the Historic Homestead Town Hall Museum.
Mrs. Campbell, who has lived in town since 1942, was sadly aware of Florida's reputation as a haven for corruption. ''We like to be distinguished,'' she said, ''but not like that.''
Prosecutors said Mr. Bateman, among other things, had failed to disclose that the health care company, Community Health of South Florida Inc., secretly agreed to pay him $120,000 over a year to lobby on its behalf. By the time he was arrested, he had accepted $3,625, State Attorney Katherine Fernandez Rundle said.
After the mayor's arrest, a City Council member, Judy Waldman, told reporters, ''I have zero tolerance for people using their public office to make money.'' Ms. Waldman, who referred to Mr. Bateman only as ''that individual,'' said his activities on behalf of Community Health Care of South Florida were ''just the tip of the iceberg,'' and encouraged prosecutors to dig deeper.
Mr. Bateman's lawyer, Ben Kuehne, told The Associated Press that his client was ''shocked'' by his arrest and had ''served the community for many years in an honest, dependable manner.''
At City Hall on Friday, in a frame that contained photos of city officials, Mr. Bateman's likeness had been concealed behind a paper copy of the city's crest. But a day earlier, a group of his supporters rallied a couple blocks away, and Mr. Bateman, out on bond, showed up, shook hands and vowed to fight the charges.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: State Attorney Katherine Fernandez Rundle displayed evidence last week after the arrest of Mayor Steven C. Bateman of Homestead, Fla. The mayors of Sweetwater and Miami Lakes were also charged with corruption in August. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J PAT CARTER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (91%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (90%); MAYORS (90%); BRIBERY (90%); ARRESTS (90%); EXTORTION (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); CRIME RATES (87%); FELONIES (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); ETHICS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); BUSINESS ETHICS (76%); LOBBYING (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (68%); HEALTH CARE (56%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%)

PERSON: RICK SCOTT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2013



40 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Subcontractor Servitude

BYLINE: By JENNIFER GORDON. 
Jennifer Gordon is a professor of law at Fordham.

 BODY:
THE words ''guest workers'' and ''strike'' are not often seen together. Yet twice this summer, members of a group of more than 150 Jamaican guest workers who clean luxury Florida hotels and condos walked off the job. The workers came to the United States in April anticipating a summer of hard work and decent earnings to send home. Instead, they encountered the black hole of labor subcontracting.
Labor-recruitment firms brought the workers from Jamaica to the Florida Panhandle. Cleaning contractors hired them and then leased them out to scrub toilets and sweep sand from floors for vacation property companies. 
By the time the workers first went on strike, in June, they had much to protest. They had borrowed to pay recruitment fees of $2,000 to $2,500, counting on promises of full-time work and good housing. But in Florida, the cleaning company packed as many as 15 people into unfurnished two-bedroom apartments, for which it collected as much as $5,000 a month. Charges for rent and required extras like $70 for a T-shirt ''uniform'' reduced the workers' net pay to subminimum levels, sometimes even zero, and -- the final insult -- paychecks repeatedly bounced. Children back home waited for money that never came.
Those problems typify the debt, fraud and coercion that plague guest-work programs in the United States. An estimated 700,000 to a million guest workers and their families enter the country each year, mostly to work in low-wage industries but also as nurses, teachers, computer programmers and the like. When guest workers are exploited, it lowers the floor for American workers, too.
H-2B visas, the class of visas held by the Jamaicans, are reserved for temporary or seasonal work for which there are not enough ''able, willing, qualified and available'' Americans -- but of course, availability depends on the wages and working conditions on offer. Florida's unemployment rate has been stuck at over 7 percent, so it seems unlikely that no local cleaners could be found.
Guest workers, however, offer something hiring a local worker does not: subservience. They are tied by law to the employer who sponsored their visas, which means that if they are found too ''difficult'' for any reason -- including asking that their rights be respected -- the employer can effectively deport them and blacklist them from receiving future work visas.
When the Jamaican cleaners struck the first time, protesting their stolen wages and miserable living conditions, the cleaning company stapled a notice to their paycheck stating that immigration authorities and local law enforcement would escort anyone who didn't return the next day to the airport, to fly home.
The Jamaicans' situation is part of a broader phenomenon of subcontracting. The structure of work has shifted since the 1980s, for workers from Manhattan office cleaners to Bangladeshi garment stitchers. The National Employment Law Project reports that 58 percent of jobs added during the recovery have been in low-wage sectors, which have high levels of contingent and subcontracted jobs. Today, almost all production in global manufacturing involves subcontracting. It is central to the structure of employment in the American construction, warehousing and agricultural industries as well.
Subcontractors compete on the price of labor. Where production can't travel, they move workers across borders, with recruiters' help. They also shield businesses from legal liability for the treatment of workers and from labor-organizing efforts. Three steps are essential to curbing the system's worst abuses.
First is immigration reform that protects all workers: When guest workers can defend their rights, the millions who labor alongside them benefit as well. Immigration law must be amended to forbid employers from charging guest workers exorbitant fees directly or through recruiters and to protect those who report abuses from retaliation. The bill passed by the Senate this summer is far from perfect, but it restricts what recruiters can charge and would allow guest workers and other immigrants in a serious labor dispute to change jobs and stay in the country. In contrast, the guest-worker bill House Republicans are threatening to introduce lacks those protective features entirely and would bring in many more workers, on much worse terms.
A second necessary reform is legal responsibility along the contracting chain. If workers in a subcontracting chain are abused, the firms at the top of the chain that benefit from their labor should not be insulated from financial responsibility. An innovative California law penalizes a firm for its subcontractor's workplace violations if the firm did not pay the subcontractor enough for it to comply with all applicable labor laws. In Britain, the quaintly named Gangmasters Licensing Authority can penalize a firm in the food sector if its labor contractor violates the law. In the Philippines, recruiters are held responsible if they place a worker into a job abroad that violates national laws on overseas employment. Such joint liability should be the standard in subcontracting arrangements.
Third is reform of labor laws. Before their second strike, on Aug. 17, the Jamaicans sought help from the National Guestworker Alliance (a nonprofit advocacy group, but not a union) and filed a complaint with the Labor Department. Other subcontracted workers are members of traditional unions, but the National Labor Relations Act restricts their ability to protest against the employer who actually holds the purse strings in a subcontracting chain, or to bargain collectively with that employer. It is time to repeal this damaging restriction.
This Labor Day, a group of courageous workers in Florida remind us that the right to fair working conditions is one that no company should be able to subcontract its way out of.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ARIANNA VAIRO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN LABOR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (89%); SEASONAL WORKERS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); JANITORIAL SERVICES (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (86%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); STRIKES (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); FAMILY (77%); CHILDREN (76%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (72%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); IMMIGRATION (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2013



41 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Travel Desk; SPECIAL REPORT: TRAVEL ASIA; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1511 words

HEADLINE: In Myanmar, Sailing in the Wake of Kipling and Orwell

BYLINE: By MIKE IVES

 BODY:
ON THE IRRAWADDY RIVER, Myanmar -- When Daniel and Susy Florens booked a five-star honeymoon with stops in some of Asia's premier luxury destinations, Myanmar seemed like just another stop on the itinerary.
They had agreed to take a five-day cruise along the Irrawaddy River on the recommendation of a trusted travel agent. But as their sailing date neared, Mr. Florens, who owns electronics stores across Mexico, wondered about Myanmar's political situation and the standard of the cruise ship's accommodations.
''I thought I was coming to a place with a lot of soldiers in the streets, and barricades,'' he recalled. ''And I imagined the ship was an old boat in Louisiana.''
But the atmosphere in Myanmar's cultural and business center, Yangon, was welcoming, and the cruise ship was well appointed, with teak and jade furnishings, modern amenities and a rooftop pool. Two nights into the journey, Mr. Florens said he thought the service and accommodation were on par with that of the five-star hotels where he and his wife had stayed in Tokyo and Shanghai. 
''I am going to tell my brother-in-law, 'You know, you have to do this,''' Mr. Florens said, sipping a lemon-grass-flavor iced tea on the pool deck as the ship sailed past marshes and the occasional cluster of riverside huts. His only complaint -- and it was more of an afterthought -- was that the wireless Internet service was patchy.
Myanmar, once a pariah state that was ruled for decades by a repressive military junta, is emerging from two years of landmark political and economic liberalization. And even as ethnic and religious tensions continue to smolder in its hinterlands, the country's hospitality industry is already scrambling to meet rising demand for hotels and services.
Slightly more than one million international visitors arrived here last year -- about a third and a sixth of the numbers that traveled to Cambodia and Vietnam, respectively -- but the year-over-year growth rate of nearly 30 percent was Southeast Asia's fastest-rising, according to a recent report by the Ministry of Hotels and Tourism in Myanmar.
And the country's average hotel rate rose to $137 in 2012 from $66 in 2011, matching Cambodia's 2012 hotel rate and exceeding those of Thailand and Vietnam, according to data compiled by STR Global, a market forecast company.
''It happened in a year and a half where suddenly the country was thrown open, and everyone lifted their travel advisories not to go to Myanmar,'' said Steven Schipani, a tourism expert at the Asian Development Bank in Bangkok, which, along with the Norwegian government, financed the tourism ministry's study. ''Now, with the opening, it's the hot new destination.''
For now at least, river cruises capture only a small fraction of Myanmar's tourist arrivals -- 14,653 people last year -- but they cater to high-end travelers who often spend thousands of dollars per person during their stays.
River cruises have the advantage of sidestepping two of Myanmar's major tourism shortcomings: poor roads and a lack of upscale accommodation. The country has just two hotels that meet international luxury standards: The Governor's Residence and The Strand, both in Yangon.
Part of the allure for some tourists is tracing the footsteps of the British writers George Orwell and Rudyard Kipling, said Bill Barnett, the managing director of C9 Hotelworks, a Thailand-based hospitality consultancy.
Another, he added, is the country's comparatively limited development in comparison to that of its Southeast Asian neighbors.
''Myanmar is a great brand,'' Mr. Barnett said. ''It's an exotic destination -- people want to see it.''
Some operators market cruises in this country, formerly known as Burma, as nostalgic throwbacks to its British colonial past.
Mr. Florens and Mrs. Romano Florens, the Mexican newlyweds, cruised between the cities of Bagan and Mandalay on a ship that takes its name -- The Road to Mandalay -- from a famous Kipling poem. The ship, operated by the London-based luxury hotel company Orient-Express, traveled the Rhine River in Germany before it began sailing here in 1995.
A copy of the poem and some vintage nautical maps hang on the corridor walls, and the dining room's lamps and wood furnishings convey a vintage air. At one point in the cruise, the ship's hotel manager, Steve Locke, pointed to a village on the riverbank where Burmese and British troops in 1826 formally ended the first Anglo-Burmese war.
The historical references were aided by the scenery: Aside from bridges and some telephone wires, the view from the boat was largely of empty marshes, rudimentary villages and the occasional gold-leafed Buddhist pagoda. An observer could easily wonder whether it had looked the same in the 1800s.
On the cruise's third day, Mr. Locke waved across the river at a ship passing in the other direction. The Orcaella, which Orient-Express launched in July for journeys of seven and 11 nights along the Irrawaddy and nearby Chindwin River, cruises from Yangon to remote destinations near the Myanmar-India border.
The Orcaella is a response to what Eddie Teh, the company's general manager for Myanmar cruises, called a dramatic increase in demand for river cruising in the country since 2011. He said that most guests came from the United States but that in the last two years, the number of travelers from Southeast Asia -- now its second-largest market -- had increased.
Prices on the Road to Mandalay, which can accommodate 82 passengers, begin at $2,520 per person for three-night cruises and $4,030 for 11 nights, while the Orcaella starts at $5,040 for seven nights and $5,610 for 11 nights. Domestic transfers are included in the fares.
Orient-Express is among the early pioneers of Myanmar river cruising, but it increasingly faces competition from rivals offering river journeys at similar or cheaper fares. For example, two Yangon-based companies, Amara Group and the Ayravata Cruise Co., operate two cruise ships each. And Singapore-based Pandaw Cruises, founded in the mid-1990s by a historian from Scotland, has six ships sailing in Myanmar and four in Cambodia and Vietnam.
Sven Zika, Pandaw's sales and marketing manager, said the company planned to add three new ships in Myanmar by March 2014 as a way of serving increasing demand. He said the company's clients continued to be primarily from the United States, Britain and Australia, adding that Burmese travelers were not a major part of the market.
The Swiss company Thurgau Travel has introduced two Myanmar river cruisers since 2010, said Karl Pauli, the head of the company's Myanmar cruises. Mr. Pauli added that, despite a regular seasonal dip in tourist arrivals during the summer months, the ships' average annual occupancy rate was about 90 percent, and most guests were Swiss.
River cruising, however, doesn't appeal to all high-end travelers who visit Myanmar seeking culture and history, for the simple reason that cruise boats limit the possibilities for overland exploration, said Willem Niemeijer, the chief executive of Thailand-based Khiri Travel Group, which organizes itineraries across Southeast Asia.
Cruising can be pleasant, but it is questionable whether it is an authentic way to see Myanmar and interact with local communities, Mr. Niemeijer added. ''I think not -- basically you're in a capsule,'' he said.
On the Orient-Express's Mandalay cruise, the boat's approximately 20 guests came from countries including Japan, Australia, Britain, Germany and the United States. A few said they recognized the limitations of cruising but had decided the trip would offer a pleasant introduction to a country they had only read about.
Gianluca Ciampi and Sofia Leonardi, a couple from Rome on their honeymoon, said they typically traveled independently. But it was their first time in Myanmar, and they wanted to relax completely.
''It's a bubble, but it is beautiful,'' said Mr. Ciampi, a lawyer who spent part of the cruise sunbathing on the pool deck and reading George Orwell.
The cruise did include stops, like the first day's excursion to Bagan, one of Myanmar's most popular tourist attractions, where temples dating from the 11th century reflect the country's Buddhist heritage.
The Florenses were thrilled by the tour, noting with surprise how many of the sites were much less crowded than they had expected. ''It's like our private place,'' Mr. Florens said, surrounded by restored brick temples.
On a tour of a fruit-and-vegetable market, they stopped to inspect the pineapples, judging them sweeter than in Mexico. And in a dusty village, they marveled at how some local women were carrying such large water buckets on shoulder-mounted slings. Mrs. Romano Florens remarked in Spanish that one woman's load looked as heavy as a suitcase.
After stopping to photograph a group of monks in red robes, the couple returned to the Irrawady's banks to find some local people watching their every movement.
''The people are looking at us,'' Mrs. Romano Florens said.
Her husband took her hand. ''They've never seen such a beautiful woman as you, mi amor,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); CRUISES (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (89%); TOURISM (86%); POLITICS (78%); FULL SERVICE HOTELS (78%); LODGING (77%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (77%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (76%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (76%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); HOTEL AMENITIES (73%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (67%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (62%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (61%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (61%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (60%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (50%)

COMPANY: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (60%)

TICKER: ATB (ASX) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) MYANMAR (99%); ASIA (94%); MEXICO (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); NORWAY (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); THAILAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2013



42 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Attack Syria, Talk to Iran

BYLINE: By ANATOL LIEVEN

 BODY:
The need for an immediate U.S. response in Syria to discourage the further use of chemical weapons does not change the fundamental dilemma of U.S. policy, which is that for very good reasons, the United States does not want either side to win this war. Victory for either side would mean dreadful massacres and ethnic cleansing, as well as an increased threat of international terrorism.
All of this is well known to policy makers in Washington, which explains President Obama's praiseworthy caution. What the administration now needs to do is to start thinking seriously about the real contours of a Syrian peace settlement, and to turn the Syrian crisis into an opportunity to rethink its overall strategy in the Middle East. 
In the long run, if Syria is not to disintegrate as a country, there will have to be a peace settlement that guarantees the sharing of power among Syria's different ethno-religious groups. The participation of Russia, Iran and Iraq in such a settlement will obviously be essential.
Washington therefore needs to separate its immediate moral rhetoric in justifying an attack from the language it uses toward Moscow, Tehran and Beijing concerning Syria. It would be helpful in this regard for U.S. officials to remember two facts.
The first is that Russia's fears concerning the consequences of a rebel victory are neither wicked nor irrational, but are shared by very many analysts in the C.I.A., the State Department and the Israeli government.
The second is that in 1988, when Saddam Hussein used chemical weapons against Kurdish rebels and Iranian troops, Washington remained carefully silent so as not to help the Iranian side in the war with Iraq.
That silence on Washington's part does not justify inaction now; but it should certainly discourage demonization of those who for legitimate reasons fear the consequences of U.S. actions in Syria. U.S. language toward Moscow, Tehran and Beijing should be characterized by respectful disagreement, not arrogant and hypocritical hectoring.
The importance of Russia to the conflict in Syria lies both in its links to the Baath regime, and its good relations with Iran. A deeply negative consequence of the intensifying Syrian crisis has been to undermine the possibility of a new dialogue with Iran that was opened by the victory of the moderate President Hassan Rouhani in the June elections.
One of the grave problems of the Syrian civil war for U.S. policy has been that it has risked entangling the United States even more deeply in an anti-Iranian (and historically at least, anti-Russian) alliance with the Sunni autocracies of the Persian Gulf that back the Syrian rebels.
This alliance sits badly with America's own secular and democratic values, with America's commitment to a Shiite-dominated government in Iraq and with America's hopes for progress in the Muslim world. The sponsorship of Sunni Islamist extremism by some of these states poses a threat to American security, and their pathological hatred for Shiism has contributed to deepening the Middle East's disastrous sectarian divides.
Using Moscow to develop new relations with Iran is therefore necessary not only for a resolution of the Iranian nuclear issue and (eventually) of the Syrian conflict, but also in the long run for the restoration of basic stability in the Middle East.
And it should be noted that while Russia has preserved good relations with Iran, it has also on occasion been prepared to be tough with that country. The intensified U.N. sanctions eventually agreed to by Russia and China had a severe effect on the Iranian economy and seem to have contributed significantly to Hassan Rouhani's victory in Iran's elections.
Of course, a Syrian peace settlement will be terribly difficult to achieve, and will probably not be achievable until both sides have fought themselves into a state of exhaustion.
Nonetheless, the basic contours of any long-term settlement are already clear, as is the need for Iranian and Russian participation. While sending a strong military signal to Damascus and other regimes to never again use chemical weapons, Washington should at the same time intensify attempts to lay the diplomatic basis for this eventual settlement.
Anatol Lieven is a professor in the War Studies Department of King's College London and a senior fellow of the New America Foundation in Washington. A new edition of his book ''America Right or Wrong: An Anatomy of American Nationalism'' was published in 2012.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN POLICY (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); PEACE PROCESS (76%); IRAQ WAR (72%); RELIGION (72%); TERRORISM (71%)

PERSON: HASSAN ROUHANI (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (70%) INDIAN OCEAN (50%) SYRIA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAQ (93%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (79%); IRAN (70%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2013



43 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: Forcing Obama's Hand in Syria

BYLINE: By VALI NASR

 BODY:
For the past two years the Obama administration has resisted entanglement in Syria, but now this grisly civil war has become an unavoidable international problem and a defining moment for American foreign policy.
Having concluded ''with high confidence'' that the Syrian government carried out a deadly chemical attack on the outskirts of Damascus on Aug. 21, the Obama administration has no choice but to enforce the ''red line'' the president laid out a year ago. To maintain American credibility -- and his own -- President Obama has to do so quickly and decisively. He also has to explain to the American people and to the world what is at stake in Syria and how the United States will lead in ending this crisis.
Mr. Obama has understandably viewed any involvement in Syria as a slippery slope to an expensive war that Americans do not want and will not support. Even after President Bashar al-Assad's use of chemical weapons, his administration has been slow to react, and after much back-and-forth it has decided to punish Mr. Assad -- but only in a discrete operation that would not have a direct bearing on the outcome of the civil war, and only, as Mr. Obama suggested on Saturday, if Congress gives its blessing. 
The world will not see this as prudence but rather as dithering -- reinforcing the perception that the United States is hiding behind its economic woes and, hounded by the ghosts of Iraq, is no longer keen on leading the world. That will embolden America's adversaries and deject its friends. America could soon find itself alone in standing up to Iran or North Korea, or in pushing back against China and Russia, which have used their veto power on the Security Council to block United Nations authorization for intervention in Syria.
Americans are justifiably weary of war, but the lesson of Syria is that shirking from our global responsibilities will only create bigger problems that will eventually raise both the cost and the likelihood of American intervention.
Given the impasse at the United Nations, and with Turkey and France the only allies publicly supporting an American-led intervention, Mr. Obama's desire to seek the blessing of Congress (even though he maintains he does not legally need it) is understandable. But waiting for lawmakers to return from their summer recess to respond to an international crisis sends the wrong message to the world.
Syria is a problem that threatens regional security and America's vital interests in the Middle East. The war has created a humanitarian crisis that threatens to overwhelm Syria's neighbors; touched off sectarian conflict that has destabilized Lebanon and Iraq; and provided Al Qaeda with a vast area of operation, stretching across Syria and into Iraq.
These are not easy problems to resolve, but there will be no resolution without American leadership. And failing to provide that leadership is bound to lead to the very outcome the Obama administration has been trying to avoid: intervention.
Mr. Obama hopes that a limited military strike will deter future use of chemical weapons. But if every American response will be subject to the same prolonged decision-making process the world has witnessed over the past week and a half, and then carried out so cautiously as not to affect the outcome of the civil war, what incentive would Mr. Assad have to not test Mr. Obama's ''red line'' again? Rather than provide deterrence, the administration's tepid response would only invite further violations of international law.
The Obama administration has unwittingly found itself boxed in. If it carries out a military response to Mr. Assad's use of chemical weapons that is limited to punishment and does not seriously weaken the Syrian military, there could be one of two outcomes.
The first is that the Assad regime falls, which would mean that Syria, or chunks of it, could be ruled by radical Islamists associated with Al Qaeda -- producing new and unwelcome threats to global security that could invite an even larger American intervention down the line.
The second is that American military strikes will level the playing field between Mr. Assad's forces and the rebels, so that the civil war would go on for a long time, destroying more of the country, killing more of its population, and sending even more refugees into Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey. That would make the Syrian conflict even more dangerous. With no American deterrent on the horizon, the Assad regime might use chemical weapons again, while extremists might provide havens for terrorists of the kind the Afghan war produced for Al Qaeda in the 1990s.
It is in America's strategic interest, then, to take decisive action to mortally wound the Assad regime. Ensuring that Syria does not become a haven for Al Qaeda -- a legitimate fear -- would have to immediately follow.
Mr. Assad may be right to think the Obama administration does not want involvement in Syria, but the horrors of this war have effectively forced America into it. The risks of intervention are great, and success is uncertain, but doing nothing would be, at this point, far worse.
America should act decisively and in a timely manner, and based on a strategic vision that includes a way out of this war. That would impress American allies and adversaries alike. That is what the world needs and what Mr. Obama should focus on.
Vali Nasr is dean of Johns Hopkins University's Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies and author of ''The Dispensable Nation: American Foreign Policy in Retreat.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CIVIL WAR (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); VETO (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); SYRIA (94%); IRAQ (93%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); TURKEY (79%); LEBANON (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); FRANCE (54%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2013



44 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Love For Labor Lost

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
It wasn't always about the hot dogs. Originally, believe it or not, Labor Day actually had something to do with showing respect for labor.
Here's how it happened: In 1894 Pullman workers, facing wage cuts in the wake of a financial crisis, went on strike -- and Grover Cleveland deployed 12,000 soldiers to break the union. He succeeded, but using armed force to protect the interests of property was so blatant that even the Gilded Age was shocked. So Congress, in a lame attempt at appeasement, unanimously passed legislation symbolically honoring the nation's workers.
It's all hard to imagine now. Not the bit about financial crisis and wage cuts -- that's going on all around us. Not the bit about the state serving the interests of the wealthy -- look at who got bailed out, and who didn't, after our latter-day version of the Panic of 1893. No, what's unimaginable now is that Congress would unanimously offer even an empty gesture of support for workers' dignity. For the fact is that many of today's politicians can't even bring themselves to fake respect for ordinary working Americans. 
Consider, for example, how Eric Cantor, the House majority leader, marked Labor Day last year: with a Twitter post declaring ''Today, we celebrate those who have taken a risk, worked hard, built a business and earned their own success.'' Yep, he saw Labor Day as an occasion to honor business owners.
More broadly, consider the ever-widening definition of those whom conservatives consider parasites. Time was when their ire was directed at bums on welfare. But even at the program's peak, the number of Americans on ''welfare'' -- Aid to Families With Dependent Children -- never exceeded about 5 percent of the population. And that program's far less generous successor, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, reaches less than 2 percent of Americans.
Yet even as the number of Americans on what we used to consider welfare has declined, the number of citizens the right considers ''takers'' rather than ''makers'' -- people of whom Mitt Romney complained, ''I'll never convince them they should take personal responsibility and care for their lives'' -- has exploded, to encompass almost half the population. And the great majority of this newly defined army of moochers consists of working families that don't pay income taxes but do pay payroll taxes (most of the rest are elderly).
How can someone who works for a living be considered the moral equivalent of a bum on welfare? Well, part of the answer is that many people on the right engage in word games: they talk about how someone doesn't pay income taxes, and hope that their listeners fail to notice the word ''income'' and forget about all the other taxes lower-income working Americans pay.
But it is also true that modern America, while it has pretty much eliminated traditional welfare, does have other programs designed to help the less well-off -- notably the earned-income tax credit, food stamps and Medicaid. The majority of these programs' beneficiaries are either children, the elderly or working adults -- this is true by definition for the tax credit, which only supplements earned income, and turns out in practice to be true of the other programs. So if you consider someone who works hard trying to make ends meet, but also gets some help from the government, a ''taker,'' you're going to have contempt for a very large number of American workers and their families.
Oh, and just wait until Obamacare kicks in, and millions more working Americans start receiving subsidies to help them purchase health insurance.
You might ask why we should provide any aid to working Americans -- after all, they aren't completely destitute. But the fact is that economic inequality has soared over the past few decades, and while a handful of people have stratospheric incomes, a far larger number of Americans find that no matter how hard they work, they can't afford the basics of a middle-class existence -- health insurance in particular, but even putting food on the table can be a problem. Saying that they can use some help shouldn't make us think any less of them, and it certainly shouldn't reduce the respect we grant to anyone who works hard and plays by the rules.
But obviously that's not the way everyone sees it. In particular, there are evidently a lot of wealthy people in America who consider anyone who isn't wealthy a loser -- an attitude that has clearly gotten stronger as the gap between the 1 percent and everyone else has widened. And such people have a lot of friends in Washington.
So, this time around will we be hearing anything from Mr. Cantor and his colleagues suggesting that they actually do respect people who work for a living? Maybe. But the one thing we'll know for sure is that they don't mean it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US LABOR DAY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); FAMILY (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); ARMED FORCES (76%); CHILDREN (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (75%); TAX LAW (75%); STRIKES (73%); FAMILY SERVICES (72%); LEGISLATION (70%); CONSERVATISM (66%); CORPORATE TAX (60%); INCOME TAX (50%)

PERSON: ERIC CANTOR (55%); MITT ROMNEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2013



45 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: Chasing JPMorgan Chase

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
Not too long ago, JPMorgan Chase and its chief executive, Jamie Dimon, were celebrated for navigating the 2008 financial crisis, which brought other big banks to their knees. Now this one-time darling of federal regulators, long thought to be the best managed of all the big banks, is in trouble or apparently headed there on multiple fronts. While the outcome of the various investigations into the bank's dealings remains unclear, they raise the obvious question of whether banks have become not only too big to fail but too big to manage. 
In the past month alone, JPMorgan paid $410 million to settle accusations by federal regulators that it had manipulated energy markets in California and Michigan. Federal prosecutors are pursuing criminal and civil investigations into mortgage securities that JPMorgan sold to investors before the housing bust.
Meanwhile, two JPMorgan employees have been criminally charged in the London Whale fiasco. The Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating whether the bank's hiring practices in China violated federal bribery laws. California is investigating the bank's mortgage business; New York is investigating JPMorgan's retail banking practices; and two federal agencies are reportedly on the verge of seeking damages for the bank's alleged abuses of its credit card customers. All this and more comes on top of earlier settlements over allegations of abusive foreclosures and tainted tactics in a municipal bond deal.
The question now is whether federal officials can be persuaded by evidence that the government is gathering to make fundamental changes to America's banking landscape. Even Mr. Dimon must know that the underlying problem is not only this or that violation, but the fact that the sheer size and scope and complexity of the banking behemoths defy controls, encouraging speculation and bad behavior.
Administration officials, lawmakers and regulators know this, too. But they remain at odds over the Volcker Rule and other reforms that, done properly, would curb the size and complexity of banks. For their part, prosecutors have consistently balked at seeking criminal prosecutions of big banks and their senior executives, or even at extracting admissions of wrongdoing in civil settlements, even though deterrence and accountability are impossible without prosecutions and admissions.
For the investigations of JPMorgan and other banks to make a real difference, the federal authorities would have to show a willingness that has thus far been lacking to get tougher with banks and bankers and move from there to carry out broader reforms of the nation's financial system.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (74%); BOND ISSUES (74%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (74%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (74%); RETAIL BANKING (73%); DAMAGES (71%); BRIBERY (69%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (68%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (54%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (98%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (98%); JPM (LSE) (98%); 8634 (TSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (98%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2013



46 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WASHINGTON MEMO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: History Aside, Obama Bets On Congress

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In President Obama's telling, Congress plays host to an ''endless parade of distractions and political posturing.'' It is the ''challenging'' place where his second-term agenda meets Washington gridlock, forcing him to issue executive orders and make appeals to the public to get anything done.
Yet now the president has chosen to hand over one of his most pressing foreign policy decisions to the very crowd that has vowed to block him at every turn.
By asking Congress for authorization to retaliate against Syria for using chemical weapons, Mr. Obama has put himself at the mercy of an institution that has bedeviled his presidency for years. He has risked his credibility -- at home and abroad -- on a bet that Washington's partisan divisions will take a back seat during this debate. And he has bowed to the reality that some of the loudest demands for a Syria vote have come from his allies on Capitol Hill. 
''You go to war with the Congress you have, not the Congress you wish you had,'' said Matt Bennett, a former senior aide to President Bill Clinton. ''He doesn't have a Congress he can trust, but he feels that this is weighty enough that the Congress should be involved.''
The week ahead will feature a high-stakes lobbying effort by the administration for military action, some of it classified and behind closed doors, even as lawmakers trickle back to Washington from their summer break.
Despite assurances on the talk shows by Secretary of State John Kerry that Congress will approve action, early indications suggest that the Syria debate may face a version of the paralyzing politics that have repeatedly blocked Mr. Obama's legislative proposals on gun control, immigration, climate change, expanded preschool, infrastructure spending, taxes, housing and the federal budget.
That could be especially true in the House, where a coalition of Tea Party conservatives, liberal Democrats and libertarians already appears to be preparing to oppose the use of military force in Syria. And even some senators began lining up to announce their opposition well ahead of the start of a debate in that chamber.
Senator James M. Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma, said he would vote ''no'' and predicted that lawmakers would not give the president the authorization that he seeks. ''I don't think they will,'' Mr. Inhofe said in an appearance on ''Fox News Sunday.''
Mr. Obama's willingness to place his faith in lawmakers is particularly unexpected for a president who has spent much of his second term trying to find creative ways to work around their judgment.
When Congress refused to approve new spending on infrastructure projects, he announced a faster process for getting federal permits. When it balked at new gun laws, he signed more than 20 executive actions to keep guns from criminals and people with mental illnesses. In his State of the Union, he pledged to enact new rules to combat climate change.
''If Congress won't act soon to protect future generations, I will,'' Mr. Obama said, promising executive actions to reduce pollution.
In speeches across the country on housing and education, every mention of the need for Congressional approval for his proposals has become a reliable punch line. In Scranton, Penn., last month, the audience laughed when Mr. Obama said that some of his proposals for college tuition would require action from Congress.
''That's always challenging,'' Mr. Obama agreed.
Earlier, in Galesburg, Ill., he laid out an economic vision for his last three years and said, ''We're going to do everything we can, wherever we can, with or without Congress, to make things happen.''
White House officials are betting that a debate about attacking Syria will be different, and that Congress will not shrink from what Mr. Obama says is the need to hold the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad, accountable for gassing his own citizens. By demanding a vote, the president is essentially asking Congress to own the decision to go to war.
David Axelrod, a former senior adviser to the president, said he hoped members of Congress would treat the issue of a military attack differently than they had many domestic issues.
''It would be beyond tragic if, on an issue like this, people started making political calculations about damaging the president,'' Mr. Axelrod said. ''He's chosen to put his faith, not necessarily in the Congress, but in our laws and traditions. It'll be an interesting week to see how that works out.''
Dan Pfeiffer, the president's senior adviser, said that ''the fact of divided government and polarized politics is exactly why it is so important that Congress play a role in such an important decision for our country.''
In 2011, Mr. Obama drew bipartisan criticism for not asking Congress for authorization to participate in an air campaign in Libya that lasted for weeks. The president and his lawyers argued that American law did not require a vote in Congress for the effort, which was aimed at preventing Muammar el-Qaddafi, the Libyan leader, from killing rebels in his country.
Mr. Obama has at least one legislative advantage in the Syria debate: Congressional leaders, including the House speaker, John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio, have already pledged to schedule an up-or-down vote in both chambers. That is more than the president often gets in the House, where Mr. Boehner frequently blocks a floor vote on the president's agenda.
But despite his first-term victories on health care and financial regulation, Mr. Obama is not a president with a keen sense of how to easily move his ideas through a reluctant Congress. With the Syria vote, he must find a way to ensure victory without setting a precedent that requires him -- and future presidents -- to do the same before every strike.
Within moments of Mr. Obama's surprise announcement on Saturday, even lawmakers who support military action against Syria expressed doubt about the outcome of a Congressional vote. Representative Peter T. King, Republican of New York, said on ''Fox News Sunday'' that the president's hesitation represented a ''clear failure of leadership.''
Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, demanded even bolder military action against Syria than Mr. Obama is contemplating. Mr. McCain said he might oppose the use of force unless the president agreed to a wider military effort. But agreeing to that would almost certainly undermine support among many Democrats and some libertarians.
And even Mr. Obama's call for a ''narrow, limited action'' has some liberal Democrats worried. Senator Christopher S. Murphy, Democrat of Connecticut, said he entered the debate ''as a skeptic'' and said he was not convinced that it was a good idea to launch missiles against the Syrian government.
''Will a U.S. attack make the situation better for the Syrian people or worse?'' he asked on ''Meet the Press.''
The outcome of that debate may help determine Mr. Obama's foreign policy legacy, which now is partly in the hands of his adversaries in Congress. In a statement on Saturday, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader, hinted at the political impact for the president if Congress refuses to give him the permission he wants.
''The president's role as commander in chief,'' Mr. McConnell said, ''is always strengthened when he enjoys the expressed support of the Congress.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A rebel fighter on Sunday in Erbin, an area of eastern Damascus that was the target of a chemical weapons attack on Aug. 21. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOHAMED ABDULLAH/REUTERS) (A1)
Senator James M. Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma, has already said that he would vote ''no'' to retaliation against Syria. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL HELLSTERN /THE OKLAHOMAN, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, called for even bolder action against Syria than Mr. Obama is contemplating. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS USHER/CBS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Senator Christopher S. Murphy, Democrat of Connecticut, said he was unsure whether an attack would help the Syrian people. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASHLEY GILBERTSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (85%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); FIREARMS (75%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); IMMIGRATION (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); APPROVALS (68%); BUDGETS (67%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (67%); GUN CONTROL (67%); INFRASTRUCTURE (65%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (56%); LICENSES & PERMITS (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (61%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JIM INHOFE (78%); CHRISTOPHER S MURPHY (73%); BILL CLINTON (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (79%) SYRIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2013



47 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; IN THE RUNNING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1976 words

HEADLINE: Quinn Reversal, Meant to Help Her, Now Hurts

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO and DAVID M. HALBFINGER

 BODY:
There was no wiggle room. No equivocation.
On a December day in 2007, Christine C. Quinn, the speaker of the City Council, called herself utterly immovable on the question of overturning New York's term limits law.
''I am today taking a firm and final position,'' she declared. ''I will not support the repeal or change of term limits through any mechanism, and I will oppose aggressively any attempt by anyone to make any changes in the term limits law.''
The next 314 days turned an implacable opponent of tossing out the law into a primary architect of its dismantling.
It is an about-face that haunts her still. 
An angry public has viewed Ms. Quinn's decision to undo the law as a back-room deal -- a simple tit-for-tat that guaranteed Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg a third term in exchange for his blessing for her own eventual bid for City Hall.
But a close-in examination suggests that her reversal was an act more of self-preservation than of favor-trading, driven by intersecting motivations: avoiding the wrath of term-limited Council members who could undermine her speakership, distancing herself from an embarrassing scandal over City Council budgeting that had damaged her own mayoral prospects and, above all, protecting a political identity that hinged on a working partnership with the popular Mr. Bloomberg.
The year it unfolded, 2008, brought two political shocks that altered the course of both of their careers. Mr. Bloomberg, after flirting with a presidential candidacy as an independent, realized that the White House would never be his and turned his gaze back to New York City. Ms. Quinn, a Democrat who was the first woman to be Council speaker and who was just building a name beyond her West Village district, faced a federal inquiry into her office's oversight of millions of dollars in taxpayers' money.
Mr. Bloomberg's needs drove what happened next. After the mayor decided he wanted another four years in City Hall, his aides expected Ms. Quinn to get it done, treating her almost as an afterthought. They assured Mr. Bloomberg, aides said in interviews, that she would abandon her own plan to run for mayor in 2009 and push through legislation allowing elected officials to serve 12 consecutive years, instead of 8.
When the mayor first spoke with Ms. Quinn about his designs on a third term, during a phone call in the fall of 2008, it was to tell her of his decision to rewrite the law, not to seek her approval beforehand, she said in an interview last week.
Ms. Quinn did not object. Asked about her reply to the mayor, she said, ''I didn't have much of one.''
In the interview, Ms. Quinn acknowledged how pivotal Mr. Bloomberg was in her deliberations, saying she would not have reversed course on the divisive issue if Mr. Bloomberg had not proposed changing the law.
But Ms. Quinn said her decision was consistent with her longstanding personal opposition to term limits and her belief that in the midst of the 2008 economic crisis, voters should have the chance to keep their elected leaders in place.
''We were in the worst economic recession since the Great Depression and nobody had any sense of how quickly or how long we would stay in the throes of that,'' Ms. Quinn said.
A detailed picture of how Ms. Quinn grappled with term limits emerged from dozens of interviews with her, lawmakers, political strategists and city officials who were involved with the decision or have spoken about it with those who were. Many of them discussed the episode on the condition of anonymity to describe conversations that were intended to be confidential.
Lingering Fury
Term limits remains a stubborn issue for Ms. Quinn: as she trails Public Advocate Bill de Blasio in a Democratic mayoral primary that she once dominated, her handling of it five years ago is her biggest political liability.
When she formally rolled out her candidacy in March with a day of neighborhood tours, a man walked up to Ms. Quinn in Queens and loudly asked ''Why did you push Bloomberg for a third term?''
The New York Times/Siena College Poll conducted in late August found that two-thirds of likely Democratic voters viewed the overturning of term limits as a bad idea -- and of those, 54 percent said they had an unfavorable opinion of Ms. Quinn.
Anticipating the fury, Ms. Quinn's political team has armed hundreds of volunteers with a carefully worded script to explain her change of heart (''one which the NY Times, Daily News, Mario Cuomo and others also agreed with,'' it reads) and quietly conducted a poll to test the lingering potency of the subject.
''Some people express that it's a decision I made that they really disagree with,'' Ms. Quinn said in an interview. ''Some people express that it's a decision I made that they really disagree with and then they cannot vote for me.'' Some voters, she added, with a hint of relief, ''don't raise it all.''
The continuing blowback is a bitter turn for Ms. Quinn, who thought she had long ago put the issue behind her. In 2005, she and Mr. de Blasio both ran for speaker promising Council members that they would end the two-term limit, which threatened to eject dozens of the members from office. Once elected speaker, though, Ms. Quinn ran into fierce opposition from Mr. Bloomberg, who called the prospect of nullifying the will of city voters ''disgraceful'' and promised a veto. After determining that the Council would be unable to override his veto, she abandoned the idea, issuing her 2007 statement.
Then the mayor, reeling from a fizzled White House flirtation and itching to stay in government, changed his mind.
The timing, with the citywide elections barely one year away, was abysmal for Ms. Quinn -- who as the powerful Council speaker, with viselike control over all legislation, loomed as the only person standing between the mayor and a third term.
The city's unforgiving tabloids were feasting on revelations that the Council had stashed money in appropriations for fictitious groups. It was a practice that predated Ms. Quinn, and she soon ended it, but federal investigators were swarming and Ms. Quinn's attempts at damage control were badly backfiring, alienating Council members who whispered about overthrowing her as speaker.
In May 2008, polling showed that negative perceptions of Ms. Quinn, at the time an all-but-declared candidate to succeed Mr. Bloomberg as mayor, had doubled.
The scandal was ''probably at the essence of her decision,'' saidMelissa Mark-Viverito, a Council member from Upper Manhattan, echoing the sentiment of several other Council members. (Ms. Mark-Viverito was interviewed before she endorsed Mr. de Blasio for mayor.)
Ms. Quinn confided to a few friends that she saw an upside to putting off her mayoral run and spending another four years at the helm of the Council, a prominent post that played to her strengths as a can-do tactician.
''It's not the worst thing in the world,'' she told one of these people, a longtime adviser, who summed up Ms. Quinn's state of mind: ''Her run for mayor had dissipated. Her desire had dissipated. She was falling back in the polls.''
Aides to Mr. Bloomberg had reached the same conclusion. The ''slush fund'' scandal, they said in interviews, eliminated any doubt about Ms. Quinn's willingness to comply with the mayor's wishes for a third term. To their mind, another term would be a political gift to the speaker as well as the mayor.
Ms. Quinn, always reluctant to publicly cross the mayor, has told those close to her that she worried what might happen if she defied him on such a potent issue. The mayor's people, a Democratic official recalled Ms. Quinn later explaining, ''were prepared to ruin her political career.''
As she weighed how to proceed, a crucial intermediary joined those aides urging her to back the mayor's plan: Josh Isay, a longtime political adviser to both Ms. Quinn and Mr. Bloomberg, whose firm would go on to make millions of dollars for work on the mayor's free-spending 2009 campaign. Today, Mr. Isay is the chief strategist for Ms. Quinn's own mayoral bid.
Ms. Quinn, in the interview, said the slush fund scandal ''was not a critical issue for me'' in her decision, and she denied having expressed fear of what Mr. Bloomberg might do to her. ''I was not concerned about the repercussions with the mayor,'' she said. Pressed on how he would have reacted had she rebuffed him on term limits, Ms. Quinn said, ''I assume the mayor would be disappointed.''
For weeks, into the fall of 2008, Ms. Quinn publicly refused to say what she would do, until she announced her support on Oct. 12, 2008, for letting herself and her colleagues seek another term. At a news conference, she told reporters: ''If voters are not happy with any of us, they have the right to vote us out of office next November.''
'Carrot-and-Stick'
With Ms. Quinn's mind made up, she and Mr. Bloomberg unleashed their fierce and coordinated lobbying campaign to cajole wavering Council members to back the term limits measure. A few weeks before the Council voted on the issue, Ms. Quinn sought to persuade Councilman Vincent J. Gentile of Brooklyn, a Democrat, over coffee at a Manhattan diner. During the conversation, the speaker reminded him that she would soon select chairmen for legislative committees, coveted assignments in the Council, according to people with knowledge of the meeting.
''Decisions have to be made,'' she told Mr. Gentile, one of the people said.
After Mr. Gentile voted against overturning term limits, Ms. Quinn denied him prestigious chairmanships, leaving him with a lesser post overseeing libraries. ''It was carrot-and-stick at epic proportions,'' said Councilman James S. Oddo, Republican of Staten Island, who opposed the change in term limits.
Ms. Quinn confirmed that she had lobbied Mr. Gentile at the diner, but said she could not recall mentioning committee chairmanships.
As they lobbied Mathieu Eugene, a Brooklyn Democrat who is the first Council member born in Haiti, Ms. Quinn's staff discussed the possibility that Mr. Bloomberg would accompany him on a trip to Haiti to deliver aid to the impoverished country, according to two people that Mr. Eugene told of the conversations. Mr. Eugene voted no; neither he nor the mayor went to Haiti. In an interview, Mr. Eugene, who, like Mr. Gentile, is backing Mr. de Blasio for mayor, declined to comment on the conversations.
Ms. Quinn said, ''I believe my office made it clear if there was a trip to Haiti, Dr. Eugene should go on it.'' But she also said, ''I don't think there was any connection, nor would it have been appropriate if there was any connection, with that to term limits.''
Aides to Ms. Quinn denied having used committee assignments to reward or punish, pointing to many cases where the speaker gave prominent chairmanships to opponents of the change.
The process was unvarnished and ugly at times, council members said, but it worked, showcasing Ms. Quinn's mastery of the legislative machinery. Despite daunting public polls and deep divisions within the Council, the term limits change passed, 29 to 22, on Oct. 23, 2008.
From the moment she walked off the Council floor that day, Ms. Quinn said, she recognized that the outcome would take a toll. ''I knew this was an issue that voters cared about and would continue to care about,'' she said.
And she can barely contain her frustration at what she sees as the hypocrisy of Mr. de Blasio, who campaigned for speaker on a pledge to end the two-term limit, but then reversed himself, voting against the change.
She expressed no regrets over her role, however. ''I stand by the decisions I make,'' she said.
''If you are going to be mayor of the city of New York, you are going to make decisions that are unpopular sometimes,'' Ms. Quinn said. ''That's a reality.''
In the Running: Articles in this series are examining the lives and careers of the major candidates for mayor of New York.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker, addressing her colleagues on Oct. 23, 2008, before they voted on changing term limits. The measure passed, 29 to 22. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Ms. Quinn in March 2008. Both were to leave office in 2009. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERM LIMITS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (84%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2013



48 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: Verizon Nears Deal to Buy Out Vodafone's Stake in Wireless Unit

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED and MARK SCOTT; Mary Williams Walsh contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Updated, 9:35 p.m. | Verizon Communications neared a long-anticipated deal on Sunday to buy the 45 percent stake in its wireless business held by Vodafone of Britain for about $130 billion, heralding a continued sweeping realignment within the global telecommunications landscape.
Though a deal may have little effect on Verizon Wireless's nearly 100 million subscribers at first, it would ripple through the telecommunications industry and Wall Street, with both having closely watched the back-and-forth of the negotiations for months.
The companies were expected to announce the deal on Monday, barring last-minute hiccups, according to people briefed on the matter.
A sale would be the third-biggest takeover in corporate history and would give Vodafone a sudden windfall that might lead the British phone company to further acquisitions of its own. It would also furnish the banks working for both sides with a bonanza of fees. 
Under the expected terms of the transaction, Verizon is to pay both cash and stock. Vodafone's board was scheduled to meet on Sunday to vote on the deal, with Verizon's directors meeting sometime afterward.
Vodafone confirmed in a statement on Sunday afternoon that it was in ''advanced discussions'' with Verizon over the sale of its stake in Verizon Wireless, but declined to provide further detail. Verizon declined to comment.
Verizon would gain full control of perhaps its most important business and a vital beachhead in the growing fight over mobile broadband connections. Verizon Wireless is America's biggest cellphone service operator, claiming 98.9 million subscribers to AT&T's roughly 77.9 million.
The work of connecting smartphones, tablets and other devices yields big bucks. Last year, Verizon Wireless reported $21.8 billion in operating income and $75.9 billion in operating revenue.
For Verizon, an acquisition would finally realize a dream of unwinding a partnership that stretches back 14 years. Verizon Wireless was born of the combination of Vodafone's nascent American cellphone operations with those of Bell Atlantic, a Verizon predecessor, in 1999.
Since then, Verizon Wireless has grown tremendously, spearheading a long stretch of consolidation within the telecommunications industry alongside AT&T, refocusing the American phone market around the two biggest survivors of the breakup of Ma Bell nearly 30 years ago.
Both sides in the joint venture have held discussions for years about unwinding it. Those discussions had frequently fallen apart over issues like price and the potentially big tax hit that Vodafone would take if it sold its stake.
In recent months, however, Verizon and Vodafone rekindled their negotiations, having come to terms over major sticking points while moving ahead of the specter of rising interest rates in the United States. A sale now is not expected to generate a big tax bill for the British company, for example.
Buying out Vodafone's stake would involve breathtaking amounts of financing, including over $60 billion worth of bonds and loans arranged by an army of banks. Verizon's chief executive, Lowell C. McAdam, has said publicly that his company can afford a big deal.
And deal makers are confident that the markets can absorb a surge of new issuance of corporate debt. American corporations issued about $1.4 trillion of new debt last year, according to the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association. Companies issued new debt at an average rate of about $113 billion a month last year.
Verizon is expected to hold onto its current investment-grade credit rating.
Helping to arrange the debt package are JPMorgan Chase, Morgan Stanley, Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Barclays, the people briefed on the matter said. Verizon's advisers also include Guggenheim Partners and Paul J. Taubman, a former high-powered deal maker at Morgan Stanley, while Vodafone has been working with UBS and Goldman Sachs.
The deal would give Vodafone two of the biggest deals on record: its $202.8 billion takeover of the German cellphone operator Mannesmann in 2000, and the $181.6 billion merger of AOL and Time Warner in 2001, are the top two corporate deals, according to Thomson Reuters.
For Vodafone, the sale would provide a much-needed injection of cash to help rejuvenate its European business. Despite holding a strong presence in many European markets, including Germany and Britain, the telecommunications giant has suffered from sagging sales and increased competition from international rivals -- including Carlos Slim Helú's América Móvil -- which are expanding across the Continent.
Among Vodafone's highest priorities is returning cash to its long-suffering shareholders, most likely in the form of share buybacks. The British company's share price has slumped around 40 percent since the creation of Verizon Wireless, and investors are eager to see a cut of the proceeds, especially since a sale would eliminate billions of dollars in dividends that the joint venture pays out every year.
In the longer term, an influx of cash could maintain the recent spate of mergers and acquisitions in the European telecommunications sector. As consumers increasingly use cellphones and tablets to stream high-speed Internet, local carriers have been eager to bolt on extra services like cable and fixed-line operations through deals to offer customers so-called bundled telecom packages.
Vodafone already has expanded its presence in Germany after agreeing to buy the domestic cable operator Kabel Deutschland this year for $10.1 billion. Potential targets may include John C. Malone's Liberty Global, which is scooping up assets across Europe.
International players, including Liberty Global and América Móvil, also have taken advantage of the depressed share prices of European companies to secure footholds. América Móvil, for instance, has offered $9.5 billion for the Dutch carrier KPN, while Liberty earlier this year acquired the British cable company Virgin Media. AT&T also has expressed interest in potential European acquisitions.
Analysts said a number of smaller cellphone operators, particularly in economically depressed markets like Spain and Italy, could become acquisition targets for the likes of a cash-rich Vodafone. The British carrier may also look to expand its cable offerings, yet it may face competition from European and foreign rivals, which also are looking to increase their market shares.
''A move for Liberty would offer Vodafone a decent footprint in cable to overlap with its mobile assets,'' said Paul Marsch, a telecommunications analyst at Berenberg Bank in London. ''It also could look at companies like Fastweb in Italy.''
European antitrust officials would most likely give quick approval to any prospective deals, despite a track record of blocking cross-border deals in telecommunications, according to a number of analysts. European Union officials are eager to create a single market for cellphone, broadband and other services, and are increasingly supportive of deals that would consolidate the industry around a number of large incumbents like Telefónica of Spain and Deutsche Telekom of Germany.
''The E.U. is getting more relaxed about approving deals,'' said Gyanee Dewnarain, a research director at the analyst firm Gartner in London. ''If Vodafone sells its stake in Verizon Wireless, it would have the cash to go out and do something big.''
Mary Williams Walsh contributed reporting.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lowell McAdam, Verizon's chief executive, has said his company can afford a big deal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
 A Vodafone store in London. Money from Verizon would allow the British company to return cash to its shareholders. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FACUNDO ARRIZABALAGA/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); DIVESTITURES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); SMARTPHONES (78%); JOINT VENTURES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); BROADBAND (73%); WIRELESS BROADBAND (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); COMPANY REVENUES (68%); TAX LAW (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: VERIZON WIRELESS INC (96%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); VODAFONE GROUP PLC (92%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); VOD (NASDAQ) (92%); VOD (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (96%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%)

PERSON: LOWELL MCADAM (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2013



49 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Not Really Labor's Day

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: Workers have little to celebrate this Labor Day, as wages stagnate and productivity gains are captured by investors, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Nancy Folbre is professor emerita of economics at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. 
The annual holiday supposedly celebrating labor has long lacked much celebratory feel. Over the last 30 years, employment has become more precarious and real wages for most workers have stagnated. Since 2008, in particular, the corrosive impact of persistent unemployment and declining wages on American workers has been felt at holiday picnics and parades.
The seasonally adjusted July unemployment rate of 7.4 percent showed a slight decline from last year's 8.2 percent, but the gains came largely as a result of declining labor force participation rather than job creation. 
The larger measure of underemployment (known as U-6) that includes people working part time because they cannot find full-time work, and those who want a job and have looked for one in the last 12 months but have given up currently looking, was a seasonally adjusted 14 percent in July, compared with 14.9 percent a year earlier. 
Public policies could help. As Jared Bernstein explained in an earlier Economix post, the federal government could become an employer of last resort. A new report from the Urban Institute outlines several specific strategies to lower long-term unemployment in particular. 
Why is there so little political will to put such policies in place?

Republicans in the House of Representatives continue to staunchly oppose public efforts to reduce unemployment, repeating their assertion that government policies themselves are the primary cause of the problem. Earlier this summer 30 of them even co-sponsored a bill that would strike the goal of encouraging "maximum employment" from the mission of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve.
It may not seem like a winning strategy for a party that hopes to gain the votes of the white working-class voters who have registered increased dissatisfaction with the Obama administration. Less-educated workers have been particularly hard hit by persistently high unemployment and declining wages. The hands-off approach should also concern many businesses hurt by the slow growth of consumer demand, a direct result of unemployment and wage stagnation. 
But Republicans seem to have immunized themselves against political pressure to reduce unemployment in a variety of ways. They have used concern about a rise in government debt largely caused by conservative economic policies as a bludgeon to pursue their longstanding goal of drastically reducing government social spending. They have perfected a partisan strategy of political stalemate to create a self-fulfilling prophecy of legislative dysfunction. They have deployed a divide-and-conquer strategy aimed at portraying both unionized and public sector workers as enemies of all other wage earners. They have blamed the unemployed for their own joblessness. 
They may also have benefited from an unemployment rate high enough to cause tremendous, concentrated pain but not quite high enough to anger a significant share of the electorate. With increased economic vulnerability, voters become anxious, frustrated and defensive, more worried that taxpayer money spent to help reduce unemployment will simply reduce their own disposable income. 
Most important, however, major campaign contributors for both Republicans and Democrats have benefited from a sharp increase in profits as a share of corporate income, which is partly a result of high unemployment rates.
In the classical terminology of Marx, a large reserve army of labor reduces both the individual and the collective bargaining power of workers, enabling capital to take a bigger piece of the economic pie. The Economic Policy Institute estimates that between 2007 and 2012, wages fell for the lowest 70 percent of all wage earners, despite productivity growth of 7.7 percent.
Those at the top of the income distribution have captured the gains of so-called economic recovery. In an article published in the latest Journal of Economic Perspectives, Josh Bivens and Lawrence Mishel assert persuasively that this shift reflects the successful "rent-seeking" or economic bargaining power of corporate executives and financial professionals. 
The lack of any fiscal stimulus aimed at lowering unemployment has contributed to this trend. Ironically, the Federal Reserve's policy of quantitative easing to stimulate the economy and lower unemployment - which some Republicans tried unsuccessfully to outlaw - has probably also benefited those at the top more than those at the bottom. Lower interest rates have driven up the price of stocks, but left those dependent on less risky sources of investment income (such as savings accounts and bonds) stranded with low returns. 
Today is officially Labor Day. But all the days in the year are now, unofficially, Capital Days. 

        
The Audacity of the Fight for Higher Wages
        
Snapshots of Upwardly Mobile Areas
        
Hidden Costs of the Minimum Wage
        
College Premium: Better Pay, Better Prospects
        
In New Wave of Walkouts, Fast-Food Strikers Gain Momentum

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (91%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); US LABOR DAY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); POLITICS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%) Labor and Jobs; Labor Day; Republican Party; United States Economy; Wages and Salaries; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2013



50 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: Women in Philosophy? Do the Math

BYLINE: SALLY HASLANGER


HIGHLIGHT: We don&#8217;t need harassment to keep women and minorities from succeeding in philosophy &#8212; alienation, bias and outright discrimination will do the job. 

 BODY:
 Since the resignation of the well known philosopher Colin McGinn from his tenured post at the University of Miami, following sexual harassment allegations made against him by a graduate student, the longstanding debate about the obstacles faced by women in academic philosophy has been renewed. The Stone recently asked several women philosophers about their views on the status of women in philosophy, both inside and outside academia. Five of them will be published on consecutive days this week. This is the first. 
Many of us have had the experience of sitting on an airplane and being asked by the person in the next seat, "What do you do?" 
It is a moment of uncertainty: what to say? There are risks if you reply, "I'm a philosopher," for you may then have the neighbor expounding "their philosophy" at length, or recounting how awful their experience was when taking Philosophy 101. ("We read some crazy article about being kidnapped and hooked up to a famous violinist to keep him alive!") One time, a male friend of mine got the enthusiastic response, "Oh, you're a philosopher? Tell me some of your sayings!" However, when I've tried the "I'm a philosopher" reply, it has prompted laughter. Once when I queried why the laughter, the response was, "I think of philosophers as old men with beards, and you're definitely not that! You're too young and attractive to be a philosopher." I'm sure he intended this as a compliment. But I stopped giving the answer "I'm a philosopher."
Although most philosophers these days are not old men with beards, most professional philosophers are men; in fact, white men. It is a surprise to almost everyone that the percentage of women earning philosophy doctorates is less than in most of the physical sciences (see chart). As recently as 2010, philosophy had a lower percentage of women doctorates than math, chemistry and economics. Note, however, that of these fields, philosophy has made the most progress on this count in the past five years.

The percentage of women philosophers in the faculty ranks is much more difficult to determine. Although for decades the American Philosophical Association's Committee on the Status of Women lobbied the association to collect demographic data, it failed to do so. We have mostly relied on the efforts of individuals to do head counts. The best data we have suggests that in 2011, the tenured/tenure-track faculty in the 51 graduate programs ranked by the Leiter Report - the most widely used status ranking of anglophone philosophy departments - included only 21.9 percent women.
This is potentially quite misleading, however, for the Digest of Education Statistics reports that in 2003 (the most recent data compiled for philosophy), the percentage of women in full-time instructional post-secondary positions was a mere 16.6 percent of the total 13,000 philosophers, a year when 27.1 percent of the doctorates went to women. Soon we will know more, however, for the A.P.A. has thankfully started to collect demographic data.
The numbers of philosophers of color, especially women of color, is even more appalling. The 2003 number quoted above of 16.6 percent full-time women philosophy instructors includes zero women of color. Apparently there was insufficient data for any racial group of women other than white women to report. The A.P.A. Committee on the Status of Black Philosophers and the Society of Young Black Philosophers reports that currently in the United States there are 156 blacks in philosophy, including doctoral students and philosophy Ph.D.'s in academic positions; this includes a total of 55 black women, 31 of whom hold tenured or tenure-track positions. Assuming that there are still 13,000 full-time philosophy instructors in the United States, the representation of scholars of color is plausibly worse than in any other field in the academy, including not only physics, but also engineering. Inexcusable.
With these numbers, you don't need sexual harassment or racial harassment to prevent women and minorities from succeeding, for alienation, loneliness, implicit bias, stereotype threat, microaggression, and outright discrimination will do the job. But in a world of such small numbers, harassment and bullying is easy. 
"Bad actors" are a problem, but the deeper problem is the context that gives "bad actors" power. Change needs to happen on multiple fronts for us to make progress. Philosophy lacks the infrastructure that other disciplines have to bring about systematic change. We don't have the funding or the clout of anything like the National Science Foundation. 
We do have a small community of feminist and antiracist activists and some important recent changes in the governance of the A.P.A. - like the appointment a new executive director, Amy Ferrer, who not only has a strong background in non-profit administration, but also a degree in women's studies. The McGinn case is a tipping-point, not because it has taken down someone with great power and influence, but because his case and the response to it demonstrates that the persistent activism of the past 20 years is becoming institutionalized. We are the winning side now. We will not relent; so it is only a matter of time.
A more thorough collection of data on women in philosophy is available from The American Philosophical Association's Committee on the Status of Women. 
 This week: posts on women in philosophy by Linda Alcoff, Louise Antony, Rae Langton and Peg O'Connor.

 Sally Haslanger is a professor of philosophy and the former director of women's and gender studies at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and the president of the Eastern Division of the American Philosophical Association. She was awarded the Distinguished Woman Philosopher of the year in 2010 by the Society of Women in Philosophy. A collection of her papers, "Resisting the Real: Social Construction and Social Critique" was published by Oxford University Press in 2012. 

        
What's Wrong With Philosophy?
        
Walking While Black in the 'White Gaze'
        
A Great Day for Philosophy
        
Why Do I Teach?
        
The Enlightenment's 'Race' Problem, and Ours

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SEXUAL HARASSMENT (91%); WOMEN (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); PHILOSOPHY (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); ACADEMIC TENURE (89%); MEN (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); STATISTICS (67%) Colleges and Universities; Discrimination; Philosophy; sexual harassment; women in philosophy; Sexual Harassment; The Stone

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013



51 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: The Ad Campaign: De Blasio's Message of 2 Cities, Again

BYLINE: MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: Bill de Blasio&#8217;s latest 30-second commercial, &#8220;Change This City,&#8221; ties Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to Park Avenue, Wall Street and other signifiers of elitism. 

 BODY:

Judging by a recent surge in the polls, Bill de Blasio has profited handsomely from his long-cultivated stance as the "anti-Bloomberg" outsider candidate in the Democratic mayoral primary. Now he is doubling down on his "tale of two cities" rhetoric in a new 30-second commercial, "Change This City," which ties Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to potent signifiers of elitism like Park Avenue and Wall Street.
PRODUCER AKPD Message and Media, John Del Cecato 
THE SCRIPT Bill de Blasio: "If you live on Park Avenue, you got everything you need. Nannies and housekeepers. Wall Street has hit record highs. Bloomberg's taken care of Wall Street, not middle-class people, working-class people, poor people. It is undermining the future of this city." Voice-over: "Bill de Blasio will do what the others won't. Tax the wealthy to fund pre-K and after-school. Protect our hospitals. Instead of luxury condos, require affordable housing." Mr. de Blasio: "We believe in everyone having a shot. We have to change this city."
ON SCREEN Mr. de Blasio, sleeves rolled up, is delivering a talk in a diner, but the camera focuses mostly on his audience: a notably diverse group of New Yorkers who stare up at the candidate with grave, thoughtful faces. There are some approving nods.
Cut to images of Mr. de Blasio on the trail, including a photograph of him with his interracial family. The ad ends back at the diner, where the audience can be heard applauding as a new tag line appears: "The Progressive Choice for Mayor."
ACCURACY It is true that Mr. Bloomberg, a former bond trader, has championed the financial industry's contributions to the city's tax base, and Wall Street wages skyrocketed during his tenure, although the mayor had little to do with that. (Residents of Park Avenue, for their part, have employed nannies and housekeepers since long before Mr. Bloomberg took office.) As mayor, Mr. Bloomberg opposed legislation to mandate higher wages and paid sick leave for certain working-class employees. But he also created and helped finance social programs to assist young black and Latino men, and unemployment rates have dropped in some of the city's poorest neighborhoods.
Mr. de Blasio has made a tax increase a centerpiece of his campaign, proposing a surcharge on those earning $500,000 or more. Two of Mr. de Blasio's rivals, Christine C. Quinn and William C. Thompson Jr., have said they would not rule out tax increases, although they call them a last resort. Ms. Quinn and Mr. Thompson say they want to expand prekindergarten programs but without a tax increase. John C. Liu, another Democratic candidate, has supported raising taxes.
At a debate last month, the leading Democratic candidates all took pains to say they were in favor of protecting hospitals. Mr. de Blasio has been more outspoken on the issue, suing to keep open the financially troubled Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn and being arrested at a protest.
All the leading Democratic candidates have laid out detailed plans to expand affordable housing, even if the specifics of their policy prescriptions differ. Mr. de Blasio has zeroed in on requirements for some developers to include affordable units in new buildings; his rivals are focused on more aggressive incentive programs.
SCORECARD Mr. de Blasio was sharply criticized over a questionable claim in his previous ad that he was the "only" candidate who would reform the city's policing tactics. In this new ad, he argues that he "will do what the others won't." While he is unique among the leading Democrats in actively calling for higher taxes on the wealthy, the differences on other issues can be somewhat hazy. The broader message, though, is that Mr. de Blasio will combat inequality - an idea that has served him well so far and that he clearly has no plans to abandon.

        
The Ad Campaign: Thompson Counterattacks
        
The Ad Campaign: De Blasio Speaks Against Stop-and-Frisk Tactics
        
The Ad Campaign: Son Says de Blasio Will Be a Mayor for All
        
The Ad Campaign: Speaking in Support of Weiner
        
The Ad Campaign: Quinn Highlights Endorsements

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX INCREASES (88%); TAX LAW (88%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (86%); WAGES & SALARIES (85%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (76%); BONDS (76%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (74%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (72%); CONDOMINIUMS (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (67%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (67%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (61%); SICK LEAVE (50%) de Blasio, Bill; Elections, Mayors; Political Advertising; NYC 2013

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) de Blasio, Bill

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2013



52 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; SPECIAL REPORT: VENICE FILM FESTIVAL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: Looking at Modern Campus Life, Minus the Keg Parties

BYLINE: By NICOLAS RAPOLD

 BODY:
It has taken Frederick Wiseman 45 years to get from high school to college. The master filmmaker's latest portrait of an institution, ''At Berkeley,'' centers on the University of California in Berkeley and joins an extraordinary résumé that stretches back to ''High School'' in 1968 and his controversial debut, ''Titicut Follies,'' in 1967. In between, Mr. Wiseman has established himself as one of America's greatest chroniclers in any medium.
''What I'm interested in is making movies about as many different subjects as I can, and as many different forms of human experience,'' Mr. Wiseman, indefatigable at 83, said in a phone conversation during his summer break in Maine. 
His output seems to have matched his ambition. ''At Berkeley,'' his 40th feature, will have its world premiere on Sept. 2 at the Venice Film Festival. It joins a cinematic panorama of subjects whose understated titles belie their depth: ''Basic Training,'' ''Welfare,'' ''Meat'' (meatpacking plants), ''The Store,'' ''Boxing Gym,'' ''Ballet,'' ''Deaf'' (special-needs school), ''Belfast, Maine.'' The richly observed films are sprawling and intimate, dense with the raw material of human endeavor and discourse, and free from the ready-made storylines and messaging of mainstream documentary, much less voiceover.
In ''At Berkeley,'' we witness the autumn 2010 semester at a university in crisis, yet thriving. Mr. Wiseman uses the institution's settings -- the meetings, classes and protests -- as stages to play out its multifaceted drama of people and ideas. A student's tears at a financial aid session turn the moment into a portrait of middle-class America on the ropes. Budget meetings show the struggle to maintain the values of public education, and create a profile of a leader in then-Chancellor Robert Birgeneau. A goal is scored in a field hockey game. Former Secretary of Labor Robert Reich in a lecture makes an example out of a valued former aide who was unafraid to criticize him. And -- this is Berkeley -- a reading room is occupied by the latest generation of student activists.
''I deliberately contacted Berkeley first,'' Mr. Wiseman said. ''For two reasons: It's public and it's a great university.''
Mr. Wiseman made his pitch in a letter to Mr. Birgenau, who promptly invited the filmmaker to visit. By the end of lunch together, the filmmaker had permission to shoot at will -- with the exception of tenure discussions -- and began production in the autumn of 2010. With the paid assistance of a former chief of staff for chancellors, John Cummins, Mr. Wiseman picked his way through the campus, amassing 250 hours of footage over 12 weeks of shooting.
While his recent films, ''Boxing Gym'' and ''Crazy Horse,'' are essentially confined to single-building locales, Mr. Wiseman and John Davey, his longtime cameraman, traversed a campus of 1,232-acres, or about 500 hectares, for ''At Berkeley.'' Its students, faculty, staff and local residents number in the tens of thousands, ''with all the problems of a small city,'' Mr. Wiseman said. Like any good navigator of gatekeepers, the filmmaker cultivated his sources.
''Secretaries or administrative assistants are always very important people for this kind of a movie, because they know what's going on,'' he said.
What was going included budget wrangling after a steady decline in state financing for the university: from 54 percent of the budget in 1987, to 12 percent in 2012, according to The Daily Californian, the campus newspaper. Mr. Wiseman said that wasn't why he made the documentary, but Berkeley ends up serving as a bellwether for the broader predicament of public institutions under economic pressures and anti-government politicking. While Mr. Birgeneau has been criticized for his handling of the budget, ''At Berkeley'' depicts a delicate balancing act with an eye toward preserving scholarships and teaching standards.
Mr. Wiseman -- wry, sharp, and unfailingly precise about what his films do and do not do -- is typically reluctant to generalize. But he spoke freely on the threat faced by public universities, and especially the humanities.
''There's a political agenda behind that, which is to dumb people down. Because if you don't study the humanities and you don't have technical education, you're not going to know about all the questions connected with the Enlightenment or free speech or representative government,'' Mr. Wiseman said, adding, as if to temper his comments: ''Blah blah blah.''
Intellectual and civic engagement are prominent themes in Mr. Wiseman's films. The meetings and class discussions of ''At Berkeley'' are the marketplace of ideas in action, just as his 2007 film ''State Legislature'' shows the mundane workings of state government.
In his scenes and sequences in ''At Berkeley'' and other films, Mr. Wiseman seeks to do justice to both ''the literal and the abstract,'' resulting in a lengthy, analytical editing process. Take, for example, the odd, even comical recurring sight of battle-ready camouflaged Reserve Officers' Training Corps students doing drills and lobbing fake grenades on campus. It's at once a reminder of the existence of these programs, of their financial value to campus coffers, of the reach of war even into the groves of the academe.
The classes on display, with their ceaseless talk of complex ideas, bring out one of the film's underlying themes.
''There's a question of how do you conceptualize with words, and how do you conceptualize with images,'' Mr. Wiseman said. The filmmaker said he struggled over whether to include one lecture about dark energy, which he could not make heads or tails of. (The lecturer: Nobel Prize winner Saul Perlmutter.) Ultimately, he saw a value in the experience of disorientation, recalling how he, in ''Deaf,'' did not subtitle sign language.
As expansive as Mr. Wiseman's film is, the average observer might still reasonably ask: where's the beer? That is to say, what about student life? We see students walking, lounging, playing field hockey, acting on stage, studying, discussing race, but dormitory life is not in evidence.
''One of the reasons I called the movie 'At Berkeley' as opposed to 'Berkeley' was to suggest that these were all events that took place at Berkeley but there was no suggestion that this was 'all' of Berkeley,'' Mr. Wiseman said. His wittiest take on the social scene comes within the film: a student musical number about Facebook.
Mr. Wiseman made a point, however, to highlight the campus's diversity. Its composition forecasts the future of the country at large, when whites will be a minority and he noted its makeup is far different from his own experience at Williams College, where he graduated in 1947.
''Williams, when I went there, was academically superb and wildly anti-Semitic,'' Mr. Wiseman recalls. ''As it turned out, the Jews and the Christian rejects were the most interesting people on campus. Nevertheless, when you're sent as a 17-year-old leaving home for the first time, it's hard to deal with.''
Mr. Wiseman spotlights what could be a mission statement for his larger project, in one student's stage performance of a monologue from ''Our Town'' about a time capsule. Even the ancient metropolis of Babylon, the young thespian recounts, left little to no record of day-to-day life.
Mr. Wiseman's next film is about the National Gallery in London, which he interrupted the production of ''At Berkeley'' to shoot, and it's still in the editing stage.''At Berkeley'' is tentatively to be released on Nov. 8 in the United States.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A scene from ''At Berkeley,'' a new documentary by Frederick Wiseman that centers on the University of California, Berkeley, during the autumn 2010 semester. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADAM VON HAFFNER PAULSEN, COURTESY OF BERKELEY FILM)
 film is set to open on Nov. 8. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ZIPPORAH FILMS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (75%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); BUDGETS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (68%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (68%); FESTIVALS (67%); FIELD HOCKEY (65%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013



53 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: The Fix for Europe: People Power

BYLINE: By DANIEL COHN-BENDIT and FELIX MARQUARDT. 
Daniel Cohn-Bendit, a German Green Party member of the European Parliament, and Felix Marquardt, who runs a public relations company, are co-founders of Europeans Now.

 BODY:
IN next year's European elections, we must unmask our national politicians' best-kept secret: that what they see as the be-all and end-all of modern governance, the nation-state, is fast becoming an obsolete political structure.
In Europe, a new generation is coming of age with lower living standards than their parents'. They are faced with a choice: accelerated integration or prolonged drift into irrelevance. 
And yet the most ambitious plan to confront this perilous predicament is to make voting in European elections take place the same day throughout the European Union, and for the president of the European Commission to be popularly elected. That's nothing like the Big Bang Europe needs.
The time is ripe for a transnational, transgenerational, transpartisan, grass-roots and crowd-funded movement to take European integration to the next level. And before forming a party, we should look to Europe's success stories to determine what our platform might be.
Let the Finns teach us about education; the French about health care; the Germans about flexible employment; the Swedes about gender equality.
At the moment, European countries continue to take comfort in their Old World status symbols. We boast rich histories and beautiful monuments and draw the world's tourists, who admire our culture, fashion and gastronomy.
But Old World status symbols and tourists won't save Europe. They might save Paris, Berlin, Rome and London, just as they will save the Loire Valley, Bavaria, Tuscany and Oxfordshire. However, outside the museum-filled capitals and historic countrysides, the rest of Europe is plagued by chronic unemployment, dismal growth and rapidly aging populations.
It is not that our elected leaders are malevolent or incapable of facing this challenge. They simply aren't wired to understand the central reality of politics today. It's naïve to expect traditional politicians elected for four- or five-year terms by citizens from within a sovereign territory to adequately address issues like resource scarcity, deforestation, chronic unemployment, global warming and fishery depletion that are intrinsically global, and whose resolution will take decades.
Today's solutions need to be transnational, or they won't be real solutions at all.
By all means let's continue rooting for our national soccer teams. But let's not continue to be fooled by our leaders' self-aggrandizing delusion that in terms of policy making, the nation-state is still the appropriate vehicle for our times.
Instead, we must fully embrace what many of us already sense -- that we stand at the dawn of a new, postnational era in which Europeans can go from being laggards to leaders.
If we don't, Europe risks becoming its stereotype of America: a place with the best hospitals, and millions of people without proper health insurance; with some of the world's most advanced technology, and many with no access to it; with world-class universities, but generations held back by parochial worldviews.
We are, oddly, the last ones who still doubt our own political project. We complain that Europe is just an abstraction for its citizens, yet we haven't yet passed the laws to create a European passport worthy of that name, or the framework to enable every European to truly embrace the European Union project.
There is an old Jewish saying, ''If you have only two alternatives, then choose the third.'' The point is not to replace Europe's gerontocracies with a dictatorship of the young. This movement must be carried by all those who, regardless of their age, agree that we must shift power more toward youth to successfully reduce the debt we are saddling future generations with.
Younger Europeans have been born into austerity and have grown up as budget cutters and digital natives. Unlike our leaders today, they are well adapted to an increasingly rapid pace of change, and their instinct is to use the most innovative and cost-effective methods to achieve their goals.
In Europe, politics has become too much about how each nation would like the world to be, and too little about what produces tangible results. Rather than bickering over whose policies are preferable, we need a Pan-European effort to determine Europe's best practices in every field and adopt them across the Continent. What does each country do best? What successful models are scalable? How can we leverage the combined experience, resources and tested solutions of all the European nations?
Europe will not be changed by the elections of 2014. It will change only when European-minded politicians who are elected to national offices agree to transfer power to truly European institutions.
We need to let our politicians know that we no longer buy their nationalist bluff, that we don't share their fear of sliding into irrelevance if we give the European Commission and the European Parliament the authority they deserve.
Either we harness the power and the rich resources of the entire European network or let the pace of globalization leave us behind.
And the first step is to start voting not as French, German or Greek citizens -- but as European ones.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); GLOBAL WARMING (61%); DEFORESTATION (61%); CROWDSOURCING (54%); GENDER EQUALITY (52%); AGING (50%); SOCCER (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%) CENTRE-VAL DE LOIRE, FRANCE (79%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); FINLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013



54 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: With Change Coming, Aetna Targets Employers

BYLINE: By TANZINA VEGA

 BODY:
AS the country marches toward a new health insurance system, insurance companies have spent millions on consumer advertising to position themselves as health care companies.
But because a majority of Americans are insured through their employers, the insurance companies have to reach several audiences. Speaking to human resources professionals, health care providers and policy makers is still an important part of many insurance companies' marketing plans.
Aetna, one of the largest of the companies, will introduce a new campaign on Tuesday aimed at those groups. It will highlight the company's goal of cutting billions of dollars of expenditures through so-called Big Data, electronic health records and other technologies as well as encouraging better coordination among health care providers. The campaign, called ''Our Healthy,'' will run online, in print and on mobile devices through the end of 2013. 
''We believe that the health care system is desperately in need of improvement,'' said Robert Mead, the senior vice president of marketing, product and communications at Aetna. Mr. Mead cited a report by the Institute of Medicine that tallied more than $760 billion in health care ''waste'' created annually as a result of consumer fraud, unnecessary procedures and excessive administrative costs.
The campaign was created by OgilvyOne in New York and is an extension of a consumer campaign called ''What's Your Healthy?'' that Aetna began earlier this year. Both ''What's Your Healthy?'' and ''Our Healthy'' are part of a $50 million advertising and marketing strategy for the company.
''If you're a consumer, you don't know what things cost,'' Mr. Mead said. ''You don't know what things are worth. You don't always know how to get the most value out of the health system. We have to bring everybody to the table.''
Mr. Mead said the campaign also stressed the need for health care providers to shift to a model known as ''accountable care,'' which shifts their reimbursement models for health care professionals from being paid for the volume of services they perform to being paid based on the outcomes of patient care. Accountable care systems are usually linked to technologies that help health care providers measure performance and manage patient data. Aetna has 27 accountable health care agreements with hospitals and other health care providers around the country.
A video for the ''Our Healthy'' campaign features Mark T. Bertolini, the chief executive of Aetna, explaining the company's goals. ''Unless you fix that health care system, you cannot fix the economy,'' Mr. Bertolini said in the video. ''If we fix just 20 percent of it, we could pay for the Affordable Care Act. We could insure everyone without increasing taxes.''
Like other insurance companies, Aetna has over the last few years been ramping up its technical products and services. It created Healthagen, a division of the company that sells health technology services to consumers and providers, like a mobile application that helps patients assess their symptoms and find doctors.
''The fee-for-service model is broken,'' Mr. Mead said. ''The Affordable Care Act encourages the system to move to accountable care,'' he added. ''The challenge with that is that doctors and hospitals need technology and support to make that work.''
But more technology and more data may not solve the problem of waste in health care, said Robert S. Huckman, a professor of business administration at Harvard Business School and the faculty co-chairman of the Harvard Business School Healthcare Initiative. ''When you're talking about having to manage waste in the system, most would agree that a lack of coordination rests at the heart of a lot of it,'' he said. ''Data without an educated way of querying that data is not helpful. It is a start.''
While insurance companies like Aetna have access to vast amounts of patient data that could be used to manage costs, according to Mr. Huckman, the economic impact of even widely adopted technologies like electronic health records is still unclear. ''Within providers and within a hospital, the electronic records have made greater inroads. But the question of moving toward greater coordination and greater interoperability is an issue we are still grappling with.''
The cost of health care, however, is something everyone can agree is too high, Mr. Huckman said: ''I think the cost issue is most salient right now for most Americans. It hits you front and center when you look at some of the prices.'' He noted how costs could vary widely depending on where a person lived and who their insurer was. ''It shouldn't vary that much,'' Mr. Huckman said. ''The cost of a product on Amazon is the same no matter where I buy it from. It does defy a little bit of explanation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Aetna's ''Our Healthy'' campaign will focus on cutting waste in health care spending through technological innovation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (91%); INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); MARKETING STRATEGY (78%); MEDICAL RECORDS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (74%); MARKETING PLAN (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (73%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); BIG DATA (70%)

COMPANY: AETNA INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE (55%)

TICKER: AET (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (92%)

PERSON: MARK BERTOLINI (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013



55 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; BASICS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: Mystery of the Missing Women

BYLINE: By NATALIE ANGIER

 BODY:
Peter Ostrander, the tireless coordinator and cheerleader for a renowned science and mathematics magnet program at Montgomery Blair High School in Silver Spring, Md., was not satisfied. Over the past few years, the pool of applicants had included nearly as many girls as boys, and the acceptance rate -- based largely on test scores and grades -- had followed suit.
Yet when it came to which of the invitees ended up choosing Blair's magnet option over other offerings in the area, the scales tilted male. In 2012, for example, 80 percent of the eligible boys said yes, but only 70 percent of the girls. In 2010, the figures had been 93 percent and 56 percent.
Convinced the program could do better at pitching its product to girls, Mr. Ostrander recruited teams of upper-class girls last spring to call their hesitant young counterparts. Extol the wonders of the program, he said. Dispel the tired geek myths. 
''The stereotype is out there that the magnet is filled with nerdy people,'' he said. ''Whatever that means.''
The upper-class students took to the phone banks with verve. (Full disclosure: my daughter was one of them.) They talked of fun, extracurriculars and sisterhood. They secured many yes votes and earned pizza and sandwiches -- but still, fewer qualified girls than boys are entering the magnet this fall.
As a result, the demanding, gratifying, even thrilling four-year immersion in physics, chemistry, biology, calculus, computer science, astronomy, entomology, the proper use of power tools -- and yes, the humanities and social sciences -- remains almost two-thirds male.
Montgomery Blair's experience is by no means unique. Even as girls prove their prowess in science and math, their ambivalence lingers when it comes to fields formerly painted boy blue.
As researchers see it, that reluctance, that slight and possibly subliminal case of unfounded quantipathy, must be confronted and understood if the wider inequities in science are to be rooted out for good. Ample evidence refutes the notion that female brains just can't rotate the object, leap the quantum, do the math. Worldwide, girls' average math scores are on a par with those of boys.
And even among math geniuses who score in the top ten thousandth of the population -- the rarefied precinct notoriously deemed a boys' club by the former Harvard president Lawrence Summers -- the male advantage has been shrinking steadily, to about 3 boys per girl today from 13 in the 1980s.
Joseph Price of Brigham Young University and his colleagues reported this year that the gender gap in high-stakes math competitions disappeared simply by adding more rounds to a contest. Boys did better than girls in single-shot events, the researchers said, but when put through multiple rematches the boys fumbled, allowing the girls to catch up and often surpass them.
Girls also excel in the classroom. Nationwide, their grade point average in high school math and science is 2.76 out of 4, compared with 2.56 for boys.
The message of equal aptitude has certainly infiltrated today's youth. In a recent presentation at a meeting of the American Psychological Association, Anthony Derriso of the University of Alabama reported his analysis of a vast 2009 study of more than 21,000 ninth graders nationwide.
Mr. Derriso, who is completing his doctoral dissertation in psychology, determined that students of both sexes rated boys and girls equally competent in science and math; expressed similar levels of confidence in their own math and science skills; and were equally likely to say they felt they were engaged in math and science and were supported by their teachers, parents and peers.
Yet aptitude is one thing, aspiration another. In answer to the question ''Are you likely to pursue a scientific career?'' some 2,300 students -- 11 percent of the total -- said yes. Among the ninth-grade yeasayers, 61 percent were male.
Mr. Derriso admits to bafflement. ''If boys and girls are equally interested in math and science and feel equally confident about their abilities,'' he wondered, ''why this humongous difference in intent? I don't have an answer for that.''
The division marches off to college. Connie Chow, the executive director of the nonprofit group Science Club for Girls, pointed out that 29 percent of male college students major in math or science, compared with only 15 percent of female ones. Boys who ace science embrace science, but female mathletes keep their skills at arm's length. Researchers have found that, among students with high scores on the math portion of the SAT, boys cited their desire to major in the physical sciences, engineering or computers, while the girls preferred fields like economics, political science or medicine. One reason for the disparity may be that girls with high math scores, unlike their male counterparts, also tend to have high verbal scores and so may feel their career options are wide open. But still, given the choice, why do so many girls walk away from science and math?
In this country, women now earn close to 60 percent of bachelor's degrees overall, but only 20 percent of the degrees in computer science, 20 percent of those in physics and 18 percent of those in engineering. Women constitute half the nation's work force but just a quarter of its scientific corps, and women with science degrees are less likely than their male counterparts to work in a scientific occupation. Instead, many end up in health care or education.
Those fields may be vital and heroic, but nobility comes at a price. Women in nonscience jobs earn just three-quarters the salary accorded those in higher-tech fields, and the paucity of female scientists helps explain the overall wage gap between women and men.
Advocates for women and minorities in science are not afraid to play the money card. Dr. Chow and her colleagues organize after-school science clubs for girls in low-income communities. The girls love it, expressing stronger interest in science than many privileged students. Yet for some of the girls, Dr. Chow said, ''knowing how much you can earn as, say, a marine engineer really makes a difference.''
In seeking to explain girls' persistent aversion to science, researchers argue that standard surveys won't reveal hidden impulses or negative thoughts. People may say they consider women the equals of men, but as Jo Handelsman and her colleagues at Yale University reported last year, simply substituting the name Jennifer for John lowered both men's and women's estimation of an aspiring scientist's résumé.
Small details can have serious consequences. Women do worse on standardized math tests when asked to indicate their sex. When they are told men and women do equally well on such tests, their performance improves. Students show greater gains when they are taught that the mind, like a muscle, gets stronger with work, as opposed to being told that talents are fixed and you're born either quick or slow.
''It's a uniquely Western phenomenon to say, 'I'm no good at math, that's O.K. and I can stop doing it,' '' Dr. Chow said. ''I grew up in Hong Kong, and no parent would say, 'You're right, just give up.' ''
Don't give up, budding scientist. One day you'll look in the mirror and proudly embrace the term nerd. Whatever that means.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SERGE BLOCH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAGNET SCHOOLS (90%); MATHEMATICS (89%); MISSING PERSONS (83%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); BIOLOGY (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); CALCULUS (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (77%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (73%); RANKINGS (71%); ENTOMOLOGY (64%)

COMPANY: BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8299 SCHOOLS & EDUCATIONAL SERVICES, NEC (51%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013



56 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: How a Cabal Keeps Generics Scarce

BYLINE: By MARGARET CLAPP, MICHAEL A. RIE and PHILLIP L. ZWEIG. 
Margaret Clapp is a former chief pharmacy officer at Massachusetts General Hospital. Michael A. Rie is associate professor of anesthesiology at the University of Kentucky College of Medicine and co-chairman of Physicians Against Drug Shortages, where Phillip L. Zweig is the executive director.

 BODY:
ABOUT a year ago, President Obama signed a law that was supposed to end chronic shortages of lifesaving drugs. But the critical lack of generic drugs continues unabated. It is a preventable crisis that is inflicting suffering on patients and, in some cases, causing needless deaths.
According to the American Society of Health-System Pharmacists, a group that maintains a closely watched drug-shortage database, 302 drugs were in short supply as of July 31, up from 211 about a year earlier. 
The new law, which among other things requires manufacturers to report anticipated shortages, is ineffective because it addresses symptoms, not the underlying economic cause. Policy makers apparently failed to ask the important question: How could this happen in a free-market economy? That would have steered them to the giant purchasing organizations that control the procurement of up to $300 billion in drugs, devices and supplies annually for some 5,000 health care facilities. These cartels have undermined the laws of supply and demand.
Most of the drugs in short supply are sterile injectables that have been cheap mainstays for decades. They're generally administered in hospitals and outpatient clinics and sold through hospital purchasing organization contracts, not through retail pharmacies or pharmacy benefit managers.
Scarce or unavailable drugs include anesthetics, chemotherapeutic agents, antibiotics, nutrients for malnourished infants, painkillers and even intravenous solutions. Physicians have been forced to improvise with less desirable or more expensive substitutes. One study reported in an issue of The New England Journal of Medicine last December found that children with Hodgkin's disease were at greater risk of relapse because the most effective generic, mechlorethamine, wasn't available. Propofol, the preferred anesthetic for many surgical procedures, is scarce because there's just one supplier of the generic in the United States in full production.
Improvisation has caused some patients to wake up during operations -- or not at all. A March 2012 survey by the American Society of Anesthesiologists, in which about 3,000 members responded (out of around 50,000), attributed six deaths, as well as other adverse outcomes, to shortages of drugs.
A deadly outbreak of fungal meningitis, which was first identified last September in Tennessee, was triggered by shortages of a steroid painkiller, prompting providers to turn to the now bankrupt New England Compounding Center, which, as a so-called compounding pharmacy, was not held by the Food and Drug Administration to the same stringent standards as regular drug manufacturers. The pharmacy's sister company, Ameridose, which has also been closed, had supply contracts with five of the largest American hospital purchasing organizations: MedAssets, Novation, Premier, HealthTrust and Amerinet. This tragedy had killed 63 and sickened 749, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
The Government Accountability Office is investigating the role of the group purchasing organizations in the shortages and the meningitis debacle. The agency's report is expected in 2014.
The F.D.A. has permitted temporary imports, which almost surely have created shortages in other countries. That's because there is finite global manufacturing capacity; production cannot be ramped up overnight. Hospitals are rationing medications, while their pharmacists spend untold hours scrambling to find them.
The economic root cause is simple: the purchasing organizations have squeezed manufacturers' operating margins to razor-thin levels. By awarding select suppliers exclusive contracts in return for exorbitant (and undisclosed) ''administrative,'' marketing and other fees, they have reduced the number of suppliers to just one or two for many generics. Further, they've crimped investment in maintenance and quality control, resulting in adverse F.D.A. inspections and plant closings.
This perverse system was created in 1987 when Congress enacted the Medicare anti-kickback ''safe harbor,'' which exempted these buying organizations from criminal prosecution for accepting vendor kickbacks. Spurred by a 2002 New York Times investigation into anticompetitive purchasing group practices, Congress held several hearings to determine whether greater federal regulation was needed. Antitrust lawsuits and more government investigations and exposés followed. A study in fall 2011 issue of the Journal of Contemporary Health Law and Policy found that group purchasing organization kickbacks inflated supply costs by at least $30 billion annually. But little has changed because of the enormous political clout of the industry's lobby, which includes the Healthcare Supply Chain Association and the American Hospital Association.
The Obama administration and Congress must protect patients by repealing the anti-kickback safe harbor and restoring free-market competition to the hospital purchasing industry.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAN STAFFORD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENERIC PRODUCTS (90%); GENERIC DRUGS (90%); DRUG SHORTAGES (90%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MENINGITIS (89%); MALNUTRITION (78%); PHARMACISTS (78%); CANCER (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ANTIBIOTICS (78%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (78%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); COMPOUNDING PHARMACIES (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS ASSOCIATIONS (77%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (77%); HEALTH CARE (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); ANESTHESIOLOGY (77%); HOSPITALS (77%); PHARMACIES (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (75%); CANCER DRUGS (73%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (73%); STEROIDS (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (72%); MEDICAL TREATMENTS & PROCEDURES (72%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (71%); CARTELS (69%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (68%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (62%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (51%); LYMPHOMA (50%)

COMPANY: AMERINET INC (50%); MEDASSETS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (54%)

TICKER: MDAS (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561499 ALL OTHER BUSINESS SUPPORT SERVICES (50%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (50%); NAICS423450 MEDICAL, DENTAL & HOSPITAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (50%); SIC5047 MEDICAL, DENTAL & HOSPITAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013



57 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1542 words

HEADLINE: Big Dreams, but Little Consensus, for a New Detroit

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- There are 78,000 abandoned buildings in this city standing in various levels of decay. Services have fallen into dysfunction, and debts are piling ever higher. Yet for all the misery, Detroit's bankruptcy gives an American city a rare chance to reshape itself from top to bottom.
But reinventing a city so devastated is hardly a sure thing, and the questions about how to proceed loom as large as the answers:
Should its areas of nearly vacant blocks be transformed into urban farms, parks and even ponds made from storm water? 
Could its old automobile manufacturing economy be shifted into one centering on technology, bioscience and international trade?
Should Detroit, which lost a million residents over the last 60 years, pin its sharpest hopes on luring more young people here, playing on an influx of artists and entrepreneurs?
Should the city take down its enormous ruins, like Michigan Central Station, that have devolved into bleak tourist attractions or restore some of these buildings and market them, perhaps as museums or tributes to a proud industrial past?
''Every once in a while you encounter a situation that gets so bad everybody has to put their weapons aside and say: 'You know what? It doesn't get any worse than this,' '' said Henry Cisneros, a former Housing and Urban Development secretary who recently worked on a housing project here that never came to fruition. ''It lets people start talking about things that we couldn't talk about before because we can't lose a great city.''
The chances of a true makeover have grown significantly since July, when an emergency manager assigned by the state to oversee the city's finances sought bankruptcy protection. The city is expected to emerge from the courts a year from now no longer juggling the $18 billion in debt that had sidetracked it and, according to the emergency manager, more capably providing essential services that make a city livable, like stopping crime and putting out fires. All of that, planners said, should make a larger transformation, outside the court system, conceivable.
Some have long been searching for solutions to the hollowing out of Detroit, a city that measures six times the land mass of Manhattan but is now home to only 700,000 people, down from 1.8 million at its peak. Individuals have often pressed forward with their own answers: The city should be perceived as a hub for fish farms or techno music or public art displays or film (an announcement last month that a Superman-Batman movie starring Ben Affleck would film around Detroit drew headlines here).
As recently as January, Detroit leaders rolled out an elaborate plan known as ''Detroit Future City'' that ran 347 pages and called, in part, for building up thriving neighborhoods and turning other land into parks, landscapes, storm-water runoff areas or even commercial sections in the neighborhoods that have all but emptied. Authors said the plan -- written over the past three years even as the city's financial crisis loomed -- included guidance from thousands of residents, and a wide range of leaders here say they have begun to view it as a guide. And the Kresge Foundation, which was founded in Detroit in 1924, has pledged $150 million to support the goals laid out in the plan.
Urban planners and political leaders liken the scope of changes being pondered for Detroit to some European cities after World War II. Rip Rapson, president and chief executive of the Kresge Foundation, called it a ''rebirthing'' of Detroit, and Toni L. Griffin, an urban planner based in New York who has been a leading consultant on Detroit's long-range plan, portrayed it as a ''super-restructuring'' to improve the quality of life.
''After a tragedy is one of the few times you can be trying to reimagine a city rather than just trying to go back to what you were before,'' said Scott Cowen, the president of Tulane University, who is writing a book examining the remaking of New Orleans after the devastation of Hurricane Katrina in 2005. ''What you really need is transformational change, not just incremental change to get back to where you were,'' he said in an interview. ''That's been very important to resurgence of this city, and Detroit has to do the same thing.''
Some Detroiters see urban farming as an elegant solution to several of the city's woes -- an abundance of land but not of people; a shortage of jobs; and, according to some, a dearth of fresh food. Plenty of farms, some tiny and others not, already are thriving, though critics question how sizable a dent such notions can ever make to solve the city's larger economic challenges.
''The promise that Detroit, one way or another, is going to restart so it's actually functional is a really big step in this,'' said Mike Score, president of a company that wants within two years to plant at least 15,000 trees as part of a farm in a section of the city's East Side that is troubled by vacant buildings and empty lots.
No single economic answer will be enough for Detroit, say experts like Donald K. Carter, of the Remaking Cities Institute at Carnegie Mellon University. ''Another silver bullet will just be a silver bullet that runs out in 20 years,'' Mr. Carter said.
Instead, leaders have their hopes set on a range of fields, many of which have already found some success here. They have pushed for new medical and science-related businesses near the city's universities and new technology companies and start-ups in the city's downtown. And some are pondering prospects for expanding international trade, given plans for a new bridge to Canada.
The question of who will live in the new Detroit looms as well. Regional planners say the city's population, which is about 82 percent black and 36 percent below the poverty level, is expected to continue shrinking in the coming years before leveling off. Some here believe the city must actively recruit new, young residents, playing off a natural wave of arrivals it has already seen among the young in recent years -- of 20-something entrepreneurs, artists, musicians and those in search of cheap homes.
But finding lasting consensus on what a new Detroit should be -- economically, geographically, demographically and culturally -- is complicated. And solving one of the city's biggest quandaries -- how to reshape a city that was built for nearly two million people so that it suits fewer than half of that -- remains highly controversial, particularly for families still living in the homes left on otherwise empty blocks.
''We're going to have to re-engineer this city to disinvest in certain areas where we currently have one house per block or so on where there's no ability to really efficiently deploy city services and resources to those areas and instead move those people into the most dense areas in the downtown core and the neighborhoods and revitalize those areas,'' said Matt Cullen, a former General Motors executive who is president of Rock Ventures, an umbrella company representing the investments of the prominent local businessman Dan Gilbert, which now include at least 35 properties in downtown Detroit.
Not everyone even agrees that demolishing all the empty buildings, a process that Detroit is already racing to carry out, or clearing out neighborhoods that have lost population, is the right approach. ''Tearing down the city's a stupid idea,'' said John O. Norquist, the former mayor of Milwaukee and president of the Congress for the New Urbanism. ''If you take all the teeth out of your mouth, your smile isn't very nice after. And we're talking about a city that's been on a demolition kick for 30 years.''
Adding to the tensions now is a growing, palpable divide. Even as the city slumped further into financial trouble in recent years, a small group of business people, including Mr. Gilbert, have been carrying out their own plans at a rapid pace for a reimagined downtown Detroit, and a few other neighborhoods have seen notable improvement.
The reawakening along Woodward Avenue downtown, near Mr. Gilbert's real estate and loan companies, already is undeniable. Thousands of workers, some of them young and white, have moved into these buildings in the last three years. They drink coffee from a new gourmet shop, the Roasting Plant, where freshly roasted beans are zipped around the shop in pneumatic tubes. Bushes outside are sculptured into the shapes of dogs. Music plays along the street, which is watched by private security guards. And a faux beach was erected this summer, complete with sand and a bar, no water, in the park outside.
It feels like another universe from the hollowed-out neighborhoods only a few miles away. ''That's all great,'' said John J. George, whose Motor City Blight Busters community organization has been around for a quarter-century working to clean up neighborhoods and who said he had gotten support from Mr. Gilbert. ''But what about the neighborhoods? When is it coming to the neighborhoods?''
''We're just looking for a way to bridge the difference between complete madness and some normalcy,'' Mr. George said of his group's efforts to clear several blocks in one Northwest Detroit neighborhood. They have planted tomatoes, cucumbers and corn here, but a new beginning, citywide, still feels far off.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Campus Martius Park, above, is part of a revitalized commercial district along Woodward Avenue in downtown Detroit. But the city is plagued by dysfunctional services, abandoned buildings and nearly empty neighborhoods. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
MICHAEL F. McELROY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12)
 In the Detroit offices of Quicken Loans, a model of the city highlighted the company's headquarters, center. Dan Gilbert, a local businessman, owns Quicken. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); FILM (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (70%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (70%); AQUACULTURE (70%); FINFISH FARMING (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (65%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (55%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (55%); MUSIC (50%)

PERSON: BEN AFFLECK (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013



58 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: Young, and Against Bad Science

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS QUENQUA

 BODY:
Your parents may have had to walk uphill, both ways, to get to school. But as ideological warfare threatens the teaching of climate science and evolution in many schools, it is clear that today's students face their own obstacles on the road to a respectable science education -- and some are speaking out. 
For his high school senior project, Zack Kopplin started a campaign to repeal the Louisiana Science Education Act, a 2008 law passed in his home state that opens a ''back door'' to teaching creationism in public schools, he says. Currently taking a year off from Rice University to work and travel, Mr. Kopplin, 20, is widely recognized as the state's leading voice against science denial education. He has expanded his campaign to fight similar laws across the country, as well as the use of public vouchers to send students to religious schools. He argues regularly, if unsuccessfully, before the Louisiana Senate to strike down the law, and his April appearance on ''Real Time With Bill Maher,'' in which he faced off against a conservative economist, Stephen Moore, went viral.
''I'm proud to be from Louisiana, but I don't want people to laugh at me when I go out of state. 'Oh that's the guy from the stupid state with the creationism law,' '' Mr. Kopplin said.
In Britain in March, Esha Marwaha, a 16-year-old from Hounslow, West London, started an online petition calling for Education Secretary Michael Gove to abandon a plan to remove references to climate change from the geography curriculum for students under 14. The petition got more than 30,000 signatures, and in July, Mr. Gove changed course.
Ms. Marwaha, a self-described geography fanatic, said lessons about climate change -- whether it is caused by people or not -- are crucial to keeping future students engaged in evidence-based science.
''We do need to come out with an actual well-rounded education,'' she said.
Then there is Katelyn Campbell, 18, whose objection to a factually dubious sex-education assembly at her high school bubbled over into a confrontation with her principal, which bubbled over onto the Internet.
As a senior at George Washington High School in Charleston, W.Va., Ms. Campbell complained to the American Civil Liberties Union about an April assembly featuring an abstinence advocate, Pam Stenzel. Among the lessons Ms. Stenzel shared with the school that day, according to a friend of Ms. Campbell's who taped the assembly, was that condoms provide no protection from sexually transmitted diseases. ''She called out any woman who had sexual contact,'' said Ms. Campbell, who boycotted the assembly. ''I saw people crying when they came out.''
Irritated by her actions, Ms. Campbell said, her principal threatened to tell Wellesley College, where Ms. Campbell had been accepted, that she was a troublemaker. Ms. Campbell filed an injunction against her principal, seeking to prevent him from ''discriminating against me in any way,'' and told the news media her story.
Several days later, Wellesley used its Twitter account to make its position known: ''Katelyn Campbell, #Wellesley is excited to welcome you this fall.''
Ms. Campbell now attends Wellesley, where she is double majoring in American studies and chemistry.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREATIONISM (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); GEOGRAPHY (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SEX EDUCATION (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION LAW (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CURRICULA (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); PETITIONS (69%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (68%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: RICE UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); CHARLESTON, WV, USA (51%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (76%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013



59 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; GOTHAM; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: For Votes, a Common Appeal to the Cry of a City of Struggling Hard-Workers

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL. 
E-mail: powellm@nytimes.com; Twitter: @powellnyt

 BODY:
In search of Democratic mayoral primary voters, I took a humid hike on Monday up the precipitous streets and stairways of Highbridge in the Bronx. A working-class aerie perched above the Harlem River, the neighborhood embraces native-born and immigrant New Yorkers by the thousands.
I ran into Pablo Rivera, a 49-year-old Dominican immigrant who was hustling home. 
He has worked for an Acura franchise in Manhattan for 18 years. He's a union man with benefits; his American dream sounds as if it's in working order, except that it's not. His income, like that of most Bronx residents, is a car sliding backward.
''Management is bringing in contract workers; they cut us back to four days a week, and no overtime,'' he says. ''I went from $700, $800 a week to maybe $415 a week.''
Does that leave him enough to take in movies? A dinner with friends? His eyebrows wig-waggle; I must be kidding, right?
''I just want to pay the rent and pay for clothes and books for my 14-year-old son. I'm thinking of going back to driving a taxi.''
The Bronx, with about 1.4 million residents, is the city in a microcosm, only in more pain. From 1989 to 2011, inflation-adjusted median income here dropped 23 percent. Of the city's five boroughs during those years, only Manhattan, sustained by financial-sector helium, had income climb -- by 8 percent.
But here, after a fashion, is the good news:
Whatever their hyperventilations and gone-weak-in-the-knee moments, the mayoral candidates have focused more intently on Pablo Rivera's city, which is to say the majority, hard-working and too often tumbling-backward New York, than in any election in recent memory. Bill de Blasio has led the way, and for this he deserves credit.
But Comptroller John C. Liu has thumped at this theme no less insistently. Christine C. Quinn talks of being a tenant mayor, stanching the decline in rent-stabilized units and building more affordable housing. William C. Thompson Jr. talks of pulling more into the middle class, and tempering the upheavals and statistical obsessions that marked public education under Michael R. Bloomberg.
It's too easy to dismiss these candidates as uninspired. An essay on Monday in this newspaper compared this election unfavorably with the 1969 campaign of the novelist Norman Mailer and the columnist Jimmy Breslin.
I recall as a kid digging their anarchistic provocations, but that campaign was a hip wail wrapped inside a joke.
Mayor Edward I. Koch, now treated as of blessed memory, could claim real accomplishments. He also could be cruel in lancing the unfortunate. Rudolph W. Giuliani, New York's own Vlad the Impaler, had his inspired moments, like his insistence that crime could be tamed. Then there were the days he called a news conference to announce he was leaving his wife or starting a campaign to extend his term after the Sept. 11 attacks.
Mike Bloomberg of 2001 was a dull speaker who wore an air of entitlement like a favorite fur coat. He became a pretty good mayor but he never lost that coat.
The candidates make a show of disemboweling one another. Mr. de Blasio, in a recent e-mail, is called ''deBliar.'' Clever, sort of, not really.
The bitterness obscures the fact that not much separates them.
It is Ms. Quinn's fate to be lashed forever for her turnaround on term limits. Her turn, as detailed by The New York Times on Monday, was craven -- when Mr. Bloomberg went to her and laid out his plan, she had nothing to say.
Really?
Mr. de Blasio makes great sport of this. Once upon a time, however, he was no less eager to overturn term limits. He favored accomplishing this not via voter referendum but with a predictable City Council vote.
After overturning term limits, Ms. Quinn and the mayor stood for and won re-election. Detest their cynicism. As a coup d'état this was weak tea.
Mr. de Blasio can claim leadership pulling back on stop-and-frisk measures, and Mr. Thompson, notwithstanding his actorly histrionics of late, can fairly be described as a latecomer. The candidates differ little now.
It's worth noting that Mr. de Blasio, Ms. Quinn and Mr. Thompson acknowledge that even a tightly constrained stop-and-frisk program will result in mostly black and Latino young men being stopped, for the simple reason that violent crime is committed overwhelmingly in communities of color.
Ms. Quinn did herself no favors by resisting for so long the progressive attempt to extend a few sick days to working-class New Yorkers. Mr. Thompson for many months favored sick days, in principle, until he testified before the City Council and came out in favor of the legislation -- if it was delayed for a year after passage.
Equivocation is perhaps not as synonymous with principle as Mr. Thompson might imagine.
Mr. de Blasio could be more Machiavelli than Eugene Debs. Ms. Quinn could be Tip O'Neill, or a machine hack.
All that is certain is the candidates will stumble out of this campaign having thought a lot about the other New York. The University Neighborhood Housing Program wrote a fine report: ''Nowhere to Go, a Crisis of Affordability in the Bronx.'' It advised policy makers: Always think of the Bronx.
Mr. Rivera offered a turn on that advice, before walking uphill to his home: ''They need to remember their promises to us.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); MAYORS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); RENT CONTROL (76%); OVERTIME (74%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (73%); RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); WRITERS (71%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (66%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013



60 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Debate Revives Merkel Rival as Credible Challenger

BYLINE: By ALISON SMALE

 BODY:
BERLIN -- Chancellor Angela Merkel and her Social Democratic challenger, Peer Steinbrück, returned to the campaign trail on Monday, with neither triumphant after their sole television debate, a mostly decorous 90-minute exchange that restored Mr. Steinbrück as a credible candidate but yielded a rhetorical draw.
Perhaps reflecting the flickering interest stirred by the largely predictable positions taken by both leaders, commentary focused on what the Berlin tabloid B.Z. called ''the two winners in the TV duel: Raab and Merkel's necklace.'' 
The reference was first to Stefan Raab, a television entertainer whose inclusion in the normally serious lineup of four moderators at the debate on Sunday night was much remarked and delivered the liveliest exchange of the evening. Mr. Raab pushed Mr. Steinbrück hard for guidance for those Germans -- and polls suggest their number is considerable -- who want to see a ''grand coalition'' of the Social Democrats with Ms. Merkel's center-right Christian Democrats after the Sept. 22 elections.
Mr. Steinbrück, 66, who served as finance minister in Ms. Merkel's first government, a grand coalition from 2005 to 2009, has already said he will not head up the Social Democrats in such a cabinet now. Flustered, he eventually told Mr. Raab that voters should go with the center-left.
For her part, Ms. Merkel, 59, has carefully ducked controversy so far on the campaign trail, even over the allegations that U.S. intelligence spied on the communications of millions of Germans. And until the debate, she had studiously ignored Mr. Steinbrück by not mentioning his name.
So perhaps the most overt excitement she garnered on Sunday was for her necklace, consisting of long beads of black, red and gold, which are the colors of the German flag.
In the European mold of politicians who hone their skills and policy knowledge over decades, Mr. Steinbrück, a Social Democrat for 44 years and a former governor of Germany's largest state, and Ms. Merkel, in politics since 1990 and now seeking a third four-year term as chancellor, found support in their own camps on Monday.
For Jakob Augstein, a Merkel critic who writes a column for Der Spiegel, Mr. Steinbrück, who stumbled early after his nomination last autumn over disclosures that he had received large fees for lectures and writing, showed that ''he can do it.''
''On Sunday,'' Mr. Augstein wrote in an online commentary, ''we saw a tired chancellor who looked somewhat uninterested.'' By contrast, he said, the Social Democrat was ''a lively challenger, eager to attack.''
Reflecting the maxim that all politics is local, it took more than an hour before the candidates discussed international issues like the allegations of U.S. spying or the Syrian government's possible use of chemical weapons against thousands of civilians. Ms. Merkel's government has ruled out participation in any military response, and a senior government official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, told reporters on Monday that she would discuss Syria on the sidelines of the Group of 20 summit meeting in Russia this week but had no formal meetings set with either President Barack Obama or President Vladimir V. Putin.
By contrast, the candidates quite swiftly laid out differing approaches to the euro crisis and to helping Greece, while substantially agreeing that it was the duty of Germany, having Europe's biggest and strongest economy, to support weaker nations. Mr. Steinbrück even likened the aid to a second Marshall Plan, the huge American economic program for Western Europe after World War II.
Two weeks ago, Ms. Merkel's finance minister, Wolfgang Schäuble, stirred up controversy by confirming that Greece would need a third package of support from fellow members of the euro zone. The chancellor defended that statement -- which Mr. Schäuble does not appear to have cleared with her in advance -- by noting, as he has, that a third package was always considered likely and envisioned as such by finance ministers last autumn.
On Monday, Mr. Schäuble was back before a parliamentary committee to testify about Greece, this time sounding tough by opposing any compensation of the Greek government for aid it has already given to banks. Mr. Schäuble estimated the value of any new package for Greece as at least &#x20ac;4 billion, or $5.3 billion.
A small new party, the Alliance for Germany, is running on a platform of taking Germany out of the euro. It has consistently polled below the 5 percent level needed to win seats in Parliament, but pollsters have warned that voters may simply be hiding their intention to vote against the euro.
The complexities of stitching together a coalition in Germany may yet deny Ms. Merkel her widely expected victory. The Free Democrats, Ms. Merkel's current partners in government, the Greens, who could partner the Social Democrats in government, and the Left, a party that has so far been shunned by the others, are all predicted to make it into the new Parliament chosen this month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); POLITICS (89%); ESPIONAGE (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (60%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (92%); PEER STEINBRUECK (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%) GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013



61 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SPECIAL REPORT: NET WORTH; Pg. 

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: The Jury Is Still Out on the Wisdom of Buying Bonds

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
Global financial markets have spent more than four years gorging at an all-you-can-eat buffet laid out by the U.S. Federal Reserve and other central banks. The Fed has signaled that the feast is about to end, and bond investors are discovering that they have been presented with the bill.
Yields on just about every fixed-rate debt instrument, from U.S. Treasury issues to high-yield corporate paper to local-currency emerging-market bonds, have risen in the last few months, taking prices lower, in some cases erasing gains in weeks that took years to earn. 
Although rates on some debt, most notably government bonds in safe developed countries like the United States, Germany, Britain and Australia, began to rise more than a year ago, the increases have been steeper and broader since May, when talk of the ''taper'' -- the curtailment of Fed purchases of Treasury and mortgage issues -- grew louder.
It remains to be seen whether the Fed will announce the start of the taper at its next meeting, on Sept. 17 and 18, as many strategists and economists expect. Even if it is delayed a few months -- the other widely considered possibility -- and even if other central banks decline to cut their own asset purchases, the fact that yields on all sorts of debt instruments are based on Treasury yields, plus the impact that trillions of dollars in asset purchases have had on rates already, leaves little for professional investors to like across global bond markets.
''Given how aggressively central banks have been buying bonds, particularly Treasury and other sovereign debt, most parts of the bond market are expensive,'' said Russ Koesterich, global chief investment strategist at BlackRock, the world's largest fund management firm. ''It comes down to what looks good on a relative basis. It's hard to point to any segment of the bond market and say that it's a bargain.''
Other investment advisers point to niches here or there that they contend offer decent prospects. Rob Waldner, chief strategist and head of multisector investing at the Invesco fund management company, highlighted evidence that growth was picking up, albeit modestly, in developed economies.
Under normal conditions, such a revival would help the bonds of less creditworthy issuers because the stronger growth makes default less likely. This time around, much of this higher-yielding debt -- referred to generally as ''credit'' by bond investors -- has been hit as hard as, if not harder than, safer instruments, but Mr. Waldner expects that to change.
''U.S. growth, which is decent, a little above 2 percent, is at a level that keeps the economy moving forward and supports credit, but not so fast that we get a sharp rise in interest rates or a pickup in inflation,'' he said.
With no Fed short-term rate increase on the horizon, he said, ''it provides a sweet spot for credit that should be good for the next 12 to 18 months.''
Mr. Waldner cautioned that the spot would not be uniformly sweet. Pretty much anything that investors bought coming out of the 2008 credit crunch went up, but from here, he said, ''idiosyncratic risk and sector selection will be more important.''
He recommends high-yield corporate debt and securities created from global bank loans. He is cautious about emerging markets, especially debt denominated in local currencies, which he expects to decline versus the dollar. An exception is Mexico, where he is heartened by improving fiscal conditions.
Mark Beischel, manager of the Ivy Global Bond Fund, is a long-term optimist on debt in the developing world. ''These markets are still growing,'' he said. ''They have better growth than developed economies.''
He expressed some short-term misgivings, however. In his view, ''we're still kind of in the early innings'' of a rise in yields. He also pointed out that emerging markets are susceptible to radical attitude adjustments by foreign investors, who dominate trading in some countries, causing violent swings in prices and yields.
That makes it essential to enter a market after one of those swings has sent yields higher, not before. One country that he is warming to is Indonesia, where an outflow of hot money has pushed yields on some medium-term, dollar-denominated corporate debt near double digits when mid-single digits were common three months ago.
The global rise in yields has also made some U.S. high-yield corporate debt appealing, in Mr. Beischel's view.
''High-yield has had fairly robust valuations, but some of the lower-quality names seem to be more attractive,'' he said. ''They have underperformed significantly with the backup of rates; issues that were 4.5 percent are now in the high 5 percent or 6 percent range.''
Mr. Beischel, whose portfolio is 30 percent invested in cash and short-term Treasury securities -- a very high figure -- sees fewer opportunities in Europe.
''The euro zone crisis isn't over, it's just changing shape,'' he observed. ''It was once a banking and sovereign-debt crisis, but it has since become an economic crisis. It's a region that has a lot of debt and isn't growing. Valuations in Europe are still not attractive.''
They are attractive, however, to Mr. Koesterich, the BlackRock strategist, at least in the case of some of the less creditworthy Mediterranean countries. He finds their higher yields relatively appealing, although he stresses that it is more a matter of disliking U.S. Treasury issues and German bunds than of liking the peripheral European equivalents.
When asked how much of a diversified portfolio should be kept in bonds, Mr. Koesterich begged off, saying that a specific proportion depended on each investor's age, risk tolerance and income needs. But he was able to offer one generalization.
''The answer today is to own less than you used to,'' he said, ''and to look for other income sources.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); CORPORATE BONDS (77%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (71%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013



62 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SPECIAL REPORT: NET WORTH; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Beneath Investment Positives, a Triple Whammy Lurks

BYLINE: By SONIA KOLESNIKOV-JESSOP

 BODY:
Marc Lansonneur, regional head of investment teams and market solutions at Société Générale Private Banking in Singapore, recently gave his perspective on current market conditions and investment opportunities.
Q. How do you see the current general market environment?
A. Although over all the macro fundamentals still look positive, the past couple of months have dealt a blow to emerging markets as international monetary conditions tightened because of talk that the U.S. Federal Reserve will taper or scale back its stimulus, commodities moving out of their supercycle, and China's economy slowing down. This is a triple whammy, revealing that underlying factors may not have been quite as rosy as the market thought.
Investors have been massively reducing their investment in emerging market assets to rebalance their stakes in U.S. and European markets. This has impacted equities, currencies and credits. Whereas expectations for early 2013 favored emerging markets over developed markets, developed markets are looking more and more like the turtle who outran the hare, edging past their emerging-market counterparts one by one. 
Q. So you're quite negative on emerging markets?
A. There are positive fundamentals to look at, such as growing domestic consumption and large infrastructure plans recently announced in countries like Mexico and the Philippines. Success in these markets could lift growth potential, and in turn fuel a rise in asset prices.
Similarly, China's fall from grace as the global growth powerhouse may be exaggerated. Her measured move toward structural reforms at the expense of near-term growth may be the right strategy for sustainable growth after all.
Q. There seem to be signs of economic recovery in the United States and Europe. How can investors best position themselves to take advantage?
A. Economic data and sentiments are indeed improving and have been showing resilience. The U.S. labor market is in repair, and the economy is expanding. The euro zone has turned the corner from manufacturing contraction to expansion for the first time in two years, and Japan posted positive inflation with prices in June rising the most since 2008, fueling optimism.
The recovery trend is surely stronger for the U.S. economy at this stage, but the euro zone seems to have hit the bottom and looks to be on the way up. As the economy and rates return to normal, we keep a more positive stance on stocks and high-yield corporate bonds, rather than government and investment-grade bonds. We stay overweight on U.S. stocks, where we continue to favor cyclicals and financials. After the recent equities and bonds sell-off, euro zone assets now appear more attractive but volatility is here to stay. We are slightly reweighting euro investment-grade bonds and keeping a neutral stance on high-yield debt.
Q. Should investors get out of emerging markets, then?
A. Emerging-market assets should continue to be under pressure. We think that a powerful shift in the thematic drivers of global emerging markets is occurring. Positive U.S. real yields, dollar appreciation and, more recently, concerns about tightening liquidity conditions in the Chinese money market have driven outflows from emerging market equity funds, and we do not expect this trend to reverse any time soon. As exchange-rate depreciation limits emerging markets central banks' actions, and with growth remaining under pressure, we expect strong redemption in emerging markets to continue.
We therefore suggest buying developed equities at the expense of emerging markets stocks and tend to be more optimistic on stocks from the Asean countries, especially Thailand and Malaysia, which should benefit from Japanese economic growth.
On fixed income, market technicals are driving the market, with higher volatility leaving emerging market credit at risk of more downside pressure. The region's credit fundamentals remain attractive, but we see no catalyst for a resumption of inflows at this time.
Q. Going into the fourth quarter, what are the key risk factors for investors?
A. Some upcoming bumps in the road might include renewed noise around the U.S. debt ceiling debate later this summer, fueling concern -- unwarranted, in our view -- about a repeat of 2011. There is also uncertainty about the successor to the Fed chairman, Ben Bernanke -- Janet Yellen or the potentially less-stimulus-supportive, less consensus-building Larry Summers. There may be more political noise from the euro zone periphery or a failure of the euro zone recession to move beyond stagnation, calling into question the strength of that recovery.
Q. How should my portfolio be balanced right now?
A. In such a volatile market that is driven in the short term by technicals and flows more than fundamentals, it is wise to keep larger amount of cash for available opportunities. The recent equities market correction is offering attractive points of entry on selective names in the United States, Europe and Asia. For a classic balanced risk portfolio, we would advise 45 percent equities, 30 percent credit, 20 percent cash and 5 percent commodities exposures.
As for the cash portion, we favor U.S. dollars, which should gain against most currencies by year end.
Q. Within Asia, which equity markets do you favor?
A. We tend to be more optimistic on stocks from Asean countries, especially Thailand and Malaysia, as they would most likely benefit from Japan's improving economic growth.
Q. Which fixed-income markets do you favor?
A. The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury bond has moved up strongly and is now close to 3 percent, and the yield curve is expected to steepen further. We expect long-term yields drifting progressively higher as appetite declines for U.S. government bonds and as the Fed tapers. Therefore, the golden rule is to keep short-duration bonds. On the credit side, we continue to favor high-yield over investment-grade corporate bonds, as the former benefit from lower rate sensitivity. The year-to-date performance of high-yield bonds stands at up 3.08 percent, but upside potential is still likely by the end of the year.
On the contrary, investment grade markets are too expensive: yield of 2.8 percent on average for a six- to eight-year duration is too low. But for high-yield bonds, we strongly advise use of mutual funds to secure better liquidity and less concentration risk.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (91%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); EURO (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TRENDS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); INFLATION (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); CURRENCIES (73%); CONSUMPTION (73%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (72%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); CORPORATE DEBT (64%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (64%)

COMPANY: SOCIETE GENERALE SA (91%)

TICKER: GLE (PAR) (91%); GLE (BIT) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); CHINA (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013



63 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: In Syria Crisis, U.S. Keeps Eye On Iran Policy

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As the Obama administration makes a case for punitive airstrikes on the Syrian government, its strongest card in the view of some supporters of a military response may be the need to send a message to another country: Iran. If the United States does not enforce its self-imposed ''red line'' on Syria's use of chemical weapons, this thinking goes, Iran will smell weakness and press ahead more boldly in its quest for nuclear weapons.
But that message may be clashing with a simultaneous effort by American officials to explore dialogue with Iran's moderate new president, Hassan Rouhani, in the latest expression of Washington's long struggle to balance toughness with diplomacy in its relations with a longtime adversary. 
Two recent diplomatic ventures have raised speculation about a possible back channel between Washington and Tehran. Last week, Jeffrey Feltman, a high State Department official in President Obama's first term who is now a senior envoy at the United Nations, visited Iran to meet with the new foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, and discussed possible reactions to an American airstrike in Syria.
At the same time, the sultan of Oman, who has often served as an intermediary between the United States and Iran, was in Tehran meeting with Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.
Neither Mr. Feltman nor Sultan Qaboos bin Said al Said of Oman has said anything about carrying messages between the two governments. Still, those overtures, along with some surprisingly mild noises from Iranian leaders, have raised hopes that Washington may be able to thread the needle -- to strike Syria without compromising efforts toward an Iranian-American détente before meetings at the United Nations General Assembly this month.
Those hopes may well be premature: even if Mr. Rouhani and his foreign minister are eager for a deal ending the dispute over the future of Iran's nuclear program, it is far from clear that they would be able to deliver one. Negotiations have been stalled since last year, and final authority on foreign policy rests with Ayatollah Khamenei. The Iranian president's hand, whatever his politics, is weakened further during national security crises, analysts say, and hard-liners are likely to be empowered.
Like Mr. Obama, Mr. Rouhani -- who has declared his goal of resolving tensions with the West and bringing ''more transparency'' to nuclear talks -- is vulnerable to domestic conservatives, who still blame him for having signed an agreement in 2003 opening Iran to United Nations inspectors.
''I am convinced that Rouhani and Zarif want to overcome the hostility between the U.S. and Iran, but a military strike on Syria could be a spoiler,'' said Hossein Mousavian, a former nuclear negotiator for Iran who is now a visiting scholar at Princeton University.
Even as Secretary of State John Kerry worked to build support for a strike, his Iranian counterpart, Mr. Zarif, known as a moderate who hopes for dialogue, seemed to be working to avert one, declaring in an interview on Sunday that Iran warned the United States last year about chemical weapons getting into the hands of Syrian rebels. On Monday, he even tried to suggest that Mr. Obama was closer to his way of thinking, saying the American president was being pushed toward war by hard-liners in his own government.
Nuclear weapons aside, the debate over chemical weapons has raised questions about the strength of Iran's commitment to the government of President Bashar al-Assad of Syria. Iran suffered terrible losses to chemical weapon strikes during its decade-long war with Iraq in the 1980s, and the issue is a delicate one for many Iranians. Mr. Rouhani aroused some controversy last week by strongly condemning the use of chemical weapons in Syria on his English-language Twitter feed, without saying who used them.
Mr. Zarif made similar comments on his Facebook page, and others went further, including a former Iranian diplomat who suggested that Iran should not put all its eggs in one basket. A former president of Iran, Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, was quoted in Iranian state media accusing Mr. Assad of using chemical weapons on his own people, though the government later disavowed those comments.
But Syria remains an essential ally for Iran, and a crucial link with Hezbollah, the Shiite movement based in Lebanon. There is no sign that Iran's leaders are backing off; an Iranian delegation visited Mr. Assad in Damascus on Sunday to reaffirm its country's commitment. But with the Iranian economy in tatters, the military support to Syria is costly.
''The question is, if things go badly for Assad on the battlefield, at what point would Iran let the rope go?'' said Mehrzad Boroujerdi, the director of the Middle East studies program at Syracuse University.
If more evidence emerged that Mr. Assad's military had used chemical weapons, that would raise the political cost of continuing to support him, Mr. Boroujerdi added.
One thing is clear: the statements by Iran's leaders have shifted from earlier this year, when high-ranking Iranian officials said a foreign attack on Syria would be treated as an attack on Iran itself. There may even be some relief at the prospect of more direct American involvement in the Syrian conflict, which has occasionally been cast as ''Iran's Vietnam,'' some analysts say.
''The reality is that Obama's military action will make the Syrian tragedy his and not Iran's,'' wrote Farideh Farhi, an Iran scholar at the University of Hawaii, in an analysis published online at Lobelog.com. ''And in Iran's postelection environment, in which the country has moved toward national reconciliation -- both among the elite and between the government and the population -- nothing suits the Islamic Republic better than divesting itself from this issue quietly.''
For all their mutual antipathy, the United States and Iran may ultimately find common ground in Syria.
''The United States and Iran are fighting a zero-sum proxy war in Syria at the moment,'' said Karim Sadjadpour, an Iran analyst at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. ''If and when Assad falls, the two sides will have a mutual adversary in radical Sunni jihadists.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Iran's foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, with Marzieh Afkham, ministry spokeswoman. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ABEDIN TAHERKENAREH/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HASSAN ROUHANI (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); ALI KHAMENEI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); SYRIA (94%); OMAN (92%); IRAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013



64 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 277 words

HEADLINE: Factory Data Sends Markets Up

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
LONDON -- Evidence of a rebound in manufacturing activity in China and Europe helped stock markets rise in much of the world on Monday, although Wall Street's closure for Labor Day kept trading volumes light. 
In Britain, the FTSE 100 added 1.5 percent, to close at 6,506.19. Much of that gain came from Vodafone, which is selling its 45 percent stake in Verizon Wireless to Verizon Communications. Confirmation of that $130 billion deal came after trading in London had closed, but Vodafone's shares closed up 3.4 percent on expectations of the purchase.
Germany's DAX index ended the day up 1.7 percent, to 8,243.87 while France's CAC-40 was up 1.8 percent, to 4,006.01. Italian and Spanish stocks also advanced after surveys showed that manufacturing activity rose in the two countries, which are in recession and have been focal points of Europe's debt crisis.
Global market sentiment was also bolstered by two surveys that showed China's manufacturing sector improved last month after prolonged weakness.
The HSBC purchasing managers' index rose to 50.1 points in August, a level that indicates expansion as output and new orders edged up slightly and order backlogs rose at the fastest pace in two years. The official China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing P.M.I. rose to 51.0 from July's 50.3, which was the highest level and biggest increase this year.
On Monday, the leading stock indexes in Japan, Hong Kong and Australia all rose more than 1 percent.
Crude oil for October delivery declined $1.08, to $106.57 a barrel, in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange as fears of an imminent American military strike on Syria continued to fade.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); US LABOR DAY (77%); RECESSION (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (64%); DEBT CRISIS (53%)

COMPANY: VERIZON WIRELESS INC (83%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (51%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (83%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (89%) CHINA (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%); SYRIA (79%); HONG KONG (78%); JAPAN (65%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013



65 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: Flow of Refugees Out of Syria Passes Two Million

BYLINE: By NICK CUMMING-BRUCE

 BODY:
GENEVA -- As the United States and its allies struggled for a course of action to punish the use of chemical weapons in Syria, the United Nations said the number of civilians who had fled to neighboring countries had surpassed two million -- a new milestone in what it called ''the great tragedy of this century, a disgraceful humanitarian calamity.''
Fear of Western airstrikes in the past week was a factor in an exodus that continued to gather momentum, inflicting acute social strain and political tension on receiving countries, António Guterres, the United Nations high commissioner for refugees, said in an interview in Geneva on Monday. 
It took two years of conflict in Syria for the refugee figure to reach one million, but only six more months to reach two million, Mr. Guterres noted. In addition, at least 4.5 million people have been driven from their homes inside Syria by the destruction and violence, meaning that close to one-third of the country's population has been displaced by the civil war, and about half the population has needed humanitarian aid, Mr. Guterres said, putting Syria's crisis at a level unseen in recent decades.
About 40,000 Syrians fled to Iraq in the last two weeks of August, and 13,000 arrived in Lebanon in the past week. Over all, close to 5,000 Syrians are leaving every day.
''It clearly demonstrates that we are witnessing a conflict in constant escalation,'' Mr. Guterres said. ''We have to be prepared for things to get much worse before, eventually, they start to get better.''
By the end of August, Lebanon had more than 716,000 Syrians who were registered as refugees with the United Nations and many more who were unregistered, he said, meaning that perhaps one of every four people in the country is a Syrian. About 515,000 Syrians were on the United Nations register in Jordan, 460,000 in Turkey, 168,000 in Iraq and 110,000 in Egypt, with many more likely to be unregistered.
''These countries need massive support from the international community to be able to cope with the challenge,'' Mr. Guterres said, emphasizing the acute strain the refugee influx has placed on their economies and social resources. ''If that support does not materialize, the risks of instability in the Middle East will dramatically increase.''
Ministers of the four most affected countries will meet in Geneva on Wednesday to work out a common approach on the assistance they need, which will be laid out to donor countries meeting in Geneva at the end of the month.
The international response so far has fallen far short of what is needed, Mr. Guterres warned. Turkey has received financial assistance equivalent to less than 10 percent of what it has spent to support the refugees, he said. Financial backing for Jordan and Lebanon was ''totally inadequate,'' he added.
The United Nations refugee agency says it has received $548 million, or less than half the $1.1 billion it had sought, to pay for relief for Syrian refugees in 2013. Most came from traditional Western donors, led by the United States, which contributed $228 million, or 40 percent of what the agency has received. European countries, Japan, Canada and Australia have together accounted for about 33 percent. Kuwait has contributed $112 million, or about 20 percent.
By contrast, Russia, the Syrian government's main ally, has given $10 million. China, which has helped Russia block any authorization of military action against Syria in the United Nations Security Council, has given $1 million.
The scale of need created by the Syrian crisis outstrips any humanitarian relief budget, Mr. Guterres said. ''This requires a mobilization of more development-related forms of assistance,'' he said, or Syria's crisis could drain the resources for humanitarian disasters in other parts of the world.
Because the devastation is so far-reaching, he said, it defies ''a humanitarian solution.''
''The solution will have to be political,'' Mr. Guterres said. ''If no political solution is found, this will assume really catastrophic proportions.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFUGEES (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES (90%); UNITED NATIONS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); TURKEY (92%); LEBANON (92%); SWITZERLAND (90%); JORDAN (90%); EGYPT (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013



66 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2482 words

HEADLINE: U.S.-Russian Ties Still Fall Short Of 'Reset' Goal

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Just days before Vladimir V. Putin reassumed the presidency of Russia last year, President Obama dispatched his national security adviser to Moscow. Mr. Obama had made considerable progress with Dmitri A. Medvedev, the caretaker president, and wanted to preserve the momentum.
Any hopes of that, however, were quickly dashed when Mr. Putin sat down with the visiting American adviser, Tom Donilon, at the lavish presidential residence outside Moscow. Rather than talk of cooperation, Mr. Putin opened the meeting with a sharp challenge underscoring his deep suspicion of American ambitions:
''When,'' he asked pointedly, ''are you going to start bombing Syria?''
At the time, Mr. Obama had no plans for military involvement in the civil war raging in the heart of the Middle East, but Mr. Putin did not believe that. In Mr. Putin's view, the United States wanted only to meddle in places where it had no business, fomenting revolutions to install governments friendly to Washington. 
The meeting 16 months ago set the stage for a tense new chapter in Russian-American relations, one that will play out publicly this week when Mr. Obama travels to St. Petersburg for a Group of 20 summit meeting hosted by Mr. Putin. Although Mr. Obama had no intention of bombing Syria last year, on Saturday he said he now favored military action against Syrian forces, not to depose the government of Bashar al-Assad, a Russian ally, but in retaliation for gassing its own citizens -- an assertion Mr. Putin denounced as ''utter nonsense'' to justify American intervention.
While it was the Kremlin's decision last month to shelter Edward J. Snowden, the National Security Agency leaker, that finally prompted Mr. Obama to call off a separate one-on-one meeting he had scheduled with Mr. Putin while in Russia, the core of the schism is not so much that case as the radically different worldviews revealed by the Syria dispute. Where Mr. Obama feels compelled to take action to curb the use of unconventional weapons, Mr. Putin sees American imperialism at work again.
The story of the administration's ''reset'' policy toward Russia is a case study in how the heady idealism of Mr. Obama's first term has given way to the disillusionment of his second. Critics say he was naïve to think he could really make common cause with Moscow. Aides say it was better to try than not, and it did yield tangible successes in arms control, trade and military cooperation before souring.
''There's this cycle of initial enthusiasm and hope that gives way to reality,'' said Robert M. Gates, Mr. Obama's first defense secretary,
Mr. Obama expected more when he arrived in London in April 2009 for a Group of 20 meeting and his first encounter with Mr. Medvedev.
The two sat down and found they had much in common -- both were new-generation leaders, trained in law, unburdened by the past, who saw themselves more as pragmatists than ideologues. And while it was clear Mr. Putin, then serving as prime minister, was still the paramount figure, Mr. Obama resolved to build up Mr. Medvedev in hopes that he would eventually emerge as the real power.
The theory, advanced by aides like Mr. Donilon and Michael McFaul, then the president's Russia adviser, was that after the rupture over Russia's 2008 war with Georgia, there were opportunities for cooperation in areas of shared interest. That did not mean there would no longer be disagreements, but they would try to delink them so that the entire relationship did not suffer. ''It was an opportunity to make things better,'' said a senior official.
Not everyone was so optimistic. Hillary Rodham Clinton, then the secretary of state, supported the reset and even presented an ill-fated button to her Russian counterpart with the word ''reset'' mistranslated into Russian. But privately she had a more jaundiced view of Mr. Putin. So did Mr. Gates, who recalled that he ''thought it was worth a try'' but was not sanguine about the prospect.
Determined to proceed nonetheless, Mr. Obama in London proposed that the two countries negotiate a new arms control treaty. By the time Mr. Obama arrived in Moscow in July, the two sides had managed to work out the framework for a treaty that would trim their nuclear arsenals to their lowest in decades.
They also signed an agreement allowing the United States to transport troops and arms bound for Afghanistan through Russian territory, part of what was called the Northern Distribution Network being expanded as an alternative to the unreliable supply route through increasingly volatile Pakistan. Mr. Gates said that for ''an old cold warrior'' like him, sending the American military through Russia was ''never in my wildest imaginings.''
But the future was foreshadowed when Mr. Obama sat down for a separate meeting with Mr. Putin. Over breakfast, an offhand comment by Mr. Obama about old tensions touched off a nearly hourlong harangue by Mr. Putin outlining grievances with the United States. If Mr. Medvedev was a man he could do business with, Mr. Obama walked out worried that Mr. Putin was not.
Taking advantage of his growing partnership with Mr. Medvedev, Mr. Obama persuaded the Russians to approve tough United Nations sanctions against Iran and the two sides renewed a civil nuclear cooperation agreement shelved during the war in Georgia. Eventually, Mr. Obama succeeded where his predecessors had failed in helping Russia join the World Trade Organization after nearly 20 years of talks.
The highest-profile victory was their treaty called New Start, paring the legal ceilings for deployed strategic warheads by a third and launchers by half. But it proved to be more of a slog than Mr. Obama and his team expected. ''We thought Start was going to be easy, we really did,'' said a former official. ''And it turned out to be very, very hard.''
The high-water mark came in March 2011. When Mr. Obama decided to join an allied bombing campaign in Libya, his new friend Mr. Medvedev agreed not to block it at the United Nations Security Council -- a move that infuriated Mr. Putin, especially when what started as a humanitarian mission turned into regime change.
''The Russians felt they had been played for suckers on Libya,'' Mr. Gates said. ''They felt there had been a bait and switch. I said at the time we would pay hell ever getting them to cooperate in the future.''
The Return of Putin
On a Saturday morning that September, Mr. Obama got word from his staff: Mr. Medvedev was on his way out and Mr. Putin would be returning to the presidency the next spring.
Some Obama aides hoped that Mr. Putin's formal resumption of power might not make a difference, since he presumably had still been calling the shots. But others disagreed. Mrs. Clinton, who had several rough meetings with Mr. Putin and did not care for him, pushed for a hard-eyed assessment of what his return would mean. At least one memo circulated in the State Department predicted the rise of anti-American rhetoric and a far more nationalistic policy.
''We had gotten a lot of important things done, but from here on out, because we were dealing with a different state of mind in the Kremlin, a different set of assumptions, it was going to be more difficult,'' recalled John R. Beyrle, who was ambassador to Moscow at the time.
By the time Mr. Donilon arrived in Moscow in May 2012, that had become apparent. Large street protests had unnerved Mr. Putin, and he accused Mrs. Clinton of instigating them. White House officials had hoped the hostile talk was just for domestic campaign purposes, but even after Mr. Putin formally won re-election he kept it up. When Mr. Obama sent Mr. McFaul, the architect of the reset, to replace Mr. Beyrle, the new ambassador was the subject of an unusual campaign of public harassment in Moscow.
The meeting with Mr. Donilon at Mr. Putin's dacha outside Moscow went on for three hours and covered a variety of topics like arms control, missile defense and Afghanistan. But the focus on Syria suggested how much Mr. Putin resented the United States action in Libya and saw it as part of a continuum of illegitimate and even imperialistic American interventions from Kosovo under President Bill Clinton to Iraq under President George W. Bush. Mr. Obama, to his mind, turned out to be no different. ''Putin was very dug in on this idea that we will never have another Libya,'' said an American official.
Mr. Putin made clear that he did not especially like Mr. Assad, but he saw him as a bulwark against Islamic radicalism, much as he saw himself fighting jihadists in Chechnya and the North Caucasus. Mr. Donilon argued that was the reason for Russia to help ease Mr. Assad out and let a democratic government take his place because otherwise an extended civil war would open the door to the very radicalism Mr. Putin feared.
Mr. Obama and Mr. Putin ended up sitting down a month later in Los Cabos, Mexico, on the sidelines of another Group of 20 meeting. In classic alpha-male fashion, Mr. Putin kept Mr. Obama waiting for more than 20 minutes, and the two picked up the Syria debate. Mr. Putin asked why the United States was seeking to take out stable if autocratic leaders like Mr. Assad and why it was so intent on waging war in the Middle East.
Mr. Obama reminded him that he had opposed the war in Iraq and said they should negotiate a peaceful resolution in Syria to avoid a radical outcome. ''Putin didn't buy it at all,'' a senior administration official recalled. When the two leaders sat for the cameras, they were stiff and seemingly tense. While aides said the meeting was not as bad as the resulting picture seemed to imply, they acknowledged that the two men had talked past each other much of the time.
One More Try
While Mr. Obama returned home to focus on his re-election, Mr. Putin used the time to crack down on dissent in Russia.
Protests were broken up, organizers were arrested, and a popular girl band was put on trial for an anti-Putin song. New laws were passed targeting nongovernmental organizations, and the United States Agency for International Development was kicked out of the country. Congress responded with the Magnitsky Act, imposing new sanctions on human rights abusers in Russia. Mr. Putin retaliated by banning American adoptions of Russian children.
After his re-election, Mr. Obama sat down with his advisers to discuss what to do about Russia. He decided to try to put forward a new set of proposals to get the relationship back on track, and again he sent Mr. Donilon to present them quietly to Mr. Putin. ''It was important to go there and say, 'Let's try to reset this again,' '' said another senior administration official. '' 'And here's a path forward.' ''
Mr. Donilon arrived in April with a package of ideas -- another, deeper round of nuclear arms cuts, a data-sharing plan to reduce tension over American missile defense, and ways to expand trade and investment, all things Moscow had suggested in the past. As it happened, he arrived just days after the administration had released a list of Russian officials sanctioned under the Magnitsky Act.
Despite the awkward timing, the tension over Magnitsky barely came up at the meeting. Mr. Donilon gave Mr. Putin a letter from Mr. Obama outlining areas for new agreement, and the Russian leader sat and read it aloud, marking up the document and commenting, ''I agree with this'' and ''I don't agree with that.''
But the reset of the reset didn't work. When Mr. Obama and Mr. Putin met again in June at a Group of 8 meeting in Northern Ireland, the White House hoped for an agreement to open negotiations for a new nuclear arms treaty. Mr. Putin did not agree, nor did his government respond to most of the other suggestions. ''We just thought'' what the heck, said a former administration official. ''Come on, these were your ideas.''
Even without an agreement, Mr. Obama proposed a one-on-one summit meeting in Moscow in advance of the St. Petersburg meeting. Mr. Putin accepted. And Mr. Obama went ahead with a speech in Berlin publicly proposing mutual arms cuts with Russia -- the kind of announcement not usually made without a prearranged understanding that the other side would be interested. It was a test, and again Moscow showed little interest.
The arrival of Mr. Snowden in Moscow, coming on top of anger over a new Russian law against pro-gay ''propaganda,'' was nothing more than a final death blow to the reset. Inside the administration, advisers squared off over whether to go ahead with the Moscow summit meeting.
Secretary of State John Kerry, who had been trying to arrange a Syria peace conference with the Russians, favored going, as did Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel. Susan E. Rice, who had just replaced Mr. Donilon as national security adviser, was more skeptical, wondering if it was worth the president's time if nothing would be accomplished.
''You have a small clique of people who see themselves as realists and want to deal with Putin,'' said Anders Aslund, a Russia scholar at the Peterson Institute for International Economics who has ties with administration officials. ''Then you have the vast majority lower down who think this is not acceptable.''
When Russia decided to give Mr. Snowden temporary asylum, the debate ended; the trip was off. According to administration research, no such Russian-American presidential summit meeting had been canceled since 1960. Mr. Obama said it was time ''to take a pause'' and described Mr. Putin as a slouching ''bored kid in the back of the classroom.''
Absent change, the reset has ''run its course,'' as Mr. Aslund put it. Republican critics like Senators John McCain of Arizona and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina call it a ''failure'' and a symbol of a bankrupt foreign policy. Obama advisers argue it worked in a way by restoring relations after the rift over the Georgia war. There are areas of cooperation even now. Moscow has not reneged on the New Start treaty or the Afghanistan supply route.
''The reset was a smart and pragmatic recognition that we were going to have important differences but also needed to work together where we could,'' said James B. Steinberg, Mr. Obama's former deputy secretary of state.
Mr. Gates said Mr. Obama's effort was sincere and puts the blame squarely on Mr. Putin. ''He's about lost power, lost empire, lost glory,'' Mr. Gates said. ''It will be very difficult to make headway as long as he's there.''
But Obama aides say they oversold the reset, both to the public and maybe even to themselves; it was never meant to transform Russia into an American-style democracy or eliminate all areas of friction. ''We probably overestimated the shared-interest angle,'' said one official.
The goal now is to keep it from sliding much further. ''I don't think it's going to get any better any time soon,'' said a former administration official. ''In fact, I think the potential for something worse is pretty high.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama found common ground with President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia, above in Seoul, South Korea, last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EKATERINA SHTUKINA/EPA -- RIA NOVOSTI)
 Mr. Obama has had a much tenser relationship with the current president, Vladimir V. Putin. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROLYN KASTER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (74%); BOMBINGS (74%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); CASE STUDIES (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (92%); EDWARD SNOWDEN (58%); ROBERT M GATES (58%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (75%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (69%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); SYRIA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013



67 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1347 words

HEADLINE: A Bet on the Environment

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
Just after his sophomore year at Yale in 2002, Billy Parish stood before a rapidly retreating glacier in India that feeds the Ganges River, convinced that he had come face to face with climate change and that he had to do something about it.
It did not take long. Back in the United States, he started a youth coalition that, within a few years, had mobilized thousands of people with similar environmental concerns. He never made it to his junior year at Yale.
In the years since, Mr. Parish has come to another conclusion: that capitalism is a powerful force that can be harnessed to combat global warming. Now 31, he is well into making that his next mission, building an online solar energy investment platform that could turn ordinary Americans into mini-financiers.
Called Mosaic, the company functions like a virtual renewable energy bank, soliciting investments for solar projects and making loans to be paid back, typically, over about 10 years. Mosaic collects a fee on every loan. It is similar to the crowdfunding platform Kickstarter, a Web site that matches creative ventures with financial supporters. In the case of Mosaic, with a minimum of $25, investors can earn a return. 
''Our goal is to build the No. 1 investment platform for clean energy,'' Mr. Parish said. Mosaic, he added, allows investors ''to not just be passive consumers but to be creators, to be owners, to collaborate to make things happen.''
The company is still in its infancy. About 2,000 clients in 44 states have put in more than $4 million in project financing since it began soliciting money in January, and it is open nationwide to accredited investors -- a category that includes certain institutions and high-net-worth individuals -- and, so far, to the general public in New York and California.
Whether Mosaic can execute its vision is an open question. But it is poised to grow, with deals in the works that would allow investors to use money from retirement accounts like 401(k)'s and I.R.A.'s.
That, along with new financial regulations that permit broader marketing of investment projects, promises to vastly expand the potential sources of money for solar projects as well as other types of renewable energy the company plans to develop.
Although it is among the first crowdfunding platforms to focus on energy, Mosaic borrowed inspiration from earlier online ventures that gave consumers more direct access to products and services. Financing clean-tech projects and start-up companies is ripe for such an approach, adherents say, because only a small coterie of investors has been able to participate, making financing harder to obtain and more expensive.
''All these platforms are called marketplaces because they bring populations together, whether it be males and females on Match.com or banks and borrowers on Lending Tree,'' said Judd Hollas, the founder of EquityNet, which allows direct investment in start-up companies as a sort of venture capital platform for the masses. ''It was logical to assume that the same thing could happen and should happen in private equity.''
Mosaic's approach is seen by many as bringing together small-scale solar projects, which are by nature decentralized, and a younger generation that is comfortable with technology.
''At a time of social networking and the peer-to-peer experiences of media, of music making, of all these industries, capturing that capability -- that distributed, decentralized phenomenon -- and applying it to financing an energy source that is also built around a distributed architecture is a very big play,'' said Danny Kennedy, a founder of the solar development company Sungevity and a member of Mosaic's board. ''That's why the crowd makes sense. This is a distributed future.''
At the same time, many Americans have been showing an increasing interest in aligning their money with their social or political leanings, especially younger investors. Almost half of millennial-generation investors worth more than $1 million screen their investments for social values as well as value, according to a recent survey by the Spectrem Group, an investor research organization.
''If I had a mutual fund sitting alongside an investment through Mosaic,'' said Stan Hazelroth, a former executive director of the California Infrastructure and Economic Development Bank, ''even if it was maybe a notch lower return, I'd still take the Mosaic investment because I'm such a firm believer in the future of renewable energy.''
The seeds of Mr. Parish's evolution toward combining environmental issues with profit were planted early. A child of two liberal-leaning lawyers who fell in love working on a securitization deal -- his father specialized in financing for electric utilities -- he grew up comfortably in Manhattan, near Central Park and the Museum of Natural History.
During high school, he spent a semester at the Mountain School in Vermont, where his concern for ''what was happening on a planetary scale'' crystallized; at Yale, he designed his own major in sustainable economic development, and then took a leave that became permanent to build the Energy Action Coalition, which describes itself as ''a coalition of 50 youth-led environmental and social justice groups.''
''Young people had been at the forefront of every major social movement in history, and almost nothing was happening with young people and climate change at that point,'' he said. By 21, he was managing a $5 million budget and a staff of 80 in the United States and Canada.
That work led to an advocacy effort that Mr. Parish said helped inspire President Obama's green jobs programs, as well as a book, ''Making Good: Finding Meaning, Money, and Community in a Changing World,'' which he wrote with Dev Aujla, a founder of the charitable organization DreamNow.
But it was a stint working at the Black Mesa Water Coalition in Flagstaff, Ariz., starting in 2007, that brought together Mr. Parish's entrepreneurial vision and personal network. It was there that he worked alongside his wife, Wahleah Johns, to shut down coal plants that had fouled the water supply in the Navajo Nation.
He also reconnected with Dan Rosen, now Mosaic's chief executive, who had met Mr. Parish while trying to get a solar array for his high school in Ridgewood, N.J., and had gone to work with Black Mesa after graduating.
''That was one of the big, kind of 'Aha!' moments about what would become Mosaic,'' Mr. Rosen said, referring to discussions about developing solar energy as part of the transition after closing the coal plants. Navajo residents, he said, ''wanted to own the projects -- they wanted to be owners, they wanted to participate, they wanted jobs, they wanted to invest, even.''
Based in Oakland, Calif., Mosaic is trying to capitalize on that desire, finding and vetting as many projects as its staff of 22 can handle while it raises more money so it can expand. Mosaic makes loans only to projects that already have deals to sell the electricity they will produce; it then raises money from investors, who receive a return of roughly 4 to 6 percent as a loan is paid back.
The company takes a 1 percent fee on each investment and a small-percentage origination fee on each loan, which varies from project to project.
The company's projects have been modest so far: among others, a solar array atop a youth employment center in Oakland as well as the convention center in Wildwood, N.J., and apartments at the University of Florida in Gainesville. For its biggest project, it plans to help finance the installation of over 55,000 solar panels on more than 500 military homes at Fort Dix, N.J.
Investors say they like knowing where their money is going, in contrast to buying into a mutual fund. ''There appears to be more of a story, and they're very defined about what they're investing in,'' said Laura Deer Moore, who sits on the board of a community bank and came across Mosaic because she wanted to invest her small nest egg ''conscientiously,'' as she put it, and was having trouble finding ways to do that. ''There's a defined mission, and I like that about it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Billy Parish, with a solar array in Oakland, Calif., has harnessed capitalism in the fight for a clean earth. (B1)
 Dan Rosen, left, and Billy Parish, the founder of Mosaic, on the roof of an Oakland youth center. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); CROWDSOURCING (88%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (77%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (74%); US 401K PLANS (74%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); DATING SERVICES (72%); STARTUPS (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); AFFLUENT MARKET (65%); ACCREDITATION (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (86%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013



68 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: The Storm on New York's Horizon

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
Come January, a new mayor of New York will take office with the city facing a bad budget forecast: cloudy, chilly, with a chance of apocalypse.
You wouldn't know this by following the candidates around now. They're out campaigning on the sunny side of the street -- a place where, to hear them tell it, thousands of new police officers will soon be on patrol, tens of thousands of dilapidated public-housing units are about to be swiftly repaired and new affordable apartments built, and children will one day be heading off to their universal prekindergarten classes, getting a head start on life in a greener, safer, sturdier city in which the middle class and the City University are resurgent, jobs and services are abundant, and there's money to cover all needs.
Those visions are seductive; they're supposed to be. Politicians don't get elected by predicting failure and doom. 
But doom can happen, especially when unrealistic promises meet dismal facts like these: a $2 billion gap in the city's $70 billion budget; huge and steadily growing pension obligations and health care costs for city workers; middling economic growth; the unexpected and continuous costs of disasters like Hurricane Sandy. One burden is the contracts covering 300,000 workers in nearly every municipal union. Mayor Michael Bloomberg let them all expire years ago, and they have not been renegotiated. The unions haven't had raises in recent years, and they are expecting the next mayor to hand over nearly $8 billion in retroactive pay. That is more than the city's annual operating budgets for police, fire and corrections combined.
When those looming obligations compete with sorely needed, dearly wanted city services -- libraries, parks, police, schools -- who, and what, gives way?
Commentators, think tanks, outfits like the Independent Budget Office and the Citizens Budget Commission, the occasional debate moderator and quizzical citizens have been talking about this for a while. The candidates, to a person, have tried not to.
It's understandable. Bill de Blasio does not want his soaring vision constrained by mundane objections about whether his plan to tax rich people will pass in Albany. Christine Quinn, running in the shadow of her ally-adversary-millstone Mr. Bloomberg, wants desperately not to annoy New Yorkers the way he has. And William Thompson Jr. didn't win the teachers' union endorsement by promising to stick it to them in contract talks.
But with the primary looming on Sept. 10, and the final Democratic debate on Tuesday, it would be good for voters at least to hear answers to tough questions. How are you going to solve the budget puzzle, starting with filling the $2 billion hole that Mr. Bloomberg left behind, and the $8 billion the unions are demanding? What services will you cut? What taxes will you raise?
The Democrats haven't shied away from promising to raise taxes. It's just that -- as with Mr. de Blasio and his bold education plan -- they seem to have already spent much of the revenue somewhere else. (Ms. Quinn says she'll raise taxes if necessary, but not as a first resort.) And they have been cagey about those expired union contracts, saying they won't negotiate them in public. At least Anthony Weiner says he wants union members to pay a little toward their health care premiums. (Most of them now pay nothing, an untenable policy.) The Republicans, Joseph Lhota, John Catsimatidis and George McDonald, have vowed to get tough with the unions but raise no taxes -- a satisfying prescription to them, perhaps, but not a problem-solving one.
There is no deficit of suggestions about what to do. The Independent Budget Office regularly publishes a detailed list of ''Budget Options for New York City.'' It doesn't critique any of them. It only supplies them, to inform the debate. They include big (and, in our view, wise) ideas like adding tolls on the East River bridges (for $1 billion in revenue) and restoring the commuter tax ($802 million), and little ones, like increasing fees for birth and death certificates ($8 million) and having teachers do their jury duty in summer months ($2 million in savings).
The next mayor will have a chance to repair Mr. Bloomberg's abysmal labor relations, engaging the unions in a tough-but-honest conversation. He or she can start doing the same with the rest of us, right away. That will require saying things that are risky and unpleasant. But that's the difference between campaigning and governing. The sooner we hear the truth, the better off we'll all be.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET FORECASTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); HURRICANE SANDY (71%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); BACK PAY (66%); TEACHER UNIONS (65%); TALKS & MEETINGS (62%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013



69 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Summers's Odds Up, Stimulus Ease Seen

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The spreading expectation that President Obama will name Lawrence H. Summers to lead the Federal Reserve Board appears to be working against the central bank's efforts to stimulate the economy.
The jitters even have some analysts betting that a Summers nomination could lead to slower economic growth, less job creation and higher interest rates than if the president named Janet L. Yellen, the Fed's vice chairwoman.
Businesses raising money and people buying homes and cars all have faced higher interest rates in recent months as the Fed's campaign to suppress borrowing costs has faltered. The rise in rates reflects optimism that the economy is gaining strength, and an expectation that the Fed will begin to pull back later this year. But a wide range of financial analysts also see evidence of a Summers effect.
Many investors expected that Ms. Yellen would be nominated to replace Ben S. Bernanke as head of the central bank, a choice that would have sent a clear message of continuity. Instead, investors are now trying to anticipate how Mr. Summers might change the Fed. 
The unease is the product of a little information and a lot of speculation. Mr. Summers, a Harvard University economist who served for two years as Mr. Obama's primary economic adviser, has said little about monetary policy in recent years. Investors are left parsing a handful of comments in which he has expressed some doubts on the benefits and concern about the consequences of the Fed's policies.
''People don't know what Larry might do,'' said Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive of Pimco, the giant bond fund manager. ''There's a lack of a lot of information on Larry's views. We don't have enough information to make an assessment, just some second- and thirdhand accounts.''
Some doubts always attend the arrival of a new Fed chairman, but the consequences are particularly freighted at the moment because the Fed's effectiveness increasingly depends on its ability to reduce uncertainty among investors. The central bank floored its traditional gas pedal five years ago when it pushed short-term interest rates to zero. It has since focused on further reducing long-term interest rates -- which determine the cost of most kinds of borrowing -- largely by convincing investors that short-term rates will remain near zero.
The sense of uncertainty is heightened by the fact that as many as five of the Fed's seven governors may be replaced in the next year.
One governor, Elizabeth A. Duke, stepped down at the end of August. A second governor, Sarah Bloom Raskin, has been nominated to serve as deputy Treasury secretary. Mr. Bernanke's term ends in January, as does the term of a fourth governor, Jerome H. Powell -- although Mr. Obama could choose to reappoint Mr. Powell, a Republican who joined the Fed only in May last year and is said to be open to a longer stay. If Ms. Yellen is passed over by Mr. Obama, she, too, could choose to leave even before her term as vice chairwoman ends in October 2014.
Mr. Obama said last month that he would not announce his choice for the Fed's top spot until the fall, and that he was considering at least three candidates: Mr. Summers, Ms. Yellen and the former Fed vice chairman Donald L. Kohn. But the president's top economic advisers uniformly support the selection of Mr. Summers. They regard him as a creative thinker and an experienced crisis manager, qualities they value in particular because they expect the Fed may confront difficult choices as it begins to retreat from its six-year-old stimulus campaign.
They also insist that Mr. Summers supports the Fed's efforts to revive the economy and would continue those efforts.
But Mr. Summers has criticized the Fed's purchases of Treasury securities and mortgage-backed securities, warning that bond-buying on such a scale could distort financial markets. He said it was ''less efficacious for the real economy than most people suppose.'' As a result, many investors suspect he would seek to end those purchases more quickly than Ms. Yellen.
Julia Coronado, chief North America economist at BNP Paribas, said last week that the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note already had started to rise as investors price in a Summers nomination. She added that the yield could eventually rise half a percentage point more than if the president nominated Ms. Yellen instead. Ms. Coronado estimated that this Summers effect would reduce domestic economic growth by 0.5 to 0.75 percentage point over the next two years, which could reduce job creation by 350,000 to 500,000 jobs.
A Summers nomination, she wrote, ''would come at a cost of higher market volatility and interest rates, and a less buoyant economic recovery.''
Leadership changes at the Fed tend to unsettle financial markets more than changes in leadership at other major central banks, according to a 2007 study by Kenneth N. Kuttner, an economist at Williams College, and Adam S. Posen, president of the Peterson Institute for International Economics. That is partly because the Fed is the closest thing to a global central bank. But it also reflects the outsize role of the Fed chairman, who is less constrained than other central bankers in making policy.
Mr. Bernanke has sought to reduce the chairman's role, most notably by adopting a 2 percent inflation objective. The Fed also has sought to lock in the course of near-term policy by announcing its intent to hold short-term rates near zero at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6.5 percent. But Mr. Posen said that the market turbulence of recent months showed that investors still thought the choice of chairman would determine the course of policy. ''This is one of the reasons I don't believe that forward guidance works,'' he wrote in an e-mail, referring to the Fed's declaration of intentions regarding short-term rates. ''There is no way it can be binding on a new chairperson.''
Historically, new Fed chairmen have been able to settle the doubts of investors by acting quickly after taking office.
In the week after President George W. Bush announced Mr. Bernanke's nomination in October 2005, the yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 4.57 percent from 4.39 percent as buyers demanded increased compensation against the risk of higher inflation. Bond yields also rose after Alan Greenspan was nominated as Fed chairman in 1987. Both men moved almost immediately to raise interest rates and bond yields receded.
But Mr. Summers would have no comparable opportunity. The most obvious way to show his commitment to the Fed's stimulus campaign, at least in the short term, would be to do nothing. ''The only thing he can do,'' said Ms. Coronado, ''is to show more patience.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Janet Yellen and Lawrence Summers, the two top contenders to the lead the Federal Reserve. Expectations have arisen lately that Mr. Summers will get the nomination. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EUGENE HOSHIKO
J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE, RIGHT/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
 Mohamed El-Erian, chief of the bond fund manager Pimco, says little is known about Lawrence Summers's policy views. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED PROUSER/REUTERS) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); BONDS (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (68%); BOND FUNDS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (94%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013



70 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; ZANZIBAR JOURNAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: Amid Coral Reefs and Ruins, Ripples of Fear Over a Recent Attack

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KULISH

 BODY:
ZANZIBAR, Tanzania -- Said Ola began training early for the tourist trade in Zanzibar. As a youth he would come down to a popular park overlooking the Indian Ocean, one of the young men known as ''practice boys'' who learn English by chatting with visitors.
Mr. Ola used the English he picked up to work as a taxi driver and tour guide for the throngs who flock to the island each summer to snorkel among the coral reefs, explore spice plantations and wander through the ruins from the bygone days when Zanzibar was the capital of an Omani sultanate.
Like the rest of the dozen or so tour guides gathered recently at the edge of the park in historic Stone Town, Mr. Ola refused to believe that a local resident could have been behind the acid attack last month on two 18-year-old British girls, an episode that has brought unwelcome scrutiny to an island better known as a vacation paradise. 
''We're not that stupid,'' Mr. Ola said, referring to the islanders' dependence on tourist revenues. Without the sightseers and beachgoers who throng the island, he said, ''at the end of the day we're going to eat grass.''
Ali Abdul Kareem, another guide, agreed. ''This is our life,'' he said. ''We depend on tourism.'' Murmurs of assent rippled through the group.
''If we knew who it was,'' said another, ''we would be the first to punish them.''
Zanzibaris worry that the acid attack will be declared a case of Islamist extremism and that the island, overwhelmingly Muslim, will be branded hostile territory to Westerners. The assault reinforced fears that stretch back to the discovery that one of the men behind the 1998 bombing of the United States Embassy in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania's largest city, was from Pemba, the smaller of the main two islands that make up Zanzibar.
In recent years, a group called Uamsho, or ''Awakening,'' has called for an independent Zanzibar governed under Shariah law. Christian churches in Zanzibar have been burned and priests have been attacked in the past two years; one of them was killed. On the mainland, a radical cleric, Sheik Ponda Issa Ponda, was arrested for inciting unrest shortly after the attack against the British women. He was shot as the police apprehended him.
On Zanzibar, sunburned tourists in tank tops and shorts mingle with women shrouded in black abayas. In Stone Town, visitors consume alcohol mostly in rooftop restaurants and hotel bars known for their sunset views, but also strategically out of sight for pious locals. There have been attacks in the past against the small bars serving local neighborhoods, but the tourist haunts, and the tourists themselves, were always off limits.
''It was a shock, to be honest,'' said Ismail Jussa, a sixth-generation Zanzibari who represents Stone Town in the Zanzibar House of Representatives. ''Never before had a foreigner been involved in such an incident.''
Zanzibar, situated in the middle of Indian Ocean shipping routes, attracted Africans, Persians and Arabs to its coasts for centuries. The Portuguese, the Omanis and the British ruled the islands successively before Zanzibar achieved independence in 1963. The next year, the island entered into a union with mainland Tanganyika. (The name Tanzania is a portmanteau of Tanganyika and Zanzibar.)
The push for independence, or at least greater autonomy from the mainland, gained new impetus after politicians and jurists began work last year on a new constitution. At first, the status of the union was off the table, enraging Zanzibari nationalists.
''When the constitutional review process started, Zanzibaris thought, 'This is the right time to have this devil to rest,' '' said Mr. Jussa, who said he favors a Zanzibar with its own currency, a seat at the United Nations and an Olympic team, but a common defense and security policy with the mainland. ''The more you keep suppressing this issue, the more anger builds in the younger generation.''
Many residents say that with the right leadership, an independent Zanzibar could develop into a model for East Africa -- a Singapore, Hong Kong or Dubai. Young people lament the lack of manufacturing jobs and other opportunities outside of tourism. They say the hotels take a greater share of the revenues and that better-trained outsiders from Kenya or Uganda get the best jobs.
''They feel that when we are in autonomy as Zanzibar their wealth can rise and there will be many jobs,'' said Muhiddin Zubeir, the executive secretary of the Zanzibar Imams Association. But mainland politicians, he argued, ''don't want Zanzibar to be free.''
The Rev. Cosmas A. Shayo, who came to Zanzibar in 1976 and was ordained as a Roman Catholic priest the next year, said that in the days of one-party rule few people in Zanzibar differentiated between local residents and those on the mainland, where Muslims are a minority. That changed as multiparty reforms began in 1992, and the distinctions have only deepened.
''The way Muslims talk about it in public rallies, they're speaking openly against Christianity,'' said Father Shayo, now parish priest of St. Joseph's Catholic Cathedral in Stone Town. Some people think ''getting rid of the priests and bishops will get rid of the union,'' he said.
Two churches were set ablaze in May 2012 in the midst of rioting after the police arrested leaders of the separatist group Uamsho. On Christmas Day last year, a priest was shot in the jaw but survived. Another priest, the Rev. Evaristus Mushi, was shot and killed on Feb. 17.
During a recent Sunday service in Swahili at St. Joseph's, young men stood outside keeping watch over strangers. ''Add up all of these things and there's something,'' said Father Shayo. ''It could be religiously motivated. It can even be political.''
But the troubles in Zanzibar had not attracted much attention beyond Tanzania until the attack on Aug. 7 against the two young teaching volunteers from London. Two men on a moped doused the teenagers with acid as they walked in Stone Town, severely burning their faces, chests and hands. The men reportedly smiled before speeding off.
Abdulsamad Ahmed, chairman of the Zanzibar Association of Tourism Investors, received a call shortly after the attack and rushed to the hotel where the young women had been taken. He said that as an individual he was chilled by the cruelty. As a businessman, he was terrified of the consequences.
While most of his family sought opportunities abroad in the Middle East, Britain and Canada, Mr. Ahmed began renting rooms in the family's three-story stone building in 1995 to backpackers for as little as $5 a night. He invested his earnings in a beachside resort, which opened in 1998 with six thatched huts but no electricity or running water. His resort now has 70 rooms, with air-conditioning and Internet service.
The association says tourism officially accounts for a little more than a quarter of the island's economic activity, but 70 percent of its foreign-exchange earnings. Fifteen thousand people work directly in tourism, and 50,000 are employed indirectly -- as money-changers, artists painting in the traditional Tinga Tinga style or fishermen whose catch ends up at hotel restaurants.
Like many Zanzibaris, Mr. Ahmed was unwilling to accept that rising extremism could be to blame, saying he believed the attack was personal. ''It's not religious persecution, not Muslims don't like Christians,'' he said.
The guides in the park theorized that a conspiracy to drive tourists away from Zanzibar could have been hatched by competitors on the Kenyan coast, or by mainland Tanzanians to derail independence efforts.
''This issue could be based in politics, how to wound the image of Zanzibar,'' Mr. Ola said. ''If you want to control people, let them suffer,'' he said. ''That's what's happening.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A boy tried to catch the eye of tourists at the beach. Residents are worried that Westerners will brand the island as hostile territory. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DIEGO IBARRA SANCHEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOURISM (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); BURN INJURIES (89%); RELIGION (86%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); ARRESTS (76%); WOMEN (73%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); BOMBINGS (68%); DRINKING PLACES (62%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (60%); HOTEL AMENITIES (60%); SPICE FARMING (57%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAR ES SALAAM, TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (92%) TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); OMAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013



71 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: Immigrants Who Reject Citizenship

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Making a Choice to Halt at Door of Citizenship'' (front page, Aug. 26):
Americans like to think that immigrants come here because it's the best country in the world. But there are now many countries that offer stability, functioning democracy and an equal or better standard of living. 
Many immigrants today come for a time and then return home; the super of my building voluntarily went back to Poland, something my Warsaw-born grandfather surely never imagined.
When my partner, originally Indian and now a British citizen, got his green card, I encouraged him not to continue to citizenship. It was the George W. Bush years, and having the option to live elsewhere seemed like a great idea, even for a natural-born American.
And if we ever have children, they will be eligible for dual citizenship, a great benefit in a global economy and culture.
RON MEYERS New York, Aug. 26, 2013
To the Editor:
After more than 25 years in New York, I became a citizen, with dual United States and Italian citizenship.
During the George W. Bush administration, I never wanted to become an American citizen. Though I was sworn in under President Obama, I realized that it was wrong to link citizenship with a particular occupant of the Oval Office.
A president is for four or eight years; citizenship is forever. After all, I never felt any less Italian during the troubling years of the Silvio Berlusconi government.
ANDREW ANDREA VISCONTI New York, Aug. 26, 2013
To the Editor:
Your article about the motivations of green card holders to become or not to become United States citizens doesn't offer numbers on the economic dimension of naturalization. Several studies show that naturalization confers economic benefits both on the people who become citizens and on our communities and country as a whole.
For instance, a study published last December found that citizenship alone can boost individual earnings by 8 percent to 11 percent. Increased naturalization would lead to a significant growth in gross domestic product.
ERIC COHEN San Francisco, Aug. 26, 2013
The writer is executive director of the Immigrant Legal Resource Center and leader of the New Americans Campaign, a project of the center.
To the Editor:
Having recently become a naturalised (sic) American, I was interested in the reasons interviewees in your article gave for not becoming United States citizens.
I don't feel any less British or particularly American. I still sound (and spell) like the BBC, my cultural attitudes and inheritances remain Anglo-Jewish, and I still prefer double-breasted, striped suits to single-breasted, shapeless gray flannel abominations.
But I am now a full participant in the American polity, with greater rights and greater duties. I thought that as I intended to live here forever, or until I die (whichever is shorter), it would be immoral not to become a citizen.
STEPHEN R. GOULD Merrick, N.Y., Aug. 26, 2013

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY EIKO OJALA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIZENSHIP (97%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); NATURALIZATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); WRITERS (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); RESEARCH REPORTS (69%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (68%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WARSAW, POLAND (72%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (97%); POLAND (72%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013



72 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; SPECIAL REPORT: VENICE FILM FESTIVAL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: Looking at Modern Campus Life, Minus the Keg Parties

BYLINE: By NICOLAS RAPOLD

 BODY:
It has taken Frederick Wiseman 45 years to get from high school to college. The master filmmaker's latest portrait of an institution, ''At Berkeley,'' centers on the University of California in Berkeley and joins an extraordinary résumé that stretches back to ''High School'' in 1968 and his controversial debut, ''Titicut Follies,'' in 1967. In between, Mr. Wiseman has established himself as one of America's greatest chroniclers in any medium.
''What I'm interested in is making movies about as many different subjects as I can, and as many different forms of human experience,'' Mr. Wiseman, indefatigable at 83, said in a phone conversation during his summer break in Maine. 
His output seems to have matched his ambition. ''At Berkeley,'' his 40th feature, will have its world premiere on Sept. 2 at the Venice Film Festival. It joins a cinematic panorama of subjects whose understated titles belie their depth: ''Basic Training,'' ''Welfare,'' ''Meat'' (meatpacking plants), ''The Store,'' ''Boxing Gym,'' ''Ballet,'' ''Deaf'' (special-needs school), ''Belfast, Maine.'' The richly observed films are sprawling and intimate, dense with the raw material of human endeavor and discourse, and free from the ready-made storylines and messaging of mainstream documentary, much less voiceover.
In ''At Berkeley,'' we witness the autumn 2010 semester at a university in crisis, yet thriving. Mr. Wiseman uses the institution's settings -- the meetings, classes and protests -- as stages to play out its multifaceted drama of people and ideas. A student's tears at a financial aid session turn the moment into a portrait of middle-class America on the ropes. Budget meetings show the struggle to maintain the values of public education, and create a profile of a leader in then-Chancellor Robert Birgeneau. A goal is scored in a field hockey game. Former Secretary of Labor Robert Reich in a lecture makes an example out of a valued former aide who was unafraid to criticize him. And -- this is Berkeley -- a reading room is occupied by the latest generation of student activists.
''I deliberately contacted Berkeley first,'' Mr. Wiseman said. ''For two reasons: It's public and it's a great university.''
Mr. Wiseman made his pitch in a letter to Mr. Birgenau, who promptly invited the filmmaker to visit. By the end of lunch together, the filmmaker had permission to shoot at will -- with the exception of tenure discussions -- and began production in the autumn of 2010. With the paid assistance of a former chief of staff for chancellors, John Cummins, Mr. Wiseman picked his way through the campus, amassing 250 hours of footage over 12 weeks of shooting.
While his recent films, ''Boxing Gym'' and ''Crazy Horse,'' are essentially confined to single-building locales, Mr. Wiseman and John Davey, his longtime cameraman, traversed a campus of 1,232-acres, or about 500 hectares, for ''At Berkeley.'' Its students, faculty, staff and local residents number in the tens of thousands, ''with all the problems of a small city,'' Mr. Wiseman said. Like any good navigator of gatekeepers, the filmmaker cultivated his sources.
''Secretaries or administrative assistants are always very important people for this kind of a movie, because they know what's going on,'' he said.
What was going included budget wrangling after a steady decline in state financing for the university: from 54 percent of the budget in 1987, to 12 percent in 2012, according to The Daily Californian, the campus newspaper. Mr. Wiseman said that wasn't why he made the documentary, but Berkeley ends up serving as a bellwether for the broader predicament of public institutions under economic pressures and anti-government politicking. While Mr. Birgeneau has been criticized for his handling of the budget, ''At Berkeley'' depicts a delicate balancing act with an eye toward preserving scholarships and teaching standards.
Mr. Wiseman -- wry, sharp, and unfailingly precise about what his films do and do not do -- is typically reluctant to generalize. But he spoke freely on the threat faced by public universities, and especially the humanities.
''There's a political agenda behind that, which is to dumb people down. Because if you don't study the humanities and you don't have technical education, you're not going to know about all the questions connected with the Enlightenment or free speech or representative government,'' Mr. Wiseman said, adding, as if to temper his comments: ''Blah blah blah.''
Intellectual and civic engagement are prominent themes in Mr. Wiseman's films. The meetings and class discussions of ''At Berkeley'' are the marketplace of ideas in action, just as his 2007 film ''State Legislature'' shows the mundane workings of state government.
In his scenes and sequences in ''At Berkeley'' and other films, Mr. Wiseman seeks to do justice to both ''the literal and the abstract,'' resulting in a lengthy, analytical editing process. Take, for example, the odd, even comical recurring sight of battle-ready camouflaged Reserve Officers' Training Corps students doing drills and lobbing fake grenades on campus. It's at once a reminder of the existence of these programs, of their financial value to campus coffers, of the reach of war even into the groves of the academe.
The classes on display, with their ceaseless talk of complex ideas, bring out one of the film's underlying themes.
''There's a question of how do you conceptualize with words, and how do you conceptualize with images,'' Mr. Wiseman said. The filmmaker said he struggled over whether to include one lecture about dark energy, which he could not make heads or tails of. (The lecturer: Nobel Prize winner Saul Perlmutter.) Ultimately, he saw a value in the experience of disorientation, recalling how he, in ''Deaf,'' did not subtitle sign language.
As expansive as Mr. Wiseman's film is, the average observer might still reasonably ask: where's the beer? That is to say, what about student life? We see students walking, lounging, playing field hockey, acting on stage, studying, discussing race, but dormitory life is not in evidence.
''One of the reasons I called the movie 'At Berkeley' as opposed to 'Berkeley' was to suggest that these were all events that took place at Berkeley but there was no suggestion that this was 'all' of Berkeley,'' Mr. Wiseman said. His wittiest take on the social scene comes within the film: a student musical number about Facebook.
Mr. Wiseman made a point, however, to highlight the campus's diversity. Its composition forecasts the future of the country at large, when whites will be a minority and he noted its makeup is far different from his own experience at Williams College, where he graduated in 1947.
''Williams, when I went there, was academically superb and wildly anti-Semitic,'' Mr. Wiseman recalls. ''As it turned out, the Jews and the Christian rejects were the most interesting people on campus. Nevertheless, when you're sent as a 17-year-old leaving home for the first time, it's hard to deal with.''
Mr. Wiseman spotlights what could be a mission statement for his larger project, in one student's stage performance of a monologue from ''Our Town'' about a time capsule. Even the ancient metropolis of Babylon, the young thespian recounts, left little to no record of day-to-day life.
Mr. Wiseman's next film is about the National Gallery in London, which he interrupted the production of ''At Berkeley'' to shoot, and it's still in the editing stage.''At Berkeley'' is tentatively to be released on Nov. 8 in the United States.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A scene from ''At Berkeley,'' a new documentary by Frederick Wiseman that centers on the University of California, Berkeley, during the autumn 2010 semester. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADAM VON HAFFNER PAULSEN, COURTESY OF BERKELEY FILM)
 Mr. Wiseman, whose new film is set to open on Nov. 8. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ZIPPORAH FILMS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (75%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); BUDGETS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (68%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (68%); FESTIVALS (67%); FIELD HOCKEY (65%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013



73 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: Recession Reverses California Airport's Growth

BYLINE: By BILLY WITZ

 BODY:
ONTARIO, Calif. -- Rolling into Ontario International Airport is a traveler's delight. The parking lots, across from either terminal, are mostly vacant. The spacious, tidy terminals are filled with natural light and few lines at the ticket counters. Jostling around the baggage carousel is not like trying to box out LeBron James for a rebound -- there is plenty of elbow room for everyone.
The greatest inconvenience awaits those who head to the taxi stand: sometimes there are no cabs. One has to be called.
''Truthfully, I love this,'' Annette Long said as she prepared to check her bags for a recent flight, thrilled to be missing the freeway traffic and crowds she encounters flying out of Los Angeles International Airport. ''It's so easy.'' 
But what makes traveling so pleasant for passengers like Ms. Long also underscores the problem facing this regional airport, which, like the Inland Empire region that it serves, is still reeling from the devastating impact of the recession.
As airports show slow but steady signs of recovery, with passenger traffic nearing pre-recession levels nationally, the passenger traffic at Ontario has plummeted 40 percent since its 2007 peak of 6.9 million, according to Federal Aviation Administration figures. The decline, fed by a confluence of economic misfortune, a change in airline business practices and local political turf wars, is projected to continue through the end of the year. It has left Ontario with traffic levels around four million, about what they were in the mid-1980s, a decade before construction of two modern terminals that were supposed to make this airport a linchpin of the region's economic growth.
But like the housing booms and busts that have driven the economic prospects of the area over the last 25 years, the airport's plight has left some to wonder if such ideas were too speculative.
Ontario's experience mirrors that of other smaller airports in large markets -- like Islip and Newburgh in New York -- which expanded to handle added traffic only to see airlines pull back. The Inland Empire, which includes San Bernardino and Riverside Counties, continues to be one of the fastest-growing regions in California, with more than four million residents, but the lure is affordable housing, not high-paying jobs. The region is projected to have a double-digit unemployment rate through 2015. And last week, a judge cleared the way for the city of San Bernardino to declare bankruptcy.
''With the benefit of hindsight, it might have been overreaching when they expanded,'' said Sampath Rajagopalan, a professor of data sciences and operations at the University of Southern California's business school. ''Airlines can never operate at a profit if they rely on consumer business. They need business passengers. Yes, there are a lot of people living there, but they are a lot more price-sensitive.''
It is not just the economy that has crippled the Ontario airport. There has been a change in the way airlines operate, analysts say, prizing profitability now more than market share, which has driven airlines away from smaller airports to larger ones nearby.
Southwest Airlines, the main tenant at Ontario, began there in 1985 with five daily flights to Phoenix. It once flew 64 flights a day from Ontario in the late '90s, but is now down to 35 flights a day. An additional reduction of 12 percent has been announced for January. At the same time, it has expanded service at Los Angeles International.
Brad Hawkins, a Southwest spokesman, said that cost ''is by far the most important determinant in how we operate.'' The company's service to Ontario, he said, ''is where it should be.''
This has left Ontario with a conundrum: declining flights mean that airports must charge airlines higher fees per passenger to recoup expenses, and Ontario's fee of $11.12 per passenger was close to the $12.18 that Los Angeles International charged in the 2012-13 fiscal year, according to airport officials who set the fees.
And with high fees, airlines are more likely to move flights elsewhere to lower those costs -- there are scant direct flights to the East Coast favored by business travelers -- or raise fares to recoup them. While it was once regularly less expensive to fly out of Ontario than Los Angeles International, now it rarely is, Sean Nealon said as he returned from a trip to Montana.
''You can't get a red-eye to New York like you used to,'' said Mr. Nealon, who grew up near Buffalo.
Ontario's decline stands in contrast to the region's other smaller airports, like Burbank International, Long Beach and Orange County, which have mostly rebounded from the recession.
But as Ontario struggles, what has gained the most attention locally is the political tug of war over control of the airport.
Los Angeles World Airports, an agency of the city of Los Angeles, has operated Ontario and several other smaller airports along with Los Angeles International since the 1960s, when the largely rural area was happy not to have the task of running an airport. Now, though, a group of Inland Empire officials, headed by an Ontario city councilman, Alan Wapner, and a team of consultants and lawyers, have started a bid to take the airport back.
They have set up a shadow airport board and begun a public relations campaign that includes a Web site, setontariofree.com. In June, they fired their sharpest shot, filing a breach-of-contract lawsuit against Los Angeles in an effort to return control of Ontario to local officials. Mr. Wapner said that the airport agency had eliminated advertising, raised airline fees and neglected Ontario facilities, all with the purpose of driving business to Los Angeles International.
''Initially, we gave them the benefit of the doubt,'' Mr. Wapner said in an interview. ''We just said it's mismanagement or miscalculation. But when you go from seven million to four million passengers in such a short period of time, it wasn't accidental, it was intentional. There's no vested interest for a city located 40 miles away in another county doing anything here that doesn't service them. In fact, it's just the opposite. If a business is here, they're not using the services in L.A.''
Gina Marie Lindsey, the executive director of Los Angeles World Airports, declined to comment through a spokeswoman, citing the impending litigation. But Ontario's city manager, Chris Hughes, who is leading negotiations, is hopeful that the newly elected mayor of Los Angeles, Eric Garcetti, who has not announced if he will retain Ms. Lindsey, will be more open to returning the Ontario airport to local control than his predecessor, Antonio Villaraigosa.
The belief that a return of local control will ultimately lead to the boom in economic development around the airport is embraced in the area. But a few voices warn that it would not be a panacea.
''Local control isn't a magic wand,'' said Janice Rutherford, the chairwoman of the San Bernardino County Board of Supervisors.
This spiral is not unlike what many in the Inland Empire know about the housing market, how one foreclosure can unleash a chain of events that soon leaves an entire neighborhood half-vacant.
''I can't think of another situation like it,'' said Jan Brueckner, an economics professor at the University of California, Irvine's Institute of Transportation Studies. ''It's a great airport with good facilities that's underutilized in the middle of millions of people. It's the strangest thing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Traffic at Ontario International Airport in California has dropped by 40 percent since its 2007 peak, even though air travel is recovering. (B1)
 Crowding isn't a problem at Ontario International Airport, but at the taxi stand, cabs often have to be summoned. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (95%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (90%); AIRLINES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (75%); AIR SERVICE (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); CIVIL AVIATION (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); HOME PRICES (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013



74 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: In New Study, Entrepreneurs See the Glass Nearly Empty

BYLINE: ROBB MANDELBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: Marc Andersen, an Ernst &#038; Young partner, said he doesn&#8217;t think American entrepreneurs are spoiled: &#8220;It&#8217;s just part of the DNA of never being satisfied.&#8221; 

 BODY:
At first glance, a new study of the entrepreneurial climate in the world's leading economies suggests that while the United States remains one of the best places to start and build a business, it lags in some important realms: taxes, regulation and providing ongoing support for young and growing companies.
The study, billed as an "entrepreneurship barometer" of the G20 countries, was published last week by the global accounting and consulting firm Ernst & Young. Given the firm's influence among business and political leaders, it seems likely to serve as a jumping-off point for some public hand-wringing. A closer look at the study suggests, however, that the real problem may have more to do with perception than reality - and with how the study presents its results. 
The study looks at what it calls the five pillars of the "entrepreneurial ecosystem." The United States ranks very highly in three categories - top of the list, in fact, for access to financing and for entrepreneurial culture and third on the list for education and training. But for taxes and regulation, the United States ranks 13 out of 20, behind first-place Saudi Arabia and second-place Canada. "U.S. entrepreneurs surveyed were more negative on tax and regulation than any other G20 country, despite the fact that the nation's overall performance is strong," the study said. "Only 5 percent of entrepreneurs from the U.S. claimed that business regulations had improved over the last three years compared to 19 percent across the G20 as a whole."
Marc Andersen, who leads the international government and public sector consulting practice at Ernst & Young, said most of the frustration entrepreneurs feel is directed at the tax code. "They think there's too much complexity and too much burden," he said.
Ernst & Young's barometer is a mix of data from sources like the World Bank and impressions gleaned from surveys of entrepreneurs and others. And when it comes to taxes and regulation, the data and the surveys tell very different stories. For example, a midsize business in the United States typically spends 183 hours a year on tax issues - but the average across the G20 is almost twice that. In fact, on every statistical measure presented for taxes and regulations, the United States scores better, and usually much better, than the average across all of the G20 economies. The number of days needed to start an American business is six; across the G20 it is 22. The cost of firing an American worker is 27 weeks worth of wages, compared to an average of 50 weeks elsewhere.
According to Ernst & Young, a country's score in any category is based evenly on the quantitative and qualitative results. The feedback from American businesses surveyed was so uniformly negative, the firm said, that it swamped the above-average statistical scores.
The study's analysis, though, does not clearly identify the dichotomy. Nor does it attempt to explain it. Could American entrepreneurs simply be taking the opportunity to whine a bit? Or are they high-minded perfectionists? Mr. Andersen, for his part, thinks they are the latter. "If you look at the data, you wonder why are people so upset," he said. "It's not about being better than that other country, it's how much better we can be. That's part of being a leader. I think there's a fundamental recognition that it's never going to be good enough. We have to keep pushing.
"I don't think they're spoiled," he continued. "It's just part of the DNA of never being satisfied."
The United States performs even worse in what the study calls coordinated support, which considers government and private programs that provide mentoring and other technical assistance to entrepreneurs. While the United States ranks last in this category, the leader is Russia, followed by eight other developing economies. In fact, the ranking is nearly evenly divided, with developing economies ranking in the top half and mature economies in the bottom half.
What could account for such a split - with developing economies ranking higher than mature economies? For this pillar, Ernst & Young relies only survey questions probing entrepreneurs' visceral feelings about these programs; there is no statistical data. The study says that only 9 percent of American entrepreneurs thought that access to government-run support services for start-ups was improving, much lower than in the rest of the G20, and Mr. Andersen said that entrepreneurs in developing economies were more likely to register improvements. "It's the ability to create a new government program where one didn't exist, and it's like magic," he said. "And in a mature market, it's harder to show improvement."
That could be true, though one might then question the utility of the ranking, or even its fairness - the clear implication is that one might get more help opening a business in Russia than in the United States. But not showing improvement is not the same as circumstances worsening, and the study does suggest that, "entrepreneurs in mature markets feel that access to government start-up programs is deteriorating." In the United States, "entrepreneurs surveyed report more deterioration over the last three years than in any other G20 country."
Of course, entrepreneurial support networks are diverse and far-flung, so it is hard to evaluate this sentiment. But it is possible to examine the part of this ecosystem that is supported by the federal government through the Small Business Administration. For one, the network of small business development centers jointly funded by state government and S.B.A. grants is maintaining the amount of counseling it has done in the past, despite an 8.2 percent federal funding cut brought on the by the budget sequester, said C.E. Rowe, president of America's SBDC, the association representing development centers, though he acknowledged wait times are longer.
W. Kenneth Yancey, chief executive of Score, another large counseling network that receives financing through the S.B.A., said the organization's volunteer mentors were actually seeing more clients this year and spending more time with them. "We're definitely feeling the effects of reduced budgets," he said. "But the people out in the field, our volunteers, are still making themselves available. Since there's no labor cost, our ability to provide counseling in a difficult budget environment is different from others."
In all, grants for entrepreneurial assistance made through the S.B.A. this year fell by 8.6 percent from 2010 levels, but they are still higher than they were in 2008, before the recession.
So maybe things aren't as bad as the entrepreneurs surveyed by Ernst & Young believe. These studies are a tricky business: the responses can be subjective, as can the indicators that are selected for measurement. But Mr. Andersen stood by Ernst & Young's efforts.
"The intent was to spark dialogue and have conversation," he said.

        
Questions on a Study of the Cost of Federal Regulation
        
This Week in Small Business: Not Again!
        
S.B.A. Administrator Announces Resignation
        
This Week in Small Business: Free Furniture!
        
Today in Small Business: Employee Monitoring

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (93%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); ACCOUNTING (77%); TAX LAW (77%); DEREGULATION (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Entrepreneurship; Ernst & Young; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Small Business; Small Business Administration; Taxation; United States Economy; The Agenda

COMPANY: ERNST & YOUNG LLP (84%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Ernst &amp; Young; Small Business Administration

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (84%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (84%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013



75 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2000 words

HEADLINE: Morning Agenda: Microsoft's Nokia Deal

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Microsoft to acquire the handset and services business of Nokia for about $7.2 billion. | Verizon is betting the American desire for cellphones and broadband services is far from being sated. | A new book asks whether advice from McKinsey &#038; Company is worth it. | The trustee for victims of Bernard L. Madoff has added claims to his lawsuit. 

 BODY:
Microsoft has reached an agreement to acquire the handset and services business of Nokia for about $7.2 billion, an audacious effort to reshape itself for a mobile era that has largely passed it by, Nick Wingfield reports in The New York Times. Microsoft and Nokia said 32,000 Nokia employees would join Microsoft as a result of the all-cash deal, which makes the Finnish mobile phone pioneer the engine for Microsoft's mobile efforts.
The deal also gives Microsoft a potential successor to Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, who will retire within 12 months: Stephen A. Elop, a former Microsoft executive who was running Nokia until the deal was signed, will rejoin Microsoft after the transaction closes.
"This agreement is really a bold step into the future for Microsoft," Mr. Ballmer said by phone from Finland. "We're excited about the talent capabilities it will bring to Microsoft." 
VERIZON SEALS $130 BILLION VODAFONE DEAL | Verizon Communications agreed on Monday to take full control of its wireless unit for $130 billion, in a bet that the American desire for cellphones and broadband services was still far from being sated, Michael J. de la Merced and Mark Scott report in DealBook. The deal, more than a decade in the making, allows Verizon to take advantage of receptive debt markets and its own strong stock to buy out its longtime partner, Vodafone of Britain. It also leaves Vodafone flush with cash to reinvest in its own businesses and buy competitors.
While the roughly 100 million Verizon Wireless customers probably will not see any immediate changes in service, the telecommunications industry is very much in flux, with new competitors like SoftBank of Japan in the market and new opportunities for wireless services emerging, DealBook writes. In light of those trends, Verizon deemed it essential to gain control of its biggest business, which in the most recent quarter accounted for $20 billion of the company's nearly $30 billion in revenue. Among the company's plans is bundling mobile broadband services with wired offerings like high-speed, fiber-optic connections.
"There's a big phase of growth in the U.S. telecom market," Lowell C. McAdam, Verizon's chief executive, said in an interview. "The timing was perfect for us." Under the terms of the deal, Verizon agreed to pay $58.9 billion in cash and an additional $60.2 billion worth of its shares to Vodafone, the latter of which will be distributed to Vodafone's shareholders.
The banks helping to arrange and finance the transaction are eager to take part in a bonanza of fees, Mr. de la Merced reports. Advisers to Verizon could earn $110 million to $125 million, while bankers for Vodafone could reap $100 million to $118 million, according to estimates from Freeman & Company. In addition, with roughly $60 billion in financing, bankers could enjoy well over $150 million in fees for arranging the debt.
A LOOK BEHIND MCKINSEY'S SUCCESS | The management consulting firm McKinsey & Company has been the go-to strategy adviser for the world's top companies. "So why has its advice, at times, turned out to be so bad?" Andrew Ross Sorkin writes in the DealBook column. "It often goes unmentioned, but McKinsey has indeed offered some of the worst advice in the annals of business."
"A thought-provoking new book called 'The Firm: The Story of McKinsey and Its Secret Influence on American Business,' which comes out next Tuesday, offers a fascinating look behind the company's success," Mr. Sorkin writes. "The book, by Duff McDonald, chronicles McKinsey's rise, but also raises an important question about it that is applicable to the entire netherworld of consultants, advisers and other corporate hangers-on: 'Are they worth it or not?'"
ON THE AGENDA | The ISM manufacturing index for August is out at 10 a.m. Data on construction spending in July is out at 10 a.m. H&R Block reports earnings after the market closes.
MADOFF TRUSTEE ADDS DETAILS TO SUIT | J. Ezra Merkin, a prominent Wall Street financier who had earned a fortune investing his clients' money with Bernard L. Madoff, "willfully blinded" himself to numerous indications that Mr. Madoff was a con man, according to new claims in a lawsuit filed on Friday in Federal District Court in Manhattan by the trustee for victims of Mr. Madoff's fraud. The filing includes details of a 2003 meeting between Mr. Merkin and a research company in which Mr. Merkin admitted that he did not fully understand Mr. Madoff's business and questioned its legitimacy, Peter Lattman reports in DealBook.
"Despite Merkin's knowledge that Madoff was running a Ponzi scheme, that Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities was a fraud, and that Madoff could not have achieved his incredible returns, Merkin never pressed Madoff for an explanation but instead participated in Madoff's fraud," wrote the trustee, Irving L. Picard, in the amended complaint, which updated an action originally filed in 2009.
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Bank of America Seeks Up to $1.5 Billion for China Construction Bank Stake | Bank of America is following other Wall Street banks in seeking to cash out of what have been very profitable investments in China's sprawling and state-controlled banking industry. DealBook »
Yankee Candle Is Said to Be Sold for $1.75 Billion | The private equity firm Madison Dearborn Partners has agreed to sell the scented candle company Yankee Candle to the Jarden Corporation, a consumer products maker, according to The Wall Street Journal, which cites unidentified people familiar with the matter. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Takeover Bid for Chinese Food Company Rebuffs Short-Seller Attack | Shares in the China Minzhong Food Corporation, targeted last week by the California short-seller Glaucus Research Group, surged 112 percent after the company received a $576 million takeover offer from Indofood Sukses Makmur. DealBook »
Rakuten of Japan Is Said to Be Buying a Video Site for $200 Million | The Japanese e-commerce giant Rakuten is purchasing Viki, a premium video site, Rakuten's chief executive told Kara Swisher of AllThingsD. The price is $200 million, according to the report, which cites unidentified people with knowledge of the situation. ALLTHINGSD
Cumulus Media to Buy Dial Global, a Radio Syndicator | The $260 million deal could heighten the competition in radio against Clear Channel Communications. NEW YORK TIMES
A Lesson for Boardroom Battles | A proxy battle involving an Israeli company listed in the United States could serve as a lesson for how the proxy access rule could be used as a weapon in boardroom battles, Steven M. Davidoff writes in the Deal Professor column. DealBook »
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Barclays to Sell Retail Bank in United Arab Emirates | "Following a strategic review, Barclays has decided to refocus its efforts in the U.A.E. on its key strengths in corporate and investment banking and wealth and investment management," Barclays said in a statement on Tuesday. REUTERS
Barclays Rights Offering May Coincide With Lehman Anniversary | Barclays is set to begin a roughly $9 billion rights offering in two weeks, "possibly on the fifth anniversary of its takeover of the U.S. operations of Lehman Brothers, people familiar with the matter said on Monday," Reuters reports. REUTERS
A Suicide Clouds a Top Banker's Image | Josef Ackermann's resignation from the Zurich Insurance Group after the suicide of the chief financial officer "interrupted a career spent fearlessly shaking up the European business world and advocating American-style standards of corporate performance," The New York Times writes. NEW YORK TIMES
A Sign of Confidence Among London's Financial Firms | With London's financial services companies looking to hire in investment banking and trading, job vacancies increased 16 percent last month, according to the recruitment firm Astbury Marsden, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Anglo Irish Bank's Art Collection on the Block | The sale of the collection will pave the way for the sale of the bank's other assets, The Financial Times reports. FINANCIAL TIMES
Barclays Hires Former Morgan Stanley Equity Strategist in Japan | 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY »
Three Investment Veterans Plan to Raise a New Fund | Three investment professionals formerly of the Blackstone Group, Temasek Holdings and Goldman Sachs "are raising a maiden fund targeting $300 million on behalf of their new firm Zoyi Capital, according to a person familiar with the situation," The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Qatar Fund Said to Have Big Hiring Plans | By hiring senior bankers and other executives, Qatar's sovereign wealth fund is looking to lessen its reliance on Europe, Reuters reports. REUTERS
HEDGE FUNDS »
With Huge War Chests, Activist Investors Tackle Big Companies | Activist hedge funds are taking on larger companies and seeking long-term change over short-term profit, unlike raiders of the past.
DealBook »
Activist Looks to Shake Up Board of Billabong | Coastal Capital International, a Billabong investor, is pushing for shareholders to vote on removing most of the Australian company's directors, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
Twitter's Finance Chief Said to Talk With Banks Over I.P.O. | Mike Gupta, Twitter's chief financial officer, is talking to banks about handling the company's initial public offering, Bloomberg News reports. "Twitter is awaiting third-quarter financial results before deciding whether to file the I.P.O. paperwork with regulators this year or next, said people who asked not to be identified because the plans are confidential," the report continues. BLOOMBERG NEWS
VENTURE CAPITAL »
In Silicon Valley, Wall Street-Style Excess | "It feels as if the promise of the tech world - its utopian ideals and democratic aspirations - has dissolved into much more selfish pursuits of power and wealth," Jenna Wortham writes in a column in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Former Chinese Railroad Official Indicted on Bribery Charges | A former high-ranking Chinese railroad official, whose daughter's employment at JPMorgan Chase is a focus of an antibribery investigation in the United States, has been formally indicted on bribery charges in a Beijing court. DealBook »
With Summers Expected at the Fed, Stimulus Easing Is Seen | "The spreading expectation that President Obama will name Lawrence H. Summers to lead the Federal Reserve Board appears to be working against the central bank's efforts to stimulate the economy," The New York Times reports. "The jitters even have some analysts betting that a Summers nomination could lead to slower economic growth, less job creation and higher interest rates than if the president named Janet L. Yellen, the Fed's vice chairwoman." NEW YORK TIMES
As Comptroller, Thompson Gave Work to Donors | William C. Thompson Jr., who was New York City's comptroller until 2009, "reaped political gains from those he awarded city business," The New York Times writes. NEW YORK TIMES
Basel Committee Eases Rule on Derivatives | Reuters writes: "Global regulators have eased the impact of new rules designed to make the $630 trillion derivatives market safer as they seek to avoid too-tight controls on the sector that some banks argue could harm economic recovery." REUTERS
Former Goldman Trader Fined $500,000 | A former Goldman Sachs trader who pleaded guilty in a criminal case earlier this year to fabricating huge positions to protect his bonus agreed on Friday to pay a $500,000 fine in a related civil matter. DealBook »
Tax Haven Closes for Wealthy Americans | A tax deal reached between Switzerland and the United States on Thursday effectively put an end to the status of the small Alpine country as a tax haven for wealthy Americans. DealBook »
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (91%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (91%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); BROADBAND (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (79%); INTERVIEWS (77%); WIRELESS BROADBAND (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); TRENDS (73%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (72%); WILLS (69%); FIBER OPTICS (67%); SHAREHOLDERS (65%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: NOKIA CORP (94%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); VODAFONE GROUP PLC (92%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (91%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%)

TICKER: NOK1V (HEL) (94%); NOK1V (BIT) (94%); NOK (NYSE) (94%); VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); VOD (NASDAQ) (92%); VOD (LSE) (92%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (91%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%)

PERSON: STEVEN A BALLMER (79%); LOWELL MCADAM (77%); BERNARD MADOFF (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013



76 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2000 words

HEADLINE: Morning Agenda: Microsoft's Nokia Deal

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Microsoft to acquire the handset and services business of Nokia for about $7.2 billion. | Verizon is betting the American desire for cellphones and broadband services is far from being sated. | A new book asks whether advice from McKinsey &#038; Company is worth it. | The trustee for victims of Bernard L. Madoff has added claims to his lawsuit. 

 BODY:
Microsoft has reached an agreement to acquire the handset and services business of Nokia for about $7.2 billion, an audacious effort to reshape itself for a mobile era that has largely passed it by, Nick Wingfield reports in The New York Times. Microsoft and Nokia said 32,000 Nokia employees would join Microsoft as a result of the all-cash deal, which makes the Finnish mobile phone pioneer the engine for Microsoft's mobile efforts.
The deal also gives Microsoft a potential successor to Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, who will retire within 12 months: Stephen A. Elop, a former Microsoft executive who was running Nokia until the deal was signed, will rejoin Microsoft after the transaction closes.
"This agreement is really a bold step into the future for Microsoft," Mr. Ballmer said by phone from Finland. "We're excited about the talent capabilities it will bring to Microsoft." 
VERIZON SEALS $130 BILLION VODAFONE DEAL | Verizon Communications agreed on Monday to take full control of its wireless unit for $130 billion, in a bet that the American desire for cellphones and broadband services was still far from being sated, Michael J. de la Merced and Mark Scott report in DealBook. The deal, more than a decade in the making, allows Verizon to take advantage of receptive debt markets and its own strong stock to buy out its longtime partner, Vodafone of Britain. It also leaves Vodafone flush with cash to reinvest in its own businesses and buy competitors.
While the roughly 100 million Verizon Wireless customers probably will not see any immediate changes in service, the telecommunications industry is very much in flux, with new competitors like SoftBank of Japan in the market and new opportunities for wireless services emerging, DealBook writes. In light of those trends, Verizon deemed it essential to gain control of its biggest business, which in the most recent quarter accounted for $20 billion of the company's nearly $30 billion in revenue. Among the company's plans is bundling mobile broadband services with wired offerings like high-speed, fiber-optic connections.
"There's a big phase of growth in the U.S. telecom market," Lowell C. McAdam, Verizon's chief executive, said in an interview. "The timing was perfect for us." Under the terms of the deal, Verizon agreed to pay $58.9 billion in cash and an additional $60.2 billion worth of its shares to Vodafone, the latter of which will be distributed to Vodafone's shareholders.
The banks helping to arrange and finance the transaction are eager to take part in a bonanza of fees, Mr. de la Merced reports. Advisers to Verizon could earn $110 million to $125 million, while bankers for Vodafone could reap $100 million to $118 million, according to estimates from Freeman & Company. In addition, with roughly $60 billion in financing, bankers could enjoy well over $150 million in fees for arranging the debt.
A LOOK BEHIND MCKINSEY'S SUCCESS | The management consulting firm McKinsey & Company has been the go-to strategy adviser for the world's top companies. "So why has its advice, at times, turned out to be so bad?" Andrew Ross Sorkin writes in the DealBook column. "It often goes unmentioned, but McKinsey has indeed offered some of the worst advice in the annals of business."
"A thought-provoking new book called 'The Firm: The Story of McKinsey and Its Secret Influence on American Business,' which comes out next Tuesday, offers a fascinating look behind the company's success," Mr. Sorkin writes. "The book, by Duff McDonald, chronicles McKinsey's rise, but also raises an important question about it that is applicable to the entire netherworld of consultants, advisers and other corporate hangers-on: 'Are they worth it or not?'"
ON THE AGENDA | The ISM manufacturing index for August is out at 10 a.m. Data on construction spending in July is out at 10 a.m. H&R Block reports earnings after the market closes.
MADOFF TRUSTEE ADDS DETAILS TO SUIT | J. Ezra Merkin, a prominent Wall Street financier who had earned a fortune investing his clients' money with Bernard L. Madoff, "willfully blinded" himself to numerous indications that Mr. Madoff was a con man, according to new claims in a lawsuit filed on Friday in Federal District Court in Manhattan by the trustee for victims of Mr. Madoff's fraud. The filing includes details of a 2003 meeting between Mr. Merkin and a research company in which Mr. Merkin admitted that he did not fully understand Mr. Madoff's business and questioned its legitimacy, Peter Lattman reports in DealBook.
"Despite Merkin's knowledge that Madoff was running a Ponzi scheme, that Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities was a fraud, and that Madoff could not have achieved his incredible returns, Merkin never pressed Madoff for an explanation but instead participated in Madoff's fraud," wrote the trustee, Irving L. Picard, in the amended complaint, which updated an action originally filed in 2009.
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Bank of America Seeks Up to $1.5 Billion for China Construction Bank Stake | Bank of America is following other Wall Street banks in seeking to cash out of what have been very profitable investments in China's sprawling and state-controlled banking industry. DealBook »
Yankee Candle Is Said to Be Sold for $1.75 Billion | The private equity firm Madison Dearborn Partners has agreed to sell the scented candle company Yankee Candle to the Jarden Corporation, a consumer products maker, according to The Wall Street Journal, which cites unidentified people familiar with the matter. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Takeover Bid for Chinese Food Company Rebuffs Short-Seller Attack | Shares in the China Minzhong Food Corporation, targeted last week by the California short-seller Glaucus Research Group, surged 112 percent after the company received a $576 million takeover offer from Indofood Sukses Makmur. DealBook »
Rakuten of Japan Is Said to Be Buying a Video Site for $200 Million | The Japanese e-commerce giant Rakuten is purchasing Viki, a premium video site, Rakuten's chief executive told Kara Swisher of AllThingsD. The price is $200 million, according to the report, which cites unidentified people with knowledge of the situation. ALLTHINGSD
Cumulus Media to Buy Dial Global, a Radio Syndicator | The $260 million deal could heighten the competition in radio against Clear Channel Communications. NEW YORK TIMES
A Lesson for Boardroom Battles | A proxy battle involving an Israeli company listed in the United States could serve as a lesson for how the proxy access rule could be used as a weapon in boardroom battles, Steven M. Davidoff writes in the Deal Professor column. DealBook »
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Barclays to Sell Retail Bank in United Arab Emirates | "Following a strategic review, Barclays has decided to refocus its efforts in the U.A.E. on its key strengths in corporate and investment banking and wealth and investment management," Barclays said in a statement on Tuesday. REUTERS
Barclays Rights Offering May Coincide With Lehman Anniversary | Barclays is set to begin a roughly $9 billion rights offering in two weeks, "possibly on the fifth anniversary of its takeover of the U.S. operations of Lehman Brothers, people familiar with the matter said on Monday," Reuters reports. REUTERS
A Suicide Clouds a Top Banker's Image | Josef Ackermann's resignation from the Zurich Insurance Group after the suicide of the chief financial officer "interrupted a career spent fearlessly shaking up the European business world and advocating American-style standards of corporate performance," The New York Times writes. NEW YORK TIMES
A Sign of Confidence Among London's Financial Firms | With London's financial services companies looking to hire in investment banking and trading, job vacancies increased 16 percent last month, according to the recruitment firm Astbury Marsden, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Anglo Irish Bank's Art Collection on the Block | The sale of the collection will pave the way for the sale of the bank's other assets, The Financial Times reports. FINANCIAL TIMES
Barclays Hires Former Morgan Stanley Equity Strategist in Japan | 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY »
Three Investment Veterans Plan to Raise a New Fund | Three investment professionals formerly of the Blackstone Group, Temasek Holdings and Goldman Sachs "are raising a maiden fund targeting $300 million on behalf of their new firm Zoyi Capital, according to a person familiar with the situation," The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Qatar Fund Said to Have Big Hiring Plans | By hiring senior bankers and other executives, Qatar's sovereign wealth fund is looking to lessen its reliance on Europe, Reuters reports. REUTERS
HEDGE FUNDS »
With Huge War Chests, Activist Investors Tackle Big Companies | Activist hedge funds are taking on larger companies and seeking long-term change over short-term profit, unlike raiders of the past.
DealBook »
Activist Looks to Shake Up Board of Billabong | Coastal Capital International, a Billabong investor, is pushing for shareholders to vote on removing most of the Australian company's directors, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
Twitter's Finance Chief Said to Talk With Banks Over I.P.O. | Mike Gupta, Twitter's chief financial officer, is talking to banks about handling the company's initial public offering, Bloomberg News reports. "Twitter is awaiting third-quarter financial results before deciding whether to file the I.P.O. paperwork with regulators this year or next, said people who asked not to be identified because the plans are confidential," the report continues. BLOOMBERG NEWS
VENTURE CAPITAL »
In Silicon Valley, Wall Street-Style Excess | "It feels as if the promise of the tech world - its utopian ideals and democratic aspirations - has dissolved into much more selfish pursuits of power and wealth," Jenna Wortham writes in a column in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Former Chinese Railroad Official Indicted on Bribery Charges | A former high-ranking Chinese railroad official, whose daughter's employment at JPMorgan Chase is a focus of an antibribery investigation in the United States, has been formally indicted on bribery charges in a Beijing court. DealBook »
With Summers Expected at the Fed, Stimulus Easing Is Seen | "The spreading expectation that President Obama will name Lawrence H. Summers to lead the Federal Reserve Board appears to be working against the central bank's efforts to stimulate the economy," The New York Times reports. "The jitters even have some analysts betting that a Summers nomination could lead to slower economic growth, less job creation and higher interest rates than if the president named Janet L. Yellen, the Fed's vice chairwoman." NEW YORK TIMES
As Comptroller, Thompson Gave Work to Donors | William C. Thompson Jr., who was New York City's comptroller until 2009, "reaped political gains from those he awarded city business," The New York Times writes. NEW YORK TIMES
Basel Committee Eases Rule on Derivatives | Reuters writes: "Global regulators have eased the impact of new rules designed to make the $630 trillion derivatives market safer as they seek to avoid too-tight controls on the sector that some banks argue could harm economic recovery." REUTERS
Former Goldman Trader Fined $500,000 | A former Goldman Sachs trader who pleaded guilty in a criminal case earlier this year to fabricating huge positions to protect his bonus agreed on Friday to pay a $500,000 fine in a related civil matter. DealBook »
Tax Haven Closes for Wealthy Americans | A tax deal reached between Switzerland and the United States on Thursday effectively put an end to the status of the small Alpine country as a tax haven for wealthy Americans. DealBook »
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (91%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (91%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); BROADBAND (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (79%); INTERVIEWS (77%); WIRELESS BROADBAND (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); TRENDS (73%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (72%); WILLS (69%); FIBER OPTICS (67%); SHAREHOLDERS (65%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: NOKIA CORP (94%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); VODAFONE GROUP PLC (92%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (91%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%)

TICKER: NOK1V (HEL) (94%); NOK1V (BIT) (94%); NOK (NYSE) (94%); VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); VOD (NASDAQ) (92%); VOD (LSE) (92%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (91%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%)

PERSON: STEVEN A BALLMER (79%); LOWELL MCADAM (77%); BERNARD MADOFF (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013



77 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Today in Small Business: Is Podcasting Back?

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Five business stories to watch. How to terminate an employee you don&#8217;t want to terminate. Nine Israeli start-ups. 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners today.
Best Read of the Weekend

        
Robert N. Charette says that the science, technology, engineering, and mathematics crisis is a myth: "Forget the dire predictions of a looming shortfall of scientists, technologists, engineers, and mathematicians. One study found, for example, that wages for U.S. workers in computer and math fields have largely stagnated since 2000. Even as the Great Recession slowly recedes, S.T.E.M workers at every stage of the career pipeline, from freshly minted grads to mid- and late-career Ph.D.'s, still struggle to find employment as many companies, including Boeing, I.B.M., and Symantec, continue to lay off thousands of S.T.E.M. workers."
 Social Media 

        
Jeff Bullas says podcasting is the not-new media trend.

Economy

        
Here are 14 countries that don't have debt ceilings and are not on fire.
        
And here are five business stories to watch this fall.
        
Tooth Fairy inflation is pushing the price of a tooth to nearly $4.
Finance

        
Philadelphia schoolteachers are turning to crowdfunding for supplies.
Employees

        
Paolo Gaudiano has advice for when you need to terminate an employee for financial reasons: "Rather than firing employees outright, give them the option to reduce their workload to half time for a predetermined, limited period. Tell them clearly that you value their work but are forced to do this for financial reasons. And give them a candid assessment of the situation, making it clear that unless things improve in the interim, they will be let go at the end of the halftime period."
        
Here are 10 of the fastest-growing occupations in the United States.
        
This is National Payroll Week.
Travel

        
If you're planning on flying this fall, you should expect high fares and scarce seats.
Entrepreneurs

        
These are 10 great videos for entrepreneurs by entrepreneurs.
Around the Country

        
A Tulsa entrepreneur is leading an effort to improve a downtown neighborhood.
        
Three mayors in Florida are arrested.
Around the World

        
China's economy strengthens as a measure of factory work hits a 16-month high.
        
These nine Israeli start-ups are ready to rock the advertising world.
        
Dunkin' Donuts apologizes for a "bizarre and racist" Thai advertising poster.
Innovation

        
Mariana Mazzucato says that it's the state, and not entrepreneurs, that drives new technology: "Recognizing the state as a lead risk-taker, and enabling it to reap a reward, will not only make the innovation system stronger, it will also spread the profits of growth more fairly. This will ensure that education, health, and transportation can benefit from state investments in innovation, instead of just the small number of people who see themselves as wealth creators, while relying increasingly on the courageous, entrepreneurial state."
Technology

        
New data shows that Windows 8 appears to have made a significant jump in market share even though Windows 7 is expected to stay the most popular operating system version for a long time.
        
Android accounted for 65 percent of all smartphone sales in nine influential markets (Britain, Germany, France, Italy, Spain, United States, Australia, China, Mexico) in the 12-week period through the end of July.
 Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter. 

        
In New Study, Entrepreneurs See the Glass Nearly Empty
        
Today in Small Business: Employee Monitoring
        
Today in Small Business: The Salad Dressing Barometer
        
Today in Small Business: Walmart Vs. Amazon
        
Today in Small Business: Are You a Manager or a Leader?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (92%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (91%); ENGINEERING (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); MATHEMATICS (89%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); DISMISSALS (76%); INFLATION (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); PODCASTING (73%); LABOR SHORTAGES (72%); SOCIAL MEDIA (69%); CROWDSOURCING (69%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (66%); DEBT CEILING (53%) Entrepreneurship; Small Business; United States Economy; Dashboard

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (63%); SYMANTEC CORP (56%); BOEING CO (56%)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (63%); SYMC (NASDAQ) (56%); BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (63%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (63%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013



78 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: Paid Vacation's Decline

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: A smaller share of private sector workers get paid vacation days than was the case two decades ago. But the number of days has increased for those who get them. 

 BODY:
Americans working in the private sector are less likely to have paid vacation days than was the case 20 years ago, according to a recent report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. 
In 1992-93, 82 percent of American workers reported receiving paid vacation days. Today the share is down to 77 percent. The biggest declines occurred for people working part time and for people working at establishments with fewer than 100 employees.
For most other kinds of paid leave, though, employees' access has increased.
For example, while the United States still remains one of just a handful of countries worldwide that don't require paid maternity leave, the share of American private sector workers who do have access to paid family leave has risen. It is still very rarely offered, though. As of 2012, 11 percent of private sector workers said they had paid family leave (which includes leave to care for family members). In 1992-93, when the survey question was worded more narrowly, 2 percent of workers said they received paid maternity benefits and 1 percent paid paternity benefits.
Sick leave has also become more common, although it is also still not universal. As of last year, 61 percent of private sector employees had access to paid sick leave, compared with 50 percent two decades ago.
Vacation time, while less common among private sector workers over all, appears to have become somewhat more generous for those full-timers who do have access to it. The average private sector, full-time worker got eight days of vacation after a year of service in 1992-93, versus 10 days for his counterpart in 2012.
Ten days is better than eight, but still pales in comparison to what employees in other developed countries enjoy, by law.According to the Center for Economic and Policy Research, a liberal research organization, the typical developed country mandates at least 20 paid vacation days.

        
Comparing the World's Glass Ceilings
        
Incentives for Men, to Help Women to Work
        
The Family and Medical Leave Act, 20 Years Later
        
Not Really Labor's Day
        
The Audacity of the Fight for Higher Wages

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (96%); HOLIDAY & VACATION LEAVE (92%); US FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (90%); MATERNITY LEAVE (90%); SICK LEAVE (90%); FAMILY (90%); FAMILY LEAVE (90%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PATERNITY LEAVE (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); STATISTICS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (67%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (62%); LIBERALISM (62%) Employee Fringe Benefits; Family Leaves; Paid Time Off; Travel and Vacations; United States Economy

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013



79 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: Pair of Nimble Hands Ever Ready at U.S. Open, With a Needle

BYLINE: EDNA ISHAYIK


HIGHLIGHT: Kathy Karadza, sewing machine close by, is constantly coming to the rescue of players at the tennis tournament, be it to repair a rip or to affix a patch from a last-minute sponsor. 

 BODY:
Kathy Karadza is under intense pressure during the early stages of the United States Open tennis tournament. She is in near-constant motion and the demand for perfection is often intense. 
But Ms. Karadza is not a player, a coach or even a ball person. She is a highly trained seamstress, on site full time during the first nine days of the tournament, poised to make repairs and prevent any tennis outfit malfunctions. Forty alterations per day or more is routine. 
"Once I walk in I don't really stop," Ms. Karadza said. "Hemming skirts, fixing stitching, putting bra pads in tanks. Someone tore her shorts. It was really hectic." 
Clothing is chosen carefully to allow maximum performance, so having professional sewing help readily available is vital. "You want something that allows you to play without interference," said Brian Baker, an American player who called upon Ms. Karadza to sew a patch bearing the name of a sponsor onto his clothing just before a singles match last Wednesday. "If the material is not the most comfortable, you're not going to play your best and you're going to think about it." (Mr. Baker lost the match.) 
Ms. Karadza, 37, who lives in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, has also employed her skills on the sets of soap operas, on fashion runways and behind the scenes of Broadway shows, like "The Lion King.'' But last week, as the only official United States Open seamstress, she was stationed inside the women's locker room at the Billie Jean King National Tennis Center in Queens, her sewing machine whirring almost constantly. 
This is the first year Ms. Karadza has worked at the tournament, but the fourth year that the open has had an official seamstress. Before that, players were on their own, but officials decided that their sewing skills were lacking.
Male players often show up with multiple shirts that need a rip repaired or other alterations so that they will have plenty as mid-match replacements. "Someone needed seven," Ms. Karadza said. "And he wanted them immediately. I got them done. People wait till the last minute. A lot of times it's a half-hour before the match, I hand them the shirt." 
Ms. Karadza's most common task involves late requests to apply sponsors' patches. These can be particularly tricky because size, color and placement restrictions are strictly delineated in several paragraphs of the official five-page tournament rule book on attire. Fines for faulty patch placement can cost players up to $20,000 per infraction. 
In the early rounds, lower-ranked players who play on a court where the matches are televised can find themselves with new sponsors who want their names promoted. That was the case on Friday when Ms. Karadza was presented with an irregularly shaped VitaCoco patch to sew on Donald Young's shirt hours before he lost a match played on the Grandstand court and broadcast on ESPN2. 
To comply with the rules, Ms. Karadza lopped off the head of a palm tree and a cursive tag line, rendering the coconut water brand's normally festive logo a more mundane, rectangular shape. 
Another player, Camila Giorgi from Italy, needed Ms. Karadza's help affixing a patch from an 11th-hour sponsor, SuperTennis, an Italian tennis channel, to the front of a pale blue dress designed my Ms. Giorgi's mother. Ms. Giorgi wasn't sure what she would have done had Ms. Karadza not been available. "I don't sew - I will put it in a different way, maybe with an adhesive," she said. (Ms. Giorgi wound up beating a higher-ranked player.) 
As the tournament reaches the final rounds and the courts are taken over by top players, Ms. Karadza's sewing hands are usually no longer much needed. Players tend to have longstanding sponsorships and plenty of camera-ready outfits. But should a new patch need to be applied after Ms. Karadza vacates her post, she says, some players have been known to resort to a common office device - a stapler. 

        
Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, Aug. 28
        
Man Charged With Stealing Laptops at U.S. Open
        
Want to Be a Ball Boy at the U.S. Open? Get in Line
        
What Does a Democrat Look Like?
        
Deflation in the Ticket Line

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TENNIS (95%); SPORTS (95%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (91%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); FASHION SHOWS (78%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (71%) Billie Jean King National Tennis Center; Fashion and Apparel; Queens (NYC); Sewing; Tennis; Uniforms; United States Open (Tennis); City Sports

ORGANIZATION: Billie Jean King National Tennis Center

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%) Queens (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



80 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: What's Wrong With Philosophy?

BYLINE: LINDA MARTíN ALCOFF


HIGHLIGHT: Many still believe that women and minorities are not fit for the discipline&#8217;s &#8220;rough and tumble&#8221; style of debate. 

 BODY:
 This is the second of five posts this week on women in philosophy. 
What is wrong with philosophy?
This is the question I was posed by journalists last year while I served as president of the American Philosophical Association, Eastern Division. Why is philosophy so far behind every other humanities department in the diversity of its faculty? Why are its percentages of women and people of color (an intersecting set) so out of tune with the country, even with higher education? What is wrong with philosophy?
And now our field has another newsworthy event: the claims of sexual harassment against the influential philosopher Colin McGinn and his subsequent resignation, a story that made the front page of The New York Times. Here is a leading philosopher of language unable to discern how sexual banter becomes sexual pressure when it is repetitively parlayed from a powerful professor to his young female assistant. It might lead one to wonder, what is wrong with the field of philosophy of language? 
McGinn defended himself by deflecting blame. The student, he argued, simply did not understand enough philosophy of language to get the harmlessness of his jokes. He did not intend harm, nor did his statements logically entail harm; therefore, her sense of harm is on her.

Alas, McGinn's self-defense echoes a common narrative in the discipline concerning its demographic challenges. As The Times article reports, and the philosophy blogosphere will confirm, the paucity in philosophy of women and people of color is often blamed on us. Some suggest it is philosophy's "rough and tumble" style of debate that has turned us women and nonwhite males away. Logical implication: we may just not be cut out for such a demanding field.
Once in graduate school, I ventured to raise a series of skeptical questions to one of the most world-renowned philosophers, Roderick Chisholm, in his seminar on the theory of knowledge. I leaned toward American pragmatism and Wittgenstein; he was a famous foundationalist. He wiped the floor with me, turning my questions to mush and getting a good laugh from the class. This did not surprise me, but what did was that, the next day, Chisholm approached me in the student lounge and asked me gently if I was O.K. I answered, "Yes, of course," which was the truth.
I had observed Chisholm's pedagogical style for two years, and I knew his capacity to turn a student's dissenting opinion into a jello mold of quivering meaninglessness, to the class's mirth. I admired his abilities. But I still wanted to see how he would respond to my specific questions. Despite his jokes, one could garner from his response to my questions a substantive philosophical rejoinder. It was a perfectly legitimate philosophical exchange, livened up a bit to keep his students awake.
Chisholm was typical of the best philosophers of his day and ours in his combination of philosophical acumen and rhetorical skill. Yet he was atypical at that time in his sensitivity to the practical contexts of the argumentative arena. He had enough respect for me to treat me like all other disputants, but also to want me to stay in the game. As one of two women in the class, he was aware I might be experiencing an alienation-induced anxiety about my public performance.
The issue is not debate, simpliciter, but how it is done. Too many philosophers accept the idea that truth is best achieved by a marketplace of ideas conducted in the fashion of ultimate fighting. But aggressive styles that seek easy victories by harping on arcane counterexamples do not maximize truth. Nor does making use of the social advantages one might have by virtue of one's gender, ethnicity or seniority. Nor does stubbornly refusing to acknowledge the real world contexts, rife with implicit bias and power distortions, in which even philosophical debates always occur.
Sometimes, interestingly, the aim of truth is enhanced less by adversarial argument than by a receptivity that holds back on disagreement long enough to try out the new ideas on offer, push them further, see where they might go. Sometimes pedagogy works best not by challenging but by getting on board a student's own agenda. Sometimes understanding is best reached when we expend our skeptical faculties, as Montaigne did, on our own beliefs, our own opinions. If debate is meant to be a means to truth - an idea we philosophers like to believe - the best forms turn out to be a variegated rather than uniform set.
The demographic challenges of philosophy cannot be blamed on the deficiencies of the minority. Unlike Professor Chisholm, McGinn did not check in with his student but continued to lace his e-mails with sexual innuendo, if not propositions. Women who have had this experience in the discipline (me and nearly everyone I know) can be discomfited by the thought that their professor's intellectual praise is strategically motivated, designed with an intent other than the truth. It can throw their confidence, and certainly disable debate. Which may, of course, be quite intentional.
 Linda Martín Alcoff is a professor of philosophy at Hunter College and the City University of New York Graduate Center, and former president of the American Philosophical Association, Eastern Division. She is the author of "Visible Identities: Race, Gender and the Self" and other books. More of her work can be found at her Web site .

        
Women in Philosophy? Do the Math
        
Walking While Black in the 'White Gaze'
        
The Enlightenment's 'Race' Problem, and Ours
        
How Dr. King Shaped My Work in Economics
        
The Plight of the Black P.O.W.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JOURNALISM (90%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (90%); WOMEN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PHILOSOPHY (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); WRITERS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%) Discrimination; Philosophy; sexual harassment; women in philosophy; Sexual Harassment; The Stone

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013



81 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1745 words

HEADLINE: How Fragile Is the New Democratic Coalition?

BYLINE: THOMAS B. EDSALL


HIGHLIGHT: The new shape of the electoral map has its roots in social and demographic changes that can&#8217;t be controlled. 

 BODY:
Last December, Jennifer Duffy, an election analyst at the Cook Political Report, came up with a particularly tantalizing set of data points, the kind that demand further exploration.
In 1988, the Democratic presidential nominee, Michael Dukakis, carried 26 percent of the nation's counties, 819 of 3,144, on his way to losing the Electoral College 426-111 and the popular vote by seven percentage points. In 2012, President Obama won fewer counties, 690, but he won the popular vote by four points and the Electoral College in a landslide, 332-206.
The forces behind this shift illuminate the internal realignments taking place within the two major political parties. But first let's look at how a candidate could carry 129 fewer counties but come out way ahead on Election Day.

In the simplest terms, Democrats started to win populous suburban counties in big states with lots of Electoral College votes beginning with Bill Clinton's first presidential campaign in 1992, at the same time that they began to lose sparsely populated rural counties, many of which lie in small states with very few Electoral College votes.
Take two states as an illustration of this phenomenon: small, thinly populated West Virginia and populous, relatively suburban Pennsylvania. 
In 1988, Dukakis won West Virginia's five Electoral College votes 52-47, carrying 31 of 55 counties, 10 of them with more than 60 percent of the vote. In 2012, Obama was crushed in West Virginia by Mitt Romney 62-38, losing in all 55 counties.
In Pennsylvania in 1988, Dukakis lost the state's 25 Electoral College votes to George H. W. Bush, 51-48. The four major suburban counties surrounding Philadelphia - Bucks, Chester, Delaware and Montgomery - backed Bush over Dukakis by a landslide margin, 62-38.
In 2012, Obama beat Romney 52-47 to win Pennsylvania's 20 Electoral College votes. In the four suburban Philadelphia counties, Obama won by a decisive 55-45 margin.
This pattern of gains for Democrats was visible in the red-to-blue shift from 1988 to 2012 in Long Island's Nassau and Suffolk Counties; in California's Orange, Sacramento, San Bernardino and San Diego Counties; in Michigan's Macomb and Oakland Counties; and in Illinois's DuPage, Will and Lake Counties. In 1988, DuPage County had been the backbone of the Illinois Republican Party, choosing Bush over Dukakis by better than two to one, 69-30; in 2012, DuPage County voters backed Obama over Romney, 50-49.
Bill Bishop, who wrote "The Big Sort" with Robert G. Cushing, noted in an e-mail to The Times:
A big part of the political sorting that's been going on has taken place between these densely populated areas and the rest of the country. It's a way-of-life decision that matches up with political choice. So, in 1976, the average Democratic county had fewer voters than the average Republican county.
Bishop provided Figure 1, which was constructed by Cushing, to show how much the base of the Democratic Party had shifted to densely populated metropolitan areas by 2008:
"The Big Sort" focuses on one of the key factors behind these geographic trends: people are increasingly choosing to move into neighborhoods and communities of like-minded people who share their political views, creating what Bishop and Cushing call "way-of-life segregation."
Americans, in their view,
have been sorting themselves over the past three decades into homogeneous communities - not at the regional level, or the red-state/blue-state level, but at the micro level of city and neighborhood.
Other analysts, including Alan Abramowitz, a political scientist at Emory, have produced evidence of an additional factor encouraging increased local homogeneity: individual voters are becoming more consistently liberal or conservative in their views on a range of issues from abortion to safety net spending to gun rights.
Over the past three-and-a-half decades these mutually reinforcing trends have resulted in a surge in "landslide" counties, meaning counties in which one of the candidates won by 20 points or more, a trend documented by Bishop and Cushing. At the time of the 1976 presidential election, 26.8 percent of Americans lived in landslide counties; by 2000, that had grown to 45.3 percent. By 2012, the percentage of people living in landslide counties shot up further still to 52 percent. That's double what it was in 1976.
Such fundamental shifts in voting don't occur in a vacuum.
Following a parallel line of inquiry, Ron Lesthaeghe and Lisa Neidert of the University of Michigan Population Studies Center have developed a composite measure of how far along a state or county has moved toward what they call the Second Demographic Transition, which they define as 
postponement of marriage, greater prevalence of cohabitation and same-sex households, postponement of parenthood, sub-replacement fertility, and a higher incidence of abortion.
In many respects, the S.D.T. is a measure of the extent to which a county, state or metropolitan area has adopted liberal views and behaviors with respect to the sexual revolution and other cultural transformations of the past half century, which are in turn central to the trend toward secularism.
Lesthaeghe and Neidert ranked geographic areas on the basis of this composite measure and found that some of the strongest correlations were with voting behavior. On a county-by-county basis, their analysis is illustrated by the map of the United States in Figure 2. The darker the blue, the more advanced the area is into the Second Demographic Transition; the darker the brown, the less advanced into the S.D.T.
You may recognize the similarities of the map in Figure 2 to Election Day maps from last year. In terms of state voting patterns - displayed in Figure 3 - Lesthaeghe and Neidert found an unusually high correlation between the margin of support for the Democratic or Republican presidential candidate (vertical axis) and the extent to which a state's population had moved into the Second Demographic Transition (horizontal axis):
(The location of each state is indicated by a small circle.)
In an Atlantic magazine essay earlier this year, Richard Florida of the University of Toronto, the author of "The Rise of the Creative Class," compared the 2012 voting results in each of the 364 metropolitan areas in the lower 48 states to the percentage of "creative class" workers in each of the metro areas. This creative class is made up of those employed in "science and technology; business and management; healthcare, education, and arts, culture and entertainment."
Florida's result shows (see Figure 4) that the share of creative class workers is positively correlated with the share of Obama voters (.40) and negatively correlated with the share of Romney voters (-.41).
Florida pointed out in the Atlantic piece that 
for all of Obama's union endorsements, metros with larger shares of blue-collar workers in manufacturing, transportation, and construction voted for Romney (with a correlation of .46) and against Obama (-.45).
"Republicans may still be the party of the rich," Florida writes, "but most of the country's more-affluent metros lined up squarely in the Obama camp." He notes that this voting pattern was identified by Andrew Gelman of Columbia University in "Red State, Blue State, Rich State, Poor State." Gelman famously found that "while rich voters continue to trend Republican, rich states trend Democratic."
As traditional economic divisions in politics have weakened, other factors are helping to determine partisan affiliation.
Lesthaeghe and Neidert have found, for example, that the higher the non-Hispanic white birthrate of a state, the stronger its vote in 2004 for Bush. Figure 5 shows the striking correlation:
Neidert and Lesthaeghe are looking at voting behavior both as a driver of the contemporary demographic transition and as stemming from it - from the differences, that is, between states and other localities in the embrace of new behavioral norms. Factors shaping political choices are less tied to classic class distinctions and increasingly related to values conflicts regarding family formation.
Writing with Johan Surkyn, Neidert and Lesthaeghe consider the impact on voters of same-sex households, cohabiting households, births to teenagers, births to unmarried women, divorce and separation, the percentage of two-parent households, fertility postponement, fertility decline brought on by contraception and abortion, the percentage of women without children in the household, rates of early or late marriage, the disconnection between marriage and procreation, and so forth.
These topics both feed and reflect what social scientists call "ideational" transformation, which is emerging from trends toward "secularization and the subsequent accentuation of individualistic expressive values," as well as from the backlash against such trends.
Democratic strength is now concentrated in fewer but more heavily populated areas. Polarization has intensified as voters in over half the nation's counties cast landslide margins for one presidential candidate or the other. These tendencies are intensifying and have spilled over to Congressional elections, leading to legislative paralysis. Self-perpetuating clusters of the like-minded lead voters and their representatives away from the center.
It isn't just that it's getting harder to compromise - or that a lack of compromise is what many voters want - but that the topics that divide us are among the most difficult on which to achieve consensus: matters of personal intimacy - not only sex, love and children, but also freedom and individual autonomy. This has not always been the stuff of politics; it is now.
Political commitments are molded by a wide-ranging array of forces from economic security to the type of job a voter holds to his or her place in a status hierarchy or a community. This complexity, and the built-in potential for new fissures, means that any political coalition - whether it's constructed on the model of a big tent or of a working partnership - is inherently fragile. How well equipped is the Democratic Party to smooth over differences between its wealthiest and its poorest supporters, its most culturally liberal and its most culturally traditional voters? Does the Republican Party have the ability to fracture this new Democratic coalition?

        
Should Republicans Just Focus on White Voters?
        
How Much Does Race Still Matter?
        
Demographics and the 2012 Election
        
The Electoral Wasteland
        
Orca, Meet Obama

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); COUNTIES (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); POPULATION DENSITY (88%); POLITICS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); SUBURBS (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (63%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (52%) Bishop, Bill; Cushing, Robert G; Democratic Party; Florida, Richard; Gelman, Andrew; Presidential Election of 1988; Presidential Election of 2012; Voting and Voters; Thomas B. Edsall

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); GEORGE H W BUSH (78%) Bishop, Bill; Cushing, Robert G; Florida, Richard; Gelman, Andrew

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (52%) WEST VIRGINIA, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013



82 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Lede)

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2013

LENGTH: 26989 words

HEADLINE: Tracking the Syrian Crisis and the International Response

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: The Times is following the conflict in Syria as the United States and its allies consider military action and will provide updates, analysis and public reaction from around the world. 

 BODY:
 The Times is following the conflict in Syria as the United States and its allies consider military action and will provide updates, analysis and public reaction from around the world. 
 5:36 A.M. | U.N. Rights Chief Urges Negotiations to Halt Violence 
As Secretary of State John Kerry pursued efforts to mobilize international support for military action against the Syrian government, the United Nations top human rights official spoke out firmly against it on Monday and urged global powers to find ways to bring warring parties to negotiations to end the conflict.
The appalling suffering in Syria "cries out for international action," Navi Pillay, the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights said on Monday in a speech in Geneva. Employing chemical weapons was "one of the gravest crimes that can be committed" and their use in Syria "seems to be in little doubt," even if the circumstances and the party responsible remained to be clarified, Ms. Pillay said. Read more »
- Nick Cumming-Bruce 
 9:37 P.M. | Clinton to Comment on Syria at White House Event 
Hillary Rodham Clinton will use a previously scheduled visit to the White House on Monday as an opportunity to comment on the crisis in Syria, a topic she has quietly advised government officials on, but has avoided speaking publicly about.
Both Mrs. Clinton and her daughter, Chelsea, will attend a White House event on Monday to discuss wildlife trafficking, a topic that the former secretary of state has adopted as part of an array of charitable causes. But the visit will also serve as an opportunity for Mrs. Clinton to reinforce her support for President Obama's decision to strike Syria and urge lawmakers to authorize at the move.
Last week, a Clinton aide released a statement saying "Secretary Clinton supports the president's effort to enlist the Congress in pursuing a strong and targeted response to the Assad regime's horrific use of chemical weapons."
Although she has not made public statements about Syria, Mrs. Clinton has been in close contact with White House officials, said one person with knowledge of those discussions who could not discuss private conversations for attribution. 
"She's mindful of letting her successor do his job the same way her predecessor let her do her job," this person said. 
The topic also could prove a political minefield as Mrs. Clinton contemplates another run at the presidency, political pundits say. The White House has not asked Mrs. Clinton to personally reach out to lawmakers or make televised appearances in support of Mr. Obama's decision, said two people with knowledge of the matter.
Mrs. Clinton is also expected to briefly address the Syria strike in her remarks in Philadelphia on Tuesday when Jeb Bush, the former Republican governor of Florida who is also a potential 2016 presidential candidate, presents her with the National Constitution Center's Liberty Medal award. 
As part of her paid speaking circuit, Mrs. Clinton-who earns roughly $200,000 per speech-will also deliver remarks on Monday at a gathering of investors at the Carlyle Group.
- Amy Chozick 
 3:03 P.M. | Merkel Explains Belated Approval of Syria Statement 
DÜSSELDORF, Germany - Chancellor Angela Merkel caused some diplomatic consternation last week when she did not join other European countries at the Group of 20 summit meeting outside St. Petersburg - Britain, France, Italy and Spain - in signing on to a statement condemning the Aug. 21 chemical weapons attack near Damascus and holding the government of President Bashar al-Assad responsible.
On Sunday, Mrs. Merkel, who is seeking a third four-year term in federal elections on Sept. 22, seemed in good humor in front of about 7,000 supporters in a sports and convention center on the outskirts of Düsseldorf, one of the main cities in the crucial state of North Rhine-Westphalia. She did not mention the criticism over her decision not to sign the statement, but she deviated from her usual stump speech to say she wants to see action on Syria after the ''terrible deaths.'' 
She had hesitated in Russia, she said, only because the 28 foreign ministers of the European Union were meeting the next day in Lithuania, and she did not want to speak on their behalf. "I don't believe it's right for five countries to agree on a united stance without the other 23 that can't be there, knowing that 24 hours later all 28 will be gathering around the same table," Mrs. Merkel said. "That's why I said, 'Let's see to it that we have a united stance by all 28.'"
On Saturday, Germany joined the European Union's call for United Nations action, which was missing from the statement in Russia, and then belatedly signed on to the statement issued at the Group of 20 meeting.
Mrs. Merkel's critics accuse her of not being resolute enough in foreign policy. There is no support in Germany for participating in any military action against Syria, and none of the parties would like the issue to loom large in a domestically focused and somewhat lackluster campaign.
- Alison Smale 
 2:34 P.M. | Charlie Rose Interviewed Assad in 2010 
 [Video: 2010 interview with President Assad Watch on YouTube.]
Before Sunday's interview, the last time Charlie Rose sat down with Syria's president, Bashar al-Assad, was in 2010 almost a year before the start of the uprising. In introductory remarks to that interview, Mr. Rose said he had come to Damascus to "for a conversation with the president at a time that he seeks for his country to play a more prominent role in the region." 
 12:44 P.M. | Assad Repeats Denial of Responsibility 
The Syrian president Bashar al-Assad, who has denied that his government attacked civilians with chemical weapons on Aug. 21, reiterated that denial to the American people Sunday morning via the television interviewer Charlie Rose.
"He denied that he had anything to do with the attack," Mr. Rose said on the CBS program "Face the Nation," hours after sitting down with Mr. Assad at the presidential palace in Damascus. "He denied that he knew, in fact, that there was a chemical attack, notwithstanding what has been said and notwithstanding the videotape. He said there's not evidence yet to make a conclusive judgment."
No clips from Mr. Rose's interview were released on Sunday. The interview, which was arranged in the last few days amid a Congressional debate about whether to authorize a limited military strike against Syria, will be broadcast on Monday by CBS and PBS, the same day that President Obama is scheduled to make his case for the strikes in interviews with anchors for six American networks.
CBS described Sunday's sit-down interview as Mr. Assad's first with an American television network since December 2011, about nine months into the Syrian uprising and civil war, when he spoke with Barbara Walters of ABC. By agreeing to speak to Mr. Rose, Mr. Assad all but assured that his remarks would receive widespread attention from the American news media.
Mr. Rose, who was unavailable for interviews on Sunday because he was traveling back to the United States, said on "Face the Nation" that he read Mr. Assad a paragraph of afront-page article in The New York Times about Syria's large stockpile of chemical weapons, and that Mr. Assad responded, "I can't confirm or deny that we have chemical weapons." 
Mr. Assad also "had a message to the American people," Mr. Rose said: "That it had not been a good experience for them to get involved in the Middle East, in wars and conflicts in the Middle East; that the result had not been good, and that they should not get involved."
Mr. Rosepreviously interviewed Mr. Assad in 2010 for the "Charlie Rose" show, which is broadcast on PBS stations. He and many other Western journalists have been lobbying Mr. Assad for an interview since the Syrian uprising started in early 2011.
"Charlie has been working on this for a long time," said David Rhodes, the president of CBS News, who confirmed that Sunday's interview "came through only this week."
Mr. Rose drove to Damascus after flying into neighboring Lebanon. In a sign of the significance of the interview, he was accompanied by Jeff Fager, the chairman of CBS News and the top producer of "60 Minutes."
"It's not normal to send the chairman to produce an interview," Mr. Rhodes said. "It's also not normal to have an interview like this at a time like this."
Portions of the interview will be shown on CBS's morning and evening newscasts on Monday, Mr. Rhodes said. The interview will be shown in its entirety on the "Charlie Rose" show Monday night.
- Brian Stelter 
 9:49 A.M. | Battle for Christian Village Near Damascus 
AMMAN, Jordan (AP) - Islamist militants and other rebels have gained control of a Christian village near the capital, Damascus, Syrian activists said Sunday. State news media provided a dramatically different account of the battle that suggested the Syrian government's forces were winning.
It was not possible to independently verify the reports from Maaloula, a scenic mountain community of 3,000, known for being one of the few places in the world where residents still speak the ancient language of Aramaic. 
The rebel advance into the area this week was spearheaded by the Nusra Front, which has links to Al Qaeda, deepening fears among Syrians, especially religious minorities, about the role played by Islamic extremists within the rebel ranks.
It was not immediately clear why the Syrian Army was unable to reinforce its troops and prevent the rebel advance in the area, only 26 miles northeast of Damascus. Some activists say that the forces of President Bashar al-Assad are stretched thin, fighting in other areas in the north and south of the country.
Rami Abdul Rahman of the London-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said the Nusra Front, backed by another group, the Qalamon Liberation Front, moved into the village after heavy clashes with the army late Saturday.
"The army pulled back to the outskirts of the village and both (rebel groups) are in total control of Maaloula now," he said in a telephone interview.
He said pro-government fighters remained inside the village, in hiding.
Troops loyal to Mr. Assad moved into Maaloula early Saturday, he said, "but they left when rebels started pouring into the village." Now, Mr. Abdul Rahman said, the army is surrounding the village and controlling its entrances and exits.
A Maaloula resident said the rebels, many of them with beards and shouting "God is great," attacked Christian homes and churches shortly after moving into the village overnight.
"They shot and killed people," said the resident, reached by telephone from neighboring Jordan. "I heard gunshots and then I saw three bodies lying in the middle of a street in the old quarters of the village. So many people fled the village for safety."
Now, Maaloula "is a ghost town," he said. "Where is President Obama to see what befallen on us?" 
Another resident who fled the village earlier in the day said in a telephone interview that Mr. Assad's forces had deployed on the outskirts of the village, while gunmen inside refused to allow anybody in.
He said the gunmen also stopped fleeing people from taking five dead bodies out of the village with them.
He said one of the churches, called Demyanos, had been set ablaze and that gunmen had stormed into two other churches and robbed them.
Most of the gunmen were foreigners, he said, adding that he heard different Arabic dialects, mainly Tunisian, Libyan and Moroccan. There were also Chechens, he said.
Another resident, a Christian, said he saw militants forcing some Christians to convert to Islam. "I saw the militants grabbing five villagers Wednesday and threatening them: 'Either you convert to Islam, or you will be beheaded,'" he said.
The two other residents said they had heard about the conversions, but did not see them. All three spoke on the condition of anonymity out of fears of retaliation. A Christian woman said Thursday that there were reports of militants threatening villagers with death if they did not convert.
Syria's state news agency SANA said the army had reported "progress" in its offensive against the rebels in Maaloula. "The army inflicted heavy losses in the ranks of the terrorists," it said. The government uses "terrorists" as a blanket term for rebels.
"Military operations are continuing in the vicinity of Maaloula and its entrances," SANA said.
State-run TV reported that all churches in Maaloula were now safe and the army was chasing gunmen in the western hills.
- The Associated Press 
 7:25 P.M. | In Paris, Kerry Presses for Limited Strike 
Secretary of State John Kerry gave a forceful plea for intervention at the French Foreign Ministry in Paris on Saturday evening, after meeting with European Union foreign ministers in Vilnius, Lithuania. 
Standing beside his French counterpart, Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius, Mr. Kerry called for "accountability over appeasement" for the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad, comparing the moment to 1938, when Britain and France signed the Munich Agreement with Germany and Italy, trying in vain to appease Hitler with control of the Sudetenland, then part of Czechoslovakia.
Sec. Kerry in Paris: "This is our Munich moment...Are we supposed to turn away because the UN has become a tool of ideology?"
- Scott Sayare (@scottsayare) September 7, 2013
Both he and Mr. Fabius said they were certain that Mr. Assad used chemical weapons against civilians in Damascus last month, and insisted that inaction would effectively allow him to do so once again. 
Any intervention, both men said, would be focused on stopping Mr. Assad from any further use of chemical weapons. The Syrian opposition, Saudi leaders and some other critics argue for a more definitive intervention to oust Mr. Assad and end the Syrian civil war, which has left more than 100,000 dead and displaced more than six million Syrians, about a quarter of the population. 
- Scott Sayare 
 5:17 P.M. | Videos Shown to Lawmakers Said to Show Chemical Attack 
One of the tools the Obama administration is using to persuade lawmakers to support a military intervention in Syria, according to a report by Jake Tapper of CNN on Saturday, is a series of videos. 
The disturbing and graphic footage shows the aftermath of what the American intelligence community has told senators were sarin gas attacks outside Damascus in August. It shows dozens of people lying on the ground, convulsing, arms rigid and, in at least one case, with a white residue around the nose and mouth. Some are children. 
Though some of the footage has been available previously, CNN reported, it has now been verified as genuine by intelligence analysts. Those analysts, the report says, have also confirmed that the symptoms are consistent with sarin gas poisoning. 
Updated, 6:27 p.m. | The Senate Intelligence Committee has posted the 13 videos, on which the CNN report was based, to its Web site.
- Ravi Somaiya 
 4:45 P.M. | 6 Obama Interviews to Be Broadcast Monday 
President Obama will tape interviews on Monday afternoon with the three major broadcast networks, as well as PBS, CNN, and Fox, a White House official said Saturday. The interviews are part of a wide-ranging White House lobbying campaign to win Congressional approval for a military strike on Syria. They will be broadcast on Monday night, the day before Mr. Obama addresses the nation on Syria.
- Mark Landler 
 9:41 A.M. | Horror Over Chemical Weapons, From WWI On 
Why, it is fair to ask, does the killing of 100,000 or more with conventional weapons elicit little more than a concerned shrug, while the killing of a relative few from poison gas is enough to trigger an intervention?
Whatever the reasons for the distinction, it has long been recognized.
Roughly 16 million people died and 20 million were wounded during World War I, that "war to end all wars," yet only about 2 percent of the casualties and fewer than 1 percent of the deaths are estimated to have resulted from chemical warfare.
Nevertheless, the universal revulsion that followed World War I led to the 1925 Geneva Protocol, which banned the use, though not the possession, of chemical and biological weapons. In effect from 1928, the protocol is one of the few treaties that have been almost universally accepted and become an international norm. Syria, too, is a signatory.
No Western army used gas on the battlefield during the global slaughter of World War II. Hitler, himself gassed during World War I, refused to order its use against combatants, however willing he and the Nazis were to gas noncombatant Jews, Gypsies and others. Click here for full story. 
- Steven Erlanger 
 9:17 A.M. | U.N. Investigators' Interim Report May Come Next Week 
 BERLIN - A German newspaper is reporting that a team of United Nations chemical weapons inspectors could submit initial findings from its tests of samples collected in Syria by the end of next week.
The respected weekly Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung says the interim report to U.N. chief Ban Ki-moon will likely contain details on the gas, ammunition and delivery systems used in the attack that killed hundreds of people in a suburb of Damscus on Aug. 21.
The newspaper said Saturday its report was based on information provided by two unnamed persons close to the inspection team.
The paper reported that the inspectors collected almost 100 samples from the site of the attack, including pieces of rubble and ammunitions remains, as well as hair, tissue, blood and urine samples from humans and animals.
- The Associated Press 
 3:26 P.M. | Unicef Points to Conflict's Toll on Syrians' Education 
Almost two million Syrian children have dropped out of school in the last 12 months, the United Nations Children's Fund said in a statement released on Friday, highlighting the toll that the country's two-and-a-half-year conflict has taken on its education system. That number represents almost 40 percent of all students enrolled in grades one through nine, said the group, a startling drop in a country that had nearly universal primary education before the start of the conflict in March 2011.
"Displacement, violence, fear and instability are robbing hundreds of thousands of children of the joy of learning," Maria Calivis, the Middle East regional director of Unicef, said in the statement. "Parents tell us they are desperate for their children to continue their education."
More than two million Syrians are registered as refugees with the United Nations, more than half of them children, and many others are unregistered. The challenge of educating children in wartime has followed them even in the comparative safety of neighboring countries. According to Unicef, the vast majority of the refugee children in Iraq and Jordan are not enrolled in school. In Lebanon, which has absorbed the largest number of refugees, school-age refugees outnumber their Lebanese counterparts almost two to one, Unicef estimated, but this year only 15 percent received any education, formal or informal.
- Liam Stack 
 2:12 P.M. | Samantha Power's Comments on Syria 
 The text of remarks by the United States ambassador to the United Nations, Samantha Power, at the Center for American Progress in Washington on Friday. Related Article
Good afternoon. I'm very glad to be back in Washington this afternoon, and among so many friends here at the Center for American Progress. As you know, my topic today is Syria, which presents one of the most critical foreign policy challenges we face.
Syria is important because it lies at the heart of a region critical to U.S. security, a region that is home to friends and partners and one of our closest allies. It is important because the Syrian regime possesses stores of chemical weapons that they have recently used on a large scale and that we cannot allow to fall into terrorists' hands.
It is important because the Syrian regime is collaborating with Iran, and works in lockstep with thousands of extremist fighters from Hezbollah. And Syria is important because its people - in seeking freedom and dignity - have suffered unimaginable horror these last two and a half years.
But I also recognize how ambivalent Americans are about the situation there.
On the one hand, we Americans share a desire, after two wars, which have taken 6,700 American lives and cost over $1 trillion, to invest taxpayer dollars in American schools and infrastructure. Yet on the other hand, Americans have heard the president's commitment that this will not be Iraq, this will not be Afghanistan, this will not be Libya. Any use of force will be limited and tailored narrowly to the chemical weapons threat.
On the one hand, we share an abhorrence for the brutal, murderous tactics of Bashar al-Assad. Yet on the other hand, we are worried about the violent extremists who, while opposed to Assad, have themselves carried out atrocities.
On the one hand, we share the deep conviction that chemical weapons are barbaric, that we should never again see children killed in their beds, lost to a world that they never had a chance to try to change. Yet on the other hand, some are wondering why - given the flagrant violation of an international norm - it is incumbent on the United States to lead, since we cannot and should not be the world's policeman.
Notwithstanding these complexities - notwithstanding the various concerns that we all share - I am here today to explain why the costs of not taking targeted, limited military action are far greater than the risks of going forward in the manner that President Obama has outlined.
Every decision to use military force is an excruciatingly difficult one. It is especially difficult when one filters the Syria crisis through the prism of the past decade.
But let me take a minute to discuss the uniquely monstrous crime that has brought us to this crossroads. What comes to mind for me is one father in al-Ghouta saying goodbye to his two young daughters. His girls had not yet been shrouded, they were still dressed in the pink shorts and leggings of little girls. The father lifted their lifeless bodies, cradled them, and cried out "Wake up...What would I do without you?... How do I stand this pain?" As a parent, I cannot begin to answer his questions. I cannot begin to imagine what it would be like to feel such searing agony.
In arguing for limited military action in the wake of this mass casualty chemical weapons atrocity, we are not arguing that Syrian lives are worth protecting only when they are threatened with poison gas. Rather, we are reaffirming what the world has already made plain in laying down its collective judgment on chemical weapons: there is something different about chemical warfare that raises the stakes for the United States and raises the stakes for the world.
There are many reasons that governments representing 98 percent of the world's population - including all 15 members of the U.N. Security Council - agreed to ban chemical weapons. 
These weapons kill in the most gruesome possible way. They kill indiscriminately - they are incapable of distinguishing between a child and a rebel. And they have the potential to kill massively. We believe that this one attack in Damascus claimed more than 1,400 lives, far more than even the worst attacks by conventional means in Syria. And we assess that, although Assad used more chemical weapons on August 21 than he had before, he has barely put a dent in his enormous stockpile, and the international community has clearly not yet put a dent in his willingness to use them.
President Obama, Secretary Kerry, and many members of Congress have spelled out the consequences of failing to meet this threat. If there are more chemical attacks, we will see an inevitable spike in the flow of refugees, on top of the already two million in the region, possibly pushing Lebanon, Jordan, Turkey or Iraq past their breaking points. The fourth largest city in Jordan right now is already the Zaatari refugee camp. Half of Syria's refugees are children, and we know what can happen to children who grow to adulthood without hope or opportunity in refugee camps; the camps become fertile recruiting grounds for violent extremists. 
And beyond Syria, if the violation of a universal agreement to ban chemical weapons is not met with a meaningful response, other regimes will seek to acquire or use them to protect or extend their power, increasing risks to American troops in the future. We cannot afford to signal to North Korea and Iran that the international community is unwilling to act to prevent proliferation or willing to tolerate the use of weapons of mass destruction. If there are no consequences now for breaking the prohibition on chemical weapons, it will be harder to muster an international consensus to ensure that Hezbollah and other terrorist groups are prevented from acquiring or using these weapons themselves.
People will draw lessons if the world proves unwilling to enforce the norms against chemical weapons use that we have worked so diligently to construct.
And Israel's security is threatened by instability in the region and its security is enhanced when those who would do it harm know that the United States stands behind its word. That's why we've seen Israel's supporters in the United States come out in support of the president's proposed course of action. 
These are just some of the risks of inaction. But many Americans and some Members in Congress have legitimately focused as well on the risks of action. They have posed a series of important questions, and I would like to use the remainder of my remarks to address a few of them.
Some have asked, given our collective war-weariness, why we cannot use non-military tools to achieve the same end. My answer to this question is: we have exhausted the alternatives. For more than a year, we have pursued countless policy tools short of military force to try to dissuade Assad from using chemical weapons. We have engaged the Syrians directly and, at our request, the Russians, the U.N., and the Iranians sent similar messages.
But when Scuds and other horrific weapons didn't quell the Syrian rebellion, Assad began using chemical weapons on a small-scale multiple times, as the United States concluded in June.
Faced with this growing evidence of several small-scale subsequent attacks, we redoubled our efforts. We backed the U.N. diplomatic process and tried to get the parties back to the negotiating table, recognizing that a political solution is the best way to reduce all forms of threat. We provided more humanitarian assistance. And on chemical weapons specifically, we assembled and went public with compelling and frightening evidence of the regime's use.
We worked with the U.N. to create a group of inspectors and then worked for more than six months to get them access to the country, on the logic that perhaps the presence of an investigative team in the country might deter future attacks. Or if not, at a minimum, we thought perhaps a shared evidentiary base could convince Russia or Iran - itself a victim of Saddam Hussein's monstrous chemical weapons attacks in 1987 to 1988 - to cast loose a regime that was gassing its people. We expanded and accelerated our assistance to the Syrian opposition. We supported the U.N. Commission of Inquiry.
Russia, often backed by China, has blocked every relevant action in the Security Council, even mild condemnations of the use of chemical weapons that did not ascribe blame to any particular party. In Assad's cost-benefit calculus, he must have weighed the military benefits of using this hideous weapon against the recognition that he could get away with it because Russia would have Syria's back in the Security Council. And on August 21 he staged the largest chemical weapons attack in a quarter century while U.N. inspectors were sitting on the other side of town. 
It is only after the United States pursued these non-military options without achieving the desired result of deterring chemical weapons use, that the president concluded that a limited military strike is the only way to prevent Assad from employing chemical weapons as if they are a conventional weapon of war.
I am here today because I believe - and President Obama believes - that those of us who are arguing for the limited use of force must justify our position, accepting responsibility for the risks and potential consequences of action. When one considers pursuing non-military measures, we must similarly address the risks inherent in those approaches. 
At this stage, the diplomatic process is stalled because one side has just been gassed on a massive scale and the other side so far feels it has gotten away with it. What would words - in the form of belated diplomatic condemnation - achieve? What could the International Criminal Court really do, even if Russia or China were to allow a referral? Would a drawn out legal process really affect the immediate calculus of Assad and those who ordered chemical weapons attacks? We could try again to pursue economic sanctions, but - even if Russia budged - would more asset freezes, travel bans, and banking restrictions convince Assad not to use chemical weapons again when he has a pipeline to the resources of Hezbollah and Iran? Does anybody really believe that deploying the same approaches we have tried for the last year will suddenly be effective? 
Of course, this isn't the only legitimate question being raised. People are asking, shouldn't the United States work through the Security Council on an issue that so clearly implicates international peace and security? The answer is, of course, yes. We would if we could, but we can't. Every day for the two and a half years of the Syrian conflict, we have shown how seriously we take the U.N. Security Council and our obligations to enforce international peace and security.
Since 2011, Russia and China have vetoed three separate Security Council resolutions condemning the Syrian regime's violence or promoting a political solution to the conflict. This year alone, Russia has blocked at least three statements expressing humanitarian concern and calling for humanitarian access to besieged cities in Syria. And in the past two months, Russia has blocked two resolutions condemning the generic use of chemical weapons and two press statements expressing concern about their use. We believe that more than 1,400 people were killed in Damascus on August 21, and the Security Council could not even agree to put out a press statement expressing its disapproval.
The international system that was founded in 1945 -a system we designed specifically to respond to the kinds of horrors we saw play out in World War II-has not lived up to its promise or its responsibilities in the case of Syria. And it is naïve to think that Russia is on the verge of changing its position and allowing the U.N. Security Council to assume its rightful role as the enforcer of international peace and security. In short, the Security Council the world needs to deal with this urgent crisis is not the Security Council we have.
Many Americans recognize that, while we were right to seek to work through the Security Council, it is clear that Syria is one of those occasions - like Kosovo - when the council is so paralyzed that countries have to act outside it if they are to prevent the flouting of international laws and norms. But these same people still reasonably ask: Beyond the Security Council, what support does the United States have in holding Assad accountable?
While the United States possesses unique capabilities to carry out a swift, limited, and proportionate strike so as to prevent and deter future use of chemical weapons, countries around the world have joined us in supporting decisive action.
The Arab League has urged international action against Syria in response to what it called the "ugly crime" of using chemical weapons. The NATO Secretary General has said that the Syrian regime "is responsible" and that "we need a firm international response to avoid that chemical attacks take place in the future." The Organization of Islamic Cooperation blamed the Syrian government for the chemical attacks and called for "decisive action." And 11 countries at the G-20 Summit today called for a "strong international response" and noted their "support for efforts undertaken by the United States and other countries to reinforce the prohibition on the use of chemical weapons."
As I have found over the last week at the U.N., the more that countries around the world are confronted with the hard facts of what occurred on August 21, the more they recognize that the steep price of impunity for Assad could extend well beyond Syria. The president's decision to seek Congressional support has also given the United States time to mobilize additional international support, and there is no question that authorization by our Congress will help strengthen our case.
One of the most common concerns we have heard centers less on the how or when of intervention, but on the what. Some Americans are asking, how can we be sure that the United States will avoid a slippery slope that would lead to full-scale war with Syria? On the other hand, others are asking, if the U.S. action is limited, how will that have the desired effect on Assad?
These are good and important questions. The United States cannot police every crisis any more than we can shelter every refugee. The president has made it clear: he is responding militarily to a mass casualty chemical weapons incident; any military action will be a meaningful, time-limited response to deter the regime from using chemical weapons again - and to degrade its ability to do so. From the start of the Syrian conflict, the president has consistently demonstrated that he will not put American boots on the ground to fight another war in the Middle East. The draft resolution before Congress makes this clear.
President Obama is seeking your support to employ limited military means to achieve very specific ends - to degrade Assad's capacity to use these weapons again, and deter others in the world who might follow suit - and the United States has the discipline as a country to maintain these limits. 
Limited military action will not be designed to solve the entire Syria problem - not even the most ardent proponents of military intervention in Syria believe that peace can be achieved through military means. But this action should have the effect of reinforcing our larger strategy for addressing the crisis in Syria. 
By degrading Assad's capacity to deliver chemical weapons, we will also degrade his ability to strike at civilian populations by conventional means. In addition this operation, combined with ongoing efforts to upgrade the military capabilities of the moderate opposition, should reduce the regime's faith that they can kill their way to victory. In this instance, the use of limited military force can strengthen our diplomacy - and energize the efforts by the U.N. and others to achieve a negotiated settlement to the underlying conflict.
Let me add a few thoughts in closing. I know I have not addressed every doubt that exists in this room, in this town, in this country, or in the broader international community. This is the right debate for us to have. We should be asking the hard questions and making deliberate choices before embarking upon action. There is no risk-free door No. 2 that we can choose in this case.
Public skepticism of foreign interventions is an extremely healthy phenomenon in our democracy, a check against the excessive use of military power. 
The American people elect leaders to exercise judgment, and there have been times in our history when presidents have taken hard decisions to use force that were not initially popular, because they believed our interests demanded it. From 1992, when the Bosnian genocide started, till 1995, when President Clinton launched the airstrikes that stopped the war, public opinion consistently opposed military action there. Even after we succeeded in ending the war and negotiating a peace settlement, the House of Representatives, reflecting public opinion, voted against deploying American troops to a NATO peacekeeping mission. 
There is no question that this deployment of American power saved lives and returned stability to a critical region of the world and a critical region for the United States.
We all have a choice to make. Whether we are Republicans or Democrats, whether we have supported past military interventions or opposed them, whether we have argued for or against such action in Syria prior to this point, we should agree that there are lines in this world that cannot be crossed, and limits on murderous behavior, especially with weapons of mass destruction, that must be enforced. 
If we cannot summon the courage to act when the evidence is clear, and when the action being contemplated is limited, then our ability to lead in the world is compromised. The alternative is to give a green light to outrages that will threaten our security and haunt our conscience, outrages that will eventually compel us to use force anyway down the line, at far greater risk and cost to our own citizens. If the last century teaches us anything, it is this. Thank you so much.
 1:27 P.M. | Market Rebounds After Drop on Putin Commitment on Syria 
International tensions over Syria dragged the stock market lower in early trading on Friday, though the lost ground was later recovered as investors weighed the implications of an important jobs report. The S&P 500 index fell as much as 1.25 percent after the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, speaking at the Group of 20 summit meeting outside St. Petersburg, said Russia was not considering reducing its support for Syria's government.
Stocks then rallied strongly, and the S&P 500 was up 0.31 percent just before midday. A government report showed that the economy added fewer jobs in August than investors and economists had expected. This helped stocks move higher because the Federal Reserve may now be slower to pare back its monetary stimulus, which has boosted markets in recent years.
- Peter Eavis 
 1:19 P.M. | Take Our Syria News Quiz 
As the United States debates whether to strike Syria over a chemical weapons attack, The New York Times invites you to test your knowledge of the Syrian civil war and its effects across the region in this quiz.
- Shreeya Sinha 
 11:56 A.M. | France Delays Decision on Strike 
France will await UN inspectors' findings before decision on participating in military action, says Pres. François Hollande at G20.
- Scott Sayare (@scottsayare) September 6, 2013
(UN weapons inspectors' findings not expected for two to three weeks.)
- Scott Sayare (@scottsayare) September 6, 2013
- Scott Sayare 
 10:13 A.M. | Obama Will Speak to the Nation on Tuesday Night 
WASHINGTON - President Obama will address the nation from the White House on Tuesday night about his request for Congressional authorization of military force against Syria for using chemical weapons, he told reporters at a news conference on Friday.
Lawmakers had been urging the president for days to address the nation to explain his reasoning for military attacks. Speaking at the end of the G-20 summit in Russia, Mr. Obama confirmed that he would accept that challenge.
Mr. Obama's task during the speech will be a difficult one. He will face a public that polls suggest is highly skeptical of military action despite his assurances that his intentions in Syria would be limited and short in duration.
He also must convince reluctant lawmakers, many of whom have already said they do not intend to support his request. Top aides in his administration are lobbying furiously on Capitol Hill, but a prime-time address by Mr. Obama may be the most critical part of that effort.
Mr. Obama did not say whether he would deliver the speech from the Oval Office, a setting that he has rarely used during the five years of his presidency. He has done so just twice - during the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico and again to announce the end of combat operations in Iraq.
The White House tends to prefer to have Mr. Obama deliver speeches away from 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, in places that match the subject of his remarks. When he does deliver speeches at the White House, he usually speaks from the East Room.
- Michael Shear 
 10:06 A.M. | Obama at G20 News Conference 
The video shows clips from President Obama's short statement and from his answers to questions from reporters.
Obama at G20 says "failing to respond" to Syrian CW attack "would send a signal to rogue nations, authoritarian regimes and terrorist orgs."
- Peter Baker (@peterbakernyt) September 6, 2013
Obama announces that he'll address the American people from the Oval on Tuesday
- Peter Baker (@peterbakernyt) September 6, 2013
Obama credits Putin with facilitating "a full airing of views" at G20 dinner last night.
- Peter Baker (@peterbakernyt) September 6, 2013
Obama: "I would say the majority of the room is comfortable with our conclusion that Assad, the Assad govt was responsible for their use."
- Peter Baker (@peterbakernyt) September 6, 2013
Obama says he reminded G20 leaders that "I was elected to end wars, not start them."
- Peter Baker (@peterbakernyt) September 6, 2013
Obama says most of talk with Putin focused on Syria and Snowden didn't really come up.
- Peter Baker (@peterbakernyt) September 6, 2013
Obama on congressional vote: "I knew this was going to be a heavy lift."
- Peter Baker (@peterbakernyt) September 6, 2013
Obama reminds for second time that he opposed war in Iraq.
- Peter Baker (@peterbakernyt) September 6, 2013
Obama: "Is it possible that Assad doubles down in the face of our action & uses cw more widely?" Possible "but it wouldn't be wise."
- Peter Baker (@peterbakernyt) September 6, 2013
While not ruling out strike if Congress says no, Obama says, "I did not put this before Congress just as a political ploy or as symbolism."
- Peter Baker (@peterbakernyt) September 6, 2013
Obama: "Not Iraq, not putting boots on the ground, not some long drawn out affair."
- Peter Baker (@peterbakernyt) September 6, 2013
Asked again if he would go forward with strike if Congress says no, he says, "You're not getting any direct response."
- Peter Baker (@peterbakernyt) September 6, 2013
Obama: "These kinds of interventions these kinds of actions are always unpopular because they seem distant and removed."
- Peter Baker (@peterbakernyt) September 6, 2013
Obama notes Kosovo intervention was unpopular, which is true. But other actions in Grenada, Libya, Afghanistan, Sudan have been popular.
- Peter Baker (@peterbakernyt) September 6, 2013
Obama brushes off comment by dep natl sec adviser, who said it wasn't president's intention to strike if Congress says no.
- Peter Baker (@peterbakernyt) September 6, 2013
Obama repeats, "I'm not itching for military action" but hasn't seen alternatives that would "do the job."
- Peter Baker (@peterbakernyt) September 6, 2013
- Peter Baker 
 7:44 P.M. | A Firsthand Account From Syria's Front Lines 
BEIRUT, Lebanon - The New Yorker publisheda dispatch Thursday on its Web site by Rania Abouzeid that offers a vivid firsthand account from one of Syria's front lines at a time when danger inside Syria has kept most outside reporters from going in. Ms. Abouzeid spent time last month with Islamist rebel fighters trying to push into the northern province of Latakia, the ancestral homeland of President Bashar al-Assad and his Alawite sect.
As at front lines elsewhere in Syria, mainline rebels connected to the Western-backed Free Syrian Army are present, but the fight is led by more extremist groups linked to Al Qaeda, like the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, or ISIS, and the Nusra Front. 
 Ms. Abouzeid recounts an evening gathering with Syrian Islamists who praised foreign jihadis and insulted Free Syrian Army fighters and secularists.
On a recent evening, in the inner courtyard of a modest single-story home where I was staying, eight Syrians from several Islamist units in the area recounted tales of Chechen bravery. They spoke of how the Chechens fought without cover, as part of an effort to terrorize the enemy psychologically by showing no fear, and how they urged the Syrians to do the same.
The home belonged to the elderly parents of a Jabhat al-Nusra fighter named Omar, who is in his twenties and also lived there. I'd known the family for a while. Omar was with Ahrar al-Sham earlier in the year, but had joined the more hard-core Jabhat al-Nusra. ("He's been promoted," one of his friends said jokingly, adding that the next time I saw him he might be with ISIS.) ... 
The men were openly disdainful of the Free Syrian Army units, saying they were engaged in "tourism" well behind the front, and were also openly hostile to the Alawites, or Nusayris, as they called them. "Even the Shiites have declared them kuffar [nonbelievers]," said one. "They are all the same. They view us Sunnis as the enemy; they are all involved in the war against us," said another. "They won't want to stay here after this," said a third, meaning after they'd swept through the villages. The men also mocked the Muslim Brotherhood as inadequately committed to its faith...
"The decision-makers in this country will be those with military power," Mohammad said. "If they" - the F.S.A. and Syrian political opposition - "want a secular state and have the military power to create one, let them. If they are going to confront us because of our project, we will confront them. We are fighting for religion, what are they fighting for?"
Omar cut an imposing figure, dressed like many members of Jabhat al-Nusra in a black shalwar kameez (common in the subcontinent but not in Syria), a black headdress wrapped around his shoulder-length curly hair, and a beard (Salafi-style, without a mustache). He recently had been shot twice, once in each leg, and although his wounds were still healing and bandaged, he was back fighting on the front.
- Ben Hubbard 
 8:46 P.M. | From Iraq, Fears of History Repeating 
BAGHDAD - Now that the United States is considering missile strikes on Syria, Iraqi Shiites say they see history repeating itself - even if across a border - and they are prepared to once again take on a familiar adversary. If the United States strikes Syria, Iraqi Shiites will see it as their fight, too, and pour across the border to assist Syria's president, Bashar al-Assad, many people here said.
"No honorable man will accept what the Americans want to do in Syria," said one, Abu Mohaned, reflecting the view of Iraq's Shiite majority, who see any threat to Mr. Assad as an intervention on the side of a Sunni-led rebellion aligned with Al Qaeda.
As the debate over military action in Syria has unfolded in the West, Iraq's own painful history with American military intervention, and the false intelligence put forward to justify it, has in many ways provided a counternarrative to those who support intervention. Haunted by the intelligence failures, the British Parliament voted against strikes on Syria. For the same reason, the American public, polls show, is also hesitant to engage in a new military strike in the Middle East.
For Iraqis, the fate of the two countries is seen as inextricably intertwined, and thus they believe they have a great deal at stake in what decision is made in Washington. Click here for the full story.
- Tim Arango 
 8:39 P.M. | For Israel, Syrian Stalemate Works 
President Obama's position on Syria - punish President Bashar al-Assad for using chemical weapons without seeking to force him from power - has been called "half-pregnant" by critics at home and abroad who prefer a more decisive American intervention to end Syria's civil war.
But Mr. Obama's limited-strike proposal has one crucial foreign ally: Israel.
Israeli officials have consistently made the case that enforcing Mr. Obama's narrow "red line" on Syria is essential to halting the nuclear ambitions of Israel's archenemy, Iran. More quietly, Israelis have increasingly argued that the best outcome for Syria's two-and-a-half-year-old civil war, at least for the moment, is no outcome.
For Jerusalem, the status quo, horrific as it may be from a humanitarian perspective, seems preferable to either a victory by Mr. Assad's government and his Iranian backers or a strengthening of rebel groups, increasingly dominated by Sunni jihadis.
"This is a playoff situation in which you need both teams to lose, but at least you don't want one to win - we'll settle for a tie," said Alon Pinkas, a former Israeli consul general in New York. "Let them both bleed, hemorrhage to death: that's the strategic thinking here. As long as this lingers, there's no real threat from Syria." Clickherefor full story.
- Jodi Rudoren 
 3:18 P.M. | Russia Presses Report Blaming Rebels for Earlier Attack 
MOSCOW - Russia's Foreign Ministry has issued a statement trying to draw renewed attention to a detailed report prepared by Russian arms experts, and first made public in July, that says a chemical weapons attack in Syria in March was probably carried out by insurgents, not the army.
Russia's analysis of the attack on March 19, which it said was based on soil samples and other evidence, concluded that it was probably the work of insurgents because the sarin gas used was of "cottage industry" quality, not military grade, and the rocket that delivered it appeared homemade. The finding contradicted conclusions presented by Western nations, including the United States, that the Syrian government had been responsible. A team from the United Nations arrived in Syria in mid-August to investigate the attack, which killed dozens of people, but postponed that work to look first into an Aug. 21 attack in the suburbs of Damascus, which the United States has said killed more than 1,400. 
"We draw your attention to the distribution of various reports in the mass media - again, before the results of the U.N. investigation - that try to lay responsibility for the possible use of chemical weapons in Syria on official Damascus," said the ministry's statement, issued on Wednesday.
"With this, the ground is prepared for military action against Syria. In this light, we share the main results of a Russian analysis of samples taken from the site of an incidence of the use of military poisons in the outlying district of Aleppo," it said, referring to the March 19 attack.
The Russians have not released the full report, though the statement presented its main conclusions. The rocket, it said, was "crudely" made and fit the template of munitions put together by a rebel group in northern Syria, the Bashair al-Nasr brigade.
The explosive, it said, was of a type not "standard for chemical munitions," and chemical residues in the soil suggested that the poison gas was "nonindustrially synthesized."
In blaming the Syrian government for the more recent chemical attack, on Aug. 21 - an attack President Obama has cited in asking Congress for authorization for military action in Syria - the Russian statement said Western governments were relying on a "flawed and selective" approach to the evidence. Russia, Syria's most powerful and staunchest ally, opposes Western military intervention in the conflict.
- Andrew E. Kramer 
 5:46 P.M. | Obama's Trouble With Democrats 
The difficulty that President Obama will have in persuading members of his own party to go along with a military strike was apparent in the tepid response from senators like Mark Begich of Alaska, who questioned Thursday whether American intervention would be worth it. After leaving a classified briefing in the Capitol, Mr. Begich said that he was "concerned, as I've said before, about additional efforts by our military to do another operation after two wars we've been through, the cost of this." Asked whether a personal appeal from the president might help him make up his mind, Mr. Begich said flatly: "No. No. I base it on the facts."
- Jeremy W. Peters 
 4:53 P.M. | Video Suggests Involvement of Qaeda-Backed Groups 
 [Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Watching Syria's War on Thursday examines video posted to YouTube by accounts associated with both Islamist rebels and the Free Syrian Army, which shows the Qaeda-linked Nusra Front working with other rebels to attack government positions in an ancient town northeast of Damascus. Aramaic, the language spoken by Jesus Christ, is still used in the town, Malula. The video was posted by the Islamist group Ahrar al-Sham, which the cameraman said coordinated the attack with the Nusra Front. The video suggests cooperation between the Western-backed Free Syrian Army and groups linked to Al Qaeda.
- Liam Stack 
 4:49 P.M. | Lawmakers Hear 'No' From Many Constituents 
WASHINGTON - As lawmakers continued to struggle with their coming vote on whether to authorize the use of force in Syria, there was at least one thing that both Democrats and Republicans seemed to agree on: Back home, their constituents were opposed to any intervention.
"What I'm hearing back home is about 100 percent no," said Representative Carol Shea-Porter, Democrat of New Hampshire. "The letters that I'm getting, the e-mails, and the phone calls are full of anguish and full of concern, but they sure seem to have their facts right."
Representative Alan Grayson, a Florida Democrat who has been trying to rally his fellow Democrats to vote against the resolution, said that he thought the sentiment in the Republican-controlled House of Representatives was hardening against any military action, in part because of what members are hearing in their districts.
"It's completely against this resolution, it always has been against this resolution," he said. "Listen, people here listen to their constituents. First of all, public opinion is entirely against it; secondly, public opinion is vehemently against it."
Representative Frank A. LoBiondo, Republican of New Jersey, said his constituents had been "overwhelmingly against" any intervention in Syria.
"I've never had an issue they've been this overwhelmingly against," he said.
- Ashley Parker 
 3:10 P.M. | Britain Adds to Evidence on Chemical Attack 
LONDON - Britain has further evidence that chemical weapons were used in an attack in Damascus, the Syrian capital, Prime Minister David Cameron told the BBC on Thursday in an interview at the Group of 20 summit meeting in St. Petersburg, Russia.
Mr. Cameron said scientists at Porton Down, a military research facility in Britain, had analyzed samples taken from a gas attack on a Damascus suburb on Aug. 21 and concluded that they had tested positive for the sarin nerve agent. There was no further indication of who used the poison gas.
"We have just been looking at some samples taken from Damascus in the Porton Down laboratory in Britain which further shows the use of chemical weapons in that Damascus suburb," he said.
Mr. Cameron denied claims he had "no hand to play" over Syria after losing a parliamentary vote last week on using the military to punish the Syrian government for using chemical weapons. While embarrassed by the vote, he repeated that Britain would help the Syrian opposition and Syrian refugees and push for a negotiated settlement. And he encouraged Washington to act instead.
- Steven Erlanger 
 3:22 P.M. | To Sway Senators, a C.I.A.-Produced DVD 
WASHINGTON - As the Obama administration continued to press its case with lawmakers to authorize the use of force in Syria, Senator Dianne Feinstein, the chairwoman of the Intelligence Committee, said Thursday that members of Congress would receive a DVD produced by the Central Intelligence Agency that contains specific evidence of the use of chemical weapons in Syria.
The DVD, produced at her request, she said, largely contains footage of Syrian victims, in order to show lawmakers the effects of a chemical attack. It shows "what pinpointed eyes mean," she said, "what the convulsions mean, a number of aspects."
Ms. Feinstein, Democrat of California, added, "We received that this morning and it's horrendous."
Ms. Feinstein said that every senator and possibly members of the House would receive a copy of the DVD, "so that they can at their leisure go through it."
She said that between the footage on the DVD and the classified briefings she has attended this week on Capitol Hill, she feels confident voting to authorize military strikes on Syria. "Yes," she said, "it's enough for me."
Ms. Feinstein said that while she was not necessarily actively lobbying her colleagues to support the resolution, she was making sure they had all the necessary information to make an informed decision.
"They can certainly be undecided up to the vote," Ms. Feinstein said "but, you know, there's a moment of truth in all of this." 
She also said that while her constituents in California largely oppose any intervention in Syria - "It weighs on me, no question," she said, "because I'm very constituent-oriented" - she was persuaded by some of the classified evidence she saw in the briefings to support strikes on Syria.
"But you see, then they don't know what I know, they haven't heard what I've heard," she said. "And I like to believe now, that after 20 years, I have some skill in separating the wheat from the chaff."
- Ashley Parker 
 2:35 P.M. | Obama Cancels Fund-Raising Trip to Los Angeles 
WASHINGTON - President Obama has canceled a trip to Los Angeles that was scheduled for early next week so that he can remain at the White House during the debate over whether to take military action in Syria, administration officials said.
Mr. Obama was slated to speak to members of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. at their convention on Monday, but canceled the speech, officials said. The White House has also postponed a Democratic National Committee fund-raiser, according to a senior official at the committee.
A senior White House official said the president would remain in Washington to help press Congress to pass authorization for a military strike on the Syrian government. Mr. Obama has been lobbying lawmakers by phone this week during his overseas trip to Sweden and St. Petersburg, Russia.
Passage of the resolution is critical for the Obama administration, which has been aggressively making its case to lawmakers in public and behind closed doors. Some members have called for the president to deliver an address to the nation, perhaps from the Oval Office. A trip to California might have gotten in the way of such a speech.
This is not the first time that a contentious debate in Congress has forced Mr. Obama to cancel or delay travel plans. 
In March 2010, the president postponed a planned trip to Australia, Guam and Indonesia so that he could stay in Washington to push for passage of his health care plan. The White House first delayed the president's departure by a week and then pushed back it several months, to June. (In June, it was delayed again because of the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.)
In December 2011, Mr. Obama delayed his departure for a family vacation in Hawaii to remain in Washington while lawmakers hammered out a compromise over extending the payroll tax cut for two months.
The Hollywood Reporter first reported the cancellation of Mr. Obama's fund-raiser in Los Angeles next week.
- Michael D. Shear 
 10:56 A.M. | Pope Urges G-20 Leaders to Abandon Military Option 
Pope Francis continued his campaign to avert a military strike on Syria, sending a letterto Russia's president, Vladimir V. Putin, on Thursday asking that world leaders gathered for the Group of 20 summit meeting to put aside the "futile pursuit of a military solution" in Syria.
 The leaders of the G-20 cannot remain indifferent to the dramatic situation of the beloved Syrian people which has lasted far too long, and even risks bringing greater suffering to a region bitterly tested by strife and needful of peace. To the leaders present, to each and every one, I make a heartfelt appeal for them to help find ways to overcome the conflicting positions and to lay aside the futile pursuit of a military solution. Rather, let there be a renewed commitment to seek, with courage and determination, a peaceful solution through dialogue and negotiation of the parties, unanimously supported by the international community. Moreover, all governments have the moral duty to do everything possible to ensure humanitarian assistance to those suffering because of the conflict, both within and beyond the country's borders. 
Also on Thursday, the Vatican denied media reports of a communication between the pope and the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad. A spokesman, the Rev. Federico Lombardi, said that Vatican representatives all over the world can interact with local leaders, but at present there were no "concrete initiatives" toward Mr. Assad comparable to the letter to Mr. Putin.
- Gaia Pianigiani 
 1:40 P.M. | Lawmakers Grapple With Lack of Clear Ally 
WASHINGTON - For lawmakers on both sides of the aisle, the fact that the United States has no clear-cut ally in Syria's civil war is complicating an already difficult choice. 
Senator Barbara A. Mikulski, Democrat of Maryland, leaving a closed-door Senate Intelligence Committee briefing Thursday afternoon, said she had long worried about supporting the Syrian opposition.
Asked about an article published Thursday in The New York Times that described a video in which Syrian rebels execute at point-blank range seven Syrian soldiers before dumping them in an unmarked grave, Ms. Mikulski replied, "I've always been concerned about the makeup of the opposition." She added, "We don't know who they are, we don't know what they're after and we don't know what their intent is in terms of a future government."
Ms. Mikulski said she was also eager to see a more broad coalition of international support.
"This is a problem the world needs to get involved with," she said. "We need to know: Where is the outrage, and if there is a military strike, where is the Arab League, what will they do? Where are our allies and what will they do?"
Many nations have expressed support for the United States, Ms. Mikulski continued, "But what does support mean? Is this like a schoolyard bully, where they say, 'You go hit him and we'll hold your coat and go get lemonade?' Or are they going to say, 'We'll put on boxing gloves and be involved in this as well?'"
From the other end of the political spectrum, Representative Justin Amash, Republican of Michigan, referred to the same Times article and video in a Twitter message Thursday:
Atrocities from both sides in #Syria. RT @nytimes: Brutality of Syrian Rebels Posing Dilemma in West http://t.co/gXgzNa8N27
 - Justin Amash (@repjustinamash)5 Sep 13
He later posted: 
Obama admn can't credibly guarantee "no boots on the ground." If US launches airstrikes, nobody can predict next steps. Stay out of #Syria.
 - Justin Amash (@repjustinamash)5 Sep 13
- Ashley Parker 
 12:12 P.M. | New Figures on Chemical Payloads in Aug. 21 Attack 
How large were initial estimates of the rocket payloads that last month rained nerve agent on the suburbs of Damascus, sending thousands of sick and dying Syrians to hospitals? A new study of the toxic munitions by leading weapons experts in the United States put the early figures at 5.7 to 6.7 liters, or about 1.5 to 1.8 gallons. The study concluded that the real size of the payload was more like 50 liters, or some 13 gallons.
But a review of early press reports just after the Aug. 21 attack reveals even lower payload estimates. A Reuters story of Aug. 23 said weapons experts saw the rockets as capable of carrying 1 or 2 liters (up to a half gallon) of nerve agent, adding that some analysts doubted that payloads that small could have caused the large number of casualties. 
The new study appears to reconcile the wide slaughter and the size of the deadly weapon. In interviews, its authors acknowledged the 1-to-2 liter early estimates and said the attacking Syrian rockets thus carried up to 50 times more nerve agent than previously estimated. Their conclusion may solve the mystery of why the Aug. 21 attack in Syria produced so many more victims than did a series of earlier chemical strikes. Click here for a full article on the new study.
- William J. Broad 
 1:33 P.M. | Samantha Power: 'No Path Forward' at U.N. 
Samantha Power, the new United States ambassador to the United Nations, strongly criticized Russia on Thursday in her first extensive public remarks about Syria, accusing the Kremlin of holding the Security Council hostage by blocking even modest efforts to condemn the use of chemical weapons in the Syrian conflict.
She said Russia's actions signaled there was no "available path forward at the Security Council." Clickherefor the full story. 
- Rick Gladstone 
 12:14 P.M. | Military Action Likely Not Threatened by Budget Outlook 
WASHINGTON - The stopgap "continuing resolution" financing the federal government expires in 25 days. If Congress has failed to pass a new spending resolution before then, the money dries up and the government shuts down.
Does that mean there would be no money for a Syria operation? Does the Obama administration face any budget hurdles in taking new military action? And would the $1 trillion in long-term budget cuts known as sequestration, which are hitting the military particularly hard, have any impact on operational readiness?
While the government is up and running, the White House does not face any significant budget constraints - at least not for the kind of operation currently under discussion - according to Pentagon officials. There is no reason for the Obama administration to go hat in hand to Congress at the moment, and the military could absorb the cost.
"Even under sequestration, a limited operation would be expected to be funded within existing Department of Defense resources," said Cmdr. Bill Urban, a Pentagon spokesman.
That is because the cost of a potential Syria mission would be but a drop in a very big bucket. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel estimated that an operation would cost in the "tens of millions" of dollars during testimony at a hearing held Wednesday by the House Foreign Affairs Committee. The Pentagon's annual budget is about $650 billion.
In the event of a government shutdown, the White House would still probably face no real financing constraints in contemplating new military action, experts said. 
Critical military activities would continue during any government shutdown, for one, meaning troops in the Mediterranean would remain active and on the job. Congress could also pass a stand-alone measure to continue financing the military, if necessary.
"If the government shuts down and we don't pass a continuing resolution, they could still do it," said Jennifer Hing, the communications director for the House Appropriations Committee. She pointed out that the expense would need to be covered by a spending bill, once passed.
Ms. Hing added that the White House would need to send Congress a supplemental funding request for any longer or more intense military action.
Moreover, Secretary of State John Kerry said that other countries had offered to help pay for the operation. "With respect to Arab countries offering to bear the cost and to assist, the answer is profoundly yes, they have," Mr. Kerry said at the hearing. "If the United States is prepared to go do the whole thing the way we've done it previously in other places, they'll carry that cost. That's how dedicated they are to this."
Still, the burden is likely to be one the military could easily bear alone. "This is likely to be a very limited operation," said Gordon Adams, a distinguished fellow at the Stimson Center, a nonpartisan research group. He compared the expense to that of the operations in Sudan and Afghanistan late in the Clinton administration, describing them as "barely causing dust to fall to the floor in the comptroller's office."
He added: "You've bought the ships. You've bought the missiles. You're paying the troops. It's all sunk cost, and the incremental expense is going to be relatively small."
But sequestration has put a vice on military spending this year, and the Pentagon is in the process of determining how to make new cuts. Moreover, the new Syria operation might come at the end of the fiscal year, with the government's spending authority close to expiring. 
But, there should be plenty of room in the military's accounts, budget experts said. There is "less wiggle room" than normal, said Heather Hurlburt, the executive director of the National Security Network, in an e-mail. "That is, however, still a lot of wiggle room."
The Pentagon said that it had about $60 billion in direct unobligated balances in its operations and maintenance account as of the end of July.
- Annie Lowrey 
 12:16 P.M. | Eyes on St. Petersburg 
Highlights from Thursday, with President Obama in St. Petersburg for the G20 summit meeting officially focused on economics but unofficially absorbed by America's growing estrangement with Russia and looming confrontation with Syria. 
What intruded last time a US prez came to St. Petersburg for a summit? Yup, Syria. Bush during 2006 Lebanon war. http://t.co/B54TBLkKKq
- Peter Baker (@peterbakernyt) September 5, 2013
Obama makes official arrival at Constantine Palace outside St. Petersburg, greeted by Putin. They shake hands and smile but no bro' hug.
- Peter Baker (@peterbakernyt) September 5, 2013
As Putin gives opening remarks at G20, Obama looks a little bored, even slouching in his chair a bit...
- Peter Baker (@peterbakernyt) September 5, 2013
Caption contest. Fill in your own speech bubbles. pic.twitter.com/GO4u0OnmqJ
- Peter Baker (@peterbakernyt) September 5, 2013
Obama to make calls to lawmakers from St. Petersburg. "We're very pleased with the trend lines," @rhodes44 says despite reports from DC.
- Peter Baker (@peterbakernyt) September 5, 2013
- Peter Baker 
 10:27 A.M. | Watching the Obama-Putin Body Language 
President Obama and his Russian counterpart, Vladimir V. Putin, ignored their tensions over Syria in their first encounter on Thursday in St. Petersburg, where world leaders are gathered for the G-20 summit meeting. 
When Mr. Obama's armored limousine pulled up to Constantine Palace in the afternoon, he emerged and strode over to a waiting Mr. Putin, who was greeting all of the visiting leaders one by one. The two shook hands and had businesslike if not warm smiles for each other, then turned to the news media cameras and smiled more broadly. But neither grabbed the other's elbow or patted a back as they often do with other leaders. 
The two will inevitably see each other and even talk on the sidelines of the official meetings here while everyone watches their body language. The Russian newspaper Izvestiya reported that the Russian government had changed the seating chart in a way that would move the two leaders farther apart, with five leaders between them instead of just one. But by the time they sat down, the seating chart seemed to have been scrambled again, with the American and Russian presidents separated by just two other leaders
Click herefor full story.
- Peter Baker 
 4:42 A.M. | China Says Syria Strike Could Harm World Economy 
A top Chinese official warned Thursday that military action against Syria could damage the global economy by pushing up the price of oil, and he urged a negotiated solution to the crisis.
Zhu Guangyao, China's vice finance minister, said that "military action would definitely have a negative impact on the global economy, especially on the oil price," noting that a $10 rise in the price of oil could reduce the growth of the world economy by 0.25 percent.
Many emerging-market stock indexes and currencies, particularly in India, Indonesia and Turkey, have tumbled recently as talk of American military action against Syria has intensified, but markets in China have largely weathered the storm.
Mr. Zhu made his comments in St. Petersburg, Russia, before the gathering of world leaders for the G-20 summit meeting, at which President Obama is expected to meet with China's leader, Xi Jinping, with Syria a likely topic.
China, adhering to its longstanding policy of noninterference in countries' internal affairs, has warned against military action against Syria, expressing doubts about evidence that the government used chemical weapons on its people.
In warning against military action, Mr. Zhu said he hoped that "the world economic balance will become more stable rather than more complex and more challenging." 
A Bank of America Merrill Lynch report issued Thursday warned of an oil price shock should there be military action, saying Brent crude oil prices could rise to $120 or even $130 a barrel, up from $115 now.
"Such an oil price surge comes at a particularly bad time for several Asian countries already facing pressures from high inflation, large fuel subsidies and widening oil-trade deficits," the report said. "Asia is a large net oil importer and vulnerable to an oil price spike."
- Gerry Mullany 
 12:13 A.M. | Tapping Social Media to Portray 'Business as Usual' 
As Neil MacFarquhar and Ben Hubbard have reported, Bashar al-Assad has followed a strict "business-as-usual" policy since the start of the Syrian uprising two and a half years ago, behaving in his daily life as if nothing unusual is happening in the country his family has ruled for more than four decades. 
Mr. Assad is believed to report for work each morning to a private office in a wooded glen near his family's home in an upscale Damascus neighborhood, and his wife, Asma, has busied herself with charitable functions and ceremonial public duties. 
Mr. Assad maintains that his country is not at war with itself but is instead locked in a battle with "terrorists" aligned with Al Qaeda. The Syrian government's stranglehold on the country's media keeps alternative views out of the public eye. 
Mr. Assad has also sought to project an air of normalcy on social media, though the terrain has been largely dominated by the rebel brigades and activist groups that oppose him. His official YouTube channel offers more than 30 videos, the oldest dating back seven months, that highlight his role as commander in chief of the Syrian military and archive various sit-down interviews. 
One featured video, "Al-Assad, Officer and Commander," posted Aug. 2, shows the president in combat fatigues and aviator sunglasses, greeting his troops and reviewing maps as missile batteries and tanks fire into the air, set to urgent, fully orchestrated music with a choir singing "Syria, Syria, Syria." 
A video posted to the official YouTube account in May shows images of women celebrating and young men firing rockets to celebrate what it calls the "honor and pride" inherent to the "resistance" to Israel and by extension the United States. The Assad family has styled itself as the exemplar of that role in the Middle East. 
On Instragram, the government highlights the less martial and more mundane side of Mr. Assad's presidential duties. It also serves up generous helpings of his photogenic wife, Asma al-Assad, a former investment banker raised in Britain, where Mr. Assad studied ophthalmology. 
The images portray a model couple. Mr. Assad, in a sober business suit, conducts affairs of state - greeting soldiers, meeting with political and religious leaders or speaking at a lectern - while his fashionable and unveiled wife poses with an endless stream of students, chats with an elderly disabled woman on Mother's Day and plays with children.
There is little in the images that might betray the grinding conflict that has laid waste to much of the country. But occasionally, a note of disharmony slips in. Beneath one image of Ms. Assad ladling out food to the poor at a soup kitchen, the caption reads, "Numerous mobile kitchens have been set up by community-based groups to prepare meals for internally displaced families." Why and how so many Syrians have become internally displaced is left unsaid.
- Liam Stack 
 8:12 P.M. | Looking at Syria and Seeing Bosnia, Not Iraq 
While opponents of President Obama's plan to strike Syria invoke the cautionary tale of Iraq - where an American-led invasion was justified by intelligence claims about a Baathist leader's chemical weapons stockpile that turned out to be flat wrong - some supporters of military intervention argue that there might be more to learn from another bombing campaign led by the United States, the one that helped to end the brutal sectarian civil war in Bosnia in 1995.
In an essay for the German Council on Foreign Relations, Germany's former ambassador to the United States, Wolfgang Ischinger, described some of the similarities between the two conflicts. 
Tens of thousands of deaths in a country that lies not too far southeast of us. An extremely complicated military conflict in which the most varied lines of interest converge. A U.S. president who is particularly reluctant to undertake new military engagements on the heels of an electoral campaign centered around domestic issues and a failed engagement in the Arab world. A despot who does not recognize the need to negotiate promptly and seriously. European diplomacy and crisis management are disappointingly far from meeting their self-imposed goals. Political initiatives are failing before they have even been put in place. Long debates about the merits and dangers of an arms embargo. 
While Mr. Ischinger, who took part in the peace talks that ended the Bosnian war, acknowledges that there are differences, he also suggests that the use of force against Syrian government forces could help hasten the end of the war in much the same way that the NATO bombing of the Bosnian Serbs did after a massacre in Sarajevo in 1995.
Just like Slobodan Milosevic in the 1990s, President Bashar al-Assad sees no obligation at present to negotiate seriously. In Bosnia, too, peace plans and blueprints ("Vance-Owen") were laid out in the early stages, but led to nothing because of the West's lack of willingness to implement them.
The conclusion of the Dayton agreement, which finally ended the Bosnian war in 1995, was ultimately only possible because Milosevic and the Bosnian Serbs, in the face of new realities, suddenly developed an interest in a negotiated solution after all; the Croatian side had made territorial gains and the NATO operation "Deliberate Force" had shown that the West was taking the matter seriously. In other words: The result negotiated in Dayton, which despite all its weaknesses was able to pave Bosnia-Herzegovina's way toward a future free of war, was only made possible by the threat (and limited use) of force.
This is also the decisive issue for Syria: From a position of strength, to which Assad has apparently returned somewhat, his regime will never be ready to make the necessary concessions. As long as Assad is convinced that his situation could continue to improve over the course of the conflict, or that he could even resolve the war in his favor, he will continue the fight. The international community needs to change this calculation if it wants to reach a political solution.
Given that the Obama administration is now represented at the United Nations by Samantha Power, who charted in excruciating detail the Clinton administration's years of hesitant deliberation before that intervention in her book "A Problem From Hell," Mr. Ischinger is unlikely to be the only advocate of humanitarian intervention to be considering what lessons Bosnia might hold for ending the Syrian civil war.
Indeed, the BBC Europe editor, Gavin Hewitt, reported Wednesday that Mr. Obama's allies in France also appeared to be at least hinting that military intervention could help force Mr. Assad to negotiate more seriously.
Still, not every close observer of the Bosnian war agrees that the parallel is exact or useful. Laura Silber, who was The Financial Times's correspondent in the Balkans from 1990 to 1997, and an author of "The Death of Yugoslavia," said Wednesday that airstrikes on Syria would be militarily similar "but completely unlike Bosnia" in an important way. In 1995, Ms. Silber wrote in an e-mail, the team of American diplomats led by Ambassador Richard C. Holbrooke, and American intelligence officials "knew with a degree of certainty that the war had played out on the ground - i.e. that the Serbs could not mount a serious destabilizing counterattack, whereas in Syria the ramifications of intervention may be more uncertain."
- Robert Mackey 
 3:13 P.M. | The Do-It-Yourself Arsenal 
Makeshift weapons, familiar tools of modern insurgencies, have been a signature element of Syria's militarily lopsided war. Hamid Khatib of Reuters photographed rebels affiliated with the Free Syrian Army expanding their homemade arsenals in the northern city of Aleppo on Wednesday.
As The Times's C.J. Chivers has reported, such weapons are prone to malfunction, and can kill those who use them. He has also reported that pro-government forces have used them as well.
But the rebel side, despite a secretive arms pipeline paid for by Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, Jordan, Saudi Arabia or other sympathetic donors, is profoundly outgunned, and depends far more on homemade munitions. 
- Heather Murphy 
 8:14 P.M. | Counting Down to a Vote 
Democratic and Republican leaders agreed Wednesday night to gavel in a brief session of the Senate on Friday in order to put the war resolution on the calendar, so the clock can begin counting down to a final vote late next week.
- Jonathan Weisman 
 8:06 P.M. | Video: 'My Credibility Is Not on the Line' 
At a news conference in Stockholm on Wednesday, Steve Holland of Reuters asked President Obama if a military strike on Syria was "needed to preserve your credibility for when you set these sort of red lines." 
Mr. Obama answered that the line was not his, but set by the world in the international treaty on chemical weapons and by Congress in ratifying the treaty. "My credibility's not on the line," he continued. "The international community's credibility's on the line. And America and Congress's credibility's on the line because we give lip service to the notion that these international norms are important."
- The New York Times 
 5:27 P.M. | Assad Adviser Accuses U.S. of Supporting Al Qaeda 
Speaking to Britain's Channel 4 News via satellite from Damascus on Wednesday, Bouthaina Shaaban, an adviser to President Bashar al-Assad, claimed that the United States - along with Turkey, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and France - was guilty of sending "Al Qaeda elements" to Syria.
Casting all of the protesters and rebels who want Mr. Assad to step down as terrorists, Ms. Shaaban said the government's opponents are "the same people" who carried out the 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States and the deadly train bombings in London in 2005.
She also said, as she has since March, 2011, that "this aggression has been continuing against Syria for the last two and a half years," sticking to the Assad government's line that the uprising was a conspiracy from the start and that all video evidence of the state security forces using deadly force against peaceful protesters posted online had been fabricated.
- Robert Mackey 
 4:28 P.M. | French Officials Face Calls for Parliament Vote 
PARIS - The French government continues to defend the principle of military intervention in Syria without United Nations approval, but legislators have increased their calls for a parliamentary vote in recent days, as the sense of urgency over intervention has lessened and concerns about regional fallout from an attack have grown more vocal. 
"To not act," said Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault in an address to the lower house of Parliament on Wednesday, would be "to close the door on a political resolution to the conflict." France ultimately seeks to force the "departure" of the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad, Mr. Ayrault said, but this would not be the immediate goal of any strike. 
Mr. Ayrault and Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius, who gave a similar, simultaneous address before the French Senate, sought at once to assuage concerns that the strategic goals of a strike have not been made explicit but also to reassert the country's sovereignty in foreign policy.President François Hollande will await Congress's ruling on American participation before moving forward with any French initiative, and a chorus of officials in Paris - many from the opposition right, but also some from the far left - has accused Mr. Hollande of kowtowing to President Obama. Underlying that criticism is an ambient mistrust of the American military, from which the taint of the 2003 invasion of Iraq, which France opposed, has yet to fade. 
"France's vocation is not to await the American Congress's vote with its arms crossed," said Christian Jacob, the leader of the largest parliamentary group on the right. Mr. Jacob called for more active efforts to rally the support of European allies and to obtain a United Nations Security Council resolution before any intervention.
France is "in a political and military impasse," he said, and intervention without a Security Council mandate would break with what he called "a constant doctrine" of French foreign policy. France has long sought to reinforce the international legitimacy of the United Nations.
Mr. Jacob called for a vote by Parliament on any French military operations in Syria that do not fall under a Security Council mandate. Mr. Hollande is under no constitutional obligation to consult Parliament, but he holds solid majorities in both houses and has indicated that he may call a vote, if only after the vote in Congress.
Bruno Le Roux, the leader of the parliamentary group for Mr. Hollande's Socialist Party, accused the right of playing politics with such demands.
"Affairs that involve the world's security can't be handled with the reflexes of domestic politics," Mr. Le Roux said in Parliament, to shouts and boos from the opposition.
Prime Minister Ayrault insisted that any solution to the Syrian conflict would have to be "political and not military."
"But let's look at the reality in front of us," he said. "If we don't put a halt to such acts by the regime, there will be no political solution," Mr. Ayrault said, referring to a chemical attack in Damascus that the French and American authorities believe killed more than 1,400 people. Military strikes would seek to "punish and deter," he said, "to respond to this atrocity to prevent it from recurring."
- Scott Sayare 
 1:45 P.M. | Appeal From Turkey, Jordan, Lebanon and Iraq 
GENEVA - Ministers from four countries bordering Syria appealed for more international support, drawing attention to their security fears and the acute strain on their societies from the flood of refugees from Syria. 
"We are at another threshold after the use of chemical weapons" in Syria, Turkey's foreign minister, Ahmet Davutoglu, told reporters in Geneva after a meeting with his counterparts from Iraq and Jordan, as well as Lebanon's social affairs minister. The officials expressed their deep frustration with the international response to the Syria crisis, and with the paralysis of the United Nations Security Council in particular.
"If the trend continues, if the violence against civilians continues like before, and if there is no international reaction to it, we are scared that all the neighboring countries will be facing much bigger numbers of refugees," Mr. Davutoglu said.
Without explicitly naming President Bashar al-Assad's government, he added that if "those who committed this crime" were not held accountable, "more crimes will be committed."
Their meeting came two days after the number of Syrian refugees registered by the United Nations passed two million. An additional five million Syrians who have been displaced from their homes by the civil war remain in the country. 
With Western governments weighing the possibility of military strikes against Syria, the ministers underlined their concern about a growing influx of desperate Syrians. "All actions that are creating refugee flows need to cease," their joint statement said.
The statement called on the international community to "overcome existing differences and come together to stop the fighting." 
The main aim of Wednesday's talks, hosted by the head of the United Nations refugee agency, António Guterres, was to find ways to mobilize international assistance for refugees but also to ease the strain on their own creaking health, education and economic infrastructures.
Other countries need to recognize that "what Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan and Iraq are doing is an enormous service on behalf of the international community," Mr. Guterres said, stressing the threat to the area's stability from the Syrian conflict, and the growing risk of a wider Middle East conflagration.
The situation in Lebanon, which has some 720,000 registered Syrian refugees and many more unregistered, "has become very alarming," the Lebanese minister of social affairs, Wael Abu Faour, told reporters, noting that some villages now had more Syrian refugees than local inhabitants. "With all our commitments, I think we have crossed our red line."
The more than 580,000 Syrian refugees in Jordan now represented close to 11 per cent of the population, posed "a threat to our very existence," said that country's foreign minister, Nasser Judeh. 
Turkey has spent $2 billion on assistance to Syrian refugees and another $200 million on aid to people inside Syria, while receiving only $135 million in international support, Mr. Davetoglu said. Turkish hospitals are treating 34,000 Syrian patients, he added, while more than 40,000 Syrian young people are attending school in the Turkey's 22 refugee camps, and perhaps double that number in Turkish cities.
The number of refugees sheltering in Turkey has grown from 7,500 two years ago to half a million, Mr. Davetoglu said, tracking with the escalation in Syrian government attacks on its opposition. 
If the international community and in particular the United Nations Security Council had acted in unity earlier in Syria's crisis, he said, "today we wouldn't have all these difficult options on the table."
- Nick Cumming-Bruce 
 5:13 P.M. | In Areas With Military Ties, Some Wary of Action 
MARIETTA, Ga. - Nearly seven years ago, President George W. Bush chose this deeply patriotic area for a speech that emphasized his administration's efforts to combat weapons of mass destruction.
But with his successor now seeking Congressional authorization to intervene in Syria's civil war after forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad purportedly used chemical weapons, residents in this Atlanta suburb are wary of the possibility of more military action abroad.
"We need to stay out," said Paul Lubertazzi, the owner of a takeout restaurant steps from a town square ringed with American flags. "What the guy did was terrible - you can't do much worse - but we can't be policing the world."
To be sure, Marietta is not a wellspring of support for Mr. Obama - Mitt Romney won 55 percent of Cobb County's vote last year, and Newt Gingrich once represented the city in Congress - but the area has close ties to the military. Lockheed Martin has a large facility here, and Dobbins Air Reserve Base helps power the local economy.
Despite Mr. Obama's unpopularity here, most people said their fears about the prospect of an American military strike stemmed not from distrust of the president, but from broader anxiety about combat.
"I'm very reluctant to do anything in a war capacity," said Marion Savic, 51, who said she had opposed the American invasion of Iraq in 2003. "We have been hugely unsuccessful in trying to go into the Middle East and trying to make them better."
Jessica Temperino, a cosmetologist, said she might ultimately support Mr. Obama's approach if it garners greater international support.
"Maybe other countries will say, 'Enough is enough,' " Ms. Temperino said as a military cargo jet flew overhead. "I would wait. Patience is a virtue."
But she applauded Mr. Obama's request for formal input from Congress.
"I think asking for advice is great," Ms. Temperino said. "It's a hard decision. Why not get advice?"
- Alan Blinder 
 1:59 P.M. | Rumsfeld Theme: Obama Is Lacking 
The discussion about direct military action in Syria has brought in former officials intimately involved in making the case for the 2003 Iraq war, as Mark Mazzetti and Mark Landler reported recently. One of them is Donald H. Rumsfeld, the defense secretary at that time.
In speeches and television interviews, Mr. Rumsfeld has made frequent remarks about President Obama's response to the use of chemical weapons against Syrian civilians, mainly sticking to the theme of a lack of leadership and clarity.
On Aug. 28, Mr. Rumsfeld said in an interview with the Fox Business Network that "there really hasn't been any indication from the administration as to what our national interest is with respect to this particular situation." 
On Tuesday, he said in a speech at the Gerald R. Ford Presidential Museum in Grand Rapids, Mich., that Mr. Obama was not showing leadership, NBC News reported. "You either ought to change the regime, or you ought to do nothing," he said.
On Wednesday, Mr. Rumsfeld again weighed in, telling the "Today" show that President Obama has demonstrated a lack of vision in his military strategy on Syria that may cost him global support.
The leadership has lacked a vision, and the essence of leadership is to have a vision and clarity. That's where you develop the kind of support and unity in our country and our Congress and in the world. 
If there's anything that's clear, it's that they do not have that kind of unity at the present time because of a lack of clarity.
The danger of doing something that's not worth anything, that results in nothing, that leaves Assad standing, it seems to me that it makes the United States look like that's what we prefer. Quite the contrary.
He also referred to Mr. Obama as the "so-called commander in chief" during an interview with Fox & Friends, in which he repeated, "He has not provided leadership." 
- Christine Hauser 
 1:47 P.M. | Syria Accused of Using Cluster Bombs 
In the shadow of a confrontation over whether Syria's government attacked civilians with internationally banned chemical munitions, a rights group reported Wednesday that the Syrian armed forces had repeatedly used cluster bombs, another widely prohibited weapon, in the country's civil war.
The group, Human Rights Watch, said in a report on cluster bomb use that it had documented dozens of locations in Syria where cluster bombs had been fired over the past year.
Cluster bombs are munitions that may be fired from artillery or rocket systems or dropped from aircraft. They are designed to explode in the air over their target and disperse hundreds of tiny bomblets over an area the size of a football field. Each bomblet detonates on impact, spraying shrapnel in all directions and killing, maiming and destroying indiscriminately. Dud bomblets that fail to explode on impact can still detonate like land mines when disturbed later - for example, when picked up by unsuspecting children. A growing number of countries have agreed to a treaty banning the weapons and have destroyed stockpiles; Syria is not among them.
"Syria is persisting in using cluster bombs, insidious weapons that remain on the ground, causing death and destruction for decades," Mary Wareham, the advocacy director for the arms division at Human Rights Watch, said in a statement. "Meanwhile, other countries around the world that have joined the treaty are showing a strong commitment to get rid of cluster bombs once and for all."
Syria's government has denied using cluster munitions in the civil war.
The Human Rights Watch report said that representatives of the 112 nations that so far have signed the 2008 Convention on Cluster Munitions, which prohibits the use, production, transfer and stockpiling of cluster munitions, are scheduled to meet on Sept. 9 in Lusaka, Zambia, to monitor adherence.
According to another rights group, the Cluster Munition Coalition, based in London, there are 85 countries that have not signed the convention, including three permanent members of the Security Council - China, Russia and the United States. Most countries in the Middle East have not signed, including Syria, Israel and Jordan, but two of Syria's neighbors have: Lebanon and Iraq.
The coalition said that children make up one-third of all casualties caused by cluster munitions. It said 60 percent of the total casualties caused by the weapons are civilians going about normal activities, not combatants involved in conflicts.
The Human Rights Watch report said the group had identified 152 locations in Syria where government forces had used at least 204 cluster bombs between July 2012 until June 2013, in nine of the country's 14 governorates. Several locations, the report said, had been repeatedly attacked with cluster munitions. The report did not provide an estimated casualty toll. It said the data provided an incomplete picture, because not all remnants of cluster munitions use had been documented.
- Rick Gladstone 
 3:28 P.M. | Senate Panel Approves Resolution on Military Action 
A divided Senate Foreign Relations Committee on Wednesday approved an authorization of force against the Syrian regime, setting up a showdown next week in the full Senate on whether President Obama should have the authority to strike.
The 10-7 vote showed bipartisan support for a strike, but bipartisan opposition as well. Yes votes included Senators John McCain, Republican of Arizona, Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, and Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona. No votes included Democratic Senators Tom Udall of New Mexico and Chris Murphy of Connecticut. The Senate's newest member, Edward Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, voted present.
My amendment calling for changing momentum on the battlefield in #Syria passed SFRC by voice vote - a significant measure
- John McCain (@SenJohnMcCain) September 4, 2013
The resolution would limit strikes against the regime of Bashar al-Assad to 60 days, with the possibility of 30 more days upon consultation with Congress, and it would specifically block the use of ground troops. But to keep Mr. McCain's crucial support, the committee toughened some of the language. 
The panel set aside a resolution by Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky and a fierce opponent of a strike, that would have declared the president has authority to act unilaterally only when the nation faces attack, then approved language by Senators McCain and Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware, to add more rhetorical bite.
 The McCain-Coons language noted "absent decisive changes to the present military balance of power on the ground in Syria, sufficient incentives do not yet exist" to force a political settlement of the Syrian civil war. It also reiterated that "it is the policy of the United States to change the momentum on the battlefield in Syria," urging "a comprehensive U.S. strategy" to not only degrade the regime's weapons of mass destruction but also to upgrade the military capabilities of "elements of the Syrian opposition."
- Jonathan Weisman 
 1:46 P.M. | Jon Stewart Prefers to Fight Extraterrestrials 
President Obama will not get any help for his Syria policy from "The Daily Show."
On the night Jon Stewart returned to nightly political satire after a summer-long absence, he left no doubtof his position on the possibility of American military action directed toward Syria.
After clips of various television commentators suggesting that doing nothing about the use of chemical weapons in Syria would be a sign of weakness and encourage bullies, Mr. Stewart said: "Oh right. We have to bomb Syria because we're in seventh grade."
He also asked, "Why does holding back look like weakness. Isn't it maturity?"
Mr. Stewart compared Mr. Obama's position to comments in made by President George Bush on Kuwait and President George W. Bush on Iraq, and even the fictional President Thomas J. Whitmore in the movie "Independence Day." (The movie's war, against extraterrestrials, was "pretty justified," Mr. Stewart said.)
But he also reserved wrath for the chorus of so-called experts who have been offered televised forums for their views, members of the group who helped push the 2003 invasion of Iraq, including Donald H. Rumsfeld, L. Paul Bremer III and William Kristol. Mr. Stewart said, "Hey everybody, the idiot parade is in town."
The comedian - who last month visited Jordan's Zaatari refugee camp, packed with 130,000 Syrians - summed up the limited action proposed by the president as little more than a justification of manhood. "We're going to take a somewhat ineffective action purposefully designed to accomplish very little," Mr. Stewart said, before closing with a more explicit scatological reference.
- Bill Carter 
 1:46 P.M. | Markets More Stable as Syria Debate Progresses 
Investors' concerns about a strike on Syria seemed to subside slightly on Wednesday as the American stock market managed to hold onto early gains. 
After President Obama said last week that he was considering military action against Syria, world markets suffered. But on Wednesday, the S&P 500 index was up nearly 1 percent in early afternoon trading. European markets closed marginally higher, while oil prices, which tend to rise during periods of tension in the Middle East, fell.
Investors often fear political uncertainty, so they may have been buoyed by signs that Mr. Obama is making some progress in his efforts to win support for Congressional vote on a military strike against Syria. Still, there were other reasons to be upbeat about stocks, like a strong sales report from Ford and other American automakers.
- Peter Eavis 
 1:38 P.M. | Syria's Sunni Leader Offers to Join Pope's Vigil 
ROME - The spiritual leader of Sunni Islam in Syria has written to Pope Francis expressing a desire to join him in St. Peter's Square on Saturday for a four-hour prayer vigil for peace, according to the Catholic News Agency Fides. 
If he is unable to travel to the Vatican, the leader, Grand Mufti Ahmad Badr al-Deen Hassoun, pledged in a letter to participate in a parallel vigil for peace in the great Umayyad Mosque in the Syrian capital, Damascus, Fides said. 
Mr. Hassoun has been a firm supporter of the Assad government. In 2011, he warned in an address broadcast by Syrian state television that in case of any foreign attack, Syria would unleash suicide attackers to retaliate. 
"The moment the first missile hits Syria, all the sons and daughters of Lebanon and Syria will set out to become martyrdom-seekers in Europe and on Palestinian soil," he said, according toa translationby the Middle East Media Research Institute. "I say to all of Europe and to the U.S.: We will prepare martyrdom-seekers who are already among you, if you bomb Syria or Lebanon. From now on, it will be 'an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth, and he who dealt the first blow is more unjust,' and you are the ones who have done us an injustice." 
In the letter cited by Fides, Mr. Hassoun wrote that the pope's appeal for peace, and day of fasting and prayer, is "good and for the good of humanity." 
He also proposed to organize with the Vatican a "spiritual summit with religious leaders in Damascus or in the Vatican: so maybe we can stop the fire of those who want to destroy the land of Abraham, Moses, Jesus, Muhammad."
"Let us remain, hand in hand in spreading peace and security for all peoples of the world, to counter the extremists and divisions on the basis of religion or ethnicity," he wrote. "We continue our journey in the footsteps of the prophets, saints, the righteous and the men of good will."
- Elisabetta Povoledo and Andrea Kannapell 
 1:56 P.M. | McCain Calls for Provision to Remove Assad from Power 
WASHINGTON - Senator John McCain, the de facto leader of the small hawkish faction of Republicans who are supportive of a broader military intervention in Syria, said that he wanted more robust language included in any Congressional authorization of military force.
Speaking to reporters, Mr. McCain insisted that the resolution include a provision that any American military action must have the end goal of removing the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad, from power. 
"Without the provision for reversing the momentum on the battlefield, then conditions are not created for the departure of Bashar Assad," Mr. McCain, an Arizona Republican and member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said. "There is no policy without that. There is no strategy without that." 
Meanwhile, Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey, the Foreign Relations chairman and a Democrat, said he expected there would be bipartisan support for the resolution when it comes to a vote in the committee. "I would expect to pass this out of the committee it will have bipartisan support," he said.
- Jeremy W. Peters 
 1:48 P.M. | Hezbollah Official Criticized Gas Attack, Germans Say 
A senior member of the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah, which has fought alongside President Bashar al-Assad's forces in Syria, reportedly criticized Mr. Assad for using chemical weapons during a telephone conversation with an Iranian official in Damascus that was intercepted by Germany's foreign intelligence agency, or BND.
Spiegel Online reports that the intelligence agency's chief, Gerhard Schindler, mentioned the intercepted call in a secret briefing on Monday in which he explained why the agency had concluded that Mr. Assad's forces were responsible for a deadly gas attack in the suburbs of the Syrian capital, Damascus, on Aug. 21.
According to the German magazine, after he cited physical evidence similar to that already made public by American, British and French intelligence officials:
Schindler also presented an additional clue, one that has not thus far been made public. He said that the BND listened in on a conversation between a high-ranking member of the Lebanese militia Hezbollah, which supports Assad and provides his regime with military assistance, and the Iranian Embassy. The Hezbollah functionary, Schindler reported, seems to have admitted that poison gas was used. He said that Assad lost his nerve and made a big mistake by ordering the chemical weapons attack.
One of the participants in the meeting who heard the briefing confirmed to Reuters that "The BND referred to a phone call they had heard between a Hezbollah official and the Iranian Embassy in which he spoke about Assad having ordered the attack."
The news agency also reported that "German lawmakers of all parties were skeptical about a military intervention in Syria and had quizzed the BND over faulty intelligence on weapons of mass destruction in Iraq used to justify the U.S.-led invasion of 2003." False information about chemical weapons production in Iraq supplied to the BND by an Iraqi defector code-named "Curveball," formed a central part of the rationale for that war presented to the United Nations in 2003 by Colin Powell, the American secretary of state at the time.
Although it is not clear that even a high-ranking Hezbollah official would know for certain that the Assad government had ordered the use of chemical weapons, this is not the first time representatives of the Lebanese militant group have reportedly been unhappy with Syria's conduct of the civil war.
Last year, when The Guardian published a trove of hacked e-mails apparently taken from the in-boxes of Syrian officials, one message forwarded to the president included advice from Iranian state television's bureau chief in Damascus on how his Syrian counterparts should report bombings. That e-mail, from Hussein Mortada, a Lebanese journalist in charge of the Iranian government's satellite news channels in Syria, complained that the government was not heeding directions he had received "from Iran and Hezbollah," to not immediately blame all bomb attacks on Al Qaeda.
- Robert Mackey 
 1:28 P.M. | Paul Expected to Filibuster Syria Resolution 
Senator Rand Paul, a Kentucky Republican and a fierce opponent of military action in Syria, will filibuster any effort to bring an authorization of military force to a quick vote in the Senate, a Paul aide confirmed Wednesday.
The decision likely will scramble the Senate schedule and could delay any vote of the Senate for days. House leaders want the Senate to move first to build momentum. But for the Senate to move quickly, the majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, would need unanimous consent at least to bring the authorization of force to the Senate floor. 
That is not likely to happen. Moira Bagley, a spokeswoman for Mr. Paul, said he would demand a 60-vote threshold to move forward.
A senior Senate leadership aide said Mr. Reid would like to get consent among all the senators to quickly move a resolution, but will not try to protect it from ordinary Senate rules. "This resolution will be treated like any other joint resolution, meaning it is subject to filibuster."
- Jonathan Weisman 
 1:15 P.M. | Senate Panel to Take Up Resolution Wednesday 
WASHINGTON - Legislators spent much of Wednesday morning huddled in classified briefings on Syria, as rumors of stagnation swirled on Capitol Hill. The Senate would no longer vote on military action in Syria on Wednesday, aides whispered, and they might not even mark up any resolution. 
But by early afternoon, as senators began trickling out of a Senate Foreign Relations Committee briefing, it appeared that consensus had been reached on the process and the panel would take up the resolution after all.
"I believe we're going to move forward on the resolution on marking it up, talking about amendments and actually taking a vote on it today," said Senator Jim Risch, Republican of Idaho.
Senator Rand Paul, a Kentucky Republican and a vocal opponent of any military action in Syria, offered a similar assessment, but expressed concern with what he saw as the likely outcome. 
"I think there will be a vote today and we will vote on a resolution for use of authorization of force to involve ourselves in the Syrian civil war," he said. "I think they will win the vote in the committee, I think they will win the vote in the Senate. The only chance of stopping of what I consider to be bad policy will be in the House." 
Mr. Paul said the resolution - which will differ from the language originally submitted by President Obama's administration - was still not something he can support.
"I don't see a clear cut or compelling American interest," he said. "I see a horrible tragedy, but I don't see that our involvement will lessen the tragedy. It may well make the tragedy worse. I think more civilian deaths could occur, I think an attack on Israel could occur, I think an attack on Turkey could occur, I think you could get more Russian involvement, more Iranian involvement."
Mr. Paul added, "I think our involvement may actually make the situation worse."
Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, said that the committee was likely to amend the resolution on Wednesday afternoon, and that Senator John McCain, an Arizona Republican who has previously argued for a more forceful display for force in Syria, was likely to offer an amendment that would address his concerns.
Mr. Corker added that the Senate Foreign Relations Committee was likely to hold part of its markup in private, in order to more openly discuss delicate topics. 
He also said that Congress had no problem working through the weekend, if needed: "We're more than glad to do this Friday, Saturday, Sunday, Monday."
- Ashley Parker 
 12:57 P.M. | Senate Panel Delays Meeting on Syria Resolution 
WASHINGTON - The Senate Foreign Relations Committee's high-stakes drafting of a resolution authorizing the use of military force in Syria has been postponed until 2 p.m. amid new disputes over the breadth of the force to be authorized.
The committee was supposed to take up the resolution at 11:30 a.m., but a lengthy closed-door meeting of the panel showed the depths of the dispute. The committee's chairman, Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, and a senior Republican, Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee, released language Tuesday night that would limit the strikes to 60 days, with an additional 30 days subject to consultation with Congress, and that would force the White House to show all other avenues had been exhausted.
But Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona and a crucial voice in the debate, told a reporter on Wednesday that the Menendez-Corker language would hamstring the military and limit the administration's capability of degrading the military capacity of the Syrian government.
- Jonathan Weisman 
 12:53 P.M. | Senators Tight-Lipped After Classified Briefing 
WASHINGTON - Call it the silence of the Senate. As Secretary of State John Kerry left a briefing with the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, the panel he once led, he did not stop to speculate on whether the committee had the votes to pass a measure to authorize force against Syria. "I think you will have to talk to the chairman," Mr. Kerry said. 
As a few grim-faced senators trickled out after nearly four hours of classified briefings, they, too, had little to say. Senator Heidi Heitkamp, Democrat of North Dakota, declined to comment on the meeting or say where she stood on the issue, and scurried away with her staff members to avoid being trapped by reporters near the Senate subway. 
Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, said he still had "a lot of questions" but did not commit further, while Senator
James M. Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma, left the meeting as an affirmed "no." "The major reason that nobody else talks about is our decimated military, what Obama has done to our military." he said. "I'm still opposed to it."
- Jennifer Steinhauer 
 12:20 P.M. | Germany Sees No Russian Shift 
BERLIN - Germany, engrossed in an election campaign and long committed to international mandates for military operations, sees little chance of persuading Russia to back intervention in Syria.
"Right now, the chances of a Russian turnaround look very slim," said a government spokesman, Steffen Seibert. 
Chancellor Angela Merkel hopes to discuss the Syrian crisis on the sidelines of the coming G-20 summit meeting with both President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and President Obama, according to another senior government official who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle will accompany Ms. Merkel and Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaueble to St. Petersburg for the summit meeting, which begins on Thursday and is traditionally a forum that concentrates more on managing economic and financial affairs. The German foreign minister is scheduled to meet his Russian counterpart, Sergey V. Lavrov.
- Alison Smale 
 11:53 A.M. | Liberal Veterans Group Opposes Action in Syria 
WASHINGTON - VoteVets, a liberal group of veterans, largely from the war in Iraq, came out Wednesday against a military strike on Syria, adding a voice from the left that could undermine support for President Obama among House Democrats.
The group was a mainstay in the Democrats' antiwar campaigns during the administration of George W. Bush. Its leader, Jon Soltz, an Iraq War veteran, became a fixture on Capitol Hill with his military bearing and caustic, anti-Bush rhetoric.
In a lengthy argumentpublished on Huffington Post, Mr. Soltz, the VoteVets.org chairman, said that although most of the group's supporters are firmly against a strike on the forces of the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad, he wrestled with the decision. His own disenchantment with the Iraq War was fueled by conversations with two Vietnam veterans, John Kerry, now the secretary of state, and Chuck Hagel, now the secretary of defense. Both men are lobbying hard for Congressional support.
But Mr. Soltz said he was unmoved by the administration's arguments and feared that limited strikes would do nothing but potentially lead to a wider war.
"Missile strikes, as limited and justified as they may be, are an act of war against the Assad regime," Mr. Soltz wrote. "Yet, I get no sense that the United States has any clear idea of our strategic or operational endstate. We want to deter the regime from using weapons but, according to the hearings yesterday, we don't want to conduct decisive actions against Assad that could lead to his defeat by Syrian insurgents.
"If our goal is to eliminate Assad's chemical weapons cache, then missile strikes, alone, won't achieve that goal," he wrote. "There is a 100 percent chance that we will not eliminate his chemical weapons. Using airstrikes on chemical sites can create disaster of its own, leaking the dangerous gases into the air (a possible root cause of Gulf War Syndrome in our veterans). But, it's the ability to deliver chemical weapons that is critical. Missiles or artillery rounds could be used. These weapon systems are legitimate targets, but many could be deployed throughout populated areas as the Syrians prepare for an attack, making them extremely hard to target.
"Therefore, ground troops would be required to seize chemical weapons, a consideration that is 'off the table.' "
- Jonathan Weisman 
 10:18 A.M. | Pope Francis: 'Let the Cry for Peace Rise' 
ROME - "Let the cry for peace rise up forcefully across the Earth," Pope Francis told thousands of people gathered Wednesday for his weekly general audience at St. Peter's Square. 
He urged people of all faiths to participate in the four-hour vigil for peace scheduled for Saturday in the square. Special masses and vigils are expected to be held Saturday in many Catholic communities around the world.
 10:01 A.M. | Official: Even 'World War III' Threat Won't Sway Syria 
DAMASCUS, Syria - Syria's deputy foreign minister said Wednesday that the government of President Bashar al-Assad would not give in to threats of a United States-led military strike against the country, even if a third world war erupted.
In an interview, the official, Faisal Muqdad, said the government had taken "every measure" to counter a potential intervention aimed at punishing the Syrian government over a deadly poison gas strike and was mobilizing its allies.
"The Syrian government will not change position even if there is World War III," he said. "No Syrian can sacrifice the independence of his country."
"Syria has taken every measure to retaliate" against any aggression, he added, refusing to clarify what that might mean.
Mr. Muqdad said the government was mobilizing its allies ahead of a possible strike, as President Obama lobbied Congress to back intervention, and the French Parliament debated the issue.
- Agence France-Presse 
 10:09 A.M. | Obama Frames Syria Crisis as Test for World 
STOCKHOLM - President Obama declared Wednesday that the confrontation with Syria over chemical weapons was not a personal test for him but for Congress, the country and the world, as he worked to shore up support at home and abroad for a punitive strike.
 Opening a three-day trip overseas at a delicate moment for his presidency, Mr. Obama challenged lawmakers and allies to stand behind his plans for a cruise missile attack on the government of President Bashar al-Assad in retaliation for a chemical attack that the United States says killed more than 1,400 civilians in the Damascus suburbs last month.
 "I didn't set a red line," Mr. Obama said during a news conference here. "The world set a red line." He added: "My credibility's not on the line. The international community's credibility's on the line. And America and Congress's credibility's on the line."
 Mr. Obama laid blame for the Aug. 21 chemical attack directly on Mr. Assad. American intelligence has not disclosed any evidence that Mr. Assad personally ordered the use of what the United States says was sarin gas, but the White House has said he remains responsible as the leader of the country and its military. Mr. Obama's language on Wednesday appeared to go a little further in singling out Mr. Assad.
 "We believe very strongly with high confidence that in fact chemical weapons were used and that Mr. Assad was the source," the president said.
- Peter Baker 
 9:46 A.M. | Obama Addresses Syria Crisis at News Conference 
Obama understands doubt about Syria strike but if "you're outraged by the slaughter of innocent people, what are you doing about it?"
- Peter Baker (@peterbakernyt)4 Sep 13
Obama acknowledges that "we may not be imminently threatened" by Syria, but says intl law "provides a clear basis for action."
- Peter Baker (@peterbakernyt)4 Sep 13
Obama says "I think this is true, that had I been in the Senate," in such a circumstance, he would have pushed president for vote on Syria.
- Peter Baker (@peterbakernyt)4 Sep 13
Obama on US-Russia: "We've kind of hit a wall in terms of additional progress. But I have not written off" future cooperation.
- Peter Baker (@peterbakernyt)4 Sep 13
Obama says he doesn't need congressional vote to launch strike "but I did not take this to Congress just because it's an empty exercise."
- Peter Baker (@peterbakernyt)4 Sep 13
Obama: "My credibility's not on the line. The intl commty's credibility's on the line. And America & Congress's credibility's on the line"
- Peter Baker (@peterbakernyt)4 Sep 13
- Peter Baker 
 6:17 A.M. | Germany and U.A.E. Pledge Funds for Aid and Rebuilding 
BEIRUT, Lebanon - Germany and the United Arab Emirates have each pledged $13 million toward a trust fund for Syria's opposition National Coalition to help those suffering in opposition-held areas, and for reconstruction after the conflict is resolved. But those funds would appear to be a drop in the bucket. Al-Watan, a Syrian newspaper close to the government, published a study this week finding that $73 billion would be needed to repair the damage from the war, including the partial or complete destruction of an estimated 1.5 million dwellings. 
- Anne Barnard 
 5:49 A.M. | Putin Says Not Enough Proof to Justify a U.S. Attack 
MOSCOW - In an interview published on Wednesday, President Vladimir V. Putin said it seemed "completely ridiculous" for the government of President Bashar al-Assad to have used chemical weapons and that there was still not sufficient proof to justify the military strike that President Obama has asked Congress to authorize.
Mr. Putin, speaking to The Associated Press and Russia's government-controlled Channel One television network ahead of the Group of 20 summit meeting to be held this week in St. Petersburg, pointedly warned that an attack without the authorization of the United Nations Security Council would be a violation of international law. The government released a transcript of the interview.
Read more »
- David M. Herszenhorn 
 5:27 A.M. | Obama Arrives in Sweden Before G-20 Summit 
STOCKHOLM - President Obama arrived here Wednesday morning on the first stop of a brief overseas trip as he sought to shore up international support for a limited military strike against Syria's government in retaliation for a chemical weapons attack on civilians.
After an overnight flight from Washington, Mr. Obama embarked on a day of meetings and other events in the Swedish capital before heading Thursday to St. Petersburg for a meeting of the Group of 20 nations hosted by President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, who opposes any attack.
The trip comes as the president and his advisers are trying to persuade Congress to pass a measure formally authorizing a punitive strike. Before taking off, he won support from Republican leaders in the House, but there is no guarantee they can rally rank-and-file members deeply wary about the prospect of the United States' becoming entangled in another Middle East war.
Read more »
- Peter Baker 
 4:56 A.M. | French Parliament to Debate Intervention 
PARIS - The government of President François Hollande will go before France's two houses of Parliament on Wednesday afternoon to make the case for French intervention in Syria. No vote on the matter is currently scheduled, as France's Constitution does not require that the president seek parliamentary approval for military action. But Mr. Hollande is under mounting pressure to seek such ratification, especially given the parliamentary vote in London and President Obama's decision to put the matter before Congress. Last weekend, French government officials had insisted that Mr. Hollande would not seek a vote, but several ministers have since indicated that the president was now considering one.
Mr. Hollande, a Socialist, holds solid majorities in both houses of Parliament and substantial factions of both left and right support military strikes against Syria. But France has long sought to bolster the international legitimacy of the United Nations, and the announcement by President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia that Russia might cease its opposition to a U.N.-backed intervention may prompt renewed calls in France to await action by the Security Council. Mr. Hollande has indicated that, should Congress vote against intervention, France would attempt to form an alternate international coalition and increase its aid to rebel groups, perhaps in the form of direct arms shipments.
- Scott Sayare 
 1:15 A.M. | Putin Says He Might Support U.N. Action on Syria 
Russia's president, Vladimir V. Putin, told The Associated Press in an interview that the West should not take one-sided action against Syria, and held out the possibility that Russia would support a United Nations Security Council resolution allowing military strikes on Syria if evidence showed the country used chemical weapons.
The interview late Tuesday night came just before a G-20 meeting of world leaders in St. Petersburg, at which Syria will likely be a major topic of conversation, although President Obama had canceled a planned meeting with Mr. Putin because of strained ties. 
''If there are data that the chemical weapons have been used, and used specifically by the regular army, this evidence should be submitted to the U.N. Security Council,'' Mr. Putin told The A.P. ''And it ought to be convincing. It shouldn't be based on some rumors and information obtained by special services through some kind of eavesdropping, some conversations and things like that.'' 
The Russian leader said that despite his problematic ties with the American president, he was hopeful Mr. Obama would have serious discussions during the summit.
''We work, we argue about some issues. We are human," he said. "Sometimes one of us gets vexed. But I would like to repeat once again that global mutual interests form a good basis for finding a joint solution to our problems."
Mr. Putin also again cast doubt on American assertions that the Syrian military would use chemical weapons against its own people while it had the upper hand in the conflict.
''From our viewpoint, it seems absolutely absurd that the armed forces, the regular armed forces, which are on the offensive today and in some areas have encircled the so-called rebels and are finishing them off, that in these conditions they would start using forbidden chemical weapons while realizing quite well that it could serve as a pretext for applying sanctions against them, including the use of force,'' he said.
- Gerry Mullany 
 10:20 P.M. | Vote on Senate Resolution Could Come Wednesday 
The Senate Foreign Relations Committee could vote as early as Wednesday on the resolution authorizing a strike at Syria. Any action, the resolution says, should be "tailored" only to deter Syria from using chemical weapons again and to cripple its capacity to do so.
The resolution would prohibit "boots on the ground" and require "the Obama administration to submit their broader plan for Syria," the panel's ranking Republican, Bob Corker of Tennessee, said in a statement.
The chairman, Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, added: "We have an obligation to act."
- Steve Kenny 
 10:15 P.M. | Senate Leaders Agree on Resolution to Act 
Democrats and Republicans on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee agreed on a resolution that would give President Obama the authority to carry out a strike against Syria, for a period of 60 days, with one 30-day extension.
The Senate resolution - released on Tuesday night by Bob Corker of Tennessee, who is the committee's ranking Republican, and its chairman, Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey - would limit the president's options and prohibit the use of ground forces.
- Steve Kenny 
 7:30 P.M. | The Ship That Didn't Stay 
Defense Department officials said Tuesday that the Navy had ordered one of the five destroyers deployed near Syria's coast to return to its home port of Norfolk, Va. 
It may have just been a coincidence, but the vessel, the Mahan, is named after the American naval historian who helped advance "gunboat diplomacy" - the military theory of sea-power supremacy - at the turn of the 20th century.
Rear Adm. Alfred Thayer Mahan, who was a lecturer in naval history and president of the United States Naval War College, published a revolutionary analysis of the importance of naval might in 1890. That analysis, "The Influence of Sea Power Upon History, 1660-1783," helped to explain the reasons for the dominance of the British Empire, according to the Web site of the State Department's Office of the Historian.
"Mahan and some leading American politicians believed that these lessons could be applied to U.S. foreign policy, particularly in the quest to expand U.S. markets overseas," the Office of the Historian said.
Admiral Mahan died in 1914 at the age of 74. According to the Web site ofNaval History and Heritage Command, Admiral Thayer wrote 20 books and 23 essays on the significance of naval power, and his work had "tremendous influence all over the world."
The destroyer Mahan, launched in 1996, is the fourth naval warship to bear his name. The first was launched in 1918, in a ceremony attended by Admiral Mahan's niece, and spent its first year of service patrolling near Cuba.
- Rick Gladstone and Patrick J. Lyons 
 4:18 P.M. | South African Leader Insists on U.N. Leadership 
JOHANNESBURG - South Africa, Africa's biggest economy and a country that carries considerable weight on the continent, has pushed a multilateral approach to Syria. It abstained from voting on a July resolution in the United Nations Security Council because it felt the draft was "unbalanced," in the words of a senior South African diplomat, because it criticized the government but not the rebels. 
Since then, South Africa has come out strongly against any military action against Syria without the imprimatur of the United Nations. 
Speaking to journalists in Pretoria on Tuesday, President Jacob Zuma warned that the United States must not act without the consent of the United Nations. 
"The Security Council must intervene properly on behalf of the Syrian people and find a peaceful solution," Mr. Zuma said. Bombing Syria is "likely to start a war," he continued. "We are looking for collective leadership."
- Lydia Polgreen 
 6:40 P.M. | Libyan Suggests Arab League's Support Has Limits 
CAIRO - Two days after the Arab League passed a resolution calling for unspecified international action in Syria, the Libyan diplomat who presided over the session said Tuesday that the league never intended to support the kind of Western military operation President Obama has proposed.
The diplomat, the Libyan foreign minister, Mohamed Abdel Aziz, may not speak for all Arab states, some of whom favor Western action and may have sought a deliberately ambiguous resolution. But his comments are not helpful to the Obama administration, which has cited the Arab League resolution as evidence of broad regional support for Western airstrikes to punish the government of President Bashar al-Assad. The White House says it has evidence that his forces killed more than a thousand civilians in an assault with chemical weapons, which Mr. Assad denies. 
Although many Arab rulers - notably in Jordan and the Persian Gulf monarchies - have privately urged Western action, no government other than Saudi Arabia has publicly called for Western military action. The idea is deeply unpopular among citizens across the region. But with the United Nations Security Council unable to pass a resolution authorizing military force, because of the veto power of two Syria allies, Russia and China, mustering evidence of Arab support has become increasingly important to the Obama administration's arguments for the legitimacy of a missile strike.
"It would be very difficult for the league to take a unilateral position, to encourage unilateral action from any side," Mr. Abdel Aziz said at a news conference Tuesday in Cairo. "What the League of Arab States would like to see is under the umbrella of the Security Council, rather than unilaterally," he added, readily acknowledging as he spoke that the Russian and Chinese veto power made any such action almost unthinkable.
In fact, Mr. Abdel Aziz said, the Arab League did not even mean to conclude that Mr. Assad's government had conducted the chemical weapons attack that the United States says it is seeking to punish.
Although language in the resolution assigned the Assad government "responsibility" for the chemical weapons attack, the league had meant only to describe the kind of responsibility any state bears for the crimes committed on its soil, regardless of the perpetrator, Mr. Abdel Aziz said.
A state "is responsible for the country as a whole," he said, and the resolution "went in that direction, regardless of who did it."
The Arab League could not rely on the information it had received about who had conducted the attack, he said, because it had all come from countries or partisans on one side of the Syrian conflict. "The League of Arab States will not be able to base its decision on information that has come unilaterally," he said.
In the critical clause about the chemical weapons attack, the league resolved on Sunday night "to ask the United Nations and the international community to bear their responsibilities according to the charter of the organization and rules of international law to take the necessary measures against those who committed this crime, for which the Syrian regime is responsible."
The Obama administration has emphasized that the Arab League appeared to open the door to action outside the deadlocked Security Council. Saudi Arabia, in particular, had pushed for a resolution that would have more explicitly called on the international powers to take military action, and the Saudi foreign minister acknowledged at the time that only the West had that military capacity.
But Mr. Abdel Aziz said the relevant clause "should be read in total; we cannot read one part and ignore the rest." As president of that session of the council, he said, "it is my duty to provide this explanation from the sense of the debate that we had."
"Now each party will interpret that according to its own understanding," he said.
Saying he was speaking only as a "citizen" of the region, Mr. Abdel Aziz argued that much of the Arab world would support Western action aimed at ousting Mr. Assad, because of his responsibility for killing hundreds of thousands of civilians and sending two million refugees into neighboring countries. "I am 100 percent certain that people would applaud this type of action," Mr. Abdel Aziz said.
But if the purpose was "just to limit the power of the regime in order to create a balance between the opposition and the regime, the common man in the street will start doubting the viability of this type of action," he said, because it appeared to be "an incremental approach" designed only to bring the Assad government to a negotiating table to "discuss." Mr. Obama has described the proposed strikes as a limited "shot across the bow," intended to deter or prevent future chemical weapons attacks but not to remove Mr. Assad from power.
While much of the international debate over a Syrian intervention has touched on the example of NATO's intercession in the Libyan uprising against Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, Mr. Abdel Aziz rejected the comparison. In Libya's case, he said, the Security Council had passed a resolution reflecting what he called an international consensus about the justice of the cause.
"The situation in Syria used to be a national situation concerned with the national appeals of the Syrian people for democratic aspirations and building a new state far away from dictatorship," he said, but now "it became not only a regional problem but also a global problem, particularly in view of the fact that there are some countries that are in favor of unilateral military action."
- David D. Kirkpatrick 
 7:06 P.M. | Video: Kerry Clarifies on Ground Troops 
Secretary of State John Kerry seemed to stray from the administration's promise that a strike on Syria would be limited as he considered scenarios in which Mr. Assad retaliates against a strike. However, Mr. Kerry later said he was merely "hypothesizing," and that the authorization under consideration would allow for "zero troops on the ground." Mr. Kerry's initial comments came in response to questions by Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee. More video: opening statements by Mr. Kerry and Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel.
- The New York Times 
 4:33 P.M. | From the Vatican, Prayers and Dire Predictions 
ROME - Top Vatican officials have intensified their calls for dialogue and negotiation as the only viable solution to the conflict.
Pope Francis called on warring factions in Syria to put "courageously" put aside personal interests, overcome "blind contrapositions" and negotiate a solution to the conflict; dialogue and not armed intervention will end the war, he said Sunday.
His words echoed Tuesday, when Cardinal Leonardo Sandri, Prefect of the Congregation for Eastern Churches, warned that the situation in Syria could spiral out of control in the case of military intervention. "Stop before it is too late," he said, in remarks carried by the Vatican newspaper, L'Osservatore Romano. "The logic of violence and retaliation sets off a chain of accusations and vendetta that do not take account of the blood that has been shed, and increase rancor and hatred," he said, warning that Syria would "be transformed ever more as a hell on earth."
On Monday, Monsignor Mario Toso, secretary of the Pontifical Council for Justice and Peace at the Holy See, issued a dire prediction on Vatican Radio: armed intervention in Syria risks world war.
"Violence wouldn't be reduced; rather, there's a risk that it would broaden out to other countries," he said. "The conflict in Syria has all the ingredients to explode into a war of global dimensions."
The Vatican is now finalizing plans for the evening of fasting and prayer in St. Peter's Square next Saturday, which the pope called "for the beloved Syrian nation and for all the situations of conflict and violence in the world." "Humanity needs to see gestures of peace and to hear words of hope and of peace," the pope said during his weekly audience on Sunday, when he invited people of all faiths, as well as nonbelievers, to join him at the vigil.
On Tuesday, the Vatican called ambassadors accredited to the Holy See to come to a briefing on Thursday on the plans.
The pope has also been posting comments on Twitter on the theme of peace, and Syria, for days. On Tuesday, he condemned the use of chemical weapons.
He also wrote, "We want in our society, torn apart by divisions and conflict, that peace break out!"
- Elisabetta Povoledo 
 6:55 P.M. | Two Polls Find American Opposition to Syria Airstrikes 
As Congress prepares to take up the question of military action against Syria, two new polls find Americans opposed to United States involvement. 
Though both surveys - conducted by the Pew Research Center and ABC News/Washington Post - found public opposition to involvement in Syria, the results differed based on the wording of the questions. 
Pew found 48 percent opposition and 29 percent support for airstrikes, and ABC/Washington Post found 59 percent opposition and 36 percent support. Yet, support increased when ABC/Post asked whether the United States should intervene if other countries like Britain and France were to join in launching missile strikes. In that case, opposition dropped to 51 percent and support rose to 46 percent. 
In the Pew poll, support for military intervention was slightly higher among Republicans than among Democrats and independents. The poll fleshed out what was behind the opposition to United States intervention: most Americans think airstrikes would result in long-term involvement in Syria, would create a backlash against the United States and its allies in the region, and would not discourage the use of chemical weapons in the future.
Pew found that 53 percent of the public (including majorities of Democrats and Republicans) thinks there is clear evidence that the Syrian government used chemical weapons against civilians. Still, those who say there is clear evidence of chemical weapons use are about evenly divided in their opinion of whether the United States should take military action. 
Both polls offered alternate hypothetical plans, which were met with varying results. The ABC/Washington Post poll found that 7 in 10 did not want the United States and its allies to supply Syrian rebels with weapons. But Pew's possible chain of events was more palatable to the public - 6 in 10 Americans would like the United States to get a United Nations resolution authorizing the use of force before taking military action against Syria. 
The polls were in the field while the Obama administration was formulating and publicly announcing its plan for dealing with Syria's reported use of chemical weapons against its own people. Both nationwide telephone surveys were conducted on land lines and cellphones, and have a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 4 percentage points. The Pew survey interviewed 1,000 adults Aug. 29 to Sept. 1, and the ABC/Post survey interviewed 1,012 adults Aug 28 to Sept. 1.
- Megan Thee-Brenan 
 6:29 P.M. | Clinton Said to Back Obama's Move to Seek Approval 
Former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton has remained carefully mum on the question of a military intervention in Syria, but an aide to Mrs. Clinton said Tuesday that she supported President Obama's decision to seek Congressional approval to intervene in the escalating crisis.
"Secretary Clinton supports the president's effort to enlist the Congress in pursuing a strong and targeted response to the Assad regime's horrific use of chemical weapons," a Clinton adviser told The Times. (This adviser first issued the statement to Politico.)
Mrs. Clinton came under media scrutiny on Monday after she declined to comment on Syria, but wrote a supportive message on Twitter to Diana Nyad, the 64-year-old who successfully swam 110 miles from Cuba to Florida without a shark cage. 
"Flying to 112 countries is a lot until you consider swimming between 2. Feels like I swim with sharks - but you actually did it! Congrats!" Mrs. Clinton wrote. 
As the country's highest-ranking diplomat, Mrs. Clinton had supported arming the Syrian rebels who wish to oust President Bashar al-Assad. 
Former President Bill Clinton, who will deliver a speech about Mr. Obama's health care overhaul in Little Rock, Ark., on Wednesday, has not commented on the situation in Syria. In June however, Mr. Clinton argued that the United States should pursue a more robust intervention.
- Amy Chozick 
 4:09 P.M. | Syrian Ambassador Rejects Blame for Chemical Attack 
Syria's ambassador to the United Nations, Bashar Jaafari, said in an interview on CNN that the Western accusations that his government had used chemical weapons were "false and unfounded." Speaking to Christiane Amanpour via satellite from the United Nations, Mr. Jaafari also accused the American media of stirring up a warmongering frenzy.
"We don't need wars," he said. "We need peaceful settlement of conflicts according to the charter of the United Nations."
"I'm a diplomat and my main job and mission is to extinguish fires, not to trigger wars and animosity among nations."
"We are all victims of any escalation of the situation. You cannot save children by
killing children."
He said President Obama's threat to attack Syria recalled earlier episodes of American military recklessness.
"You can repeat the same mistakes that the previous American administrations did at many times," he said, citing as examples the "Vietnam War or during the Cuban Crisis or the Iraqi War with Colin Powell in the Security Council."
- Rick Gladstone 
 5:36 P.M. | House Republicans Criticize Obama on Syria Policy 
WASHINGTON - If President Obama is going to win over balking members of Congress to his Syria resolution, he is going to have to do it gingerly. Several Republicans said over the weekend that they were concerned - even angered - by word from the president's allies that Mr. Obama had shifted responsibility for the Syria conflict to Congress. Lawmakers do not see it that way.
"The president has bungled this for the last year and a half," said Representative Jason Chaffetz, Republican of Utah. "He, Secretary Clinton and Secretary Kerry have created this mess, not the United States Congress," he added, referring to former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and the current secretary of state, John Kerry.
Worse for the White House, Republicans seem resistant to the argument that the coming Syria vote in Congress puts not only Mr. Obama's prestige on the line but also the prestige of the United States. Representative Charlie Dent, a moderate Republican from Pennsylvania who supported the president's strikes in Libya, says he will need convincing this time. And he sees the coming showdown in the House as being more about Mr. Obama's policy making than national prestige.
"I don't think this is about a strike as much as a vote of confidence on the administration's policies in Syria and the Middle East," Mr. Dent said. "I think the actions of the president in recent days have diminished his office and diminished the United States' standing in the world. There are people in Syria celebrating over the discord."
Representative Jack Kingston, a Republican running for the Senate in Georgia, said voters were weary of war and skeptical about outcomes. They still remember President George W. Bush's landing on an aircraft carrier to announce an end to major combat operations in Iraq, years before they actually ended, and Mr. Obama's promise to pull United States forces out of Iraq and Afghanistan, which implied a full withdrawal and peace in its wake.
"I don't think it's random cynicism at all," Mr. Kingston said.
- Jonathan Weisman 
 5:31 P.M. | France Firm in Backing Strike 
PARIS - President François Hollande of France maintained his pledge of French participation in a military strike against Syria, saying at a news conference on Tuesday that the "most serious threat" would be to allow Syria's president, Bashar al-Assad, "to continue using chemical weapons."
Mr. Hollande is awaiting the decision of the United States Congress. In the event of a "no" vote in Washington, France would seek to build an alternate coalition, French officials say. However, without American operational capacity the possibility of intervention would be significantly hampered. Mr. Hollande said France would "take up its responsibilities by supporting the opposition" should the Americans decide against a strike, though he did not elaborate.
France has for several months been weighing the possibility of directly arming rebel groups, and successfully pressed the European Union to lift an embargo on weapons shipments to Syria.
- Scott Sayare 
 4:31 P.M. | Flurry of Syrian Syrian Defections? Or Just Reports? 
BEIRUT, Lebanon - Rebels have expressed high hopes that the threat of United States military strikes would bring more defections, and there has been a flurry of reports of them. But as has often happened in the conflict, many reports have turned out to be rumors or unconfirmable. Many people who desert the army do not join the rebels, but simply go underground.
In recent days, two groups of soldiers have defected, according to video testimony and antigovernment activists, one group from the northern province of Raqqa and one from the Qalamoun district north of Damascus - more than in recent weeks but not an unprecedented flow.
Proof did not materialize of more sensational rumors of large-scale defections or defections by senior army officers from Mr. Assad's Alawite sect. Molham Droubi, a Muslim Brotherhood member of an early exile Syrian opposition group, the Syrian National Council, said a senior Alawite general had defected.
The most substantial claim on Tuesday came when the main opposition coalition, the National Coalition for Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition Forces, declared that Aleppo's chief medical examiner, Abdel Tawab Shahrour, had defected with documents showing government complicity in a chemical attack in Khan al-Assad, a town in the province, in December 2012, a case in which the rebels and government have accused each other and which the United Nations inspectors were originally supposed to investigate on their recent trip.
But after claiming with much fanfare that they would present him at a news conference, a coalition spokesman rose to the podium and said Dr. Shahrour could not appear for security reasons. The spokesman said that the coalition was trying to arrange a meeting between him and the United Nations inspectors. There was no independent confirmation that he had defected.
A doctor who worked with Dr. Shahrour in Aleppo said that he had known Dr. Shahrour for 10 years and that he was not strongly politically involved on either side in the conflict. The doctor, who is currently outside Syria and asked not to be identified for his safety, said that early in the uprising the medical examiner, unlike many other local doctors, was not known to provide help to injured protesters. "I guess he was afraid," he said.
But later, rumors circulated among friends of Dr. Shahrour that he had done an autopsy on another doctor the government said was killed by gangs, but that activists believed had been killed by government forces. Dr. Shahrour reportedly performed the autopsy and certified the death as homicide without listing all the details, some of which he later recounted to a friend. The man's eyes had been gouged out, and the doctor was convinced that he had been tortured to death.
 Anne Barnard reported from Beirut, and Hala Droubi from Dubai, United Arab Emirates. 
- Anne Barnard and Hala Droubi 
 4:18 P.M. | Britain Focusing on Aid 
LONDON - Britain's prime minister, David Cameron, made clear on Tuesday that he would not make a second attempt to secure parliamentary approval to join a possible American-led military strike against Syria, but promised to lead efforts to keep humanitarian aid flowing to the region.
"I think Parliament spoke very clearly, and it's important to respect the view of Parliament, so I am not planning to return to Parliament to ask again about British military action," Mr. Cameron said in Birmingham, in west-central England.
"Now, that does not mean we do nothing on Syria," he said. "We are already the second-largest aid donor in delivering the humanitarian aid that is so needed, both in Syria and in the neighboring countries like Jordan and Turkey.
"We'll go on doing that," he said. "We will help lead the world in that effort and make further efforts at the G20 to make sure that vital aid gets through."
- Stephen Castle 
 4:07 P.M. | Supporters of a Strike See Momentum Building 
WASHINGTON - Lawmakers emerged early Tuesday afternoon from a classified briefing feeling more convinced by the intelligence presented and more sanguine about the vote. About 20 to 30 House members and senators attended. The intelligence was detailed and compelling, said one member of Congress who participated. And with other briefings scheduled for Thursday, Friday and Monday, supporters of a strike say momentum is shifting toward their position.
"I've been through classified briefings and a conference call. I'm convinced the intelligence is irrefutable," said Representative Steve Israel of New York, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. "I do believe the resolution is too open-ended and many of colleagues feel that way and are anxious to reshape it." 
He said he supported a narrow resolution authorizing a strike to degrade the Syrian government's chemical-weapons capacity but prohibiting the use of ground forces, policies the administration has said it supports.
"I take the president at his words," Mr. Israel said, "but I'd like those words added to the resolution."
Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, said that the support of top Republican leadership in the House - Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio and Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the majority leader - could help sway other House Republicans to support the resolution.
"They certainly expressed strong support today, and I don't think there's any question when leadership like that expresses support in such a strong way, it makes a difference," Mr. Corker said.
But, he added, "Right now I'm dealing with the Senate side of the issue."
- Jonathan Weisman and Ashley Parker 
 4:10 P.M. | Syrian President Warns of Regional Conflagration 
PARIS - In a rare interview with a Western news outlet, President Bashar al-Assad on Monday denied any link to the reported chemical attack in Damascus last month and warned darkly that foreign intervention in Syria would risk a regional conflagration well beyond the borders of his country.
With little visible security, in a home in a pine wood in the hills over Damascus, Mr. Assad sat for a 40-minute interview with a correspondent for the French newspaper Le Figaro on Monday morning.
He told the reporter, Georges Malbrunot, that neither the United States nor France had produced "a single piece of evidence" to support claims of a chemical attack by government forces and suggested that such an attack would be strategically incomprehensible.
"Let's talk about the logic of this accusation," he said, according to the interview, which was published online late Monday night. "What interest could there be in attacking with chemical weapons, when our situation on the ground is today much better than it was last year?"
Mr. Assad went on to specify, however, that he did not intend to indicate that "the Syrian Army does or does not possess such weapons."
Mr. Malbrunot was not frisked and encountered only a single roadblock before arriving at the site of the interview, he wrote in Le Figaro, though his cellphone and voice recorder were confiscated.
He described the interview, to which Mr. Assad agreed in principle earlier in the summer, as "very classic." Mr. Assad's culture minister served as interpreter.
"I asked absolutely all the questions I wanted to," Mr. Malbrunot said in posted on the Web site of Le Figaro, which has editorialized against a French strike in recent days, calling the consequences too potentially hazardous. "I interrupted him, sometimes." 
Mr. Assad said strikes would serve only the "strengthening of terrorism in Syria," and asked: "What did the world gain in Libya? What did it gain in the war in Iraq or elsewhere?" He systematically referred to the fighters opposing his rule as "terrorists" and claimed that "80 to 90 percent" were members of Al Qaeda.
"These men are not interested either in reforms or in politics," Mr. Assad said. "The only way to cope with them is to liquidate them. Only then will we be able to discuss political measures."
Mr. Malbrunot asked what message Mr. Assad might wish to send to French lawmakers, who on Wednesday are to debate a possible military intervention in Syria.
"Can they put themselves on the side of those who, like Mohammed Merah, have killed innocents in France?" Mr. Assad replied, referring to the self-proclaimed jihadist who killed seven people last year in southern France. "How can France fight terrorism in Mali and strengthen it in Syria? Will France become an example of the policy of 'double standards' promoted by the United States?"
Mr. Assad "remained very calm throughout the interview" and showed no "visible signs of worry," Mr. Malbrunot wrote in Le Figaro. "But he appeared very concerned by his standoff with Barack Obama."
The region is a "powder keg," Mr. Assad said, "and the flame is getting closer to it today."
He went on: "One mustn't only talk about Syrian retaliation, but indeed about what might occur after the first strike. But no one can know what will happen. Everyone will lose control of the situation when the powder keg explodes. Chaos and extremism will spread. A risk of regional war exists."
Mr. Brunot speculated that, with minimal visible security, Mr. Assad had sought to "give an image of a leader who, in the end, is not living in a bunker."
"Does that correspond with the everyday reality?" he asked. "I have no idea. But that's the image he wanted to project."
- Scott Sayare 
 4:04 P.M. | India Rejects Military Action 
NEW DELHI - In India, a country that remained vigorously pro-American throughout the Bush presidency, the bilateral relationship remains strong and Mr. Obama is fairly popular, but not on the question of Syria.
The government came out Tuesday with a statement rejecting military action in Syria, and has held back from assigning blame for use of chemical weapons late last month. India's Foreign Ministry complained to the British government after Prime Minister David Cameron, in a speech, mistakenly named India as one of the countries that had concluded that Mr. Assad was responsible.
Some weariness toward the United States may be due to India's domestic woes. The rupee has lost 20 percent of its value since spring, when Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the United States Federal Reserve, signaled a tapering of bond purchases, prompting foreign cash to flee emerging markets.
"I think there is fatigue, quite frankly," said Siddharth Varadarajan, editor of The Hindu, a leading English-language daily newspaper. "Right now, the Indian economy is taking a beating because of what is happening in the U.S. Then there is a Syria crisis, which he has escalated, leading to higher oil prices."
He added, "There's not too much enthusiasm for his leadership, quote-unquote."
- Ellen Barry 
 3:56 P.M. | Leaders on Hill Face Challenge in Building a Coalition 
WASHINGTON - Representative Nancy Pelosi of California on Tuesday provided the best signal of the challenging dynamic on Capitol Hill after a meeting at the White House concerning President Obama's call for action in Syria. "In my district," said Ms. Pelosi, the Democratic leader, "I don't think people are convinced that military action is necessary."
That Ms. Pelosi, who personally supports the proposal - along with House Speaker John A. Boehner and Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the majority leader - and is charged with delivering votes would offer such a qualification reflects the post-Iraq reality in which a Democratic president is compelled to persuade both House Democrats, a caucus with a strong liberal antiwar contingent, as well as conservative Republicans, who are disinclined to help him, to get on board with the use of force.
August is Mr. Obama's enemy. Members from both parties, out and about in their districts, are hearing from constituents, and the answer is, usually, make it stop. "My constituent contacts are running 99 percent against," said Representative Tim Griffin, Republican of Arkansas. 
Over in the Senate, Republicans and Democrats are scrambling together to come up with a measure that would be acceptable to the majority of members, with a focus on the length of time before the measure's expiration and language prohibiting boots on the ground. While a coalition of antiwar members in both parties will almost certainly vote against such a measure, its chances for passage seem less uphill. 
But over in the House, for both parties, the easiest vote remains no. Democrats, who are war weary, do not wish to look hypocritical by giving their nod to the president. House Republicans are a mix of libertarian isolationists, garden-variety conservatives who neither trust Mr. Obama nor wish to come to his aide and lawmakers listening to their constituents who want nothing to do with the conflict. "I haven't spoken to anyone today yesterday or the day before who supports action in Syria," said Representative Cory Gardner, Republican of Colorado. 
Representative Elijah E. Cummings, a Maryland Democrat, said he got an angry earful this past weekend from war-weary constituents who hear about possible American military action in Syria and immediately fear an Iraq-style invasion."If you go to my district and took a poll, I'd guarantee you that 95 percent would be against any resolution," Mr. Cummings said in a telephone interview. "They're saying, please don't let us go into Syria." 
Mr. Cummings said that he had not made up his mind how he would vote on a scaled-back resolution, and that he and his colleagues in Congress still needed more information. "They've got to make the case to the American people why chemical weapons are so egregious and why their use is not considered normal warfare," he said.
Yet Democrats are all but certain to be needed to put any Syria measure over the top in the House. They would join a Republican coalition of rank-and-file members who, like Mr. Boehner and Mr. Cantor, believe that chemical-weapons use cannot be tolerated, as well as defense hawks and those like Mr. Cantor who are strong Israel supporters, in supporting a measure. 
Officially, leaders in both parties portray a use-of-force vote as one of conscience, and this is no different. Yet Republicans may be well served to gain the support of people like Representative Adam Kinzinger, of Illinois, a combat veteran, who may be more influential among his colleagues than party leaders.
- Jennifer Steinhauer 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (87%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); CHARITIES (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); WILDLIFE (50%) Middle East

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (74%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) SYRIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



83 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: Budget Battles Keep Agencies Guessing

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The collision of the $1 trillion in budget cuts known as sequestration and the breakdown of the normal budgeting process is creating headaches not just for Washington but also for a vast web of offices dependent on federal financing. Many have been left uncertain as to how much money -- if any -- they will have to spend in the year ahead.
''I don't want to throw darts or rocks at anybody,'' said Gov. Neil Abercrombie, Democrat of Hawaii, at the National Governors Association convention last month in Milwaukee, venting his frustration over the budget uncertainty. ''I just want to know what the hell the numbers are.''
The budget woes are afflicting, among others, state governments, American Indian tribes, military contractors and cancer research laboratories. Budget experts said that the short-term concerns over next year's dollar figures were already hampering long-term planning and making government officials hesitant to commit to big projects or to hire needed employees. 
''You're eating away little by little at the infrastructure and effectiveness of government,'' said Philip Joyce, a professor at the University of Maryland.
In an interview, Dr. Francis Collins, the director of the National Institutes of Health, called 2013 the ''darkest ever'' year for the agency, whose budget is at its lowest inflation-adjusted appropriations level in more than a decade. The agency has been awarding grants to an increasingly smaller sliver of applicants as well.
The stopgap measures that have kept the government running have further hobbled the agency, he added. ''Continuing resolutions discourage you from trying something new and bold,'' he said. ''You're supposed to tread water. And science is very badly served by that tread-water message.''
One researcher who said he had felt the impact of the budget wars is Steven Salzberg, the director of the Center for Computational Biology at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore and a lauded biomedical researcher. Mr. Salzberg said that he had received about 20 percent less in federal funding than his peers had recommended for his work on the biological underpinnings of cancer and other diseases.
''Less science is getting done,'' he said. ''That means cures won't emerge. Five years from now, when your aunt gets cancer and you can't do anything for her, people won't stop and think, 'Jesus, if we only hadn't had the sequester!' ''
Shorter grant cycles have forced scientists to rush to get results, he said. Increasing competition for funding has left him and his peers spending more and more time on paperwork, and less and less time on laboratory work. Worst of all, he said, promising young scientists are becoming discouraged and leaving the field.
''The current budget wars are a more extreme or egregious version of what has been going on for a number of years,'' Mr. Salzberg said. ''They're wreaking havoc on people's research plans.''
A broad range of budget officials described similar headaches emanating from Washington. Sequestration has forced programs that normally expect flat or increasing financing to make sudden cuts. Many programs delayed those cuts, and are scrambling to make them now -- in some cases with reduced staffs because of furloughs or hiring freezes.
A number of budget issues lingered unresolved during Congress's long summer recess. Earlier this year, the House and the Senate passed spending bills for the 2014 fiscal year, which begins on Oct. 1, that were about $90 billion apart, but never settled on a final figure.
With lawmakers returning to Washington next week, Congress is expected to pass another stopgap bill, known as a continuing resolution, financing the government for a few more months, but it is unclear whether such funding will stay at current levels or shrink. And if the Republicans who control the House and the Democrats who hold sway in the Senate fail to come to a deal before October, many parts of the federal government could shut down.
The breakdown of the Congressional budgeting process this summer has compounded the problems. Officials said that they had received no word about budget figures from Congressional appropriators -- because such numbers do not yet exist.
For public housing offices, the disarray means, at a minimum, a delay in maintenance, capital projects and hiring. It also could lead to a cutback in the number of vouchers issued to low-income families to help pay for their homes.
''It's a recipe for frustration,'' said Sunia Zaterman of the Council of Large Public Housing Authorities. ''The greater uncertainty is leaving programs wondering how many vouchers to issue,'' she said. ''And at the same time, they're laying off staff because their administrative funding level is down.''
Military spending is particularly vulnerable. Were Congress to pass a measure keeping government spending at its current level, the Defense Department would still have to make about $20 billion in new cuts because of a quirk in the sequestration law. Already, the department is making about $1 trillion in long-term reductions and contemplating laying off thousands of civilian employees to hit its numbers.
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel has repeatedly said that the uncertainty has hampered the military's long-term planning. He told Congress in June that uncertainty ''from month to month, year to year, as to what our possibilities are for contracts for acquisitions, for technology, for research -- the technological advantage that we have in the air and the superiority we have at sea, the training, the readiness -- all of these are affected.''
Both Democrats and Republicans have voiced concerns about the detrimental impact of sequestration and the faltering budget process.
''I'm hearing from so many people across Washington State that sequestration and budget uncertainty is making it hard, and in some cases impossible, to keep up with demand for crucial services,'' said Senator Patty Murray, the chairwoman of the Senate Budget Committee. ''It's terrible policy, and it's simply unacceptable.''
Behind the logjam lies a deep ideological rift about how big the government should be, which persists even as the federal deficit continues to shrink rapidly.
Some House Republicans have indicated they want to push for further spending cuts beyond sequestration, and they are gearing up for fights on President Obama's health law and the debt ceiling this month as well. Senate Democrats and the White House want to repeal sequestration and replace it with a package that would make longer-term changes in entitlement programs like Medicare and include some tax increases that would help avoid the most painful spending cuts.
In the meantime, those who actually run the day-to-day operation of the federal government keep guessing and waiting.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dr. Francis Collins with President Obama in April. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEWEL SAMAD/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
 Chuck Hagel, left, spoke at the Pentagon in July about the possible effects of budget cuts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN VUCCI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (88%); CANCER (88%); SCIENCE NEWS (88%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); INFLATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ONCOLOGY (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); BIOMEDICINE (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); GRANTS & GIFTS (69%); COMPUTATIONAL RESEARCH (68%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); BIOINFORMATICS (61%); NATIVE AMERICANS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (55%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (55%)

PERSON: CHUCK HAGEL (79%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); NEIL ABERCROMBIE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (55%) HAWAII, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013



84 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 345 words

HEADLINE: Manufacturing Data Points to an Economy Gaining Speed

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- American factories, reporting a jump in orders, expanded last month at the fastest pace since June 2011. The report signaled that manufacturing output could strengthen in coming months. 
The Institute for Supply Management, a trade group of purchasing managers, said Tuesday that its manufacturing index rose to 55.7 in August from 55.4 in July. That was higher than the index's 12-month average of 52. A reading above 50 indicates growth.
A gauge of new orders rose nearly five points to 63.2, the highest level in more than two years. However, production increased more slowly than in July, and factories added jobs at a weaker rate. Despite the drop, production reached its highest level in two-and-a-half years.
The overall improvement contrasted with other recent reports that had pointed to a slowdown in manufacturing. The institute's survey found broad-based growth, with 15 out of 18 industries reporting expansion and only one reporting contraction. That suggested that factory production could accelerate.
''The data unambiguously point to a pickup,'' Jim O'Sullivan, an economist at High Frequency Economics, said in a note to clients.
The Federal Reserve will closely examine the report, released two weeks before Fed policy makers will decide whether to slow their bond-buying program. The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, has said the central bank would scale back its purchases this year if the economy continued to strengthen. The monthly bond purchases worth $85 billion have been intended to keep interest rates low.
The jobs report for August, to be released Friday, is the most important remaining economic report the Fed will consider.
Orders from overseas also rose, a sign that improving economies in Europe and China may be bolstering American manufacturers. The economies of the 17 countries in the European Union that use the euro grew in the April-June quarter after six quarters of recession.
And a private survey of purchasing managers in China found that manufacturing in that country expanded after shrinking for the three previous months.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Chrysler plant in Detroit. A gauge of new factory orders on Tuesday reached its highest level in more than two years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SANCYA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); RECESSION (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013



85 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1456 words

HEADLINE: The Mayoral Candidates on the Economy

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
There is little dispute that New York City has made an impressive recovery from the financial crisis that rattled Wall Street early in Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's second term. But many critics of the Bloomberg administration argue that the affluent and educated have fared better during the rebound than the poor and less skilled.
The city has regained all of the jobs it lost in the last recession, and then some. But the city's unemployment rate has remained high -- above 9 percent, on average, for the past four years -- and there still are more residents unable to find jobs than there were when Mr. Bloomberg took office.
Median household incomes have been falling while rents have risen steadily, making the city less affordable for working-class families. How to create jobs that will support families and provide homes for lower-wage workers will be among the biggest challenges facing the city's next mayor. 
The New York Times asked the leading candidates in contested mayoral primaries three questions about the economy. The description of their positions is drawn from their responses and previous statements.
Name one step you would take upon assuming office to lower the city's unemployment rate and improve New Yorkers' prospects for full-time jobs.
â-- Bill de Blasio (D) said he would shift resources away from giving tax breaks to companies and into improving the City University of New York system and providing loans to small businesses. He said he also would expand the network of high schools focused on trades to ''link students to CUNY and then to good jobs at a family-sustaining wage.''
â-- John C. Liu (D) said he would stop providing ''subsidies to large corporations.'' Instead, he said, he would invest that money in fostering the development of small businesses because they are ''the source of the most new job creation.''
â-- Christine C. Quinn (D) promised a variety of results, but specified fewer methods of achieving them. She said she would revamp the job-development system through high schools, CUNY and placement offices. She said she would finance more incubators for start-up businesses and appoint a chief diversity officer to ensure more contracts go to companies owned by women and minorities.
â-- William C. Thompson Jr. (D) said he would appoint a chief jobs officer to improve coordination among ''job-creation agencies.'' The official would oversee occupational training and work- force development programs and help match unemployed residents with job openings based on their skills, interests and experience. The jobs officer would also produce an ''annual jobs report.''
â-- Anthony D. Weiner (D) did not provide any specifics but said he would focus on health care, which has been one of the main sources of job growth in the city in the last several years. He said he would ''transform'' the health care system by creating a single-payer system that would preserve and restore jobs.
â-- John A. Catsimatidis (R) did not offer specifics. He emphasized the need to ''keep our people safe'' so that businesses would continue to invest in New York. He cited the high cost of doing business in New York and ''red tape and onerous regulations'' as problems to be addressed.
â-- Joseph J. Lhota (R) said he would eliminate the city's tax on capital as part of the general corporate tax, which he said was ''devastating'' and ''onerous'' to entrepreneurs and new businesses and ''drives jobs out of the city.'' He said New York was the only city he knew of that taxed businesses based on their capital rather than their profits.
What measures would you support to address income inequality?
â-- Mr. de Blasio said he would press for a package of laws that would raise wages and provide benefits to low-wage workers. Among the mandates he supports are paid sick days, paid family leave, a local minimum wage and a ''real living wage'' law. He said the most important solution to wage inequality would be to provide universal prekindergarten to every child and after-school programs to middle-school students.
â-- Mr. Liu said he would push for a local minimum wage of $11.50 an hour -- considerably higher than the current state minimum, which is scheduled to rise to $9 from $7.25 by the end of 2015. Mr. Liu said he also would press for a more progressive income tax system that would raise rates for those earning more than $500,000 a year and lower them for those earning less than that amount.
â-- Ms. Quinn said she would eliminate city income tax for residents who earn so little that they pay no federal or state tax on their income. She said she would drop lawsuits filed by the Bloomberg administration to stop the City Council's efforts to enact prevailing-wage and living-wage laws. To help new parents keep working, she said, she would create a paid family-leave program and offer a middle-class tax credit for child care.
â-- Mr. Thompson reiterated his support for a higher minimum wage, though he did not say how high, and a living-wage law. But he said he believed that the solutions to inequality over the long term lay in education. He proposed giving $5,000 grants to undocumented students to support their education and allowing poor, single parents to take online courses through CUNY at reduced prices.
â-- Mr. Weiner said he would support a tax cut for all residents earning $150,000 a year or less. He said that he also would support unionization efforts by low-wage workers in the food-service and tourism-related industries.
â-- Mr. Catsimatidis said he would assign a deputy mayor to work on attracting technology companies to the city. He said the solution to income inequality was to create high-paying jobs and to prepare students to fill them. He said he would emphasize vocational training because ''future plumbers, health techs, nurses and mechanics are the small-business owners and entrepreneurs of the future.''
â-- Mr. Lhota also emphasized the importance of reforming the education system, saying that ''providing our children with a quality education at an early age will help ensure they have the tools to compete in the 21st century.'' He cited the high cost of living and the growth in the city's operating budget as problems, but did not offer any ideas for addressing them.
How would you change the 421a tax-abatement program intended to spur construction of affordable housing?
â-- Mr. de Blasio indicated that he would curtail the use of the program, saying, ''We should not be giving tax breaks to build luxury condos, period.'' He said that under Mayor Bloomberg, the city gave too many benefits to developers who did not need them. ''We need to restrict tax incentives to projects that create housing that's affordable to the average New Yorker,'' he said, without specifying how he would go about doing that.
â-- Mr. Liu said he would raise the share of affordable units required for a development to qualify for the tax break to 30 percent of a project, from 20 percent. He said he also would require developers who take advantage of zoning changes to build more affordable housing along with the additional market-rate housing they would be allowed to develop.
â-- Ms. Quinn said she would consider requiring developers to provide more affordable units in areas where rents are the highest. She said she might also require a ''greater mix'' of units affordable to people of low, moderate and middle incomes. She also said she would try to wrest control of the program from Albany ''so that we can better adapt the program to our local needs.''
â-- Mr. Thompson did not address the question of the tax-abatement program. Instead, he outlined a plan that he said could create 120,000 units of affordable housing. That could be done, he said, by using ''available and creative financing tools,'' by using existing public housing and other vacant or underused property, and by offering low-interest loans to building owners and issuing tax-exempt bonds.
â-- Mr. Weiner said he would seek a change in federal regulations to shift the formula for affordable development from an 80/20 allocation that sets aside 20 percent for lower-income tenants to a 60/20/20 division that would make an additional 20 percent of a project's housing units available at rents that middle-class families can afford.
â-- Mr. Catsimatidis did not suggest changes to the 421a program. He said he would ''up-zone,'' or allow for more development per lot, around transit hubs to provide developers an incentive to include affordable housing in their projects. ''This way both developers and those who need affordable housing win,'' he said.
â-- Mr. Lhota said he would continue the 421a program and offer incentives to developers who commit to building 20 percent to 30 percent of their units as affordable housing.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Job hunters in April waited to meet employers at a fair at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES)
That same month, a protester sought higher wages outside a fast-food restaurant in Midtown. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
BILL DE BLASIO (D)
JOHN C. LIU (D)
CHRISTINE C. QUINN (D)
WILLIAM C. THOMPSON JR. (D)
ANTHONY D. WEINER (D)
JOHN A. CATSIMATIDIS (R)
 JOSEPH J. LHOTA (R) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); FAMILY (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (88%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (87%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (87%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (69%); APPOINTMENTS (68%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (64%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%); STARTUPS (60%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (88%); JOHN CATSIMATIDIS (78%); ANTHONY D WEINER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013



86 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 433 words

HEADLINE: Kodak, Smaller and Redirected, Leaves Bankruptcy

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
ROCHESTER -- Kodak's trip through bankruptcy is now a memory, as it finished its restructuring and exited Chapter 11 on Tuesday.
Kodak is now a commercial imaging company serving business markets like packaging and graphics. 
Its chairman and chief executive, Antonio M. Pérez, said the company was on track for profitable growth.
Kodak emerged from bankruptcy protection vastly different from the company of old, which was founded by George Eastman in 1880. Gone are the cameras and film that made it famous. It hopes to replace them with new technologies like touch screens for smartphones and smart packaging embedded with sensors.
Over the desk in Mr. Perez's office hang pictures depicting Kodak's future -- including one of the company's ultrafast commercial inkjet printers, the Prosper Press.
''Look for a case of a company that had to go through this kind of excruciating restructuring and kept innovating,'' Mr. Perez said. ''It just doesn't happen, but we've done it.''
Kodak filed for bankruptcy protection last year, brought down by increasing competition, digital photography and debt.
The Eastman Kodak Company, credited with popularizing photography at the start of the 20th century, started to struggle toward the end of the century, first with Japanese competition and later when it failed to react quickly enough to the shift from film to digital photography.
Kodak had expected demand for film to decline, but gradually. The company thought that new demand from emerging markets like China would offset some of the decline in the United States. But Mr. Perez said Chinese consumers chose smartphones instead of cameras, and demand for film plummeted.
Meanwhile, the financial crisis of 2008 and the resulting plunge in interest rates left some of the company's pension obligations underfunded. It was those obligations, along with other costs, that Mr. Perez said eventually resulted in the January 2012 bankruptcy filing.
Revenue dropped from about $13.3 billion in 2003 to $6 billion in 2011.
Under court oversight, Kodak continued to reduce costs, businesses and workers. It closed its consumer camera business and sold an online photo service. It spun off its personal and document imaging businesses to its pension plan and sold many of its patents. It took its name off the theater that hosts the Academy Awards each year.
Much of Kodak is gone except for its commercial and packaging printing businesses. The company emerged from bankruptcy with about 8,500 employees, just a fraction of the 145,000 it had at its peak in the 1980s. Revenue is expected to total $2.7 billion this year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kodak, based in Rochester, is now focused on touch screens for smartphones and smart packaging with embedded sensors. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HEATHER AINSWORTH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (88%); PHOTOGRAPHIC CHEMICALS & SUPPLIES MFG (78%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); PATENTS (70%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (69%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (66%); EXECUTIVES (57%); PHOTOFINISHING SERVICES (57%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013



87 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1663 words

HEADLINE: Ladies Who Power Lunch

BYLINE: By JEFF GORDINIER

 BODY:
If Tom Wolfe were to write a novel about power, style and status in New York City at this moment in the 21st century, there is one restaurant dish he might have to build a whole scene around, to convey the right tang of anthropological exactitude.
It's the roasted carrot and avocado salad at ABC Kitchen, with its beguiling layers of spices, sprinkled seeds and crème fraîche. It's a virtuously healthful dish, even though it tastes luxurious, and Tina Bhojwani has devoured it during more business lunches than she can count.
''It's my favorite,'' said Ms. Bhojwani, an executive who oversees international development for the clothing brand Theory. ''I always eat that.''
A salad may seem modest, but that dish (and its cult following among trend-attuned New Yorkers like Ms. Bhojwani) is emblematic of a shift in the way that women participate in the crucial information-gathering and idea-generating ritual known as lunch. Wander into ABC Kitchen on any given weekday and the nature of that transformation will be abundantly clear: There's a new generation of power-lunch spots in downtown Manhattan, and women are the most devoted regulars. 
For culinary, aesthetic and economic reasons, some of the most influential editors, fashion designers, filmmakers, actresses, media executives and thought leaders in the city can reliably be found at a sisterhood of restaurants scattered in and around Greenwich Village and TriBeCa, NoHo and SoHo.
Don't make the mistake of referring to these midday regulars as a new breed of ''the ladies who lunch,'' an echo of the Babe Paleys and Pat Buckleys, expertly coifed and even more expertly married to rich men, who once commanded hangouts like Le Cirque and La Côte Basque. For most of the current habitués of ABC Kitchen and Buvette, the Smile and Café Cluny, Rosemary's and Lafayette, lunch has nothing to do with lingering for hours among the leisure class, comparing Bill Blass suits and sharing gossip with the catty likes of Truman Capote.
These are women who work, and the places where they choose to network and hammer out deals are a conscious reflection of their professional strategy.
''Lunch is always about business for me,'' said Laura Michalchyshyn, the president of Sundance Productions and a regular at a rotation of downtown spots that includes Hudson Clearwater, Café Cluny, Morandi, the Dutch and EN Japanese Brasserie. ''There's a bit of a charge about going to a really great restaurant and having a terrific meal and doing business over lunch.''
It would be another mistake to expect the same kind of vibe associated with the city's more traditional power spots.
If an institution like the Four Seasons represents the archetype of the New York corner-office clubhouse -- it's in Midtown, primarily presided over by a portrait gallery of male machers from Washington and the Fortune 500, and as carefully orchestrated as a royal processional at Versailles -- then ABC Kitchen qualifies as its looser, female-friendly downtown counterpart.
''It has its Four Seasons power-lunch vibe,'' said Dan Kluger, the executive chef of ABC Kitchen, but if you just happened to stumble in, you might not necessarily notice.
That appears to be part of the appeal for many working women (and men, too). ''Where you go to have lunch has to be on brand with your brand,'' said Carrie Rosten, a consultant for media companies and magazines -- as much a signal of your sensibility as the shoes you wear. She added: ''You're not going to some Midtown spectacle of a place. Because that's not cool. That's a different thing.''
The move downtown depends, in part, on jobs. A business lunch naturally tends to happen where the business is, and media-oriented enterprises have been migrating for a while now to the neighborhoods south of Midtown and north of the financial district. So if it sometimes seems as though there is a kale salad on every block, that's because there is probably a fashion house, a tech start-up or a boutique advertising agency on every block, too. And don't forget Google.
''Fifteen years ago, we would've been somewhere else,'' said Gail Simmons, the ''Top Chef'' series judge and special projects director for Food & Wine magazine. She has an office in Midtown, but has made enough repeat trips to ABC Kitchen, on East 18th Street, that Mr. Kluger has been known to tease her about it.
''We all are eating differently -- the same way that we are dressing differently for the office,'' Ms. Simmons said. ''Personally I don't want to go to a very formal steakhouse for lunch every day. My lunch standards have changed.''
So has the statement that is made by the power meal: it's a deliberately subtle, farm-to-table message now, as opposed to a deliberately booming, beefy, Ned-Beatty-in-''Network'' one.
''While they have incredible food and a great aesthetic, the snob factor is not there,'' said the fashion designer Rebecca Minkoff, an ABC Kitchen regular. ''I'm drawn to these more eclectic places. I don't want to feel like I'm lucky for being let in.''
Along with shucking off the hauteur, many of these new magnets have dispensed with the expectation that the elite will get concierge treatment.
The low-key team at Buvette may offer to walk your dogs or look after your parking spot on Grove Street, but if you happen to ask for a Diet Coke, skim milk or artificial sweetener, you're out of luck. The restaurant, which specializes in what one might call French soul food, declines to carry anything that its chef and owner, Jody Williams, views as unworthy.
''Guess what? We're not going to let you do that to yourself here,'' Ms. Williams said with a laugh. ''We have some raw organic sugar for you. And only whole milk.'' Nor does Buvette take reservations. None of which seems to deter Sofia Coppola, the film director, from routinely finding a quiet seat toward the back. (It's hard to imagine Henry Kissinger settling for a ''No, sir.'')
''It's arts people, it's publishing people, it's food people, it's film people, it's gallery people,'' Ms. Williams said. ''It's downtown people.''
For some of the creative women who have adopted Buvette as their midday clubhouse, lunch might involve commanding a little round table and taking a series of face-to-face meetings over the course of four hours or so. Or six. Best to leave the laptop at home, though.
''We don't do computers here,'' Ms. Williams said. ''That would be so horrible for someone sitting next to you, because it's so close.''
There's an aversion to screen glare at the Smile, too, which explains why that discreet nook a few steps beneath the cobblestones of Bond Street doesn't offer access to Wi-Fi: on aesthetic grounds, the owners banned it.
In spite of (or because of) touches like that, as well as the easy appeal of sandwiches involving roast chicken or manouri cheese and fig preserves, the Smile became a veritable commissary for women (and men) from the fashion industry as soon as it opened in 2009. In fact, that was pretty much the plan.
Carlos Quirarte, one of the three owners of the Smile, said he and his partners were obsessed with Michael's, the Midtown fixture where the equivalent of the old media's Jedi Council still holds court. The master of ceremonies there, Michael McCarty, is the father of one of their friends. ''We loved the way Michael would walk into the room and he knew everybody and he connected people,'' Mr. Quirarte said. ''The idea kind of was that this would be a clubhouse for people who did that downtown.''
For the ladies who power lunch at the Smile or Café Select, Café Cluny or Hudson Clearwater, that breezy vibe (and a Keith McNally-ish eye for design elements that feel simultaneously old and new) seems to be part of the draw. (Much of that DNA can be traced back to Mr. McNally's Balthazar, the SoHo powerhouse that feels like a spiritual and stylistic godfather to scores of younger, smaller restaurants.) There's often ''an improvisatory quality about the décor,'' said Molly Young, a content strategist for Warby Parker, the of-the-moment eyewear company. Quirky tchotchkes, communal newspapers and elfin, wobbly tables conjure up impressions of ''a professor's rambling country house.''
''It feels like an ambience that an intelligent person would design, rather than just a rich person,'' she said.
As for the food, Ms. Young added, dishes should ''have the veneer of healthiness, even if they're not actually healthy.'' A penitent slog through a tureen of raw spinach doesn't cut it anymore. At Café Select, yet another hillock of quinoa suddenly soars higher when there's a fried egg on top, or a side order of rösti.
''People either want large quantities of really healthy food or small quantities of decadent food,'' she said. ''Women, at least.''
What they value perhaps more than anything else is what is embodied in that classic carrot-and-avocado salad: a sense of richness that never leaves the diner in a crippling food coma. ''Very often you'll go out and have a meal and you'll feel heavy,'' Ms. Bhojwani said. ''You never feel heavy after a meal at ABC Kitchen.''
If there's a single reason ABC has become the crown jewel of the female power-lunch scene, it's that Mr. Kluger, the chef, is something of a wizard when it comes to the balance between premium lightness and stealth indulgence. His asparagus salad is accompanied by a fried egg; crispy shrimp top an assortment of greens and straight-from-the-market vegetables. When the restaurant opened three and a half years ago, he said: ''It took me a while to get into the whole salad thing. But I started to work on it and I started to see the draw.''
''We create something that lingers for a little while and makes you want to come back for it,'' Mr. Kluger went on. For a few of the power-lunchers, that might mean chasing a salad with a few bites of miniature lemon Bundt cake.
''They all save room for a little dessert,'' he said. ''They all tell you they don't want any.'' But they order it, they eat it, and ''then they come yell at me.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, at ABC Kitchen, Satya Twena, center, a hat designer, with her employees at discoverpique.com, Valeria Segal, left, and Alex McLean. Above, Susan Gutfreund, left, and Casey Ribicoff with Jerry Zipkin after lunch at Le Cirque in 1989. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KARSTEN MORAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
MARINA GARNIER) (D1)
Above, the lunch scene, with female diners dominating, at ABC Kitchen on a weekday. Left, sharing a table for lunch on the patio at Buvette, where two salads and a wedge of cheese, below left, headed out to diners. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KARSTEN MORAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Below left, Anne Bass, left, and Jane Dudley at Le Cirque in April 1988. Below right, a business lunch at the Four Seasons. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARINA GARNIER
 CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); CLOTHING LABELS (74%); WOMEN WORKERS (73%); FASHION & APPAREL (69%); FASHION DESIGN (69%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (65%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013



88 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: Congressional Talks on Syria Thwart Early Market Surge

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The stock market rose modestly on Tuesday as renewed fears about an American military attack on Syria dampened an early rally.
Stocks surged in the opening minutes of trading as investors felt that a military strike on Syria was not imminent after President Obama announced over the weekend that he would seek Congressional approval before taking action. That move is expected to delay any attack until at least next week, when Congress returns from its summer recess.
But the early rally faded after the House speaker, John A. Boehner said he would support Mr. Obama's call for military action. Mr. Boehner said the United States needed to respond to the Syria's suspected use of chemical weapons. Representative Eric Cantor, the House majority leader, also voiced support. 
The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 23.65 points, or 0.16 percent, to 14,833.96. The index had climbed as much as 123 points in early trading.
The Dow was also held back by Microsoft and Verizon, which both slumped after announcing deals.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 6.80 points, or 0.42 percent, to 1,639.77. The Nasdaq composite index rose 22.74 points, or 0.63 percent, to 3,612.61.
The stock market also got an early boost from a report showing that manufacturing expanded last month at the fastest pace since June 2011. The report was better than economists had expected, according to estimates compiled by FactSet.
In corporate news, CBS shares rose $2.40, or 4.7 percent, to $53.50, after the broadcaster and Time Warner Cable reached an agreement that ended a blackout of CBS and CBS-owned channels. Time Warner Cable shares rose $1.90, or 1.8 percent, $109.25.
Other corporate news was disappointing. Microsoft stock fell $1.52, or 4.6 percent, to $31.88, after the software company said it would acquire Nokia's smartphone business and a portfolio of patents and services for about $7.2 billion.
Verizon fell $1.37, or 2.9 percent, to $46.01, after the company agreed to pay $130 billion for Vodafone's 45 percent stake in Verizon Wireless.
After a tough August, stocks may struggle to rally in September because of a string of events that could shake investors, said Randy Frederick, managing director of active trading and derivatives at the Schwab Center for Financial Research.
The S.& P. 500 logged its worst performance last month since May 2012 as investors became increasingly concerned about when the Federal Reserve would cut its economic stimulus. The Fed's next meeting, which starts Sept. 17, is when many on Wall Street think it will begin winding down its bond-buying program.
Lawmakers in Washington may also throw investors a curve ball. To keep the government running, Congress needs to pass a short-term spending bill before the fiscal year starts Oct. 1. Then there is the government's $16.7 trillion borrowing limit. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew has warned that unless the debt ceiling is raised soon, the government would lose the ability to pay its bills by the middle of October.
September has often been a losing month for the stock market. Since 1945, the S.& P. 500 has slumped nearly six out of every 10 Septembers, with an average loss of 0.6 percent.
In government bond trading, the price of the 10-year Treasury note fell 20/32, to 96 28/32, while its yield rose to 2.86 percent, from 2.79 percent late Friday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BONDS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); SMARTPHONES (72%); APPROPRIATIONS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); LEGISLATION (71%); NETWORK TELEVISION (69%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%)

COMPANY: VERIZON WIRELESS INC (83%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (54%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (55%); VZ (NYSE) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); TWC (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%); JOHN BOEHNER (71%); ERIC CANTOR (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SYRIA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013



89 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: Ronald H. Coase, a Law Professor And Leading Economist, Dies at 102

BYLINE: By PATRICK J. LYONS

 BODY:
Ronald H. Coase, whose insights about why companies work and when government regulation is unnecessary earned him a Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science in 1991, died on Monday in Chicago. He was 102.
His death was announced by the University of Chicago.
By his own description, Professor Coase (rhymes with doze) was an ''accidental'' economist who spent most of his career teaching at the University of Chicago Law School and not its economics department. Yet he is best known for two papers that are counted among the most influential in the modern history of the science. 
In one, ''The Nature of the Firm,'' which was largely developed while he was still an undergraduate and published in 1937, Professor Coase revolutionized economists' understanding of why people create companies and what determines their size and scope.
He introduced the concept of transaction costs -- the costs each party incurs in the course of buying or selling things -- and showed that companies made economic sense when they were able to reduce or eliminate those costs by performing some functions in-house rather than dealing in the marketplace.
The ideas laid out in the paper explain why, in the first half of the 20th century, companies tended to become more vertically integrated (for example, Ford Motor building its own steel mills and buying its own rubber plantations rather than relying on suppliers), and why, more recently, companies have tended to do the opposite, aggressively outsourcing even basic functions like paying their employees.
In the second of his groundbreaking papers, ''The Problem of Social Cost,'' published in 1960, Professor Coase challenged the idea that the only way to restrain people and companies from behaving in ways that harmed others was through government intervention. He argued that if there were no transaction costs, the affected parties could negotiate and settle conflicts privately to their mutual benefit, and that fostering such settlements might make more economic sense than pre-empting them with regulations.
The paper made the idea of property rights fundamental to understanding the role of regulation in the economy. It grew out of a study by Professor Coase on how the Federal Communications Commission licensed broadcasters.
The practice of issuing the licenses more or less permanently for small fees to whoever applied first and met legal requirements made little economic sense, he argued; better to treat them as property, auction them off and allow them to be freely transferred. Decades later, his ideas were used to raise billions of dollars for the Treasury when radio frequencies were assigned for cellular phone services.
Ronald Harry Coase was born on Dec. 29, 1910, in Willesden, England, the only child of two postal workers. Though he spent more than 50 years living and working in the United States, he retained his English accent and habits all his life.
His father was an amateur athlete of some renown, but Ronald's interests were more academic, not least because of weakness in his legs that obliged him to wear iron braces for a time.
In his autobiographical essay written for the Nobel committee after being awarded the prize, he recalled being taken by his father at age 11 to a phrenologist to hear what could be discovered from the shape of his head. The phrenologist detected ''considerable mental vigor,'' Professor Coase wrote, and recommended that he work in banking or accounting and raise poultry as a hobby.
Because of his leg braces, Professor Coase wrote, he attended a special primary school and enrolled in secondary school a year late, missing the chance to pursue a concentration in history or Latin. Science was his third choice, but he found he had little patience for the mathematics involved, so he studied the only other subject available: commerce.
At the University of London, he was on his way to becoming an industrial lawyer when a seminar with Sir Arnold Plant, a well-known economist of the time, changed his focus again, this time for good. After graduating from the London School of Economics, he taught there and at other British universities, and married Marion Ruth Hartung in 1937. The couple immigrated to the United States in 1951, when he joined the faculty of the University of Buffalo. He left for the University of Virginia in 1958.
While teaching at Virginia, Professor Coase submitted his essay about the F.C.C. to The Journal of Law and Economics, a new periodical at the University of Chicago. The astonished faculty there wondered, according to one of their number, George J. Stigler, ''how so fine an economist could make such an obvious mistake.'' They invited Professor Coase to dine at the home of Aaron Director, the founder of the journal, and explain his views to a group that included Milton Friedman and several other Nobel laureates-to-be.
''In the course of two hours of argument, the vote went from 20 against and one for Coase, to 21 for Coase,'' Professor Stigler later wrote. ''What an exhilarating event! I lamented afterward that we had not had the clairvoyance to tape it.'' Professor Coase was asked to expand on the ideas in that essay for the journal. The result was ''The Problem of Social Cost.''
Professor Coase was soon invited to become editor of the journal, and to join the Chicago faculty, where he stayed the rest of his life, disdaining the equation-heavy approach of what he called ''blackboard economics'' in favor of insights grounded in real markets and human behavior.
By identifying transaction costs and explaining their effects, the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences wrote in announcing his prize in 1991, ''Coase may be said to have identified a new set of 'elementary particles' in the economic system.''
Professor Coase's wife, Marion, died in 2012. No immediate family members survive.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ronald H. Coase, in 2000, taught at the University of Chicago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE KAGAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); HISTORY (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (50%); AMATEUR SPORTS (50%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (50%)

COMPANY: CENTURY COS INC (67%); FORD MOTOR CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (90%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (54%); F (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (67%); SIC1622 BRIDGE, TUNNEL, & ELEVATED HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION (67%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



90 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: No Bounce For Europe In Rebound By Germany

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- Whenever Germany thrived, so did the rest of Europe. But that long-held belief is being questioned by its neighbors, which see evidence that the country is taking off without them.
Despite Berlin's hefty financial support of the euro zone's more beleaguered members in the last few years, the economic crisis has corroded commercial ties between Germany and the rest of Europe. Countries like Italy and Spain no longer have the purchasing power they once did, and they trade less with Germany because of it.
Greece, the most distressed country in Europe, is now little more than a German rounding error. German exports to Greece plunged 40 percent from 2008, while Germany imported 9 percent less from Greece. Last year, Greece ranked 44th among German trading partners, just behind Vietnam.
No wonder German companies, cheered on by the government of Chancellor Angela Merkel, have turned their attention to faster-growing places like Asia or the United States. 
''Right now it's a decoupling story rather than a helping-hand story,'' said Carsten Brzeski, a senior economist at the Dutch bank ING.
It is not simply an economic issue, but a geopolitical one.
Ms. Merkel is running for re-election this month in a campaign in which one of the few debating points is how many more financial handouts Germany will give to its weaker neighbors. She has made a conscious effort of building closer ties with bigger and faster-growing markets like China. If the Merkel government succeeds in making Germany a bigger global player through trade and investment policy, it not only insulates Germany from European structural woes but also ensures that it remains a global economic force in its own right.
For the rest of the euro zone and the larger European Union, however, unity depends on the sustained energy and commitment of Germany, the wealthiest and most powerful member. The more that Germany sees its long-term interests lying outside Europe, the less certain the future of the entire European project.
''Germany is less willing to play ball,'' said Stefano Micossi, director general of Assonime, an Italian business group and research organization. Rather than pulling together, he said, European leaders have been ''falling back to mutual mistrust and national solutions.''
On Tuesday, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said that even as Germany resumed growth, the euro zone's most vulnerable countries were unlikely to follow until sometime next year. European banks remain weak, the group said, while lending -- usually considered a prerequisite for economic growth -- continues to decline.
The euro zone's economic future remains heavily dependent on Germany, the biggest market for products like shoes from Italy or Ford minivans made in Spain. German companies like Linde, a large supplier of gases for use in industry and health care, are major employers in Southern Europe.
But Linde's big growth this year was in the United States, where sales rose 58 percent in the third quarter, to $2.6 billion, thanks to the purchase of Lincare, a company that supplies oxygen to patients in their homes.
The United States has also become a hot market for German companies like Voith, a maker of industrial equipment, which said last month that it expected to profit from a new law intended to encourage construction of hydroelectric power plants. Voith issued a statement calling the new law ''terrific news'' -- no surprise considering that the company is one of the world's largest suppliers of hydropower equipment.
In addition, China has become the most important market for Volkswagen, which sold 1.5 million cars there in the first six months of this year, more than in Western Europe. Volkswagen is also putting renewed emphasis on North America. In 2011, it opened a factory in Chattanooga, Tenn., that contributed to a 10 percent increase in American sales through June from a year earlier.
''It's kind of natural that Germany has to look for new trading partners,'' said Wolfgang Lechthaler, a senior researcher at the Kiel Institute for the World Economy in Kiel, Germany. Even if trade with the rest of Europe recovers, ''many business relations are also long-term relations,'' he said. ''It might not go back to the same level as before.''
German annualized growth of 2.9 percent in the second quarter of this year lifted the average for the euro zone as a whole and, at least on paper, ended a regional recession that began in 2011.
But a closer look at the numbers shows a big gulf between growing, northern-tier countries like Germany, Austria or Finland and southern countries like Spain, Italy and Greece, which continue to contract, albeit at a more moderate pace than before. The divide makes for tricky navigation by the European Central Bank, which will hold its monthly monetary policy meeting on Thursday, as it tries to promote growth in the ailing countries while heading off inflation in the healthier ones.
''Average data for the euro area disguises some divergence,'' Jörg Asmussen, a member of the executive board of the European Central Bank, acknowledged in an interview in Berlin last week. ''You have some countries with robust growth. On the other hand, you have countries that are deep in recession.''
The question now is whether German companies might rediscover some of their traditional markets in Europe, given the tentative signs of stabilization. Economic output in Spain, Italy and Greece shrank but at a much slower pace than in previous quarters. Unemployment fell slightly in Spain and Italy, though it continued to rise in Greece.
If the southern-tier European countries recover, they could once again become attractive places to do business or produce goods.
Despite the strains on European unity, the shared currency as well as a relatively homogeneous legal system could eventually work in favor of the most stricken countries. And even with the growth of trade with China and the United States, Germany's largest trading partner is still France, with which it did 169 billion euros ($223 billion) in import-export business last year.
''Europe plays a completely different role than China,'' said Karl-Heinz Paqué, a professor of economics at the University of Magdeburg in Germany. ''It's not only trade links, it's also deep integration.''
It will take more than help from Germany to reduce unemployment in Spain and Greece to tolerable levels. The General Confederation of Workers of Greece, a research institute tied to Greece's largest labor union, concluded in a study leaked this week that Greek unemployment could require two decades to fall to 10 percent from nearly 28 percent today.
Mr. Asmussen of the European Central Bank said it would take years to fix the imbalances that led to the euro zone crisis, which include excess debt and loss of competitiveness by the stricken countries. ''The probability of catastrophic events has been drastically decreased,'' he said, but Europe still faces ''an adjustment decade.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Construction for a shopping mall at Leipziger Platz in Berlin, top. Below, an Adidas employee at the sports apparel maker's new distribution center in Rieste. Germany has turned its attention to faster-growing trade partners outside the euro zone. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN MACDOUGALL/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
 FRISO GENTSCH/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY UNIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); APPAREL MFG (59%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) GERMANY (98%); EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); SPAIN (93%); GREECE (91%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



91 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: Business Losing Clout In a G.O.P. Moving Right

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER. 
E-mail: eporter@nytimes.com; Twitter: @portereduardo

 BODY:
How did corporate America lose control of the Republican Party?
From overhauling immigration laws to increasing spending on the nation's aging infrastructure, big business leaders have seemed relatively powerless lately as the uncompromising Republicans they helped elect have steadfastly opposed some of their core legislative priorities.
The rift is not only unusual in light of the tight historical alignment between the business community and the G.O.P., but it is also outright incomprehensible after the Supreme Court's Citizens United decision, which allowed companies to spend unlimited amounts from their corporate treasuries on the 2010 and 2012 elections.
Scholars have proposed many reasons for the rise of the anti-government activists that are pulling the G.O.P. to the right, leaving it at odds with a business community used to compromising and seeking favors from government.
But what may be most surprising is how reluctant big business has been to put its money on the line. To put it mildly, if companies could purchase the Congress of their choice, it's unlikely they would buy the gridlocked Congress we have. The seemingly inexorable rise of political partisans -- mainly on the right, but on the left, too -- suggests that corporate money may be playing a much smaller role in the political process than expected. 
Concern about the potential consequences of Citizens United stem from a not unreasonable belief that businesses will do anything on this side of the law -- and sometimes beyond it -- to produce legislation that serves their corporate interests.
So when the Supreme Court opened the sluice gate in 2010 allowing unlimited direct campaign spending, pretty much every liberal voice in the country believed that a flood of corporate cash was about to deliver the political system to the Republican Party.
It was, President Obama said, ''a major victory for big oil, Wall Street banks, health insurance companies and the other powerful interests that marshal their power every day in Washington to drown out the voices of everyday Americans.''
Three years later, however, these fears have not quite materialized. Money is flowing to elections like never before. The 2012 elections cost some $6.3 billion, $1 billion more than the 2008 elections, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonprofit group that researches money and politics. Independent spending by outside groups on campaign advertisements and the like topped $1 billion last year.
Corporate America, however, accounted for a comparative trickle. Adam Bonica, a political scientist at Stanford University, points out in a recent working paper that companies openly spent about $75 million from their treasuries on federal elections last year.
Even if all the hidden money funneled into campaigns through private 501(c) organizations had come from businesses -- unlikely given the contributions by noncorporate groups like Planned Parenthood and the N.R.A. -- corporate spending would not reach $400 million, still a small share of the total.
Perhaps this should not be surprising. For companies, spending on elections can be risky. Business executives might prefer lobbying, where they spend far more than on campaign contributions, not because the limits are more relaxed but because swaying legislators on both sides of the aisle is more effective at getting what they want. And such lobbying is less likely to kindle anger among consumers, shareholders and other constituents than spending to change the outcome of elections.
''While Citizens alters the ability of corporations to contribute to campaigns, it does not alter their substantial risk in doing so,'' the political scientists Wendy L. Hansen, Michael Rocca and Brittany Ortiz of the University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, argued in a recent study.
Still, corporations' reluctance to open their checkbooks suggests an intriguing alternative explanation for the rise of Republicans who are willing to defy their will: companies may have spent too little. Their money was swamped by that of big individual donors who are more ideologically extreme. In 2012, the top 0.1 percent of donors contributed more than 44 percent of all campaign contributions. In 1980 their share of contributions was less than 10 percent.
Corporations have a pro-Republican bias, of course. But it is not quite as extreme as pop culture would have it, and is certainly less pronounced than organized labor's pro-Democrat leanings.
Effective lobbying requires both Republican and Democratic friends. Political action committees run by businesses are known for spreading money on both sides of the partisan divide. They give to incumbents. They choose winners. They show little partisan loyalty.
In the 2006 elections, when the G.O.P. controlled Congress, corporate PACs gave 65 percent of their money to Republicans. In 2008 and 2010, after the Democrats had swept both the House and Senate, they split their contributions roughly fifty-fifty.
By contrast, substantial research in political science suggests that individual donors favor more ideological candidates and are less strategic in their giving. Big, frequent donors are particularly extreme.
An analysis of polarization of state legislatures by Michael Barber, a Ph.D. candidate in political science at Princeton, finds that limits on corporate contributions lead to more partisan polarization, while limits on individual contributions moderate it.
There are alternative explanations for the rise of the uncompromising right within the G.O.P.
Mark Mizruchi, a political scientist at the University of Michigan, traces the rift back decades. He put it to me this way: ''In the 1970s it would have been inconceivable that Republicans would tell business'' to get lost.
Last May, he published ''The Fracturing of the American Corporate Elite,'' about business' waning influence over the political process. He suggests the power of the business lobby started waning after it succeeded at beating back government regulation and organized labor in the late 1970s. Corporations then turned to narrow individual agendas and gradually lost force as a collective power that could impose discipline on the G.O.P.
Other analyses have suggested a shift in the party base from the industrial Northeast to the conservative rural South, the ideological polarization of voters and the gerrymandering of House districts into safe partisan seats that favored uncompromising, ideologically pure candidates.
That argument can be carried only so far, however. Jacob S. Hacker, a political scientist from Yale, said that the idea of a rift opening between businesses and the ''party of business'' was overstated.
Corporations continue to spend more on Republicans, he points out. They are unlikely to jump ship, especially when a Democratic administration is working on new regulations over financial services, health care and energy that business views as potentially onerous.
Despite concerns about the tactics of some Republican ideologues, the Chamber of Commerce and several other business organizations still support many of Republicans' low-tax goals.
And even if corporations didn't turn on the spending spigot, their executives did. Mr. Bonica of Stanford estimates that executives and directors of Fortune 500 companies spent a whopping $217 million on state and federal elections, more than twice as much as the same individuals spent four years earlier. That's about 70 percent of what was spent by more than 1,500 corporate PACs.
But that doesn't undermine the point that the reluctance of corporations to spend on politics is likely to limit their role as a stabilizing force.
Corporate chiefs and other top executives do not put money into campaigns merely to favor their firms. Mr. Bonica finds their giving is more ideological and less strategic than that of their companies. They rarely switch candidates: only 43 of the 1,400 or so executives of Fortune 500 companies who contributed to presidential campaigns last year gave to both sides.
That suggests a new take on the role of money in politics. If big-money people are drowning out the political voice of ordinary Americans rather than big business, American democracy still has a problem. But it is not the problem we thought we had.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Protesters in Washington against the Citizens United Supreme Court decision that lifted corporate political spending restrictions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANDEL NGAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (75%); IMMIGRATION (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (72%); INSURANCE (50%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



92 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Obamacare vs. Romneycare: The Labor Impact

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: Disruption to the labor market is likely to be far greater from the Affordable Care Act than what Massachusetts faced after it adopted its own health care law, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Casey B. Mulligan is an economics professor at the University of Chicago. He is the author of "The Redistribution Recession: How Labor Market Distortions Contracted the Economy." 
From a tax perspective, the Affordable Care Act is in a different league than the Massachusetts health reform law passed in 2006.
The Affordable Care Act was intended to expand the fraction of the United States population covered by health insurance. The law includes taxes on employers and various implicit taxes on employees that go into effect over the next two years. Economic theory suggests that such taxes will contract the labor market in an amount commensurate with the amount of the new taxes. 
The federal government and other advocates of Obamacare have dismissed concerns that the coming labor market contraction would be significant, or even noticeable, by pointing to Massachusetts's experience with its so-called Romneycare system, also designed to expand insurance coverage. Because the Massachusetts labor market did not noticeably contract relative to the rest of the nation after its system went into effect, an official of the federal Department of Health and Human Services told The Washington Examiner that the experience in Massachusetts suggested "that the health care law will improve the affordability and accessibility of health care without significantly affecting the labor market."
Prof. David Cutler of Harvard recently addressed, on this blog, concerns about possibly adverse tax effects, saying, "Additional data from Massachusetts, where a state law was the precursor to the Affordable Care Act, suggests that the fears are overblown" and "at this point the evidence overwhelmingly suggests no need for major worry."

This position assumes that the Massachusetts system increased marginal labor income tax rates in the state by roughly the same magnitude that the Affordable Care Act will increase them in the United States (by marginal labor income tax rate, I mean the extra taxes paid, and subsidies forgone, as the result of working, expressed as a ratio to the total compensation from working). This assumption is no longer necessary, because the methods I have used to measure marginal tax rates from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, unemployment insurance expansions and the Affordable Care Act can also be applied to the Massachusetts health reform law. The results are shown in the chart below.
The left bar shows that the Massachusetts law did, on average, increase marginal tax rates and thereby reduce the reward to working. But the impact was well under one percentage point, and for that reason it's probably not surprising that, relative to other states that were not experiencing health reform, the Massachusetts labor market did not change noticeably after the law went into effect.
The right bar shows the impact of the Affordable Care Act on nationwide marginal tax rates: it increases national rates about 12 times as much as the Massachusetts law increased rates. Earlier this year I explained why the Massachusetts law was so different from a tax perspective: among other things, its employer penalty is an order of magnitude less, the state's population is not the same as the national population, and Massachusetts had already been helping unemployed people with health insurance.
It follows that the effect of the Affordable Care Act on employment and work hours would be roughly 12 times as great as the effect of the Massachusetts law. That doesn't by itself tell us the exact impact of the national law because we don't have a precise estimate of the impact in Massachusetts, except that it was small. For example, if the Massachusetts law reduced employment by 0.1 percent, the Affordable Care Act's effect would be roughly 1.2 percent; not small. If the Massachusetts law's effect were 0.25 percent (still small), the Affordable Care Act's effect would be 3 percent: again, not small. The bottom line was that it was wrong to expect the two laws to have had the same effects.
Call me gloomy, but I'm one economist who thinks that adding, on average, five percentage points to marginal tax rates will noticeably depress the labor market, while adding a few tenths of a point in Massachusetts did not.

        
The Economics of the Affordable Care Act
        
Health Reform, the Reward to Work and Massachusetts
        
Affordable Care Act Could Be Good for Entrepreneurship
        
Massachusetts Employees Will Keep Their Health Plans
        
Health Coverage Worthy of a Senator

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); WRITERS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); STATISTICS (69%); INCOME TAX (68%) Health and Human Services Department; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Massachusetts; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); United States Economy; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: Health and Human Services Department

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (98%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (98%) Massachusetts

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013



93 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: Bank of America Suit Against Two Ex-Bear Stearns Executives Is Dismissed

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: A federal judge dismissed a lawsuit brought by Bank of America against two former Bear Stearns executives that accused the two men of lying about the health of their hedge funds, which had invested heavily in subprime mortgages. 

 BODY:
Ralph R. Cioffi and Matthew M. Tannin, two former Bear Stearns managers who were among the few executives to face a trial on criminal charges in the aftermath of the financial crisis, have won another legal victory.
Late on Tuesday, a federal judge dismissed a lawsuit brought against Mr. Cioffi and Mr. Tannin by Bank of America. The bank accused the two men of lying about the health of their hedge funds, which had invested heavily in subprime mortgage-backed securities that plummeted in value when the housing market collapsed.
 Judge Alison J. Nathan of Federal District Court in Manhattan rejected Bank of America's claims of fraud and breach of fiduciary duty, ruling that bank had failed to prove damages tied to the conduct of the two men. 
The Bank of America suit centered on a complex $4 billion deal in which the bank securitized mortgage securities owned by the Bear Stearns hedge funds. When the funds imploded in June 2007 as the credit markets first started to seize up, Bank of America absorbed billions of dollars of losses in the deal, called a C.D.O.-squared.
The dismissal of the civil claims is a big win for Mr. Cioffi and Mr. Tannin. Held up by the government as symbols of Wall Street greed just as the financial markets started to buckle, the two executives staunchly denied any wrongdoing and have fought the battery of cases brought against them.
The most serious was a criminal indictment. In June 2008, federal prosecutors in Brooklyn charged the two men with securities fraud violations. The government said they trumpeted the fund's prospects to investors while privately worrying about their sagging portfolio and troubled housing market.
A jury acquittedthe men in November 2009. The closely watched case was the first major criminal trial connected with the financial crisis. Then last year, Mr. Cioffi and Mr. Tannin agreed to pay about $1 million to settle a civil lawsuit brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Neither admitted any wrongdoing. The federal judge who signed off on the hearing, Frederic L. Block, said the case was "being settled for, relatively speaking, chump change."
In the case dismissed on Monday, Bank of America said the Bear Stearns managers deceived it by failing to disclose that the fund was ailing and had received heavy withdrawal requests in early 2007. The bank said that had it known about the fund's problems, it never would have made the C.D.O.-squared deal.
Judge Nathan granted summary judgment, meaning that she dismissed the case before trial. In addition to ruling that no rational jury would rule for Bank of America on any of its claims, she said the testimony of one of the bank's experts regarding its losses was "inherently unreliable."
In addition to Mr. Cioffi and Mr. Tannin, Bank of America named as defendants another former Bear portfolio manager, Raymond McGarrigal, and JPMorgan Chase, which acquired Bear Stearns in March 2008. Both parties also secured dismissals.
Edward J.M. Little and Marc Weinstein of Hughes Hubbard & Reed represent Mr. Cioffi. Susan Brune, Nina Beattie and MaryAnn Sung of Brune & Richard represent Mr. Tannin. And representing Mr. McGarrigal is Catherine L. Redlich of Driscoll & Redlich. And Barry H. Berke and Eric A. Tirschwell of Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel represented JPMorgan.
Lawyers for the defendants parties were not immediately available for comment.

        
After Years of Battling, Bank of America and MBIA Settle Mortgage Dispute
        
Banks Seek to Overturn Judge's Ruling in Critical Mortgage Case

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (93%); HEDGE FUNDS (93%); JUDGES (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); SUBPRIME LENDING (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); SUMMARY JUDGMENT (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); TESTIMONY (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); CIVIL PROCEDURE (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (76%); SECURITIES LAW (76%); SECURITIZATION (76%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); ACQUITTAL (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%) Bank of America Corporation; Banking and Financial Institutions; Bear Stearns Cos; Cioffi, Ralph R Jr; Mortgage-Backed Securities; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Suits and Litigation (Civil); Tannin, Matthew M; Bank of America Corporation|BAC|NYSE; Financial Services; Hedge Funds; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of America Corporation; Bear Stearns Cos

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%) Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: Cioffi, Ralph R Jr; Tannin, Matthew M

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013



94 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Getting a Glimpse of Your Own Marketing Data Online

BYLINE: NATASHA SINGER


HIGHLIGHT: A data broker introduces a Web site allowing consumers to see and correct their own marketing profiles. 

 BODY:
 Updated with analysts' comments 
Last weekend, I wrotea story about Acxiom, a marketing technology firm that introduced a Web site on Wednesday morning called Aboutthedata.com. The site allows consumers to view all sorts of personal details the company has collected about them in its marketing databases.
The piece provoked an animated conversation across social media: 
Find out what #data brokers know about you on Sept 4. At least theoretically. I don't expect it to be comprehensive. http://t.co/dVbzS9kKM5
- Carri Bugbee (@CarriBugbee)2 Sep 13
Tomorrow, you can find out how you've been sold http://t.co/xIM4tgP0yS #prospectresearch #nptech
- Raymund Flandez (@raymundf23)3 Sep 13
On the Web site, people who are willing to undergo an identity verification process - which includes submitting your name, address and the last four digits of your Social Security number - and who pass that test will be able to see, correct and delete information Acxiom has collected about them.
But some privacy and security analysts said they were uncomfortable with an identity verification system that requires consumers to give personal details like their birth dates and partial Social Security numbers in order to access their marketing records. Ashkan Soltani, an independent privacy and security consultant who visited the site Wednesday morning, told me he was reluctant to give Acxiom "even more info about me - specially high-quality info that I volunteer." 
He was more blunt on Twitter:
Acxiom's NEW portal seems more like a clever data-harvesting scam. Requires name/addr/email/dob to gain access https://t.co/kr4W6UrJoM (1/2)
- ashkan soltani (@ashk4n)4 Sep 13
Christopher Soghoian, principal technologist at the American Civil Liberties Union, also warned about potential security flaws. After all, he said, family members like ex-spouses - as well as employees of banks and credit card companies - may have access to the same personal identity details about consumers and could use that information to impersonate them on the site.
"The data verification system does not inspire confidence," Mr. Soghoian said.
For those who are willing to log in, they will find six categories of information on the site that could include personal details like race, gender and occupation; residential data like assessed home data and lot square footage; vehicle data like the make and model of your car; economic data like estimated household income; shopping data like whether your household buys books, cooking utensils or toys; and household interests like board games, golf, hunting or text-messaging.
When I visited Acxiom's headquarters in Little Rock, Ark., last week to get a preview of Aboutthedata.com, I discovered that I was unable to view my own marketing profile. It turned out that, after I started writing about Acxiom last year, including a piece about the troubles I had getting access to my Acxiom record, the company had opted me out of its marketing databases.
So, after I passed the identification process on the new site, I found there were no details to see about me - only a message saying there was no information available.
We would love to hear from readers who are able to view their details on Aboutthedata.com.
What's your reaction to the site? How did you find the identity verification process - was it secure enough for you? How accurate were the data about you and your household? How did the site make you feel about data mining for the purposes of marketing? Did you modify or delete your data, did you opt out or stay in? Why?

        
The Rules of In-Store Surveillance
        
Wrangling Over 'Do Not Track'
        
F.T.C. Member Starts 'Reclaim Your Name' Campaign for Personal Data
        
Why Big Data Is Not Truth
        
Senator Seeks More Data Rights for Online Consumers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIVACY RIGHTS (90%); DATABASE MARKETING (90%); IDENTITY SECURITY (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (90%); DATA MINING (78%); WEB SITES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (77%); SOCIAL MEDIA (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (67%); FAMILY (66%); TEXT MESSAGING (63%); BOARD GAMES (61%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (60%); CREDIT CARDS (50%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (50%) Acxiom Corp; Data-Mining and Database Marketing; Little Rock (Ark); Privacy; Data; Internet; Retailing

COMPANY: ACXIOM FRANCE SAS (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Acxiom Corp

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (90%) ARKANSAS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) Little Rock (Ark)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013



95 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1745 words

HEADLINE: Morning Agenda: Tech Titans Without Checks and Balances

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: In Silicon Valley, control by a company&#8217;s founder does not always translate into long-term success. | In Nokia deal, Microsoft is taking inspiration from Apple&#8217;s product strategy. | Vikram S. Pandit is betting on an upstart lender. | Two former Bear Stearns managers have won a fresh legal victory. 

 BODY:
"The gods of Silicon Valley have repeatedly sought to take the companies they founded public while retaining control as if they were still private," Steven M. Davidoff writes in the Deal Professor column. "Recent events at Google and other technology companies show that perhaps this control may be bad not only for the companies but also for the founders, who are increasingly living in a world bereft of checks and balances."
Google was a leader in this movement, using a dual-class structure when it went public in 2004. Facebook took this further, going public by adopting a dual-class structure that allowed its co-founder Mark Zuckerberg to keep control even if he owned less than 10 percent of the company. And last year, Google proposed that the company issue a new class of shares with no voting rights. "The idea is that absent the pressures of the public market, executives can look after the long-term best interests of the company," Mr. Davidoff writes. But recent events raise an issue: "technology companies have not done well in sustaining themselves when their founders leave." 
"In Silicon Valley, founders' control has not always translated into the long-term success. In fact, control may have nothing to do with it," Mr. Davidoff writes. Just look at Amazon, where the chief executive, Jeffery P. Bezos, owns only 19.1 percent of the company. "In plain English, the great tech minds of Silicon Valley are told so often how great they are that they sometimes lose perspective."
MICROSOFT BETS ON APPLE-LIKE REVIVAL | In buying Nokia's phone business, Microsoft is taking inspiration from Apple's product strategy, bringing hardware and software under a single roof. But the $7.2 billion deal is unlikely to catapult Microsoft up the ranks in the smartphone market, Nick Wingfield reports in The New York Times. "That is because Microsoft, with its Windows Phone operating system, is stuck in third place in that market, where all the oxygen has been drained by more established players."
Completing the transaction, Microsoft's second-biggest after the acquisition of Skype, was a lengthy process that was anything but straightforward, Michael J. de la Merced and Mark Scott report in DealBook. Much of the discussions were held directly between Microsoft's departing C.E.O., Steven A. Ballmer, and Riisto Siilasmaa, the Finnish company's chairman. "The negotiations featured a disparity of styles: Mr. Ballmer was his famously demonstrative and energetic self, while Mr. Siilasmaa was more reserved and polite."
At the very least, the acquisition may "give Microsoft an edge in recruiting customers who still buy the more basic feature phones from companies like Nokia," Nick Bilton writes on the Bits blog. "That group of customers still makes up hundreds of millions of people." One rival, BlackBerry, may now face a greater challenge in finding its own savior, Ian Austen writes on the Bits blog.
PANDIT INVESTS IN LENDING START-UP COMMONBOND | Vikram S. Pandit has been on the sidelines of the banking industry since resigning as chief executive of Citigroup last October. But with a new investment, Mr. Pandit is betting an upstart lender will be able to compete with the giants of Wall Street. Mr. Pandit is among the investors in a round of financing raised by CommonBond, a Brooklyn-based start-up that lends to M.B.A. students and refinances existing debt. The financing, including equity and debt, totals more than $100 million, the company said.
ON THE AGENDA | A report on the international trade gap for July is released at 8:30 a.m. The Federal Reserve's "beige book" on the economy is out at 2 p.m. Dollar General reports earnings before the market opens. Leslie Moonves, chief executive of CBS, is on CNBC at 8:40 a.m. and on Bloomberg TV at 3 p.m.
JUDGE DISMISSES SUIT AGAINST 2 BEAR STEARNS EXECUTIVES | Ralph R. Cioffi and Matthew M. Tannin, two former Bear Stearns managers who were among the few executives to face a trial on criminal charges in the aftermath of the financial crisis, achieved another legal victory on Tuesday, when a federal judge dismissed a lawsuit brought against them by Bank of America, DealBook's Peter Lattman reports.
The bank had accused the two men of lying about the health of their hedge funds, which were filled with subprime mortgage-backed securities that fell in value in the housing crash. Judge Alison J. Nathan of Federal District Court in Manhattan rejected Bank of America's claims of fraud and breach of fiduciary duty, ruling that the bank had failed to prove damages tied to the former executives' conduct.
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
News Corp. Sells Small Local Publications | After a corporate spinoff in June, News Corporation said on Tuesday that it had sold 33 local publications, known as the Dow Jones Local Media Group, to an affiliate of the Fortress Investment Group. NEW YORK TIMES
Bezos Visits Washington Post as Owner | Jeffrey P. Bezos, who purchased The Washington Post for $250 million on Aug. 5, kicked off a two-day visit to the paper on Tuesday, his first since buying it. NEW YORK TIMES
Eventbrite Strikes First Two Deals, Buying Start-Ups Abroad | Eventbrite announced its first-ever acquisitions on Tuesday, months after the firm, an online ticketing start-up, raised $60 million in venture capital financing from the likes of Tiger Global and T. Rowe Price. DealBook »
AT&T Should Resist Buying Spree | Vodafone's sale of its 45 percent stake in Verizon Wireless could tempt AT&T to make a big move overseas now. But the fat margins at home and the perils of cross-border M.&A. make a stronger case for discipline, Robert Cyran of Reuters Breakingviews writes. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Real Estate Mogul Gives $200 Million to University of Michigan | The Wall Street Journal reports: "Stephen M. Ross, a self-described academically average transfer student who graduated from the University of Michigan, will become the school's biggest benefactor Wednesday with a gift of $200 million." WALL STREET JOURNAL
London Business School Receives Its Largest-Ever Gift | The South African billionaire Nathan Kirsh is giving 10 million pounds, or about $15.6 million, to the London Business School, The Financial Times reports. FINANCIAL TIMES
Friction at Zurich Insurance in Months Before Suicide | Before the chief financial officer of Zurich Insurance took his own life, he tussled this summer with the chairman "over how to explain the company's disappointing progress toward meeting certain business targets, according to company officials familiar with the situation," The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Morgan Stanley Must Pay $8 Million to Former Trader | Arbitrators ruled in favor of Amit Gupta, who said two units of Morgan Stanley improperly terminated him, Reuters reports. REUTERS
PRIVATE EQUITY »
A Banker's View of Private Equity | Alison J. Mass, co-head of the financial sponsors group in the investment banking division at Goldman Sachs, discusses private equity in a video on Goldman's Web site. "A lot of the leadership of these important firms are of the age where it's time for them to transition to the next generation," she says. GOLDMAN SACHS
HEDGE FUNDS »
Two More Hedge Funds Scoop Up Stakes in J.C. Penney | Since William A. Ackman sold his 18 percent stake in Penney, Glenview Capital Management and Hayman Capital Management have become some of its largest stockholders. DealBook »
Starboard Says It Is Working on Smithfield Bid | Starboard Value, the activist hedge fund that is urging the breakup of Smithfield Foods, said in a letter to investors that it had received interest from third parties for parts of the company and that it was working with them to come up with a competing bid to Shuanghui International Holdings' $34-a-share offer. DealBook »
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
LinkedIn Plans to Sell $1 Billion in Stock | LinkedIn, which has enjoyed a buoyant stock price since going public in 2011, filed on Tuesday to sell Class A shares valued at $1 billion. Its stock price fell more than 2 percent in after-hours trading after the filing. WALL STREET JOURNAL
AMC Aims to Raise $400 Million in I.P.O. | An initial public offering would be the latest corporate maneuver for AMC Entertainment, the second-largest movie theater owner in North America. DealBook »
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Data Backup Service Raises $25 Million | The financing of Datto, which provides both local and cloud-based data backup, is the latest bet that cloud computing will help transform data backup and recovery. DealBook »
'Headphones Are the New Cubicle' | RocketSpace, an office rental company in San Francisco, offers young companies space to work on long tables that they sometimes share with other companies, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Corporate Money Losing Clout in a G.O.P. Moving Right | "The seemingly inexorable rise of political partisans - mainly on the right, but on the left, too - suggests that corporate money may be playing a much smaller role in the political process than expected," Eduardo Porter writes in the Economic Scene column in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
Kodak Emerges From Bankruptcy | Kodak exited Chapter 11 on Tuesday in a smaller and redirected form, now a commercial imaging company serving business markets like packaging and graphics, The Associated Press reports. ASSOCIATED PRESS
JPMorgan Chase Tests U.S. Law on Buying Influence Abroad | The investigation of reports that the bank hired scores of children of powerful government officials in Asia will test how broadly the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act applies to almost commonplace conduct by firms, Peter J. Henning writes in the White Collar Watch column. DealBook »
Bribery Charges in China for Official Whose Child Worked for JPMorgan | The official, whose daughter's employment at JPMorgan Chase is a focus of an antibribery investigation in the United States, was accused of accepting nearly $8 million. DealBook »
Europe Misses Out on Germany's Resurgence | "Whenever Germany thrived, so did the rest of Europe. But that long-held belief is being questioned by its neighbors, which see evidence that the country is taking off without them," Jack Ewing writes in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPANY STRATEGY (89%); EXECUTIVES (76%); FACEBOOK INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING (75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (69%); SMARTPHONES (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (64%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (85%); APPLE INC (83%); FACEBOOK INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (85%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (83%); FB (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (83%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (83%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (83%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (79%); JEFFREY P BEZOS (54%); VIKRAM PANDIT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013



96 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1745 words

HEADLINE: Tech Titans Without Checks and Balances

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: In Silicon Valley, control by a company&#8217;s founder does not always translate into long-term success. | In Nokia deal, Microsoft is taking inspiration from Apple&#8217;s product strategy. | Vikram S. Pandit is betting on an upstart lender. | Two former Bear Stearns managers have won a fresh legal victory. 

 BODY:
"The gods of Silicon Valley have repeatedly sought to take the companies they founded public while retaining control as if they were still private," Steven M. Davidoff writes in the Deal Professor column. "Recent events at Google and other technology companies show that perhaps this control may be bad not only for the companies but also for the founders, who are increasingly living in a world bereft of checks and balances."
Google was a leader in this movement, using a dual-class structure when it went public in 2004. Facebook took this further, going public by adopting a dual-class structure that allowed its co-founder Mark Zuckerberg to keep control even if he owned less than 10 percent of the company. And last year, Google proposed that the company issue a new class of shares with no voting rights. "The idea is that absent the pressures of the public market, executives can look after the long-term best interests of the company," Mr. Davidoff writes. But recent events raise an issue: "technology companies have not done well in sustaining themselves when their founders leave." 
"In Silicon Valley, founders' control has not always translated into the long-term success. In fact, control may have nothing to do with it," Mr. Davidoff writes. Just look at Amazon, where the chief executive, Jeffery P. Bezos, owns only 19.1 percent of the company. "In plain English, the great tech minds of Silicon Valley are told so often how great they are that they sometimes lose perspective."
MICROSOFT BETS ON APPLE-LIKE REVIVAL | In buying Nokia's phone business, Microsoft is taking inspiration from Apple's product strategy, bringing hardware and software under a single roof. But the $7.2 billion deal is unlikely to catapult Microsoft up the ranks in the smartphone market, Nick Wingfield reports in The New York Times. "That is because Microsoft, with its Windows Phone operating system, is stuck in third place in that market, where all the oxygen has been drained by more established players."
Completing the transaction, Microsoft's second-biggest after the acquisition of Skype, was a lengthy process that was anything but straightforward, Michael J. de la Merced and Mark Scott report in DealBook. Much of the discussions were held directly between Microsoft's departing C.E.O., Steven A. Ballmer, and Riisto Siilasmaa, the Finnish company's chairman. "The negotiations featured a disparity of styles: Mr. Ballmer was his famously demonstrative and energetic self, while Mr. Siilasmaa was more reserved and polite."
At the very least, the acquisition may "give Microsoft an edge in recruiting customers who still buy the more basic feature phones from companies like Nokia," Nick Bilton writes on the Bits blog. "That group of customers still makes up hundreds of millions of people." One rival, BlackBerry, may now face a greater challenge in finding its own savior, Ian Austen writes on the Bits blog.
PANDIT INVESTS IN LENDING START-UP COMMONBOND | Vikram S. Pandit has been on the sidelines of the banking industry since resigning as chief executive of Citigroup last October. But with a new investment, Mr. Pandit is betting an upstart lender will be able to compete with the giants of Wall Street. Mr. Pandit is among the investors in a round of financing raised by CommonBond, a Brooklyn-based start-up that lends to M.B.A. students and refinances existing debt. The financing, including equity and debt, totals more than $100 million, the company said.
ON THE AGENDA | A report on the international trade gap for July is released at 8:30 a.m. The Federal Reserve's "beige book" on the economy is out at 2 p.m. Dollar General reports earnings before the market opens. Leslie Moonves, chief executive of CBS, is on CNBC at 8:40 a.m. and on Bloomberg TV at 3 p.m.
JUDGE DISMISSES SUIT AGAINST 2 BEAR STEARNS EXECUTIVES | Ralph R. Cioffi and Matthew M. Tannin, two former Bear Stearns managers who were among the few executives to face a trial on criminal charges in the aftermath of the financial crisis, achieved another legal victory on Tuesday, when a federal judge dismissed a lawsuit brought against them by Bank of America, DealBook's Peter Lattman reports.
The bank had accused the two men of lying about the health of their hedge funds, which were filled with subprime mortgage-backed securities that fell in value in the housing crash. Judge Alison J. Nathan of Federal District Court in Manhattan rejected Bank of America's claims of fraud and breach of fiduciary duty, ruling that the bank had failed to prove damages tied to the former executives' conduct.
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
News Corp. Sells Small Local Publications | After a corporate spinoff in June, News Corporation said on Tuesday that it had sold 33 local publications, known as the Dow Jones Local Media Group, to an affiliate of the Fortress Investment Group. NEW YORK TIMES
Bezos Visits Washington Post as Owner | Jeffrey P. Bezos, who purchased The Washington Post for $250 million on Aug. 5, kicked off a two-day visit to the paper on Tuesday, his first since buying it. NEW YORK TIMES
Eventbrite Strikes First Two Deals, Buying Start-Ups Abroad | Eventbrite announced its first-ever acquisitions on Tuesday, months after the firm, an online ticketing start-up, raised $60 million in venture capital financing from the likes of Tiger Global and T. Rowe Price. DealBook »
AT&T Should Resist Buying Spree | Vodafone's sale of its 45 percent stake in Verizon Wireless could tempt AT&T to make a big move overseas now. But the fat margins at home and the perils of cross-border M.&A. make a stronger case for discipline, Robert Cyran of Reuters Breakingviews writes. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Real Estate Mogul Gives $200 Million to University of Michigan | The Wall Street Journal reports: "Stephen M. Ross, a self-described academically average transfer student who graduated from the University of Michigan, will become the school's biggest benefactor Wednesday with a gift of $200 million." WALL STREET JOURNAL
London Business School Receives Its Largest-Ever Gift | The South African billionaire Nathan Kirsh is giving 10 million pounds, or about $15.6 million, to the London Business School, The Financial Times reports. FINANCIAL TIMES
Friction at Zurich Insurance in Months Before Suicide | Before the chief financial officer of Zurich Insurance took his own life, he tussled this summer with the chairman "over how to explain the company's disappointing progress toward meeting certain business targets, according to company officials familiar with the situation," The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Morgan Stanley Must Pay $8 Million to Former Trader | Arbitrators ruled in favor of Amit Gupta, who said two units of Morgan Stanley improperly terminated him, Reuters reports. REUTERS
PRIVATE EQUITY »
A Banker's View of Private Equity | Alison J. Mass, co-head of the financial sponsors group in the investment banking division at Goldman Sachs, discusses private equity in a video on Goldman's Web site. "A lot of the leadership of these important firms are of the age where it's time for them to transition to the next generation," she says. GOLDMAN SACHS
HEDGE FUNDS »
Two More Hedge Funds Scoop Up Stakes in J.C. Penney | Since William A. Ackman sold his 18 percent stake in Penney, Glenview Capital Management and Hayman Capital Management have become some of its largest stockholders. DealBook »
Starboard Says It Is Working on Smithfield Bid | Starboard Value, the activist hedge fund that is urging the breakup of Smithfield Foods, said in a letter to investors that it had received interest from third parties for parts of the company and that it was working with them to come up with a competing bid to Shuanghui International Holdings' $34-a-share offer. DealBook »
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
LinkedIn Plans to Sell $1 Billion in Stock | LinkedIn, which has enjoyed a buoyant stock price since going public in 2011, filed on Tuesday to sell Class A shares valued at $1 billion. Its stock price fell more than 2 percent in after-hours trading after the filing. WALL STREET JOURNAL
AMC Aims to Raise $400 Million in I.P.O. | An initial public offering would be the latest corporate maneuver for AMC Entertainment, the second-largest movie theater owner in North America. DealBook »
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Data Backup Service Raises $25 Million | The financing of Datto, which provides both local and cloud-based data backup, is the latest bet that cloud computing will help transform data backup and recovery. DealBook »
'Headphones Are the New Cubicle' | RocketSpace, an office rental company in San Francisco, offers young companies space to work on long tables that they sometimes share with other companies, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Corporate Money Losing Clout in a G.O.P. Moving Right | "The seemingly inexorable rise of political partisans - mainly on the right, but on the left, too - suggests that corporate money may be playing a much smaller role in the political process than expected," Eduardo Porter writes in the Economic Scene column in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
Kodak Emerges From Bankruptcy | Kodak exited Chapter 11 on Tuesday in a smaller and redirected form, now a commercial imaging company serving business markets like packaging and graphics, The Associated Press reports. ASSOCIATED PRESS
JPMorgan Chase Tests U.S. Law on Buying Influence Abroad | The investigation of reports that the bank hired scores of children of powerful government officials in Asia will test how broadly the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act applies to almost commonplace conduct by firms, Peter J. Henning writes in the White Collar Watch column. DealBook »
Bribery Charges in China for Official Whose Child Worked for JPMorgan | The official, whose daughter's employment at JPMorgan Chase is a focus of an antibribery investigation in the United States, was accused of accepting nearly $8 million. DealBook »
Europe Misses Out on Germany's Resurgence | "Whenever Germany thrived, so did the rest of Europe. But that long-held belief is being questioned by its neighbors, which see evidence that the country is taking off without them," Jack Ewing writes in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPANY STRATEGY (89%); EXECUTIVES (76%); FACEBOOK INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING (75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (69%); SMARTPHONES (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (64%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (85%); APPLE INC (83%); FACEBOOK INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (85%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (83%); FB (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (83%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (83%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (83%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (79%); JEFFREY P BEZOS (54%); VIKRAM PANDIT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013



97 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: Today in Small Business: The 'Crabfries' Lawsuit

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Independent contractors. Promoted tweets. Orange Tuesday. And an intellectual property battle over &#8220;crabfries.&#8221; 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners today.
Social Media

        
An angry customer uses social media - promoted tweets! - to chastise British Airways for its customer service.
Economy

        
The pace of American manufacturing hit a two-year peak in August, and construction spending rose to a four-year high.
        
According to Gallup, Americans' self-reported daily spending averaged $95 in August, up from $89 in July and the highest measured since September 2008.
        
Nearly one in five small-business owners say they're now more likely to hire an independent contractor than a full-time employee, according to results from SurePayroll's Small Business Scorecard, a "dramatic sea change in how small businesses operate, and perhaps a signal of how our economy will operate moving forward."
Start-Ups 

        
The world will change for start-ups on Sept. 23 - when they will be able to start promoting their fund-raising efforts.
Retail

        
One retailer wants to call the Tuesday after Labor Day Orange Tuesday in a push to kick off the Halloween shopping season.
Budget Cuts

        
Nearly half of the recipients who get federal science money say they have recently laid off or will lay off scientists and researchers, because federal grants are tougher to win, according to a survey by the American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology and 15 other scientific societies.
Employees

        
Lydia DePillis reports that 401(k)'s are replacing pensions, which is "making inequality worse."
        
Facebook employees reveal 16 "awful" things about working for the company.
Management

        
What can you learn from a Navy SEAL? According to this blog, a lot, including: "Seals quickly learn that the punishment and pain of training prepares them to adapt quickly to tough mission environments. Young executives who go through hard times should learn to appreciate them, recognizing that those times will not only strengthen them but truly train them to properly and successfully lead their own teams when battling the competition."
        
According to its recent public offering filing, Potbelly Corporation plans to expand from its current 286 locations through company-owned restaurants and what it calls disciplined franchising.
Around the Country

        
Two 700-pound alligators are killed in Mississippi,
Around the World

        
Switzerland has kept its title as the world's most competitive economy for the fifth straight year, according to the World Economic Forum (the United States came in fifth).
        
China could become the first country to legalize parcel delivery by drone.
Intellectual Property

        
A federal court agrees with an iconic Philadelphia eatery, known for its "crabfries," that a competitor infringed on its trademark by unlawfully showing an image of a crab next to the word "fries" on its menus and Web site.
Ideas

        
The organic personal care products market is growing at a rapid pace across the world, according to a study from Market Research Reports.
Technology

        
Microsoft swallows Nokia's phone business for $7.2 billion, but Chris Ciaccia thinks the decision is a bad one as the company puts more emphasis on hardware and devices.
 Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter. 

        
Today in Small Business: Free Pizza
        
Today in Small Business: Can Florists Survive?
        
This Week in Small Business: Pay Cash
        
This Week In Small Business: Mibblio, Kaggle and Shodogg
        
Today in Small Business: Employee Monitoring

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (92%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (90%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (90%); TRADEMARKS (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (87%); SUITS & CLAIMS (84%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (83%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US 401K PLANS (74%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (74%); FRANCHISING (73%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (72%); US LABOR DAY (72%); FUNDRAISING (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (69%); RETAILERS (67%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (67%); BIOLOGY (66%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (63%); LITIGATION (62%); BUDGET CUTS (52%) Small Business; Social Media; Start-ups; United States Economy; Dashboard

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013



98 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Latitude)

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: The Turkish Stockholm Syndrome

BYLINE: ANDREW FINKEL


HIGHLIGHT: If Turkey&#8217;s prime minister persists in playing politics with the economy, he risks losing his supporters among the business elite. 

 BODY:
ISTANBUL - Turkey's Western-oriented and often Western-educated elite, including bankers and industrialists, has never had much affection for the ruling Justice and Development Party, known as A.K.P.
It considers those party officials to be dull provincials, blinkered by religious conservatism and uncomfortable to see men and women mix as equals. This suspicion also applies to a rival business elite based in the Anatolian heartland, far from the sophisticated coastal cities, that the A.K.P. has nurtured since it emerged in 2001.
Which makes it all the more peculiar that, as a market analyst friend of mine put it, the old Republican elite - the country's third generation of bankers and industrialists - has suffered from "Turkish Stockholm Syndrome": These people might not have voted for the A.K.P. or socialized with anyone who does, but they were happy that it was in charge. 
Even before it took power, the A.K.P. set out to reassure the markets that it was business-friendly and believed in privatization and cutting red tape. Once it came to office in 2002, it stuck like glue to an I.M.F. rescue package. It also worked hard to start negotiations with the European Union in order to restore investor confidence in an economy badly damaged by Turkey's 2000-2001 financial crisis. Then, scared by the lack of a viable alternative, investors hoped that Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan would win a second term.
He did in 2007, and their faith in him was rewarded as Turkey steered its way successfully through the Lehman Brothers crisis and the global recession the following year. The old business community, though wary of the favors the A.K.P. was bestowing upon its rivals from the countryside, continued to give the party its begrudging support. The party's reputation for ensuring economic stability allowed Erdogan to tame powerful foes, like the generals and the judges.
A key question now - at the end of a turbulent summer and more than halfway through the A.K.P.'s third term - is whether this uneasy alliance still stands. Now that the Turkish economy has lost much of its luster, does the business community still empathize with the political party that took it hostage?
Turkey's economic problems start in Washington: The Federal Reserve's decision to turn off the tap on cheap funding to U.S. banks is having a knock-on effect. The Turkish treasury has to work that much harder to keep its debts paid and to finance growth. And now the markets are nervous about Syria. The Turkish government is eager to bring down President Bashar al-Assad, but signing on to a coalition that would punish Damascus for gassing its own people would expose Turkey to some form of retaliation.
Markets had expected the central bank, at least, to be more pro-active and raise interest rates to reward investors willing to take risks despite the new, harsher realities. But there are important municipal elections throughout the country next March, a presidential election the following autumn and a general election by 2015 at the latest. Erdogan appears determined to steer through this period with his foot on the accelerator. The nominally independent central bank is under political pressure not to raise rates or do anything that could hurt Turkey's vote-winning construction boom.
But this strategy may already have backfired. A crunch of sorts came last week when the governor of the central bank, Erdem Basci, went on television to assure investors that interest rates would remain stable and warn that anyone betting against the lira would be sorry. Even as he spoke, the currency lost 1 percent of its value - following a devaluation of nearly 9 percent over the last three months. The Istanbul stock exchange has also fared poorly.
It is too early to say whether the old guard of Turkish business has lost faith in the government's economic management. Many of its members cling to the belief that a single party, even one with a populist agenda, is a better bet than the squabbling coalitions of the 1990s.
In any case, they are too cowed to protest, a senior banker told me. Since the extensive protests in Istanbul's Gezi Park, the government has been in a vengeful mood. It has excluded from public tenders the companies it believes oppose it. When tax inspectors and the police raided Turkey's largest company, the petroleum refinery Tupras, at the end of July, the move was widely assumed to be retaliation against Tupras's parent company, Koc Holding, which owns a hotel that became a sanctuary for those fleeing the police's pepper gas at the height of the summer disturbances.
There has been some pushback. Mustafa Boydak is a conservative businessman from Kayseri - an A.K.P. stronghold in Central Anatolia - the scion of the family that owns the furniture giant Istikbal and a partner in an Islamic banking house. In a recent speech to the Kayseri Chamber of Commerce, he warned the government against trying to punish "secular" companieslike the military-influenced governments of the 1990s had punished companies that supported pro-Islamic parties.
It is a warning worth heeding. The government's skills at divide and rule will not work with market sentiment: A witch hunt against one section of Turkish business will destroy investor confidence overall. If the A.K.P. persists in playing politics with the economy, its own supporters among the business elite may be the first to rebel.

        
From Marginal March To Mass Movement
        
Gul Unleashed
        
Of the D'Hondt Method With a Barrier
        
The Children of Taksim
        
The Curse of Ataturk

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); POLITICS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); PRIVATIZATION (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); RELIGION (72%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); EUROPEAN UNION (65%); INTEREST RATES (59%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Erdogan, Recep Tayyip; Interest Rates; Justice and Development Party (Turkey); Turkey; Europe

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Justice and Development Party (Turkey)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (89%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (50%) Erdogan, Recep Tayyip

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (90%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%) TURKEY (95%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); SYRIA (79%) Turkey

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013



99 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1955 words

HEADLINE: The Liberation of Knoxville

BYLINE: AARON ASTOR


HIGHLIGHT: After years under Confederate control, the center of Tennessee Unionism is captured by the North. 

 BODY:
On Sept. 1, 1863, an engineer for the Union Army named Orlando Poe arrived in Knoxville, Tenn., alongside thousands of soldiers under the command of Gen. Ambrose Burnside. The town was until recently a rebel stronghold, the last in northeastern Tennessee. Yet in a letter home to his wife he remarked: "I wish you could see the delight of the people - such loyalty to the Union I have never seen in my life before. We don't know at the North what loyalty means." Indeed, their long march over the Cumberland Mountains culminated in scenes of wild celebration as citizens of all ages greeted the liberating Federal army. A lithograph in Harper's Magazine portrayed General Burnside riding among the crowd, elevated like a savior. Long a symbol of defiant Southern Unionism, the city of Knoxville, Tenn., was, at last, liberated from Confederate control. 
Not everybody in East Tennessee's metropolis shared in the joyous revelry. Ellen Renshaw House, a teenage diarist and self-described "Very Violent Rebel," wrote: "I think it is outrageous. The Yankees are here. Just think, here - here in Knoxville ... I never never could have believed it ... How I hate them." House chafed under the dramatic turn of events, especially the Confederate general Simon Bolivar Buckner's decision to strategically withdraw from the area by the end of August. 
The change of fortune befalling the city of Knoxville fulfilled one of the deepest ambitions of President Lincoln from the earliest days of the war. Knoxville and East Tennessee had long symbolized for Northerners the "true patriotic spirit" among the ordinary population of the South. A notion reinforced by the homegrown senator Andrew Johnson, who refused to yield his seat upon Tennessee's secession, East Tennessee's defiant Unionism encouraged political leaders like Lincoln to believe that a quick war would topple the Confederate "coup" launched by slaveholding aristocrats. 
Events in the fall of 1861 and spring of 1862 quickly dashed those mountain dreams. A failed bridge-burning campaign in November 1861 provoked a violent crackdown by Confederate military authorities against the "Tories" in their midst. Meanwhile, federal military success in Middle and West Tennessee presented a more successful strategy for penetrating the Southern heartland, even if it meant bypassing the political friends of the Union in the eastern part of the state. By June 1862, pro-Confederate Memphis, Nashville and the western half of the state lay in Union military control - with Andrew Johnson installed as military governor in March 1862 - while pro-Union East Tennessee remained under Confederate occupation. Despite a year of raids, invasion and resistance statewide, this pattern would hold until the summer of 1863.
Life for Knoxville's Unionists under Confederate occupation grew grimmer each day. A desperate letter, sent to President Lincoln from various East Tennessee Unionists in July 1863, detailed a host of grievances befalling the Union population in Knoxville and surrounding communities. First was the Confederate tax-in-kind, where farm produce was seized, "forcing us, our women and children, to the dread of starving or fleeing to more hospitable regions, leaving behind us our all to the mercy of a merciless foe." The second and more onerous burden was the Confederate draft, called by Isham G. Harris, "that despot who claims to be Governor of our State." The draft forced men to "fight for a cause they hate and against a Government they have ever loved and adored with almost Eastern idolatry." Though President Lincoln's army would not liberate the city until September, he responded to this entreaty, "I do as much as I would, or could, if my own home, and family were in Knoxville." 
Continued pressure against Unionist civilians convinced the more pragmatic political and business leaders of the community, like the prominent attorney John Baxter, to switch sides and support the Confederacy for the time being. Passage of the Emancipation Proclamation, though it exempted Tennessee, did much to alienate many Knoxville Unionists as well (they were unionists, not abolitionists, after all). Thomas A. R. Nelson, who once presided over an East Tennessee Unionist Convention, called on fellow East Tennesseans to resist the "barbarity" and "atrocity" of the proclamation with arms. The most outspoken Unionist leadership was mostly gone by the summer of 1863 - Andrew Johnson was in Nashville, William G. "Parson" Brownlow had gone north, thousands of dedicated Unionist partisans had escaped to Kentucky or to the hills, and Nelson and much of the city council had switched sides. 
In fact, the loyalty of Knoxville's elites had always divided fairly evenly: those engaged in the growing railroad-related industries envisioned an East Tennessee as breadbasket for the Confederacy, while the older Whig-based elite and the farmer class continued to pledge loyalty to the old Union. In a June 1861 referendum on secession, 72 percent of Knox County supported the Union. In the city of Knoxville, however, half the citizens supported secession. But the pressures of war and Confederate occupation tended to mute the city's Unionist sentiment.
Life for Knoxville's Confederates was hardly grand, however. Confederate military authorities viewed the loyalties of all East Tennesseans with suspicion, even those who supported secession from the beginning. With the state capital in Union military hands and a draft in place that forced lukewarm citizens to join a Confederate Army that held them in contempt, even the most sanguine pro-Confederate citizens sensed the precariousness of their position. 
The first sign of change came in June 1863 with the dashing raid of Union Col. William P. Sanders, who probed and prodded Confederate defenses around the city, destroying 50 miles of railroad track while seizing numerous guns and supplies. What really pushed the Confederates out, however, was the stunning success of Gen. William Rosecrans's Tullahoma Campaign during his march southeast from Murfreesboro to Chattanooga. As a result, Confederate Gen. Braxton Bragg decided by mid-August to abandon all of East Tennessee and reconnoiter in northwest Georgia. When Confederate authorities abandoned Knoxville and the strategically critical city of Chattanooga without a fight, hundreds of pro-Confederate citizens left those cities with the Confederate Army, leaving a largely pro-Union populace in place to welcome the Federal liberators. 
Burnside's arrival meant more than liberation for many Knoxville Unionists. It also meant the time was ripe to settle scores with old Confederates, and humiliate the fencesitters who accommodated too easily to Confederate rule. No figure encapsulated this spirit of vengeance more than Parson Brownlow, a former Methodist preacher and longtime publisher of the Knoxville Whig newspaper. Brownlow renamed his sheet Brownlow's Whig and Rebel Ventilator with the explicit goal of driving former Confederates from the city for good. After taking an appointment as a Treasury agent in the city, Brownlow encouraged the seizure and sale at auction of all rebel-held property abandoned by fleeing pro-Confederate citizens. He also encouraged a series of high-profile indictments of Confederates for treason against the "real" state government and the federal government. Few of these trials would result in conviction, but many former Confederate Knoxvillians realized that their only choice was to move away to Georgia or Texas. Violence targeting former Confederate enforcers of the draft added to the exodus, though few Unionist civilians needed prodding from Brownlow to exact revenge.
By late September, however, the Union hold on the city began to look precarious. A stunning Confederate victory at the Battle of Chickamauga drove the ragged Union Army of the Cumberland into Chattanooga, where it would face a siege from Bragg's forces occupying Missionary Ridge and Lookout Mountain. In a decision replete with strategic miscalculation, Confederate President Jefferson Davis ordered Gen. James Longstreet to march to Knoxville and retake the city. Though the decision would prove as foolish and futile as military strategists predicted, it nevertheless placed Knoxville's Unionists on notice that their former Confederate tormenters could soon return to power. The next two months would be filled with fortification and supply, with Orlando Poe tasked with making Knoxville the most fortified city in America after Washington. The expected Confederate siege and attack eventually came in late November, ending catastrophically for Longstreet's invaders who found themselves piled up in an icy ditch outside Fort Sanders. Never again would the Confederacy threaten Knoxville.
The ordeal for Knoxville's Unionists would take a long time to heal. In the meantime, Union troops helped construct a postwar image of Knoxville that would persist well into the 20th century. The mostly Unionist civilian response to Burnside's arrival established a Unionist legacy for a city that was, in fact, far more divided in sentiment. After the war, many Northern businessmen arrived, and built the city as a coal, timber and textile center with now-completed railroad connections through the mountains and to the rest of the country. Economically, at least, its best days lay ahead. 
A more pernicious cultural result may have emerged as well. As the historian Tracy McKenzie remarks in his study of Civil War Knoxville, many of the comments uttered by Union soldiers toward the pro-Union civilians bore the mark of cultural prejudice. One private in a Michigan regiment noted the "men in ancient raiment, unshaved and unwashed ... One look at such a grotesque group was enough to make one doubt his mother country." After denigrating the women of Knoxville for their "ludicrous" dress, Poe longed for a "strong infusion of Yankee blood" to "give things some life here." In many ways, the modern stereotype of the backward Appalachian "hillbilly" - which did so much to pave the way for the ruthless exploitation of the region for decades to come - was first given nationwide hearing during the Union liberation of Knoxville in 1863. 
Despite cultural differences with the North, however, Knoxville would continue to cultivate its Unionist heritage. The bitterness dissipated with time as former Confederates were eventually welcomed back at Blue Gray Reunions in the 1890s. But the city's political leadership, beginning with Brownlow, embraced the Republican Party as an enduring testament of loyalty to the Party of Lincoln and the Union. With the exception of a handful of elections, Knoxville, Knox County and most of East Tennessee would continue to serve as a Republican Party bastion up to the present day.
 Follow Disunion at twitter.com/NYTcivilwar or join us on Facebook. 
 Sources: Dorothy Kelly, "Sanders' Raid," in "North and South"; Robert Tracy McKenzie, "Lincolnites and Rebels: A Divided Town in the American Civil War"; Daniel Sutherland, ed., "A Very Violent Rebel: The Civil War Diary of Ellen Renshaw House"; Earl Hess, "The Knoxville Campaign: Burnside and Longstreet in East Tennessee"; Todd Groce, "Mountain Rebels: East Tennessee Confederates; Joan Markel, Knoxville in the Civil War"; Mark Banker, "Appalachians All: East Tennesseans and the Elusive History of an American Region." 
 Aaron Astor is an associate professor of history at Maryville College in Maryville, Tenn. He is the author of "Rebels on the Border: Civil War, Emancipation and the Reconstruction of Kentucky and Missouri." 

        
A Colored Man's Constitution
        
The Plight of the Black P.O.W.
        
Tom Ewing's Dirty War
        
The Lawrence Massacre
        
'Read It Very Slowly'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CIVIL WAR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (67%) Civil War (US) (1861-65); Knoxville (Tenn); Disunion

GEOGRAPHIC: KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (94%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (99%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) Knoxville (Tenn)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013



100 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1316 words

HEADLINE: Fiscal Collisions Ahead

BYLINE: PHILLIP SWAGEL


HIGHLIGHT: In the debate over the budget and the debt ceiling, it is important to avoid immediate fiscal retrenchment and economic catastrophe, but also to address the budget imbalance over time, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Phillip Swagel is a professor at the School of Public Policy at the University of Maryland and was assistant secretary for economic policy at the Treasury Department from 2006 to 2009. 
Even as serious decisions loom regarding Syria, Congress and President Obama still must deal with two related fiscal policy issues: raising the debt ceiling before the government's borrowing authority runs out around mid-October, and funding government operations beyond the end of the fiscal year on Sept. 30. Democrats and Republicans are on collision courses on both matters. Republicans (the pragmatic ones, at least) seek further spending cuts to address the still-wide fiscal deficit, while the president is focused instead on reversing the cuts set to take hold through the sequester mechanism he signed into law as part of the Budget Control Act of 2011. The focus on Syria means that fiscal decisions could be put off for a short period. Even that, however, would require compromise that might prove challenging, such as agreement by the president to accept the continued sequester and by Republicans to raise the debt ceiling without accompanying spending cuts. 
A failure to act would harm the economy. Not lifting the debt ceiling in particular would be expected to have catastrophic economic effects. Interest rates could skyrocket if investors question the full faith and credit of the United States government, leading to a credit crunch that pummels business and consumer spending. The calamity might be avoided if the Treasury Department makes payments to bondholders to avoid a default, but even with this contingency plan (which the Treasury shows no sign of putting into place), the spectacle of a government that cannot finance its routine operations would doubtless translate into a severe negative impact on private confidence and spending.
A shutdown of nonessential government operations on Oct. 1 would mean an unintended reduction in spending that could retard the recovery, but the larger consequence again would be indirect through a hit to confidence. With the government unable to attend to routine matters, it does not take much to imagine that American families and companies would halt plans to spend, invest and hire. This would repeat the natural instinct that contributed to the plunge in economic activity in the fall of 2008. 
Fiscal uncertainty matters for monetary policy as well, because the Federal Reserve will hesitate to start unwinding its expansionary policy if a serious fiscal drag seems imminent. 
Administration officials like Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew have stated that they will not negotiate on raising the debt limit, which is something of a red herring when Mr. Lew will routinely engage in discussions on funding bills with members of the House and Senate, and it would be natural to expect the two issues of the debt ceiling and government funding to be resolved together. Even so, for now the administration is not putting forward a new proposal.
Such a hardball approach worked for the president in resolving the fiscal cliff in late 2012, when Republicans were forced to accede to allowing tax increases for upper-income households even as most of the Bush-Obama tax cuts from 2001, 2003 and 2010 were made permanent. But the "no negotiation" tack worked less well during the sequester fight two months later, as a deal was not reached to avoid broad spending cuts. The administration's warnings of calamitous impacts from the sequester for teachers, preschool children and homebound seniors do not appear to have had the intended political impact in pressuring Republicans to reverse their position on spending, perhaps because the labor market and the overall economy improved in the first half of 2013 despite the government cuts.
Another approach by the administration in looking for political leverage is to warn that failing to lift the debt ceiling puts the incomes of the elderly at risk. The White House has asserted that the Treasury might be forced to put payments to bondholders ahead of Social Security recipients, for instance. This talking point is actually not correct. Hitting the debt ceiling would force difficult decisions over which bills to pay first, but Social Security payments could be made regardless. This is because redeeming the Treasury securities in the Social Security Trust Fund would actually create more room against the debt ceiling - this is all government accounting, but in this case it goes in the favor of Social Security checks. Still, it is revealing of the political stakes that the White House is making this claim.
Both sides in the political tussle actually have substantive arguments on the economics - but only on half of the issue per side. President Obama has a reasonable point in looking to avoid fiscal retrenchment while the economy remains in a lackluster recovery and operating below potential. This includes both averting the sequester-related spending cuts and even increasing spending on initiatives like infrastructure that have the potential for a high social return. I wish the administration would focus more carefully on value-for-money rather than burning taxpayer money on wasteful projects such as high-speed rail and subsidies for green jobs that do not materialize. But there is a good argument to be made for avoiding near-term austerity.
At the same time, Republicans rightly point to the need to tackle the deficit over time. The improvement in the budget outlook for this year and the next several has empowered the fiscal "ostrich caucus," but does not change the reality of a "severe long-run fiscal imbalance." President Obama has spoken about the need to take on the long-term fiscal challenge. But this requires making difficult choices to address the funding gaps in Social Security and Medicare, and on this Mr. Obama has flinched, setting aside the recommendations of his own Bowles-Simpson fiscal commission and instead putting forward only modest entitlement reform proposals - enough for a talking point but by far not addressing the imbalances. Indeed, in his 2013 State of the Union address, Mr. Obama spoke merely of "the need for modest reforms" in Medicare, when the decisions will be wrenching, not modest, since ultimately they will involve how to allocate health care resources for people in the final year of life when costs, ethics and human dignity crowd around the beeping hospital equipment.
What is needed is to address the fiscal imbalance - not all at once, but with a credible program that phases in over time. If anything, Mr. Obama has done the opposite by putting forward inadequate and noncredible proposals while failing to prepare the American people for the difficult decisions he will leave for his successors.
In the face of this approach to fiscal policy, so aptly labeled by Keith Hennessey as a strategy of "whistling past the graveyard" and so at odds with the self-righteous tone of President Obama's first budget with its cover proclaiming "A New Era of Responsibility," it is difficult to blame Republicans for pushing for fiscal restraint in any way possible.
Hence the fiscal situation that will be rejoined when Congress returns from recess next week. Perhaps the most that can be hoped for is that grave issues presented by the Syrian atrocities will lead to a budgetary cease-fire rather than a stalemate. Under this sequence of events, the debt ceiling will be raised and bond default averted, while the inartful spending changes of the sequester remain in place rather than a more thoughtful and gradual approach to addressing the nation's fiscal challenge. This outcome would be satisfactory to no one but better than the alternatives of bond default or government shutdown.

        
Inequality and Opportunity
        
The Seed of Obstruction
        
Obama's View of the Economic Challenge
        
The Myriad Benefits of a Carbon Tax
        
Immigration and Fiscal Policy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (92%); PUBLIC POLICY (91%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); US BUDGET CONTROL ACT OF 2011 (77%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BONDS (72%); MONETARY POLICY (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); INTEREST RATES (51%) Federal Budget (US); Federal Taxes (US); National Debt (US); Obama, Barack; Today's Economist

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); JACK LEW (79%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013



101 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2013

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 3250 words

HEADLINE: Applying to College With The New York Times

BYLINE: TANYA ABRAMS


HIGHLIGHT: College admissions resources from The New York Times. 

 BODY:
If you're a college-bound student who could use some help understanding how to apply to college, and how to pay for it, The New York Times may be able to help.
We've combed through the archives of The Choice to help students understand and navigate college admission and financial aid. (Though the blog was discontinued in June, its posts are still available.) When relevant, we have also included recent Learning Network lesson plans.
We hope this online guide will help clarify how the admission process works and help you find and apply to the college that best fits your academic and financial needs. 
Click on the categories below to go directly to that section: 

        
Counselor's Calendar | Monthly college checklists for juniors and seniors.
        
The Envelope, Please| Eight high school seniors from around the world blog their college searches.
        
Choosing a College | Specifically: Beginning the Search | Rankings | Determining College Fit | Making Your College List
        
College Visits
        
Standardized Tests
        
Applying to College | Specifically: The Admission Process | Early Admission | Completing the Application | Writing the Essay | The Interview
        
Choosing a Major
        
Paying for College
        
Decision Time | Specifically: Getting In | When the Envelope Arrives | Deciding Where to Enroll
        
On Campus | Notes for incoming college freshmen.
        
For Parents
 Counselor's Calendar 
 Timely advice from experts for students who want to stay on track during the college admission process. 
 For Seniors: 
January | February | March | April | May | June | July | August | September | October | November | December
 For Juniors: 
January | February | March | April | May | June | July | August | September | October | November | December
 The Envelope, Please 
 High school seniors from around the world blog about their college searches. 
 Will Walker, in his introductory post, writes that he never cured cancer or built a spaceship, but he is trying to capture a university's attention. Go to related article »
Meet the High School Class of 2013 | This class features two students from around the world: Maimuna Abdi Yussuf, a Somali student who was raised in Kenya and attends African Leadership Academy, a private school in Johannesburg; and Sush Krishnamoorthy, from New Delhi, who attends Sardar Patel Vidyalaya, a private school in India. Other student-bloggers include Leobardo Espinoza Jr., a first-generation college student whose parents never attended high school; Candice Childress, of Las Vegas, who enjoys "all those wonderful, moth-bitten old grandma things" and is hoping to restore the film industry to its former glory; and Bryan Stromer, a student with cerebral palsy who attends a public high school in New York City and is hoping to be an advocate for students with disabilities.
Meet the High School Class of 2012 | One attends a Minnesota public high school and dreams of becoming a veterinarian. Another is an aspiring screenwriter who attends Brooklyn Technical High School in New York City and whose college list doesn't include "heavy-hitting titles such as Harvard, Yale and Brown," because his parents have given him a clear mantra: "Forget privates, let's talk SUNY." Another is a high school senior in Long Beach, Calif., who is vacillating between practicality and dreaming big - he is applying to four University of California campuses, as well as Harvard, Princeton and Columbia - while thinking about how much financial aid he might reasonably receive.
Meet the High School Class of 2011 | Six seniors at Cherry Creek High, a public school in Denver, blog about their college searches. You'll meet Kori Hazel, a son of divorced parents who likens the college search to a prison sentence; Avery DiUbaldo, who is applying to theater programs and has already submitted all of his applications ahead of the Jan. 1 deadline; Michael Campbell, who says he must have missed "the take-it-easy-senior-year thing" and who describes himself as afraid of rejection; and Uyanga Tamir, a native of Mongolia who is desperately in need of scholarship assistance, but knows that few schools are "need-blind" in their assessment of international students.
Meet the High School Class of 2010 | The inaugural class of the "Envelope, Please" series includes Anne Paik, a senior at Immaculate Heart High School in Los Angeles who has applied to a dozen colleges, including the University of California, Los Angeles; Columbia; Amherst; and Pitzer. She writes: "Simply put, if I can't afford the price tag of my dream school, I can't go." Another is Brett Ferdinand, who attends Cedar Park High School, a public school outside Austin, Tex. Brett writes about missing a critical application deadline at the University of Texas at Austin, which he had considered his "safety school" - raising the stakes for the decision letters he will soon receive from Rice, the University of Virginia and Duke, among other universities.
 Choosing a College 
 How to find colleges that fit your academic and financial needs. 
 Specifically: Beginning the Search | Rankings | Determining College Fit | Making Your College List
 Beginning the Search 
From 'Today' on NBC: Beginning the Search
Visit msnbc.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy
College Basics for High School Juniors
4 Sure-Fire Ways to Derail Your College Search
College Options (And Strategies) for the 'B' and Even 'C' Student
The Top Places to Study Video Game Design - For Credit
Further Scrutiny of For-Profit Colleges
How Important Is the College You Choose?
 Rankings 
Some 'Colleges That Change Lives' Put Ivy Admission Rates in Perspective
Forget Who's No. 1 or No. 138: How to Use the U.S. News Rankings
'Ignore the Rankings' and Other Advice From the College Life Fair
Yale vs. U.S. News & World Report
'Best Colleges'? Counselors Beg to Differ With U.S. News
 Determining College Fit 
Learning Network Lesson Plan | Preparing for the Future: Improving College Readiness
Tip Sheet: On the Wisdom and Merits of Exploring 'Less Visible' Colleges
The Choice and Colleges That Change Lives on Minnesota Public Radio
A Key Factor in the College Search: Your Learning Style
Community College Serves as a Path to Four-Year Institutions
Why Go to College at All?
Making the Case for the Liberal Arts
A West Coast University Targets Spanish Speakers Struggling with English
How to Assess a College's Mental Health Offerings
The Best College for You May Be One You Have Not Considered
This Land: At an Age for Music and Dreams, Real Life Intrudes
Tip Sheet | 5 Ways To Find Your College Fit
Going to College While You're Still in High School
Debating the Merits of Leaving High School Early to Go to College
Is College for Everyone?
 Making Your College List 
Struggling to Pick a College? Try a Pro-Con List
How Applicants Winnow Their Choices (as Reported by Parents)
Keeping Quiet About a Daughter's College Choices
Drafting a College List in a Tough Economy
 College Visits 
When a College Visits Your High School
Don't Wear One College's Sweatshirt When Visiting a Rival Campus, and Other Tour Tips
Planning a College Visit? Readers Suggest Questions to Ask
What (Not) to Ask on a Campus Tour
'Do You Have My Major?' and Other College Questions to Avoid
Tips From Dad, the College President, on Making the Most of a Campus Visit
Sit In on College Courses, Without the Visit
How to Make the Most of a College Visit
Tip Sheet: Planning a College Tour? Get Used to 'New England in Mud Season'
Colleges Tell Tour Guides to Stop Walking Backwards
Advice From Mother and Daughter on Visiting Colleges
When the College Tour Takes a Detour to a Keg Party
2009 Guidance Office | Guidance Office: Seeking Questions About Summer College Trips | Answers: Part 1 | Part 2 | Part 3 | Part 4 | Part 5
 Standardized Tests 
Colleges Acknowledge SAT and ACT Score Cut-Offs in Admissions
How Admissions Directors at Penn and Michigan Think About Test Scores
From Education Life: Digging Below The Surface of 'SAT-Optional'
SAT v. ACT, as Chronicled by Fortune magazine
An Argument Against Taking (and Retaking) the SAT and ACT
Middlebury Dean Says SAT or ACT Score Is 'Seldom a Deal Breaker'
Getting In Without the SAT
A New Book Argues Against the SAT
Questions for the SAT's Top Cop
Teachers Say A.P. Courses Are Filled With Students Trying to Improve Their Résumés
2009 Guidance Office | Guidance Office: Ask the College Board President a Question | Answers: Part 1 | Part 2 | Part 3 | Part 4 | Part 5
2012 - Guidance Office | Guidance Office | Ask SAT and ACT Officials About Standardized Tests | Answers: Part 1 | Part 2 | Part 3 | Part 4Part 5
 Applying to College 
 Specifically: The Admission Process | Early Admission | Completing the Application | Writing the Essay | The Interview
 The Admission Process 
Snapshot of One College's Admissions Process
Tip Sheet | 8 Things Admissions Officers Wish You Knew About Applying to College
Should a College Applicant 'Friend' an Admissions Officer?
A Private School Counselor Offers His Take on Independent Counselors
For Hire for Hundreds of Dollars, or Thousands, Independent Counselors Proliferate
Protecting Friendships During the College Admissions Process
A Warning: Colleges Can Change Their Minds
28 Summer Reading Suggestions From College Admission Experts
College Admissions Tips for Military Veterans
The Shifting Definitions of Merit in Admissions
2010 Guidance Office | Seeking Your Back-to-School Admissions Questions | Answers: Part 1 | Part 2 | Part 3 | Part 4 | Part 5
2011 Guidance Office | Seeking Your Back-to-School Questions on Admissions | Answers: Part 1 | Part 2 | Part 3 | Part 4 | Part 5
2009 Guidance Office | Guidance Office: Submit Your Questions to Harvard's Dean of Admissions | Answers: Part 1 | Part 2 | Part 3
Part 4 | Part 5 | Sifting Your Harvard Questions, Looking For Parenting (and Other) Lessons
2009 Guidance Office | Guidance Office: Post a Question for the University of Iowa Admissions Director | Answers: Part 1 | Part 2 | Part 3 | Part 4 | Part 5 | Part 6
2009 Guidance Office | Ask the Dean of Admissions at the University of Pennsylvania a Question | Answers: Part 1 | Part 2 | Part 3 | Part 4 | Part 5 | Part 6
2010 Guidance Office | Seeking Your Questions on Historically Black Colleges | Answers: Part 1 | Part 2 | Part 3 | Part 4 | Part 5
2009 Guidance Office | Guidance Office: Post a Question About Community Colleges | Answers: Part 1 | Part 2 | Part 3 | Part 4 | Part 5 | Part 6
2009 Guidance Office | Guidance Office: Seeking Questions from High School Juniors (and Their Parents) | Answers: Part 1 | Part 2 | Part 3 | Part 4 | Part 5
 Early Admissions 
You Got Deferred. Now What?
Cautionary Advice Before Hitting the Early Decision Button
The Case for Early Decision
2012 Guidance Office | Guidance Office | Ask About Applying to College Early | Answers: Part 1 | Part 2 | Part 3 | Part 4 | Part 5
 Completing the Application 
Commentary: Too Many Applications May Be a Crapshoot
White? Black? Hispanic? Why Not All of the Above?
Tip Sheet | How to Apply to a Performing Arts School
When Listing Extracurricular Activities, No Need to Fill All Blanks
Advice From a Dean of Admissions on Selecting High School Courses
Proofread That Application, Unless You Want to Be 'Excepted'
With Waived Fees and Express Processing, College Applications Emulate Credit Card Companies
Disclose Disciplinary Infractions, Admissions Officials Say
Some Checklists for Those Applying, or Already Decided
The Perils of Being Too Cute in Your Application
'The Ideal High School Graduate'
Please Submit a Transcript, Essay and ... Reference Letter From Your Dad?
Is There a Place on the College Application to Divulge Cheating?
Note to Applicants: Admissions Officers Do Read What Your Teachers Say
2009 Guidance Office | Seeking Your Questions as the Jan. 1 Application Deadline Looms | Answers: Part 1 | Part 2 | Part 3 | Part 4 | Part 5
2011 Guidance Office | Taking Questions on Applying with a Learning Disability | Answers: Part 1 | Part 2 | Part 3 | Part 4 | Part 5
 Writing the Essay 
Your Admissions Essay, Live on Stage
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Learning Network Lesson Plan | Getting Personal: Writing College Essays for the Common Application
Learning Network Lesson Plan | Going Beyond Cliché: How to Write a Great College Essay
Tip Sheet: An Admissions Dean Offers Advice on Writing a College Essay
How to Write a College Application Essay
The Almighty Essay
The College Essay as an Early Memoir
A Plea From the Admissions Office to Go for the 'Dangerous' Essay
Treating a College Admissions Essay Like a First Date
The End of a One-Word Essay Question (Discuss)
'Some of the More Mundane Moments in Life Make Great Essays'
Hearing the Voice of a 51-Year-Old Man in the Essay of a 17-Year-Old Girl
Not the 'Hook' the Admissions Office Had in Mind
Check Every Word Before Hitting 'Send' (And What to Do if You Didn't)
A Few Essays That Worked (and a Few That Didn't)
Juniors: In the Quiet of Summer, Start Your Essays
Crafting an Application Essay That 'Pops'
Stuck on the Essay? Try Writing a Letter to an Imaginary College Roommate
On College Essay, Write About Something That Made You 'Feel Deeply'
Advice on Whittling Your Admissions Essay
What the New Dean at Pomona Looks For in an Essay
Tip Sheet: An Admissions Dean Offers Advice on Writing a College Essay
 The Interview 
Alumni Interview, the Home Version
Do Admissions Interviews Matter?
Free Fashion Advice for College Interviews, From a $15,000 Consultant
 Choosing a Major 
Calculating the Potential Return on Your Major
Choosing a Practical Major
Does the College Major Matter? Not Really
Creating Your Own Major, From 'Keeping It Real' to 'Grand Romantic Gestures'
Your College Major May Not Be As Important As You Think
 Paying for College 
2009 Guidance Office | Seeking Your Financial Aid Questions | Answers: Part 1 | Part 2 | Part 3 | Part 4 | Part 5 | Part 6
2013 Guidance Office | Seeking Your Questions on Paying for College | Answers: Part 1 | Part 2 | Part 3 | Part 4 | Part 5
2009 Guidance Office | Next in the Guidance Office: The 'Your Money' Columnist on Saving from Birth | Answers: Part 1 | Part 2 | Part 3 | Part 4 | Part 5 | Part 6
2011 Guidance Office | Seeking Your Questions on Financial Aid | Answers:
Part 1 | Part 2 | Part 3 | Part 4 | Part 5 | Part 6 | Part 7
2013 Guidance Office | Ask a Financial Aid Expert About the Fafsa | Answers: Part 1 | Part 2 | Part 3 | Part 4 | Part 5 | Part 6
2010 Guidance Office | Seeking Your Questions on the Fafsa | Answers: Part 1 | Part 2 | Part 3 | Part 4 | Part 5 | Part 6 | Part 7
2012 Guidance Office | Seeking Your Questions on the Fafsa, the Free Application for Federal Student Aid | Answers: Part 1 | Part 2 | Part 3 | Part 4 | Part 5 | Part 6
2011 Guidance Office | Seeking Your Questions on Scholarships and Student Loans | Answers: Part 1 | Part 2 | Part 3 | Part 4 | Part 5 | Part 6 | Part 7
2012 Guidance Office | Seeking Your Questions on Financial Aid Offers | Answers: Part 1 | Part 2 | Part 3 | Part 4 | Part 5
2012 Guidance Office | Guidance Office | Ask a Financial Aid Expert About Scholarships | Answers: Part 1 | Part 2 | Part 3 | Part 4 | Part 5: Answers to Readers' Questions About ScholarshipsCollege Admissions Tips for Military Veterans
Learning Network Lesson Plan | When College May Not Be Worth the Cost: Examining Student Loan Debt
When Admitted Students Change Their Minds and Request Financial Aid
Borrowers of Private Student Loans Face Challenges, Report Finds
Only One in Three Full-Time Students Pays Full Tuition
Expert Advice on the Best Ways to Secure Financial Aid
How Final Is a College's Financial Aid Offer?
Transferring to a State University, and Saving Tens of Thousands of Dollars in the Bargain
How to Compare Financial Aid Award Letters
How Much Merit Aid Will Your College Offer? Take a Look
That Merit-Based Aid Offer Is Final, Universities Insist
Brennan's Quest: Helping His Parents by Securing $25,000 in Merit Aid
Tips on Finding and Securing Scholarships
On the Bucks Blog: Weighing the Financial Appeal of Community College
Paying for College Without Loans, Scholarships or Looting Your Parents' Retirement
A Cheaper Way to Get Textbooks: Rent
Raising Questions About Why College Is So Costly
Questioning a College President About the High Cost of College
Talks About Financial Aid (and Finances) Don't End After Freshman Year
 Decision Time 
 Specifically: Getting In | When the Envelope Arrives | Deciding Where to Enroll

 Getting In 
How One College Evaluates a Transcript
Shedding Further Light on How One College Decides
Debating Legacy Admissions at Yale, and Elsewhere
Click to Listen
Why So Many Applications for So Few Elite Spots? Continuing the Discussion
Is There a Danger in Pestering an Admissions Officer?

 When the Envelope Arrives 
College Decision Checklist: However It Arrives, Check Your Envelope at Home
Tip Sheet: If You Are Accepted, Rejected or Deferred
Tip Sheet: What to Do After Your Admissions Decision Arrives
6 Tips About College Admissions Results
Advice From the Keeper of a Long Waiting List
On the Joys of Not Getting What You Want
College Decision Beckoning to Be Unveiled? Please, Let It Wait Until You Get Home.
What to Do While on a College Wait List
What to Do if You Are Deferred to the Regular Decision Pool
Bracing Students, and Parents, to Hear 'No'
 Senioritis 
A Potential Vaccination for 'Senioritis'
University Sends 'Fear of God' Letter to Students With Senioritis
A Dean's Advice to Seniors: Don't Slack Off
7 Reasons to Avoid Senioritis

 Deciding Where to Enroll 
For the Undecided, Some Resources to Help Make a College Choice
When a Friend Chooses a College, Be Happy or Be Quiet
Tip Sheet: Making the Final College Decision
The College Decision From the Professors' Perspective
2009 Guidance Office: Guidance Office: Seeking Questions About Waiting Lists, Gap Years and Final Decisions | Answers About the End-Game: Part 1 | Part 2 | Part 3 | Part 4 | Part 5 | Part 6
2011 Guidance Office: Seeking Your Questions on the Big Decision | Answers: Part 1 | Part 2 | Part 3 | Part 4 | Part 5 | Part 6
2013 Guidance Office | Seeking Your Questions on Making the Final College Decision | Answers: Part 1 | Part 2 | Part 3 | Part 4 | Part 5
 On Campus 
Advice on the Transition From Applicant to College Student
7 Things Graduating Seniors Should Know About College
Tip Sheet | How to Succeed in College
On Going to College, and Saying Goodbye
Now That You've Gotten In
A Pre-College Summer To-Do List
Advice for Smart Students on Succeeding in College
Lessons From a College Student: Finding Your Fit on Campus
Put Yourself Out There and Do Something Crazy
College Is a Journey, Not a Destination
A Co-Ed Dorm Room? That Wasn't Mentioned on the College Tour
A Daughter Responds to a Mother's Anger Over a Co-Ed Dorm Room
Sharing a Dorm Room With a Student of a Different Race
2012 Guidance Office | Ask College Students About Admissions and Campus Life | Answers: Part 1 | Part 2 | Part 3 | Part 4 | Part 5
2010 Guidance Office | When a Stuffed Animal Won't Do, Some Colleges Welcome the Family Dog | Answers: Part 1 | Part 2 | Part 3 | Part 4
 For Parents 
Pestering Parents: The Admissions Office Perspective
Keeping Secrets: Where Children Applied to College
A To-Do (and To-Don't) List for Parents
College Admissions Advice for 'Neurotic' Parents
A Manual for 'Helicopter Parents' to Land Their Aircraft
What advice would you give college-bound students as they navigate the admissions process? Please share your ideas and suggest additional resources in the comment box below.

        
Where Do You Want to Go to College?
        
Do College Rankings Matter?
        
A New Collaboration: The Learning Network and The Choice
        
Filling Out the Common Application
        
How Will You Decide Where to Apply to College?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (93%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (60%); CEREBRAL PALSY (60%); DISABLED PERSONS (60%) college applications; Colleges and Universities (Des);; Admissions Standards; Colleges and Universities; Financial Aid (Education); Education; Lesson Plans; Social Studies

COMPANY: LEARNING NETWORK (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); SOMALIA (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); KENYA (79%); INDIA (66%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013



102 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2013

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: India's 'Cyberabad' Smiles as the Rupee Falls

BYLINE: SRIRAM KARRI


HIGHLIGHT: Profits grow for software entrepreneurs in Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh, as the Indian rupee falls. 

 BODY:
HYDERABAD- As the Indian government, economists and investors fret over the Indian rupee, the software industry in Hyderabad should have had a reason to smile as the local currency hit a record low against the U.S. dollar.
Over 300,000 technology professionals working in major software and technology service companies, helped their firms earn over 500,000 million rupees last year, of which 85 to 90 percent were generated from dollar contracts. This year, a historic fall of the rupee would in theory mean a huge gain for the companies in Hyderabad and across the country as they repatriate their dollar earnings into rupees (On March 31, one U.S. dollar converted to 54.3303 rupees and on Aug. 28, a dollar fetched 68.80 rupees, which meant substantial margins.
But in fact, the tech industry in India is not likely to see much of an increase in revenues in rupee terms, executives say. 
"The biggest truth of the Indian software industry is that the big players are the industry," said Vijay Debbad, co-founder and managing director of Magnaquest Technologies, which is based in Hyderabad, the capital of Andhra Pradesh. "Most of the export revenues are earned by the top 20 companies in the country. But they often hedge dollar rates, thus making no gains from dollar-rupee fluctuations. In fact, despite better revenues and profits, most large companies do not like fluctuations because it impacts planning and quarterly revenue guidelines."
B.V.R. Mohan Reddy, founder and chairman of Infotech Enterprises, said a 1 percent appreciation of dollar against the rupee typically gives tech companies an additional 30 basis profit points, or 0.3 percent gain. Infotech, Hyderabad's largest homegrown software enterprise, has global revenues of over $400 million, with Boeing and Airbus among its clients.
However, he said, the Indian tech industry typically hedges 70 percent of the U.S. dollar contracts against foreign currency fluctuations, so the sinking rupee was not likely to provide a huge bump in revenue. Moreover, he said, higher production costs at home would offset much of any gain from a favorable foreign exchange rate.
The sinking rupee is much more likely to have an impact on small and medium-sized players like Magnaquest, with revenues between $10 million to $20 million annually, but not necessarily for the better.
"We don't hedge for foreign exchange fluctuations, because our expenses are largely in rupees," said Debbad. Our bottom line impact will be strong, but since our market focus is on developing economies more than the U.S.A., our business will take a beating. Clients in Africa, South America and across Asia will have to spend more to pay us in dollars, and hence business and sales cycles will be impacted."
What also affects a company's bottom line is how many of its employees are in India and how many are overseas. "Some of the companies, given the nature of their clients, have larger operations in the U.S., with greater number of local employees based there," said Ramesh Loganathan, vice president of products at Progress Software. "Such companies would tend to have lower profit basis points."
The larger worry for software companies is that the weakening rupee is signaling investors' fears of slower growth in India, hammering the local stock market and eroding confidence in the nation's prospects.
"The issue is about the reason for this change," said Mr. Debbad. "It is the symptom of larger macro factors. On one hand, the rupee is falling because of larger uncertainties in the economy and exposes the fundamentals. This can hardly be a cheerful factor for any industry. If this points to further slowing down of the G.D.P. and growth rate, it is dampening."
The one possible bright spot, said Mr. Debbad, is that the rising dollar may be a sign of a strengthening U.S. economy. "This is the best news, though the impact will be seen only after a couple of quarters," he said.
Even the foreign exchange rate gains for tech companies turn out to be small, Hyderabad is poised to benefit. The city has large companies of three categories: global, national majors and locally based. Indian majors like Infosys, Wipro and Tata Consultancy Services don't report their Hyderabad earnings separately; these get attributed to their headquarters, which are in Bangalore and Mumbai.
The Andhra Pradesh government estimated that Hyderabad's total software exports were 500,000 million rupees in the 2012-13 fiscal year, which ended on March 31 taking account the total number of technology employees, per capita production and earnings, real estate occupation, taxes and other factors.
Further estimates on software exports and growth prospects by the state government project a growth of over 12 percent, pushing up the city's export revenues to the tune of around $11.2 billion.
The rupee's woes aren't likely to discourage entrepreneurs like Chinmay Rajula, 22, a student at International Institute of Information Technology. He struck upon an idea to monetize the intense between movies and fashion in Hyderabad. He set up an e-commerce website, Clap One, where cinema lovers can login and buy the clothes their favorite actors were wearing in a movie. Mr. Rajula's idea seems to have taken off; his site has received over 150,000 hits and 3,000 business transactions since its launch in March. Mr. Loganathan of Progress Software, who heads India labs for a major U.S. software company and is a keen incubator and mentor, said he believed that Hyderabad's ecosystem has evolved to groom and support entrepreneurs. "There are over 1,500 registered tech start-ups in Hyderabad," he said. "We estimate over 3,000 currently operative companies in existence, maybe even 5,000."
Although Hyderabad's reliance on the dollar economy is helping it brave the Indian economic downturn, there is a feeling that the technology entrepreneurs in the city are not being ambitious enough.
"We still aspire for land over intellectual property or scientific achievements," said Srini Raju, who founded Peepul Capital. He is considered one of the most successful of investors in Hyderabad, having profited handsomely from his stakes in highly successful enterprises like IntelliGroup, VisualSoft, MegaSoft, vSoft and Sify.
"We are nowhere ready to create an Apple, a Facebook, Google, Skype or Twitter. Our horizons are mid-term and most entrepreneurs would happily retire after a $100 million acquisition," Mr. Raju said.
 Sriram Karri is a writer based in Hyderabad. His forthcoming novel, The Autobiography of a Mad Nation was long-listed for MAN Asian Literary prize. 

        
Congress Party Supports Creation of Telangana State
        
A Conversation With: K. Taraka Rama Rao, Telangana leader
        
India's Growth Slows to 5.3 Percent
        
Image of the Day: Sept. 3
        
Image of the Day: August 21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (91%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (91%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); EXPORT TRADE (66%) Andhra Pradesh (India); Computers and the Internet; Currency; Gross domestic product; Hyderabad (India); India; Indian Rupee (Currency); Infosys Technologies Ltd; Progress Software Corporation; Software; US Dollar (Currency); Gross Domestic Product; Progress Software Corporation|PRGS|NASDAQ

COMPANY: INFOTECH ENTERPRISES LTD (54%); AIRBUS SAS (53%); BOEING CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Infosys Technologies Ltd; Progress Software Corporation

TICKER: INFOTECENT (NSE) (54%); BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%) Progress Software Corporation; PRGS; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (53%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANDHRA PRADESH, INDIA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (94%); ASIA (90%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); AFRICA (77%) Andhra Pradesh (India); Hyderabad (India); India

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



103 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: How Tech Remakes Space, Food and Urgency

BYLINE: QUENTIN HARDY


HIGHLIGHT: Cloud computing and mobility are not just powerful technologies in themselves. They are affecting the way we think about work, offices, even food. 

 BODY:
We usually think about technology changing our world in terms of things it touches directly. Shelves of records and CDs disappear into Apple's iTunes. Goods are advertised on the Internet and in a few years hundreds of newspapers close. 
The revolution of cloud computing and mobility, however, appears to be doing something even more profound: in an astonishingly short period of time this technology is changing the way we interact with the physical world. 
In an article published Tuesday night, I wrote about a San Francisco real estate company called RocketSpace, which gets a premium to existing real estate prices by offering an environment of energetic and rapid change. Architectural niceties like views, oak paneling and thick rugs are old values. The new ones include lots of bandwidth, long tables where people work in the open, and proximity to other people working long hours.
That is, they want to work in places that look like Facebook. And Facebook wants to embody the perpetual change of a software-intensive data center, or a mobile app that can be updated for a new look and added functionality.
Facebook took the old headquarters of Sun Microsystems and spent money on hanging wires and putting people in close proximity and giving the space an unfinished look. While Google earlier put three or more people in an office, Facebook did away with far more walls. In both cases, this was not primarily about saving money. The bigger issue is creating physical spaces that encourage collaboration and flexibility.
New engineers at Facebook are encouraged to change something small on the site as early as the first day, so they can feel as if no product is ever really done. Early in Google's development, engineers realized that the search engine's global reach enabled them to experiment continuously with different versions of a product.
Working in a RocketSpace office, where even a cubicle might signify too much rigidity, "is the ethos of cloud software," said Steve Swasey, the head of communications at Kabam, a cloud-based games company. It's a look the company kept after moving to its own digs. "Long tables, people talking in a hush because others are working, and if you put in a request you can get your own file drawer," he said, adding, "on wheels."
This new way of thinking about how we use space and relate to one another does not end at offices. A company called Quip recently unveiled a kind of cloud-based word processing software built for a mobile world. Its files and documents are meant to be collaborative products, which anyone in a group can jump into and change around. Trappings like instant messaging along one side of the screen and Facebook-like photos of others currently working in one's files drive home values of change, and getting products out fast. 
Those tech workers accustomed to flexibility are also taking that ethos outside the office. As noted elsewhere, the operations of cloud computing, in particular the virtualization of one computer server to do the work of many, have also affected things like transportation, with the Uber car service, and lodging, with Airbnb. A room in a house is now potentially a hotel room, and a limousine is, for a short time, a cab. A recent report looks at this shared - or partial ownership - style as a threat to our consumer-driven economy.
Certainly, few big changes happen in a vacuum. Both the crammed office and the "sharing economy" can easily be seen as strategies for dealing with a particularly harsh and lasting economic downturn. We are, as a nation, taking in boarders for extra cash.
It may also be true that the current computing revolution prolongs the recession, by increasing the efficiency of a system that was tuned to a higher level of consumption.
Social and economic changes caused by the likes of Airbnb are possible only because cloud computing makes it cheap and easy to manage a huge database of distributed assets that are in near constant flux.
Food trucks that fans follow on Twitter, creating temporary restaurants on streets and sidewalks, or pop-up stores in temporarily unused stores are other markers of this embrace of perpetual change.

        
Malicious Software Poses as Video From a Facebook Friend
        
VMware Killed the Past. Can It Claim the Future?
        
A Shifting Workplace Experience
        
Paltalk Tries to Take Advantage of Its Prism Notoriety
        
Google Asks Secret Court for Permission to Publish National Security Request Data

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CLOUD COMPUTING (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); BANDWIDTH (78%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (77%); HOME PRICES (75%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (72%); INSTANT MESSAGING (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (70%) Cloud Computing; Facebook Inc; Google Inc; Quip; RocketSpace Inc; San Francisco (Calif); Facebook Inc|FB|NASDAQ; Google Inc|GOOG|NASDAQ

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (92%); FACEBOOK INC (90%); APPLE INC (58%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Facebook Inc; Google Inc; Quip; RocketSpace Inc

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (92%); FB (NASDAQ) (90%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (58%) Facebook Inc; FB; NASDAQ; Facebook Inc; FB; NASDAQ; Google Inc; GOOG; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (58%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) San Francisco (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013



104 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: A Dark Future for Science

BYLINE: DAVID FIRESTONE


HIGHLIGHT: The sequester will continue hurting scientific research for years to come. 

 BODY:
Two years after House Republicans threatened not to raise the government's debt ceiling, the full brunt of that once-unthinkable offense is now hitting the National Institutes of Health. As Annie Lowrey reported in The Times this morning, 2013 has been the "darkest ever" year for the agency, because the budget cuts demanded by Republicans are taking a significant toll on research into medical cures. 
One biomedical researcher whose budget was cut by 20 percent said science is falling behind, delaying promising results and discouraging young scientists, who are leaving the field.
The sequester - the direct result of the 2011 debt-ceiling fight - has had an immediate effect on the lives of people squeezed out of Head Start programs and public housing, on jobless workers whose benefits were cut, and on government employees and contractors whose lower salaries and layoffs are dragging down the economic recovery. But it has also produced shock waves that will continue harming the country for years to come, because researchers operate on long-term schedules and need a reliable stream of revenue to produce results.

The University of Chicago had to close three labs that treated cancer and gastro-intestinal diseases. George Mason University is laying off HIV researchers. Arkansas State University is losing 30 scientists who developed techniques to detect bombs and nerve gas. In all, half the recipients of federal science funding are laying off researchers, according to the American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.
"The data shows that deep cuts to federal investments in research are tearing at the fabric of the nation's scientific enterprise and have a minimal impact on overcoming our national debt and deficit problems," Benjamin Corb, a spokesman for the biochemistry group, told CNN.
But rather than wake up and reverse this ruinous trend, Congress is preparing to keep it going, and possibly make it worse. At the moment, the stalemate on the 2014 federal budget between the House and Senate means that a continuing resolution - keeping spending at the impoverished sequester levels - is the most likely outcome. While Democrats want to replace the sequester with higher revenues and more reasonable cuts, House Republicans are demanding spending levels that are actually lower than the sequester.
And Speaker John Boehner is threatening yet another debt-ceiling fight, blithely ignoring the profound injuries he and his colleagues inflicted on the nation the last time.

        
The People Versus the Party
        
Someone Tell Cantor: The Deficit Is Shrinking
        
The Drug Mule-Cantaloupe Crisis
        
Boehner's Hearing Problem
        
The Low Standards for Cooperation in Congress

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SCIENCE NEWS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); BIOCHEMICAL RESEARCH (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TRENDS (77%); BIOMEDICINE (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); CANCER (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); BIOLOGY (71%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (54%); GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS (51%) Boehner, John A; Federal Budget (US); National Institutes of Health; Research; Featured Posts

ORGANIZATION: National Institutes of Health

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (89%) Boehner, John A

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) ARKANSAS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013



105 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: Nevada's Jobless Feel the Sequester

BYLINE: ANNIE LOWREY


HIGHLIGHT: Through the end of the month, benefits to the long-term unemployed will be cut by 59 percent because the state delayed carrying out cutbacks in federally funded programs until the fiscal year&#8217;s final weeks. 

 BODY:
As of this week, unemployment insurance payments going out to more than 20,000 of Nevada's long-term unemployed shrunk a whopping 59 percent, with the across-the-board federal budget cuts known as sequestration to blame. 
It is just one example of how sequestration is starting to have a more powerful effect at the end of the budget year, which officially comes to a close on Sept. 30. Many agencies and offices required to make the mandatory 5 percent cuts, like the state of Nevada, waited to carry them out. They are now rushing to hit their budget targets, necessitating deep cutbacks.
According to data compiled by the National Employment Law Project, states including Alaska, Iowa, Kentucky, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin cut their federally financed Emergency Unemployment Compensation programs soon after sequestration officially hit in March. They were able to make relatively small reductions to checks - about 11 percent - because the budget pain was spread out over a longer time frame. But many other states waited, and therefore needed to cut more. The single worst-hit state thus far has been Nevada, whose state unemployment rate is the highest in the country at 9.5 percent.
The cuts affect Nevadans who have been unemployed for more than 26 weeks, and hit emergency unemployment payments that can last as long as an additional 47 weeks. The average weekly benefit had been about $309, meaning the 59 percent cut would have slashed it to about $127. The 59 percent reduction will last through this month. Come October, the new fiscal year begins, and sequestration should cut about 8 percent off the emergency jobless payments before the entire federally financed program expires at the end of the calendar year.
It's not just unemployment programs that are feeling the pinch, either. The cuts that many school districts absorbed are coming into full effect this week, as teachers and students return to class. And on top of the cuts, hundreds of state, local and federal offices that rely on dollars from Washington are dealing with significant budget uncertainty: The continuing resolution financing the government runs out on Oct. 1, and there is no obvious solution to the budget impasse in Congress.

        
Sequester Hits the Long-Term Unemployed
        
The Seed of Obstruction
        
Support for College Students and Banks: Not So Different
        
Yes, the Sequester Is Affecting the Job Market
        
Immigration and Fiscal Policy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (67%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (62%); IMMIGRATION (50%) Education (K-12); Federal Budget (US); House of Representatives; National Employment Law Project; Nevada; Senate; States (US); Unemployment; Unemployment Insurance

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives; National Employment Law Project; Senate

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (98%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) Nevada

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013



106 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1456 words

HEADLINE: Questions of Policy and Leadership Dog Obama Before Meeting in Russia

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS; Reporting was contributed by Ellen Barry from New Delhi, Simon Romero from Rio de Janeiro, Jane Perlez from Beijing, Elisabeth Malkin and Karla Zabludovsky from Mexico City, and David M. Herszenhorn and Noah Sneider from Moscow.

 BODY:
ST. PETERSBURG, Russia -- Not even a month ago, President Obama canceled a planned summit meeting with President Vladimir V. Putin, citing Russia's decision to grant asylum to Edward J. Snowden as evidence of a broader deterioration of relations. ''We weren't going to have a summit for the sake of appearances,'' the president's deputy national security adviser, Benjamin J. Rhodes, said then.
On Thursday Mr. Obama will arrive here for a meeting of the Group of 20 nations, and it is he as much as Mr. Putin who has to worry about appearances.
He heads into the gathering facing questions about his leadership and his policies at home and abroad -- from his threat to respond to the use of chemical weapons in Syria to efforts to revive the flagging global economy to Mr. Snowden's disclosures about American eavesdropping on some of the very leaders who will be here with him, including Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico and Dilma Rousseff of Brazil. 
Given diplomatic niceties, any public confrontation at the newly refurbished Constantine Palace on the Gulf of Finland near here is unlikely, but Mr. Obama's standing on the world stage has undoubtedly suffered from the recent turmoil. That has complicated his relations not only with Russia and China, but also with allies like Germany and Britain, which have refused to endorse military action against the forces of Syria's president, Bashar al-Assad, even if they share Mr. Obama's concern about the use of chemical weapons.
Syria, even more than tensions between the United States and Russia generally, will overshadow the annual meeting of the leaders, which is normally devoted to the world's economy. Under Russia's leadership, this year's agenda deals with economic stimulus, currency rates and efforts to discourage corporate tax evasion.
After reports of the chemical attack emerged on Aug. 21, Mr. Putin's vehement opposition to any foreign intervention seemed at first to leave Russia embarrassingly isolated in its defense of Mr. Assad's government. But in the weeks since, other nations and leaders have moved closer to his insistence that any intervention would be unlawful without the authorization of the United Nations.
''I want to draw your attention to one absolutely fundamental fact,'' Mr. Putin said in a lengthy interview with The Associated Press and the Russian state television network Channel One, published Wednesday. ''In accordance with applicable international law, the authorization of the use of force against a sovereign state can only be given by the Security Council of the United Nations,'' he said. ''Any other reasons, or methods, to justify the use of force against an independent and sovereign state are unacceptable and cannot be qualified as anything other than aggression.''
In lieu of the meeting he was to have held with Mr. Putin in Moscow, Mr. Obama arrived in Sweden on Wednesday and defended his position on the imperative to respond to a gross violation of the international ban on chemical weapons, even as his advisers continued to make the case to a skeptical Congress at home.
''I didn't set a red line,'' Mr. Obama said in Sweden, referring to his remark last year, later described as off-the-cuff, that the use of such weapons would cause him to rethink his evident reluctance to involve the United States deeply in the war in Syria, which has now claimed more than 100,000 lives. ''The world set a red line.''
Mr. Obama this week picked up support, albeit tepid in many cases, from the Republican Congressional leadership for military action in Syria, and on Wednesday the Senate Foreign Relations Committee followed suit.
He can also claim credit for a steadily reviving American economy, even as many formerly robust developing countries are experiencing weakness for the first time in years because of falling commodity prices and sagging currencies. Yet, even here, he faces challenges from countries that traditionally have been friends.
India, which also publicly opposed military action in Syria in a statement that refrained from assigning blame for the chemical attacks, has grown weary of American economic policies as its own domestic woes have deepened, though Mr. Obama himself remains fairly popular.
India's currency, the rupee, has lost 20 percent of its value since the spring, when Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, signaled an impending end to large-scale bond purchases, prompting foreign capital to flee emerging markets. ''I think there is fatigue, quite frankly,'' said Siddharth Varadarajan, the editor of The Hindu, a leading newspaper. ''Right now, the Indian economy is taking a beating because of what is happening in the U.S. Then there is a Syria crisis, which he has escalated, leading to higher oil prices.''
Of Mr. Obama in particular, he added, ''There's not too much enthusiasm for his leadership.''
The continuing leaks from Mr. Snowden, the former intelligence analyst who remains in hiding here in Russia, have also roiled relations with allies in ways that could seed distrust of the Obama administration's broader goals.
The debate over Syria erupted at an unusually low point in relations with Brazil, where the disclosure that the National Security Agency focused particular attention on the nation -- and President Rousseff personally -- have soured the government's view of the Obama administration.
Brazil's foreign minister, Luiz Alberto Figueiredo, publicly rebuked the American government this week, describing the spying as an unacceptable affront to Brazil's sovereignty and demanding a written explanation of the American intelligence activities in the country.
Mexico's foreign ministry addressed neither the debate over Syria nor the eavesdropping in a statement released as President Peña Nieto departed for St. Petersburg, but tensions in the relationship are palpable. Analysts in Mexico said the relationship was now spread across so many different issues -- trade, security, energy and migration, among others -- and handled by so many different overlapping agencies and institutions, that personal relations between presidents play far less of a role than it used to. That, in itself, suggested a recognition of Mr. Obama's diminished stature.
Mr. Obama visited Mexico City in May, where he was said to have found some chemistry with Mr. Peña Nieto, but they have both quickly been consumed by other issues. Indeed, a planned summit meeting between the United States, Mexico and Canada, which had been expected to take place this fall, has been pushed back to 2014.
''Everything was lined up during Obama's visit to have an extraordinary advancement, and now that has been put into question because of the intensity of Barack Obama's international and national problems, as well as Mexico's problems,'' said Rafael Fernández de Castro, an expert on United States-Mexico relations at the Autonomous Technological Institute of Mexico.
Mr. Obama is not the first president to face such skepticism. President George W. Bush faced vehement opposition -- especially from France, Germany and Russia -- over the war in Iraq, though he also had the strong support of allies like Britain. That opposition only grew in Mr. Bush's second term, as it became clear that Iraq had no unconventional weapons and after the outbreak of sectarian killing that continues today.
Mr. Obama is now fighting that legacy as he makes the case for a more limited military response in Syria based on intelligence that he says is more concrete than that presented before the war in Iraq. Mr. Obama is also suffering from the heightened expectations that his presidency would bring a new character to American leadership in the world.
Nina L. Khrushcheva, a professor of international affairs at the New School in New York, said that diplomacy under Mr. Obama, along with a general feeling of America as overbearing, has left many more skeptical, and not just over crises like the conflicts in Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya and now Syria.
Here in St. Petersburg, a planned meeting with representatives of civil society groups was rescheduled so many times that several invitees from Moscow said Wednesday that they would not attend. ''Honestly speaking, these meetings are rituals,'' said Lev A. Ponomaryov, a rights advocate here. ''It's good we have them, but it is not the most serious issue during this trip.''
Ms. Khrushcheva noted that many Chinese also felt slighted, for example, by Michelle Obama's failure to accompany Mr. Obama to his meeting with China's leader, Xi Jinping, in California in June. ''That 'moral obligation' in Syria, many feel is hard to argue with all the things the world has learned about the U.S. in the last 13 years,'' Ms. Khrushcheva said, ''and sadly in Obama's own five years.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama spoke Wednesday at the Great Synagogue in Stockholm. He arrives in St. Petersburg on Thursday amid considerable unease about his policies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (88%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (86%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ESPIONAGE (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (69%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); TAX LAW (62%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); TAX FRAUD (50%); CURRENCIES (50%)

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (89%); EDWARD SNOWDEN (88%); ENRIQUE PENA NIETO (79%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%); DILMA ROUSSEFF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); SYRIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); FINLAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



107 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: Is Fashion Week Near the End of the Runway?

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON

 BODY:
Fashion Week has been around in some form or another for 70 years, but (wouldn't you know it?) fashion people have been complaining about it for even longer.
In 1941, when the International Ladies' Garment Workers Union first invited 30 journalists to New York to visit the designer showrooms, its membership balked, not seeing how writing about clothes would help sell them. Even after Eleanor Lambert, the great 20th-century cheerleader for American fashion, got her hands on the event two years later and created the first ''press week'' at the Waldorf-Astoria, the rag reporters grumbled, though their numbers grew and grew.
''My face seems to show the lines of every silhouette that has appeared during the past 15 years,'' one of them groused in The New York Times. That was in 1958, when their numbers were about 200.
To the outside world, Fashion Week may look like the most fabulous party on earth, but insiders are getting a little tired of all the fuss. In its present form, it is more like Fashion Month, beginning Thursday with the overscheduled spring collections in New York and ending with those in Paris on Oct. 3, with no breaks in between for the now thousands of writers, retailers, photographers, videographers, bloggers and hordes of indeterminate somebodies who for various reasons Really Must Be There. 
Designers, too, seem to be dreading this season, and more so than usual. ''It's depressing,'' Joseph Altuzarra said a few weeks ago at a party for a Web video about his clothes, already hustling in the supposed recess of summer. ''Well, not depressing so much as panic-inducing.''
There is, in fact, a curious sense that just when fashion has become a vibrant force in popular culture, attracting a new generation of designers (and wannabes), Fashion Week is losing its relevance. Of course, people have been complaining that there are too many shows for more than a decade. (It was the subject of a front-page article in this newspaper 12 years ago, and look at Fashion Week now; it's nearly twice the size, with 350 shows and presentations over nine days.)
But the real point of Fashion Week, to promote collections to editors and retailers several months before they will be in stores, is becoming lost in the age of instant online accessibility. Factoring in the revved-up cycle of fashion, the addition of resort shows, the fashion show that takes place outside the tents for the street-style photographers, and the confused customers, Suzy Menkes, in a column in T: The Times Style Magazine last month, wondered ''who needs more fashion and is gagging for yet another show?''
In fact, the major events in New York, London, Milan and Paris are coming under fire from all directions. Jewish editors and retailers are upset that the New York and London shows overlap with the High Holy Days. Lincoln Center area residents are furious about the intrusion of the noisy shows and polluting generators into Damrosch Park and neighboring streets (and those shows, formerly in Bryant Park, appear to be on the verge of moving once again).
Italian designers are angry that the London designers are stealing all the creative thunder, and American designers are angry the Italian designers won't budge on their show dates, forcing everyone here to work on Labor Day and the Jewish holidays. Vanessa Friedman, in her Financial Times fashion blog, argued that designers wouldn't dare have shows on Easter.
Can you imagine? All those people in pastel? My eyes!
''Fashion Week needs to be rethought,'' said, of all people, Fern Mallis, who turned the shows into a wildly successful marketing and media event in the first place. In 1993, while executive director of the Council of Fashion Designers of America, she orchestrated Fashion Week's move to Bryant Park, where runway shows took place twice a year under enormous white tents for 15 years, establishing New York designers on par with their counterparts in Europe. The move to Lincoln Center in 2010, necessitated by a dispute with park management over the duration and timing of the shows, was heralded at the time for bringing the luster of the performing arts to fashion.
But there is little disagreement that the move has been a failure. In March, a lawsuit was filed against New York City and Lincoln Center over the use of the park for commercial events like Fashion Week and the Big Apple Circus, which effectively limit the public's access for most of the year.
''Whether Lincoln Center will continue or not, we do not know,'' said Diane von Furstenberg, the president of the fashion council.
The lawsuit, Ms. Mallis and others said, may be the nail in the coffin.
Beyond that, though, many designers who showed there complained that the environment was beginning to resemble an airport terminal or a trade show, with overwhelming crowds and displays of sponsorships. The shows in Lincoln Center, produced by IMG Worldwide and called Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week after the title sponsor, represent less than a third of those taking place throughout New York this week, but they include marquee designers like Ms. von Furstenberg, Michael Kors and Carolina Herrera.
Some who do show there, including Anna Sui, said they have considered moving elsewhere.
''I feel like we are in someone else's territory,'' she said. ''Every season I think about moving, but frankly, economically, the tents make sense.'' The biggest advantage is that those spaces are relatively inexpensive compared with the cost of independently mounting a production with lighting and sound. But they can also resemble a fashion factory.
''The next show comes in and they're hauling you away like a wedding caterer,'' said Vera Wang, who also shows at Lincoln Center.
Several other show locations, like Milk Studios in the meatpacking district, the new Spring Studios at 50 Varick Street (for the Calvin Klein show on Sept. 12) and countless Chelsea galleries and piers, threaten the primacy of IMG, which acquired Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week in 2001. Ms. Mallis, who left IMG in 2010, is also organizing a new space for shows beginning this season at Grand Central Terminal.
''What I created worked in a time and a place, but now I think it is over the tipping point,'' she said. ''I don't know anyone who likes going to those tents any longer.''
Catherine Bennett, a former fashion council executive who became a senior vice president at IMG in March, said the company had hired a creative director and is developing initiatives to ensure that the shows are effective for designers. She said that the shows will most likely remain in Lincoln Center through 2015, but IMG is also looking at other spaces if the lawsuit forces them out sooner.
A proposed Culture Shed in the Hudson Yards development is being designed with the input of the fashion council (Ms. von Furstenberg is also on the board of that project), but that is planned for completion in 2017. One possibility in the meantime is Pier 57 on the West Side Highway at 15th Street, a new retail complex called the SuperPier, which will be the site of shows for Opening Ceremony and Marc by Marc Jacobs this season.
A new home won't solve Fashion Week's problems alone.
There are already signs this season that many designers are reacting against the hype by moving to more ''intimate'' shows, including Mr. Altuzarra and Reed Krakoff. Oscar de la Renta said he was cutting back the number of invitations to 350, telling Women's Wear Daily that industry professionals ''shouldn't have to go through 30,000 people, and 10,000 who are trying to take pictures of all of those people who are totally unrelated to the clothes.''
And Ms. von Furstenberg surprised several designers at a fashion council membership meeting recently when she offhandedly remarked that a few years from now, they may all be showing digitally.
''Things have changed so much that it is difficult to know exactly where we are going,'' she said on the phone the other day. ''I don't have a crystal ball.''
Perhaps most telling is that one of the most anticipated new collections this year has been that of Tamara Mellon, the former Jimmy Choo designer who is striking out on her own -- and skipping the shows altogether. Ms. Mellon received an enormous amount of attention, and a major feature in Vogue, when she declared she would introduce smaller collections throughout the year, and deliver them to stores in the season for which they were designed.
''I, for one, hate to buy a coat and not wear it for four or five months,'' Ms. Mellon said. ''And my customer doesn't care about Fashion Week.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KEIKO MORIMOTO) (E6-E7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (91%); WRITERS (90%); FASHION SHOWS (90%); FASHION DESIGN (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); RETAILERS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (79%); JOURNALISM (77%); GARMENT WORKERS (72%); APPAREL MFG (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (65%); INTERNET VIDEO (64%); LABOR UNIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



108 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BUILDING BLOCKS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Built to Bend and Not Break, a New Queens Park Passed a Storm's Test

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
The Hunters Point South Waterfront Park in Queens opened on Aug. 28. It had already survived Hurricane Sandy.
Construction of the 5.5-acre park was well along last October when the storm hit. Surging waters immersed much of the project, including the central green, a 52,200-square-foot bowl formed by a berm of natural grass wrapping around a flat playing surface of synthetic turf.
Winds hit a full-scale steel mock-up of the park pavilion. Waves washed over the wood-plank esplanade, where new honey locusts had been planted. The architects, engineers and city officials held their breaths. 
''This whole area had four feet of standing water,'' recalled Michael Manfredi of the architectural firm Weiss/Manfredi, which designed the park in collaboration with Thomas Balsley Associates, a landscape architectural practice, and Arup, an engineering firm. ''Boy, if that wasn't a test.''
The park passed the test. Water emptied from the green. The pavilion mock-up stood, as did the trees. The planking came through, justifying the designers' faith in using a Southern yellow pine, specially treated with a sugar cane by-product and manufactured by Kebony, a Norwegian company.
Construction was able to resume a few days after the hurricane, officials said.
The quick turnaround could be credited in part to some common-sense principles embedded in the design:
â- Build higher than you think the water could possibly come.
â- Make it tough, but not impossible, for surging water to get in.
â- Make it easy for water to flow back into the river, but not into sewers.
''We were lucky in that the park sits above the 100-year flood plain,'' said Kyle Kimball, the new president of the New York City Economic Development Corporation, which built the park. ''But the 100-year flood plain was tested by the last storm.''
''The idea is not that the park won't flood, though ideally, it won't,'' Mr. Kimball added. ''The resiliency feature is that when and if it does flood, it can drain quickly and at a pace that the sewers can handle.''
Welcome to the new world of civic design, in which projects bend so that they will not break.
The park, new and expanded streets nearby, streetlights, traffic signals, water mains, and storm and sanitary sewers were built at a cost of $66 million. They are to serve what the Bloomberg administration envisions as a new neighborhood with 5,000 housing units, 60 percent of which would be reserved for middle- and lower-income residents.
Therefore, the waterfront park is not merely a public amenity, though it is certainly that, with a dog run, ball courts, playground, sand lot and -- soon -- a cafe. It is also a first line of defense for what is to be a densely developed residential quarter.
That is why one of its most important features can be found at its edge. Running through the plantings along the eastern perimeter, for about 760 feet, are heavy wire cages, 18 inches wide, filled with broken chunks of stone. The cages are sunk six inches into the ground, but are partly visible among the grasses.
They are called gabions. Their role is to get in the way of floodwaters headed for the sewer system. ''They slow it, capture it, retain it and clean it,'' Mr. Manfredi's partner, Marion Weiss, said.
The central green is an oval 285 feet long and 210 feet wide. The surface of the playing field is bordered by a retaining wall up to 30 inches high, except where it is closest to the water. There, the field is level with and open to the abutting walkway. This subtle design touch amounts to a flood mitigation measure.
''Water will never be trapped in there like a pond,'' Thomas Balsley, the landscape architect, said.
Another sensible measure is the use of synthetic turf on the playing field and natural grass on the surrounding five-foot-high berm. Hard-charging games can be played on the synthetic grass, while parkgoers looking for a comfortable vantage can settle down on the real thing.
''Hidden in that is a resiliency feature,'' Mr. Kimball said. The synthetic surface, he said, is likelier to be flooded but can bounce back more easily. The real grass, which could be badly damaged by salt water, is raised well above the flood plain.
This arrangement was not the product of smart engineering but of the conflicting philosophies of Amanda M. Burden, the director of the New York City Planning Department, who favored an all-natural green, and Adrian Benepe, who was then the parks commissioner and wanted an all-synthetic playing field, especially since a public school is being built nearby.
''The compromise was an artful one,'' said Mr. Benepe, who is now a senior vice president of the Trust for Public Land. ''It looks good and hopefully will work well.''
With more hurricane seasons to come, it may not take long to find out.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Hunters Point South Waterfront Park, which opened last week, has tapered retaining walls to mitigate flooding. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEE CELANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (91%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); FLOOD ZONES (89%); HURRICANE SANDY (89%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (78%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); CITIES (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



109 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Europe, on Sidelines, Waits for Next Move on Syria

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE

 BODY:
LONDON -- Europeans, who prided themselves on a muscular foreign policy in Libya, arrive at this week's meeting of the Group of 20 nations deflated and divided, waiting for the United States to take the lead on Syria and wondering just how much resistance to intervention Russia will ultimately muster.
After his parliamentary defeat last week, Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain has lost much of his leverage to address the Syrian conflict, analysts said, while France's president, François Hollande, is struggling to persuade a skeptical public of the need for military strikes against Syria after what is suspected to be its use of chemical weapons. 
That makes the two-day summit meeting, which begins Thursday, the site for a potential standoff between the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin -- the host of the gathering in St. Petersburg and a prominent ally of the Syrian leader, President Bashar al-Assad -- and President Obama, with the Europeans largely on the sidelines.
Indeed, analysts said, the British Parliament's rebuff of Mr. Cameron, by rejecting his call for a response to the attacks, ended a period of foreign policy leadership by Europe's two defense powers, Britain and France. It also provoked a kind of existential crisis, particularly for Britain, which prides itself on its ''special relationship'' with Washington.
It is a reversal from the recent past, when an activist foreign policy worked well for the British and French leaders. A successful military campaign in Libya in 2011 helped Mr. Cameron, and Mr. Hollande gained popularity more recently after a military intervention in Mali.
Similarly, on Syria, the two nations had played the role of interventionist outriders to a cautious American president.
But Mr. Cameron's parliamentary defeat has left him ''diminished, and that activism is in doubt,'' said Mark Leonard, director of the European Council on Foreign Relations. That defeat now threatens to undo a dynamic that had defined the French-British position within the European Union and farther abroad.
''In the European context, as Germany becomes the all-powerful economic player, the only way for Britain and France to exert their influence is through foreign policy and defense,'' Mr. Leonard said. ''They had been slightly clinging to each other to show that they still count in a world in which Germany is economically dominant.''
Now, the prospect of Britain's loss of its traditional role as the closest defense partner of the United States has left policy makers in London nervous, particularly after Secretary of State John Kerry pointedly praised France as his country's oldest ally.
''People are very jittery about the precedent it sets and what it means,'' said one British official, speaking on the condition of anonymity under government regulations, while adding that it was too soon to draw decisive conclusions about the implications for Britain's role in future military operations.
Some British politicians have sought unsuccessfully to reopen the option of taking part in military action in Syria if the situation changes, and in Parliament on Wednesday, Mr. Cameron put his best gloss on the situation, arguing that Britain could still play a role.
''Britain has a very proud record on humanitarian aid, not just in this conflict but in many previous conflicts,'' Mr. Cameron told lawmakers. ''In this one we are actually the second-largest aid donor that there has been. We have spent over £400 million.''
''I accept that Britain can't be part, and won't be part, of any military action on that front,'' he added, ''but we must not, in any degree, give up our revulsion at the chemical weapons attacks we have seen and we must press this point in every forum of which we are a member.''
On Tuesday, Mr. Cameron's spokesman pointed out that the Group of 20 summit meeting was predominantly an economic forum but insisted that the prime minister would play a full role in all discussions, including those on Syria, and would continue to press the case for a political transition in Damascus, the Syrian capital.
Yet one official conceded privately that Mr. Cameron's position in St. Petersburg would be ''pretty tough.''
Syria will probably come up for debate on Friday morning, and Mr. Putin may relish British discomfort at the parliamentary rebuff, added the official, who, like others, spoke on the condition of anonymity under government regulations.
For Mr. Cameron, personally, the embarrassment is acute. When leaders of the Group of 8 of nations met by a lake in Northern Ireland in June, none was more hawkish on Syria than the British prime minister, who denounced Mr. Assad as a man with ''blood on his hands.''
During the discussions, which he hosted, Mr. Cameron sought unsuccessfully to put pressure on Mr. Putin to abandon Mr. Assad. Now, with his parliamentary defeat, Mr. Cameron's powers of persuasion are likely to be further reduced.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain, left, will attend the Group of 20 gathering this week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN TALLIS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN POLICY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (90%); FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (97%); SYRIA (96%); EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (93%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); MALI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



110 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: Governor Chafee of Rhode Island Won't Run Again

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
BOSTON -- Gov. Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island, an independent who recently became a Democrat in a bid to hold on to his seat, abruptly announced Wednesday that he would not seek re-election next year. 
The surprise announcement effectively ends Mr. Chafee's political career and narrows the Democratic primary field to two popular Democrats who had already surpassed him in the polls and outraised him financially.
Mr. Chafee, 60, told reporters of his decision during a news conference in the parking lot of a motor vehicles office in Cranston, where he has sought to reduce the wait times. He said he preferred governing to campaigning, which he called ''hugely time-consuming.''
''I want to devote all my time, all my energy, to the task at hand,'' he said, noting, ''the challenges are so great here in Rhode Island.''
Those challenges include a stubbornly high unemployment rate and an economy lagging behind the rest of New England.
A diffident man of patrician background, Mr. Chafee is the scion of a family that settled in colonial days in Hingham, Mass. His decision not to seek re-election extricates him from the family business of politics, which began in the 1870s when his great-great-grandfather Henry Lippitt was governor of Rhode Island.
Mr. Chafee, a liberal on social issues, started out as a Republican when he served in local offices and succeeded his father, John Chafee, in the United States Senate after his death in 1999. After he lost the Senate seat in 2006 to Sheldon Whitehouse, a Democrat, he became an independent in 2007 and then won a four-way race for governor in 2010.
He was the only independent governor in the country in May when he switched to the Democratic Party in the hope that President Obama might help him raise money in a tough primary. His likely Democratic challengers -- Gina Raimondo, the state treasurer, and Mayor Angel Taveras of Providence -- have not even officially entered the race, but both had already vastly outraised him and were ahead of him in the polls.
''He tried to move his poll numbers all summer long, but the economy in Rhode Island stayed flat and so did he,'' said Wendy Schiller, a political scientist at Brown University. ''He's not a natural-born political fighter and was faced with a battle he was very likely to lose.''
She said his departure announcement in front of a lowly motor vehicles office was perfectly apt -- he cared very much about solving the everyday annoyances, like long lines, that voters faced, she said, but he had a harder time reaching for the stars in a grander way that inspired voters and gave them confidence in his leadership.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Lincoln Chafee registered as a Democrat in May. He said Wednesday that he preferred governing to campaigning. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE GIBLIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); POLITICS (77%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); FAMILY (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); FUNDRAISING (67%); FAMILY COMPANIES (66%); US PRESIDENTS (64%)

PERSON: LINCOLN CHAFEE (93%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); SHELDON WHITEHOUSE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



111 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Urges Americans to Sign Up for Health Care Exchanges

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH and AMY CHOZICK; Robert Pear and Michael D. Shear contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. -- He chose his home state as the venue, and did not refrain from ticking off several problems he saw with the law. But former President Bill Clinton on Wednesday made a meticulous, if wonkish, case for Americans of all political leanings to embrace the Obama health care law.
''The health of our people, the security and stability of our families, and the strength of our economy are all riding on getting health care reform right and doing it well,'' he said. 
Less than a month before Americans can start shopping for insurance under the law, the speech comes at a pivotal time for the Obama administration, which needs millions of healthy Americans to buy insurance through new state-based markets in order for the law to work but faces an escalating campaign by Republicans to cut or eliminate the law's financing. Even supporters of the law have criticized the administration as having done too little to explain and sell it to the public.
Mr. Clinton made the speech at the request of the White House, but on his own terms. He chose to deliver it at the glass building in downtown Little Rock that houses his presidential library. The venue allowed him to lend a hand to Senator Mark Pryor, a Democrat who is facing a difficult re-election fight here, and to start wooing his home state should his wife, former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, decide to make a presidential bid in 2016.
The former president avoided soaring rhetoric, even saying at the beginning of the 50-minute speech that he would ''try to use very few adjectives'' and instead just ''explain how this works.''
''I have agreed to give this talk today because I am still amazed at how much misunderstanding there is about the current system of health care, how it works, how it compares with what other people in other countries pay for health care,'' Mr. Clinton told the crowd assembled in a hall around the corner from a montage of black-and-white photographs of the 1992 presidential campaign. The audience of about 250 included Gov. Mike Beebe, a Democrat, and Speaker Davy Carter of the Legislature and Michael Lamoureux, president of the State Senate, both Republicans.
Despite the bipartisan show, health care is a contentious topic in Arkansas politics that conservatives have seized on in local campaigns. Mr. Pryor did not attend the event for risk of being too closely associated with the health care law, according to one person with knowledge of his plans, but who was not authorized to discuss them publicly. A campaign spokesman has said that Mr. Pryor had a scheduling conflict.
With the new insurance markets set to open on Oct. 1 for an initial six-month enrollment period, the White House has asked cabinet officers and other presidential appointees to step up efforts to promote the law. The administration has also recruited actors and entertainers and is seeking athletes and disc jockeys to whip up enthusiasm. Last week, the singer Katy Perry retweeted a Twitter post from President Obama encouraging young people to sign up for coverage. He responded, ''Thanks for spreading the word.''
Mr. Clinton's speech, which the White House broadcast live on its Web site, was not the first time that the former president, whose own attempt to sell a universal health care law failed drastically in his first term, has stepped into the debate over the new law. At the Democratic National Convention last September, Mr. Clinton delivered an endorsement of Mr. Obama that included concrete, well-received explanations of his policies, including on health care. That speech in particular signaled to the White House that Mr. Clinton could be an effective surrogate to sell the highly complicated Affordable Care Act.
On Wednesday, the former president carefully laid out Mr. Obama's plan without delving into politics. But his mere involvement in selling the law provides him with a platform to reframe the failed battles of ''Hillarycare'' from his own administration.
''It would not be in her interest to be running for president and have this be a huge controversial issue in 2016,'' said Robert J. Blendon, a professor of health policy at Harvard who closely follows public opinion of the law. ''The Clintons have a lot of interest in getting this up and working and making it a legacy for the Democratic side.''
Reading glasses perched on his nose, Mr. Clinton struck a professorial tone as he explained in extensive detail the intricacies of the act. He laid out who would qualify for federal subsidies to help pay for the cost of coverage through the new markets and even ticked off Web addresses and phone numbers where Americans could find information.
Calling the current system ''unaffordable and downright unhealthy for millions of Americans,'' he emphasized that other prosperous countries ''cover everybody and do it at far less cost,'' and bemoaned that the United States ranks ''first by a country mile'' in the percentage of income spent on health care.
Mr. Clinton said that last year's Supreme Court decision upholding the law created a ''whopper'' of a problem by allowing states to opt out of expanding Medicaid and covering more low-income people. Almost half the states subsequently refused to expand the program, which will leave far more people uninsured than Mr. Obama had planned.
But Mr. Clinton praised Mr. Beebe and the Republican-controlled State Legislature here for agreeing on a compromise. Under Arkansas's so-called ''private option,'' federal money that was supposed to support an expansion of Medicaid will instead help eligible residents buy private insurance through the state's new online marketplace, or exchange.
Without mentioning Mrs. Clinton's efforts specifically, Mr. Clinton talked about the longtime opposition to universal coverage. Perhaps the most pointed criticism came in the 1990s when the health insurance lobby introduced the multimillion-dollar ''Harry and Louise'' television campaign to protest the Clintons' proposed health care overhaul.
''We'd all be better off working together to make it work as well as possible,'' Mr. Clinton said, ''instead of to keep replaying the same old battles.''
Mr. Clinton said the law did have some problematic provisions, including one that prohibits many people with modest incomes who cannot get insurance through their spouses' jobs from buying subsidized coverage through the new marketplaces. But he stressed that such problems could be fixed if opponents of the law in Congress and in state governments would drop their resistance.
''We've got to do this,'' Mr. Clinton said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Former President Bill Clinton had a professorial air as he explained and praised the Affordable Care Act in Little Rock, Ark. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANNY JOHNSTON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE MARKETPLACE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); INSURANCE (75%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); LIBRARIES (66%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MARK PRYOR (78%); BARACK OBAMA (72%); MIKE BEEBE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (94%) ARKANSAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



112 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 217 words

HEADLINE: Growth Steady, Survey Says

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Economic growth held steady across the United States from July through late August, as Americans bought more cars and homes, and auto factories added workers. 
A Federal Reserve survey released on Wednesday showed that all 12 of the Fed's regional banking districts reported modest to moderate growth. That is roughly in line with the Fed's previous survey of those districts, from late May through early July.
The Federal Reserve survey, known as the beige book, said that job growth was steady and that hiring in manufacturing improved modestly. But the Kansas City and San Francisco districts said federal spending cuts had reduced production at some military plants.
The beige book is based on reports from businesses gathered by the Fed's regional banks. The data was gathered for the Fed's next meeting, on Sept. 17 and 18, where policy makers are expected to consider winding down the central bank's stimulus program.
Separately, the Commerce Department said on Wednesday that the nation's trade deficit rose 13 percent in July, to $39.1 billion. That is up from June's deficit of $34.5 billion, which was the smallest since late 2009.
Imports increased 1.6 percent, to $228.6 billion, lifted by more shipments of oil, autos and consumer goods. Exports slipped 0.6 percent, to $189.4 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); IMPORT TRADE (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (71%); EXPORT TRADE (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



113 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: On the Edge of Poverty, at the Center of a Debate

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

 BODY:
DYERSBURG, Tenn. -- As a self-described ''true Southern man'' -- and reluctant recipient of food stamps -- Dustin Rigsby, a struggling mechanic, hunts deer, doves and squirrels to help feed his family. He shops for grocery bargains, cooks budget-stretching stews and limits himself to one meal a day.
Tarnisha Adams, who left her job skinning hogs at a slaughterhouse when she became ill with cancer, gets $352 a month in food stamps for herself and three college-age sons. She buys discount meat and canned vegetables, cheaper than fresh. Like Mr. Rigsby, she eats once a day -- ''if I eat,'' she said.
When Congress officially returns to Washington next week, the diets of families like the Rigsbys and the Adamses will be caught up in a debate over deficit reduction. Republicans, alarmed by a rise in food stamp enrollment, are pushing to revamp and scale down the program. Democrats are resisting the cuts. 
No matter what Congress decides, benefits will be reduced in November, when a provision in the 2009 stimulus bill expires.
Yet as lawmakers cast the fight in terms of spending, nonpartisan budget analysts and hunger relief advocates warn of a spike in ''food insecurity'' among Americans who, as Mr. Rigsby said recently, ''look like we are fine,'' but live on the edge of poverty, skipping meals and rationing food.
Surrounded by corn and soybean farms -- including one owned by the local Republican congressman, Representative Stephen Fincher -- Dyersburg, about 75 miles north of Memphis, provides an eye-opening view into Washington's food stamp debate. Mr. Fincher, who was elected in 2010 on a Tea Party wave and collected nearly $3.5 million in farm subsidies from the government from 1999 to 2012, recently voted for a farm bill that omitted food stamps.
''The role of citizens, of Christianity, of humanity, is to take care of each other, not for Washington to steal from those in the country and give to others in the country,'' Mr. Fincher, whose office did not respond to interview requests, said after his vote in May. In response to a Democrat who invoked the Bible during the food stamp debate in Congress, Mr. Fincher cited his own biblical phrase. ''The one who is unwilling to work shall not eat,'' he said.
On Wednesday, the Department of Agriculture released a 2012 survey showing that nearly 49 million Americans were living in ''food insecure'' households -- meaning, in the bureaucratic language of the agency, that some family members lacked ''consistent access throughout the year to adequate food.'' In short, many Americans went hungry. The agency found the figures essentially unchanged since the economic downturn began in 2008, but substantially higher than during the previous decade.
Experts say the problem is particularly acute in rural regions like Dyersburg, a city of 17,000 on the banks of the Forked Deer River in West Tennessee. More than half the counties with the highest concentration of food insecurity are rural, according to an analysis by Feeding America, the nation's largest network of food banks. In Dyer County, it found, 19.4 percent of residents were ''food insecure'' in 2011, compared with 16.4 percent nationwide.
Over all, nearly 48 million Americans now receive food stamps, an $80 billion-a-year program that is increasingly the target of conservatives. Robert Rector, a scholar at the conservative Heritage Foundation, argues that the food stamp program should be overhauled so that benefits are tied to work, much as welfare was revamped under President Bill Clinton. He advocates mandatory drug testing for food stamp recipients -- a position that draws support from Mr. Rigsby, who dreams of becoming a game warden and said it irritated him to see people ''mooch off the system.''
But when benefits drop in November, the Rigsbys, who say they receive about $350 a month, can expect $29 less.
''People have a lot of misimpressions about hunger in America,'' said Maura Daly, a Feeding America spokeswoman. ''People think it's associated with homelessness when, in fact, it is working poor families, it's kids, it's the disabled.'' Hunger is often invisible, she said, and in rural areas it is even more so.
Hunger was easy to see on a recent morning in Dyersburg. Hundreds of people, many of them food stamp recipients, lined up at the county fairgrounds for boxes of free food -- 21,000 pounds of meat, potatoes, grains and produce -- that had been trucked in from a food bank in Memphis. About 80 volunteers set up an assembly line in a warehouse to distribute the food.
More than 700 families get help each month from the charitable program, Feed the Need, which was founded in 2009 by Mark Oakes, the chairman of the local Salvation Army, after a string of nearby factories closed.
''We couldn't absorb the work force back into our community,'' Mr. Oakes said, ''and people were hungry.''
Among the first in line at the fairgrounds was Kathy Baucom, 61, a former welder disabled by lupus. She lives alone in a trailer, hunts deer -- ''last year I bagged seven,'' she said -- and makes burgers, roasts and jerky out of venison. Her food stamp benefits of $125 a month were recently reduced to $117.
''I don't buy milk because it's so expensive,'' she said. ''I don't buy cheese.''
Officially called the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or SNAP, food stamps have long been a cornerstone of the federal safety net. Benefits, adjusted for income, are loaded monthly onto a government-issued debit card. Recipients say the money typically lasts a little more than two weeks.
''We don't splurge,'' Ms. Adams said, ''and it doesn't last.''
She shops at Save-A-Lot and cooks frequently with pasta, because it is filling. One recent evening, she baked a tray of mostaccioli, an Italian pasta, with meat and cheese. Hoping it would last for two meals, she had none herself.
''You hate to tell your child, 'You can't eat this, you have to save it for another day,' '' she said.
For the Rigsbys, both 20, the priority is three meals a day for their son, Drake, who is 1. Some months they run out of milk. Mr. Rigsby, who is out of work with a knee injury, recently sold his truck for cash; his wife, Christina, works part time as a clerk at J. C. Penney. On the refrigerator in their sparsely furnished apartment is a calendar marked with the date -- the 6th -- that their card is refreshed. ''FOOD!'' it declares.
''When we got married, we told each other that we want to be able to sit down at the table and eat as a family,'' Mrs. Rigsby said. ''But we don't really get to do that.''
In Washington, House Republicans propose cutting $40 billion more in food stamps over the next 10 years by imposing work requirements and eliminating waivers for some able-bodied adults. The cuts would push four million to six million low-income people, including millions of ''very low-income unemployed parents'' who want to work but cannot find jobs, off the rolls, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a left-leaning research organization.
Even if approved in the House, the cuts would face strong opposition from Democrats in the Senate. But the arguments of Mr. Rector, the Heritage Foundation scholar, are gaining traction with conservatives on Capitol Hill. ''I think food stamps have in the Republican mind become the symbol of an out-of-control, means-tested welfare state,'' Mr. Rector said.
Here in Tennessee, Mr. Fincher embraces that view. ''We have to remember there is not a big printing press in Washington that continually prints money over and over,'' he said in May.
Mr. Rigsby said his family would find a way to make do. ''The way I was raised,'' he said, ''it's, 'Be thankful for what you've got.' We're not the worst case out there. But somebody else? How is this going to affect them?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dustin Rigsby, after shopping with food stamps for his family of three in Dyersburg, Tenn. (A1)
 Above, Tarnisha Adams, gets $352 a month in food stamps for herself, three college-age sons and grandchildren. She buys discount meat and canned vegetables. Below, recipients await the start of the monthly Feed the Need food distribution at the fairgrounds in Dyersburg, Tenn. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FOOD SECURITY (89%); FAMILY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SPORT HUNTING (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); AGRICULTURE (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (71%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (71%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (67%); RELIGION (66%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (66%); SOYBEAN FARMING (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%)

PERSON: STEPHEN FINCHER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



114 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; GREEN COLUMN; Pg. 

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: Wildfires and Climate Change

BYLINE: By KATE GALBRAITH

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- The huge wildfire scorching one of America's most beloved national parks, Yosemite, has rained ash on San Francisco's water supply and jolted the nation.
Experts say this is just a foretaste of major fires to come, in the United States and much of the world.
Increasing incursions by humans into forests, coupled with altered forest ecology and climate change, will make fires bigger and more destructive, with implications for air quality as well as homes and infrastructure. 
''We face the increased risk of fires almost everywhere,'' said Chris Field, director of the department of global ecology at the Carnegie Institution for Science, who is co-chairman of a working group for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
There have always been forest fires, of course. But their patterns are changing because of people.
Humans are often responsible for starting the fires, accidentally or intentionally; some spin out of control. The suppression of smaller fires can lead to buildups of burnable brush that can feed a huge, destructive blaze when it is sparked. That is true of the California blaze and many others in the American West; it is also what has happened in significant recent blazes in Turkey, according to Chadwick Oliver, director of the Global Institute of Sustainable Forestry at Yale University.
''We don't need much of a spark to set off a fire that spreads long distances through the crowded, continuous forests,'' Dr. Oliver said.
And climate change, to which humans contribute, is heating up and drying out some -- though not all -- areas.
Global studies of wildfire patterns are rare. But a paper published last year in the journal Ecosphere predicted that climate change would have an effect on wildfires that varies widely, especially in accordance with a given region's precipitation patterns.
The paper -- which focused on climate change but not other variables, like changing land management -- projected that dry parts of the middle latitudes and Australia are likely to see more fires over the long term. The American West, already a tinderbox, will become more fire-prone. So, too, will high-latitude areas, the study found, partly because the carbon-rich peat soil there will burn under extreme weather conditions.
The pattern of increased wildfires by the end of this century appears ''clear for temperate and northern regions of the world, and it is most striking for the boreal forests/taiga and tundra biomes,'' the paper stated.
Parts of the tropics may become less fire-prone with climate change, the study said. That is because global climate models largely agree that areas near the Equator will see more precipitation with climate change, according to Max Moritz, one of the Ecosphere study's researchers, who heads a laboratory focused on fires at the University of California, Berkeley.
''This would -- all other things being equal -- tend to dampen prospects for fire in the equatorial rain forests,'' Dr. Moritz said, adding that further research on seasonal precipitation patterns was needed.
Significant risks remain for the tropics, Dr. Field of the Carnegie Institution for Science noted. People sometimes set fires to clear land -- and the loss of some parts of a tropical forest to fire or clear-cutting can create a feedback effect.
''One of the big concerns in Brazil, especially, is we know that the forests play a role in the amount that it rains,'' Dr. Field said. Moisture in the Amazon is recycled -- so if there is less forest to do the recycling, the rest becomes drier and more vulnerable, he said.
Next March, the working group of which Dr. Field is co-chairman at the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the U.N. group, will publish a report that discusses wildfires as part of a broader look at the effects of climate change and the vulnerabilities of certain areas.
When large fires burn, they can have serious international consequences. In a sense, Dr. Field said, they are a ''teachable moment,'' showing the risks of climate change.
Recent fires in Indonesia have grabbed headlines for causing air quality and haze problems throughout the region, in places including Singapore. That carries major health and economic concerns, said David Ganz, an official based in Bangkok with Lowering Emissions in Asia's Forests, a program funded by the U.S. Agency for International Development.
''It is such an important issue that the most widely known Association of Southeast Asian Nations agreement is on transboundary haze,'' said Dr. Ganz, who is also an author of the Ecosphere study.
In the Arctic regions, fires fueled by the carbon-rich peat might release a vast amount of greenhouse gas emissions.
''These fires are happening more often in that region,'' Nick Sundt, a former firefighter who now directs climate communications for the World Wildlife Fund, said of the Arctic. ''They're bigger.''
Those emissions hold true in parts of the tropics as well.
''Indonesia and Malaysia have extensive peatlands that are extremely sensitive to fire,'' Dr. Ganz said. ''Once these peatlands are burned, enormous amounts of greenhouse gases will be released into the atmosphere, making the climate change issue worse over time.''
He suggested that international climate agreements provide more incentives to developing countries in Southeast Asia so that people there reduce their use of fire to clear land.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIRES (91%); FOREST FIRES (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (86%); WEATHER (78%); NATIONAL PARKS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (76%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (76%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (71%); MODELING & SIMULATION (71%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (56%); YALE UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (92%); EQUATOR (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); TURKEY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



115 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: The Rising Clout of Multilateralism Light

BYLINE: By RISTO PENTTILÄ

 BODY:
Vladimir Putin is wrong. The Russian president's welcome message to the participants of the G-20 summit that begins on Thursday in St. Petersburg asserts that the meeting ''will confirm the G-20's role as an efficient mechanism for coordinating the world's leading economies' approaches to global economy and finance.''
It will do no such thing. It will not produce novel ideas about ''growth through trust and transparency.'' It will not be remembered for promoting ''quality jobs and investment.'' Rather, it will be remembered as the meeting where the G-20 took over the role of the United Nations Security Council. 
Sounds preposterous? Consider two different scenarios for the St. Petersburg summit. Let's start with the more unlikely one: The leaders will weigh the evidence about the use of chemical weapons and decide that it is acceptable for the United States to go ahead with a military strike against the Assad regime in Syria. What will be the role of the U.N. Security Council afterwards? It will simply endorse the decision made by the G-20 leaders.
Let us move to the more likely scenario: The leaders will not give their backing to a punitive strike. Will the Security Council be able to produce a different resolution? Not a chance.
Either way, the G-20 will have become the forum where questions of war and peace will be debated and decided.
We have been there before. The G-7 started out in the 1970s as a mechanism for coordinating the economic policies of the world's leading industrialized countries. By the decade's end it was dealing with cross-border hijacking, hostage crises and the ousting of the shah of Iran.
The G-7 became the G-8 after the fall of the Berlin Wall. The reason for the addition of Russia was geopolitical. President Bill Clinton felt that it would be easier to deal with Boris Yeltsin if Russia was given a place among the leading post-Cold War powers. The strategy worked: The promise of a seat at the table was one reason Russia why decided to pull its troops out of the Baltic states.
For the G-8, the ''Security Council moment'' came during the Kosovo crisis in 1999. After months of unsuccessful efforts to resolve the crisis by the council and through other negotiations, the G-8 emerged as the forum for decision-making. The foreign ministers of Western powers and Russia reached a common position in June. The agreement was faxed to the United Nations Headquarters in New York. Within a few hours, the Security Council Resolution 1244 was adopted. The Security Council had in effect delegated its decision-making to the G-8.
The G-20 has had a similar trajectory. It emerged from the 2008 financial crisis as a mechanism for coordinating the economic and monetary policies of the world's leading nations. Now it is dealing with the hottest geopolitical crisis around. Not bad for an organization that has no secretary general, no charter and no formal rules of procedure.
The G-20 and the G-8 are both examples of a kind of informal international decision-making that we might call ''multilateralism light.'' Its rise is arguably the most significant development in global governance since the end of the Cold War. The question is whether it will last. Ian Bremmer and Nouriel Roubini have argued in Foreign Affairs that informal international governance has become meaningless. In their view, we do not live in a G-20 or G-8 world. Rather, ''we are now living in a G-Zero world, one in which no single country or bloc of countries has the political and economic leverage -- or the will -- to drive a truly international agenda.''
It is true that informal international governance has not been particularly effective of late. But ask yourself this: Are we more likely to see results coming through the U.N. or via the G-20 and the G-8? The answer is clear. The U.N. is still the only forum that can authorize the use of military force. But it is no longer where pivotal decisions are made. The G-world, or multilateralism light, is where the action is.
Risto E.J. Penttila is president of the Finland Chamber of Commerce and secretary general of Northern Light, a forum for European and Russian business leaders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); ARMED FORCES (67%); HOSTAGE TAKING (62%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (74%); BILL CLINTON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); SYRIA (79%); KOSOVO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



116 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM CHINA; Pg. 

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: The Puzzle of Identifying as Chinese

BYLINE: By DIDI KIRSTEN TATLOW

 BODY:
BEIJING -- ''You Irish people are white because you eat potatoes!'' a Beijing taxi driver announced to my Irish husband on a trip before moving here, about a decade ago. We all laughed, though he didn't seem to be entirely joking.
''Who's Irish?'' asked the Chinese-American writer Gish Jen in her story collection of the same name, exploring cultural differences and misunderstandings in the United States. 
''Who's Chinese?'' is the question here.
Much has changed since China began opening up to the world following the death of Mao Zedong in 1976. But deeply held cultural beliefs predating that isolationist era persist. These include that laowai, or ''old outsiders,'' as non-Chinese are often called, are fundamentally different and can therefore never become Chinese, no matter how long their residency, recent books and interviews with writers specializing in cross-cultural issues suggest.
''I hate to generalize,'' said Ms. Jen, who recently published ''Tiger Writing,'' a collection of essays on ''art, culture and the interdependent self.'' ''They're starting from a different place,'' she said of many people here. ''They are fundamentally starting from very different assumptions about identity.''
''I think the difference is related to this: Can you even accept a foreigner as quite Chinese?'' she continued, speaking by telephone from Cambridge, Massachusetts. ''To some Chinese people who are quite modern, the answer is yes. But to many, they feel you have to be culturally Chinese, and that's much deeper than anything you can acquire by yourself.''
''As soon as you adopt something for yourself, you're not Chinese,'' she said. ''Chineseness does not involve choice.''
Many Chinese have become American but few Americans have become Chinese. Of course, unlike the United States, China is not an immigrant nation. The ''huddled masses'' have headed for the Statue of Liberty, not the Forbidden City. Just as Irish crossed the Atlantic for America, Chinese crossed the Pacific. China does not recognize dual citizenship, and it is difficult for foreigners to become a Chinese citizen. China's version of a green-card program is not easy to navigate, Chinese lawyers and academics say.
But as the economic downturn in the West continues and the global economy integrates, people are looking East to make a living, by choice or by necessity. Some bring their families. Others marry here. ''Who's Chinese?'' is increasingly important, a question freighted with personal and political implications.
Even serious accounts of the lives of foreigners in China, who number probably in the hundreds of thousands, express doubt about assimilation.
Take ''Their China,'' a book published in Chinese by Joy Yue Xi, born in China of Manchurian descent, now living in Canada with her husband and two young children.
Out in August, it contains interviews with 18 non-Chinese living here. (Disclosure: I am one of the subjects.) On the cover it says: ''They are spectators. And are players. But in the end, they are still spectators.''
''Ouch,'' Ms. Jen said in an e-mail, of those lines that seem to exclude so much.
Ms. Xi said by telephone from Canada: ''Those words were my publisher's. I feel it shows a judgment in China about foreigners, but I wouldn't myself generalize like that. There is some truth to it, but it doesn't represent all people. But I think it does represent what most Chinese people think.''
Writing the book was cathartic, she said. After 10 years in Canada, she returned in 2009 and felt foreign. She sought to understand ''fellow foreigners'' in China -- Koreans, Japanese, Americans both black and white, Europeans.
''China was very strange,'' she said. ''A lot of things had changed. People's values had changed. My friends had changed, and I was very sad.''
''My parents thought it was very weird that I was afraid of crossing the road'' in China, she said. ''The roads were very broad, and at the red light the cars still drove and didn't let people cross. Chinese people felt nothing about this, but foreigners did. One said to me, 'You can only make sure you don't get hit. Don't mind the lights.'''
Karen Ma, author of ''Excess Baggage,'' a novel about a Chinese family in Japan and the conflict between two sisters (one left China, the other stayed behind), says she is, and is not, Chinese.
Born in China, she grew up in Hong Kong when it was a British colony and in Japan.
''I'm not fully accepted because I'm too Westernized,'' she said in a telephone interview from India, where she lives. ''But I think that's not unique to China. I see it in Japan, too.''
If non-Chinese -- or not fully Chinese, like Ms. Ma -- are not truly accepted, there's a seemingly contradictory, flip side to the mind-set: Even part-Chinese are not allowed to stop being Chinese, Ms. Ma said.
''They,'' meaning the government, ''have such ways, subtle and not so subtle ways, of reminding you that you may not be fully us but you are still one of us,'' Ms. Ma said. ''They have a way of luring you back because you were once a Chinese.''
Being a member of the Chinese nation revolves around an idea of a ''shared fate,'' she said, something the state and many Chinese see as rooted in race and birth.
For Ms. Jen, it's all about identity, whether inherited or invented. In China, she said, it's mostly inherited, putting foreigners largely beyond the pale.
''Even in the U.S.A., there's a tension between the self that is invented and the self that is inherited,'' she said. ''But in China, it's 20 percent of one and 80 percent of another,'' whereas in America, ''it's the opposite!''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); ASIAN AMERICANS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); NATURALIZATION (73%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (70%); GLOBALIZATION (67%); CITIZENSHIP (66%); IMMIGRATION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



117 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: New Iranian President to Speak at the U.N.

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

 BODY:
President Hassan Rouhani of Iran, a cleric who was elected in June after promising to ease the country's economic isolation and tensions with the West over a disputed nuclear program, will attend the opening session of the United Nations General Assembly in New York this month and deliver three speeches, his foreign minister said Wednesday. 
The visit will give Mr. Rouhani his first big opportunity abroad to distinguish himself from his predecessor, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, a conservative who often used his General Assembly appearances to antagonize the West, inveigh against Israel and question the Holocaust. Mr. Ahmadinejad's bombastic speeches invariably provoked diplomats from the United States and its allies to walk out of the General Assembly hall in protest, so much so that the event became an annual ritual.
Mr. Rouhani's foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, an American-educated former ambassador to the United Nations, announced the president's plan after emerging from a cabinet meeting in Tehran, Iranian news agencies reported. ''The visit will certainly take place, and he will travel to New York,'' Mr. Zarif was quoted as saying by the Fars News Agency.
Mr. Zarif was further quoted as saying that the president would deliver a speech before the General Assembly, followed by a speech to a nuclear disarmament summit meeting at the United Nations and to foreign ministers of the Nonaligned Movement, the biggest bloc of United Nations member states, in which Iran holds the rotating presidency.
Iran's relations with the United States hit new lows under Mr. Ahmadinejad, in large part over the escalation of Iranian uranium enrichment in defiance of United Nations Security Council resolutions. Iran has asserted that its nuclear program is peaceful and legal, rejecting Western and Israeli accusations that it is seeking the capacity to build nuclear weapons. Iran has also denounced American and European sanctions imposed over the nuclear dispute, which have deeply hurt the Iranian economy and which could tighten further in the coming weeks and months.
With negotiations aimed at resolving the nuclear dispute stalled since well before the June elections in Iran, Mr. Rouhani's victory has been widely viewed as a moment for intensified diplomacy and as an opportunity to break the deadlock.
While Mr. Rouhani has not indicated whether Iran will soften its insistence on the right to enrich uranium, diplomats have taken note of a number of recent changes. Mr. Rouhani has replaced the top officials in Iran's nuclear program. Last week, in their first report since Mr. Rouhani took office, nuclear inspectors from the United Nations reported that Iran had slowed its accumulation of uranium that could be quickly converted to bomb fuel.
In addition, Jeffrey Feltman, a State Department official in President Obama's first term who is now a senior United Nations envoy, visited Iran last week and met with Mr. Zarif. At the same time, the sultan of Oman, who has often acted as an intermediary between the United States and Iran, visited with Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran's supreme leader. The substance of those meetings has not been disclosed.
According to a provisional agenda of the General Assembly speeches by member states, Iran is No. 22 on the list, between Liberia and Gabon, scheduled for the afternoon of Sept. 24. Brazil is first, followed by the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); IRANIAN ELECTION PROTESTS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); NONALIGNED MOVEMENT (54%)

PERSON: HASSAN ROUHANI (92%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (79%); BARACK OBAMA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (92%); OMAN (79%); IRAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



118 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: Strong Auto Sales Lead Shares Higher

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The stock market rose on Wednesday as investors were encouraged by a surge in auto sales in August and other signs of strength in the economy.
Shares of General Motors, Ford Motor and Toyota Motor rose after the auto industry reported its best month in six years.
''Car sales were really impressive,'' said Peter Cardillo, chief market economist at Rockwell Global Capital, noting that they point to solid consumer spending and increased manufacturing. ''It means the economy is holding up,'' he said. 
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 13.31 points, or 0.8 percent, to 1,653.08. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 96.91 points, or 0.7 percent, to 14,930.87. And the Nasdaq composite index rose 36.43 points, or 1 percent, to 3,649.04.
Jim Russell, a senior equity strategist at U.S. Bank Wealth Management, said recent economic reports had drawn a brighter picture of the global economy, even as concerns over a possible American military strike on Syria have claimed much public attention.
A trade group said on Tuesday that the nation's factories increased production last month at the fastest pace since June 2011, propelled by a sharp rise in new orders. Separate reports out on Monday showed stronger manufacturing in Europe and China.
''All of these add up to better economic growth on a global scale,'' Mr. Russell said.
On Wednesday, G.M. said that its sales rose 15 percent last month compared with August 2012, while the Chrysler Group and Ford each reported 12 percent gains. Toyota posted the biggest increase as sales rose nearly 23 percent.
G.M. rose $1.71, or 5 percent, to $35.85, one of the biggest gains in the S.& P. 500. Ford rose 57 cents, or 3.5 percent, to $16.91.
The Nasdaq stock market ran into technical problems for the second time in two weeks. The exchange reported that its system for disseminating prices failed briefly, from 11:35 a.m. to 11:41 a.m., but it said trading was not affected. On Aug. 22, all trading in Nasdaq-listed stocks was halted for three hours because of a problem with the same quote-disseminating system.
Investors are looking ahead to Friday, when the government will release the August employment report. Economists forecast that employers added 177,000 jobs last month and that the unemployment rate held steady at 7.4 percent, according to the data provider FactSet.
Friday's jobs report is the last major piece of economic data the Federal Reserve will have to work with before the central bank considers when to begin winding down its economic stimulus program, which has kept interest rates abnormally low.
Among the stocks on the move, Dollar General rose $2.51, or 4.7 percent, to $56.39 after the company reported profits that narrowly beat Wall Street analysts' estimates. In contrast to some of its competitors, Dollar General said sales at stores open more than a year climbed.
Francesca's Holdings plunged $6.23, or 26 percent, to $17.79 after it reported results that fell short of Wall Street's estimates. The company, which operates the Francesca's retail stores, cut its forecast for full-year earnings, citing poor customer traffic.
Ciena surged $2.86, or 14 percent, to $23.54. The company, which develops high-speed networking technology, reported earnings that exceeded Wall Street expectations, a result of higher revenue and lower costs.
In the bond market, interest rates moved higher. The price of the 10-year Treasury note fell 9/32 to 96 19/32, while its yield rose to 2.90 percent from 2.86 percent late Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (91%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); NEW ORDERS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); INTEREST RATES (60%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (74%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (66%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (53%); DOLLAR GENERAL CORP (50%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); TYT (LSE) (74%); TM (NYSE) (74%); 7203 (TSE) (74%); GM (NYSE) (58%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (53%); DG (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (50%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRIA (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



119 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1595 words

HEADLINE: Obama Says World Set a 'Red Line' on Syria

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
STOCKHOLM -- President Obama declared on Wednesday that the confrontation with Syria over chemical weapons was not a personal test for him but for Congress, the United States and the world as he worked to strengthen support at home and abroad for a punitive strike.
Opening a three-day trip overseas at a delicate moment for his presidency, Mr. Obama challenged lawmakers and allies to stand behind his plans for a cruise missile attack on the government of President Bashar al-Assad in retaliation for what the Obama administration has concluded was a chemical attack that killed 1,400 people in the suburbs of the Syrian capital, Damascus, last month.
''I didn't set a red line,'' Mr. Obama said during a news conference here in Stockholm. ''The world set a red line.''
He added, ''My credibility's not on the line. The international community's credibility is on the line. And America and Congress's credibility is on the line.'' 
Mr. Obama laid blame for the Aug. 21 attack directly on Mr. Assad, whose government is known to have enormous stockpiles of banned chemical munitions including sarin gas, a nerve agent that American intelligence has said was deployed in a rebel-held part of the Damascus suburbs.
American intelligence has not disclosed any evidence that Mr. Assad personally ordered the use of sarin, but the White House has said he remains responsible as the leader of the country and its military. Mr. Obama's language on Wednesday appeared to go a little further in singling out Mr. Assad.
''We believe very strongly with high confidence that in fact chemical weapons were used and that Mr. Assad was the source,'' the president said.
Mr. Obama arrived here Wednesday morning after an overnight flight from Washington for a one-day stop before heading on Thursday to St. Petersburg for a gathering of the Group of 20 nations hosted by President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia. Mr. Putin has opposed any retaliatory attack on Syria, calling such action a violation of international law. Mr. Putin repeated in an interview released on Wednesday that he considered the American assertions of culpability by Syrian authorities to be absurd.
The trip comes as the president and his advisers are trying to convince Congress to pass a measure formally authorizing a punitive strike. Before taking off, Mr. Obama won support from Republican leaders in the House, but there was no guarantee they could rally rank-and-file members deeply wary about the prospect of the United States becoming entangled in another Middle East war.
Mr. Obama's comments here about not being the one who set a red line -- a year after using the phrase -- and Congress's credibility being at stake rather than his own irritated some Republican allies on the vote just hours after they agreed to support him.
To them, the comments made it look as if he were disclaiming responsibility. ''If he chooses to wash his hands of this, you can surely imagine how a vote will turn out,'' said a Republican leadership aide who insisted on anonymity to avoid a more overt rupture with the White House.
By saying it was the world's red line, rather than his own, Mr. Obama was citing longstanding international norms against the use of chemical weapons. But more broadly, like his decision to seek Congressional votes in the first place, he was trying to break out of his isolation in terms of military action against Syria.
Not only has Russia blocked any United Nations action, but even America's strongest ally, Britain, has opted against participating. A new Washington Post-ABC News poll found that 59 percent of Americans oppose the proposed missile strike.
Standing at Mr. Obama's side, Sweden's prime minister, Fredrik Reinfeldt, urged waiting for a report from United Nations inspectors, who have sent samples from the scene of the attack to a Swedish laboratory, and said he preferred any action be supported by the Security Council. ''But I also understand the potential consequences of letting a violation like this go unanswered,'' Mr. Reinfeldt said, in a nod to Mr. Obama's position.
American officials have dismissed the United Nations investigation because it is charged only with determining whether there was a chemical attack, which Washington considers undisputed, not the more contentious question of who was responsible. But Mr. Obama acknowledged that the mistaken intelligence about weapons of mass destruction before the American-led invasion of Iraq in 2003 haunts his current efforts.
''I'm very mindful that around the world and here in Europe in particular there are memories of Iraq and weapons of mass destruction accusations and people being concerned about how accurate this information is,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Keep in mind, I'm somebody who opposed the war in Iraq and am not interested in repeating mistakes basing decisions on false intelligence. But having done a thoroughgoing evaluation of the information that is available, I can say with high confidence that chemical weapons were used.''
More so than Sweden, Russia has been unremittingly hostile to the suggestion of a retaliatory strike against Syria. Mr. Putin can use Russia's veto to block United Nations Security Council action and has scoffed at the notion that the Syrian government was responsible for the chemical attack, calling it ''utter nonsense'' and suggesting that it was a provocation by rebels eager to draw the United States into their civil war against Mr. Assad, a longtime Russian ally.
In the interview with The Associated Press released Wednesday, Mr. Putin said he would not rule out United Nations action but only if the Syrian government was proved culpable. He said American evidence of that so far is unconvincing and added that it seemed ''completely ridiculous'' to think that the Syrian Army would use chemical weapons when they had the advantage on the battlefield.
He also pointedly recalled the false Iraq intelligence. ''All these arguments turned out to be untenable, but they were used to launch a military action, which many in the U.S. called a mistake,'' Mr. Putin said. ''Did we forget about that?''
The clash over Syria comes as relations between the United States and Russia have hit their lowest point since Mr. Obama came to office determined to rebuild ties. He had originally scheduled a separate visit with Mr. Putin in Moscow before the St. Petersburg summit meeting, but abruptly canceled it last month after Russia gave temporary asylum to Edward J. Snowden, the National Security Agency contractor who disclosed secret American surveillance programs.
At his news conference here, Mr. Obama argued that his efforts to work with Russia had paid dividends in the first few years in the form of arms control, trade and military cooperation, while not hiding his more recent frustrations with Mr. Putin. ''We kind of hit a wall in terms of additional progress,'' Mr. Obama said. ''But I have not written off the idea that the United States and Russia are going to have common interests'' in the future.
In place of Moscow, Mr. Obama added the stop in Sweden, where he was the first sitting American president to come for a formal one-on-one visit. Unlike in Russia, he was welcomed as a friend. A Swedish newspaper called this country a ''Little USA'' and described the way it was trying to emulate America politically, economically and culturally. Still, the leader of a small political party said Mr. Obama should stop tapping her e-mail account and give back his Nobel Peace Prize.
Mr. Obama used the visit to try to assuage European concerns about the sort of eavesdropping that Mr. Snowden revealed, expressing his own ambivalence about the programs he has authorized. ''I can give assurances to the publics in Europe and around the world that we're not going around snooping on people's e-mails or listening to their phone calls,'' he said in response to a question from a Swedish reporter. ''What we're trying to do is target very specifically areas of concern.''
Having said that, he mused about the consequences of the rapid advance of technology, saying that ''just because we can do something doesn't mean we should.'' While in the past he has denied that the programs had been abused, he acknowledged that intelligence agencies had overstepped even the bounds they had agreed to live within.
''There have been times where the procedures, because these are human endeavors, have not worked the way they should and we have to tighten them up,'' he said. ''It may be that the laws that are currently in place are not sufficient to guard against the dangers of us being able to track so much.''
After meeting with Mr. Reinfeldt, Mr. Obama participated in a ceremony honoring Raoul Wallenberg, famed for saving thousands of Jews from the Nazis, at the Great Synagogue and Holocaust Memorial of Stockholm, and then visited an energy expo at the Royal Institute of Technology. He planned to have dinner with Mr. Reinfeldt and the leaders of Denmark, Finland, Iceland and Norway.
Mr. Obama will fly Thursday to St. Petersburg, where in addition to the G-20 activities he will meet separately with President François Hollande of France, who supports a strike on Syria, President Xi Jinping of China, who does not, and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan, who has avoided getting in the middle of the dispute. Aside from the canceled Moscow trip, Mr. Obama does not plan to meet with Mr. Putin in St. Petersburg either, even though that would be typical with a summit host.
Mr. Obama returns to Washington late Friday in time for Congressional debates and votes on Syria next week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); RED LINE ON WEAPONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (72%); SUBURBS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (79%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (91%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%) UNITED STATES (97%); SYRIA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SWEDEN (74%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



120 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: The Six-Figure Price Tag For Selling a $2 Hot Dog

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS; Edna Ishayik contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Call it the half-million-dollar hot dog cart. Mohammad Mastafa of Astoria, Queens, has to sell almost that much in drinks and snacks annually to break even on the pushcart he owns at Fifth Avenue and East 62nd Street near the Central Park Zoo. He pays the city's parks department $289,500 a year just for the right to operate his single cart there.
It may seem like an exorbitant amount of money, but it isn't shocking to many of the other food vendors like Mr. Mastafa who compete to operate pushcarts in New York City parks.
The zoo entrance drew the highest bid among the 150 pushcart sites in public parks, but the operators of four other carts in and around Central Park also pay the city more than $200,000 a year each. In fact, the 20 highest license fees, each exceeding $100,000, are all for Central Park carts. 
''It's a lot of peanuts, it's a lot of hot dogs,'' said Elizabeth W. Smith, the assistant parks commissioner for revenue and marketing.
It is a lot of visitors in need of sustenance. So while vendors are adamant about not divulging details about what they make, most pushcart sites presumably turn a profit or they would not attract such high bids.
The annual fee some vendors offer to pay the city has doubled or even tripled in the past 10 years.
A decade ago, the fee paid for the pushcart at the Central Park Zoo entrance was $120,000, less than half what Mr. Mastafa paid most recently. The second most expensive cart is on the West Drive at West 67th Street near Tavern on the Green, where the fee is $266,850.
For many other parks, especially those in parks outside Manhattan, the fees are much lower -- $14,000 in Astoria Park in Queens, $3,200 in Maria Hernandez Park in Brooklyn and $1,100 in Pelham Bay Park in the Bronx. The lowest fee, $700, is paid by the owner of a pushcart near the soccer fields in Inwood Hill Park in Upper Manhattan.
Elizendo Vaquero, 50, of the Bronx, has been selling there to soccer players on Sundays since 1989 (since 1997 with a permit).
''Everybody knows us here,'' he said. ''This is like family.''
He said he bids higher and higher each time it comes up for bid, but still earns $3,000 to $5,000 a year from his cart. ''I don't want to lose this spot, he said. ''We have to pay the employee, the permit, everything. But at least we're happy. We see everybody.''
The parks department's pushcart concessions, which are put out for bid every five years, produce more than $4.5 million annually for the city's general fund.
The vendors who work at the pushcarts are usually not the owners. Ripan Alam, 31, typically works Mr. Mastafa's cart from 8:30 a.m. to 9 p.m. in the summer and says it makes about $750 weekly, although the revenue produced by sales from the cart fluctuates wildly.
''When it's raining, sometimes empty, nothing, zero,'' Mr. Alam said the other day. ''Lots of times I go empty. Monday and Tuesday, nothing.''
Pushcart operators complain that they are being crushed by increasing competition from disabled veterans who compete from choice curbside locations on park perimeters and who can charge less because their license fee to the city is waived under a 19th-century law.
Sometimes, the operators say, other people own the carts and pay veterans to staff them. That indirect relationship is a problem that parks department officials acknowledge, but maintain that they are largely powerless to police, particularly while the city is appealing court rulings that would further expand the veterans' vending rights. (Food carts outside the parks are licensed separately by the city's health department.)
Mr. Mastafa, like other operators interviewed, declined to say how much his cart nets. People in the industry suggest their reluctance stems from the fear of competition in bidding when licenses expire, tax confidentiality and dealings with their wholesalers.
He referred a reporter to his supplier, Alex Rad, who explained that pushcart economics are more complex than they might seem. Parks were shut during Hurricane Sandy last year and, since the Boston Marathon bombing, vendors are sometimes shooed away from large public gatherings by the police.
''Some locations are really losing money,'' Mr. Rad said.
Mr. Rad has a partnership with New York Picnic Company to supply many of the Central Park pushcarts. He said pushcart operators have ancillary costs, including $20 or so for each delivery of ice several times a day and to transport their carts from warehouses or garages. He estimated that to recoup his expenses, Mr. Mastafa's zoo pushcart would have to generate more than $425,000 a year in revenue.
''We're dying,'' said Ranjit Dev, whose company has the license to several desirable sites in and around Central Park. ''How can I pay $180,000 if I can't sell? How am I going to pay the rent?'' Construction near the Metropolitan Museum of Art has also depressed sales at what is typically a prime vending site.
New York is a city of superlatives, so the estimated 40 million or so visitors to Central Park a year obviously buy an awful lot of bottled water, ice cream and other refreshments. Maximum prices for snacks and beverages are set by the department.
Seubankar Ray, who works at a cart at Central Park West and West 72nd Street, said bottled water was his best-selling item, although sometimes even New Yorkers balked at the price. ''They say, 'It's $3? Oh, my God! I'm not a tourist.' ''
In July, even at that price (the maximum for a 24-ounce bottle), he sold 15 cases a day. He typically sells up to 200 hot dogs a day at $2 each. He said the take for the cart ranges from $2,000 a day on a warm summer weekend to $200 in the winter, when he sells mostly hot dogs and nuts.
Another pushcart operator, Mr. Amin, who agreed to be identified using only his last name, said the cart he operates at West 67th Street and the West Drive can generate as little as $50 a day in the winter, but $2,500 on a summer Saturday.
At his cart and other locations on a recent weekend, sweat-dewed runners finishing their laps ordered frosty Gatorades by color -- yellow and orange were the favorites -- but water still appeared to be the top seller at most locations.
''We sell the most of the water,'' Mr. Alam said. ''The kids like the snow cone. The over 60, they like the Toasted Almond. Most of the local people like the hot dogs. Italian people think the sausages are like this big'' -- he measured about a foot with his hands -- ''so they say, 'Can I have one?' And then they see it and they don't want it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, vendors at the cart near the Central Park Zoo, in a spot that carries the highest fee among city parks: $289,500. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: The 20 Highest Pushcart Vendor Fees: Shown are the highest annual pushcart fees in the New York City parks and their approximate location. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (92%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (90%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (89%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); DRINKING PLACES (73%); SOCCER (60%); ATHLETES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



121 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: India's Central Bank Chief May Have a Short Honeymoon

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
MUMBAI, India -- Indian newspapers have been gushing about the new governor of the central bank, Raghuram Rajan, in terms usually reserved for Bollywood film stars: his trim physique, his long-distance running, even his ''rather photogenic appeal,'' as The Mumbai Mirror tabloid wrote this week.
This may not last long.
Mr. Rajan, 50, took charge on Wednesday of the Reserve Bank of India, which has tried and failed to stop the steep decline of the rupee against the dollar. India's chronic inflation is almost certain to move higher in the coming months, given the country's heavy dependence on imported oil priced in dollars. The stock market is plunging as economic activity slows by the day. 
Yet unlike Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, Mr. Rajan has very little political independence in his new job. Some of the biggest problems bedeviling the Indian economy are beyond his control, like the trade and government budget deficits and the crippling shortage of roads and other infrastructure.
All of his policy options carry big risks that could antagonize large sectors of the public, who will soon forget the rapturous accounts of his athleticism and charm.
''Any entrant to the central bank governorship probably starts at the height of their popularity,'' Mr. Rajan said at a news conference early Wednesday evening. ''Some of the actions I take will not be popular. The governorship of the central bank is not meant to win one votes or Facebook 'likes.' ''
Mr. Rajan, a University of Chicago finance professor, used his initial news conference to announce a long list of financial deregulatory measures that he plans in the coming weeks and months. These included issuing more licenses for new banks, making it easier for banks to open branches across the country and gradually lowering the percentage of assets that banks must hold in government securities -- three steps aimed at increasing competition in India's banking sector, long viewed by critics as a clubby, cautious industry reluctant to lend to small and medium-size businesses or farmers.
The most immediate question facing Mr. Rajan, a former chief economist for the International Monetary Fund whose most recent job has been as chief economic adviser to Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, lies in how to halt the fall of the rupee. He said nothing on Wednesday evening about monetary policy, deferring the subject to a statement to be issued on Sept. 20.
Currency market intervention by the Reserve Bank has helped limit the rupee's losses this week, and it even gained 0.94 percent on Wednesday, to 67.09 to the dollar. But the rupee's slide through the summer and its continued weakness have fostered speculation in financial markets that Mr. Rajan might raise short-term interest rates in his first week in office.
A sliding currency pushes up inflation. An inflation-fighting central banker could raise interest rates. Higher rates would make investment in India more attractive to foreign and domestic money managers who have been hustling to move money out of the country. It could help curb inflation, already approaching 10 percent even before the full effect of rising import prices is felt in the coming weeks.
But with the economy already growing at its slowest pace since the worst of the global financial crisis in early 2009, India's business establishment fiercely opposes any increases in interest rates. The Confederation of Indian Industry, the country's most prominent business coalition, reiterated on Tuesday its call for the Reserve Bank of India to cut short-term interest rates a full percentage point.
''The last thing you want is to choke off any hope of growth by raising'' the benchmark interest rate, said Omkar Goswami, the chairman of CERG Advisory, a consulting firm based in Delhi, and an independent director of Indian companies like Infosys, a big outsourcing company, and IDFC, a financial conglomerate.
Mr. Rajan has a few longer-term options. The Indian government could issue dollar-denominated bonds or seek a loan from his former colleagues at the I.M.F. Either step would replenish and expand the Reserve Bank's supply of foreign exchange for further currency market intervention if the rupee started tumbling again.
But it is not going to be solely his call. In contrast with the political independence of the Federal Reserve or the European Central Bank, the Reserve Bank of India, headquartered here since before the country's independence from Britain in 1947, is required by law to consult closely and take direction from the government in New Delhi.
Sometimes the government is unusually open, at least by Western standards, in pushing around the Reserve Bank. In late April, a top adviser to Mr. Singh, the prime minister, said publicly that there was a ''case for R.B.I. to cut interest rate'' policy, and added,'' I think we have a case for stronger growth.''
The adviser who made the remarks was Mr. Rajan. The Reserve Bank of India took action that resulted in the rupee slowly sliding. It has fallen every month since then.
Less than three weeks after the Reserve Bank acted, on May 22, Mr. Bernanke told Congress that the Fed could start reducing its asset purchases in the coming months. The suggestion that the Fed might buy fewer bonds resulted in a drop in bond prices, pushing up yields, and prompting international investors to begin shifting money out of emerging markets like India and into the United States.
India's leaders appear to have been taken by surprise. Mr. Rajan and other leading policy makers had been framing the national discussion over interest rate policy in terms of whether the Reserve Bank should keep rates fairly high to fight inflation or start cutting them to rekindle economic growth.
''The R.B.I. did not have a view on what the Fed would do,'' said Madan Sabnavis, the chief economist of Care Ratings, a big Indian credit ratings agency headquartered in New Delhi.
As investors began pulling large sums of money out of India, the Reserve Bank effectively reversed course in mid-July and began tightening monetary policy. But it did so in a face-saving way that attracted little attention outside India -- raising the borrowing cost for commercial banks that are especially heavy borrowers from the central bank.
Faced with double-digit borrowing costs, banks began cutting back on lending, which has hurt many businesses in India and contributed to a further slowing of the economy.
Mr. Rajan's supporters said he should not be blamed for putting pressure on the Reserve Bank in late April to reduce interest rates. They said he was only voicing a widely held view in the government at the time that inflation was beginning to recede.
Mr. Rajan said on Wednesday evening that he would not discuss past monetary policy decisions.
Like many central bankers, Mr. Rajan leans toward putting a greater emphasis on reducing inflation and is reluctant to risk higher inflation for the sake of short-term increases in economic growth, people who know him said. Mr. Rajan seemed to confirm that at his news conference early Wednesday evening, when he emphasized that the role of the bank was monetary stability. ''Ultimately, this means low and stable expectations of inflation, whether that inflation stems from domestic sources or from changes in the value of the currency, from supply constraints or demand pressures,'' he said.
Mr. Rajan also has a history of skepticism about financial innovations, having warned in a paper in 2005 that they had made credit markets more risky and could prompt a financial crisis.
That was not a popular view at the time. Lawrence H. Summers, the former Treasury secretary, now said to be the chief candidate to lead the Fed, publicly described Mr. Rajan's paper then as ''slightly Luddite'' and ''largely misguided.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Raghuram Rajan, left, was greeted on Wednesday after arriving at the Reserve Bank of India. (B1)
 Mr. Rajan, left, took over on Wednesday at the central bank from Duvvuri Subbarao, right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANISH SIDDIQUI/REUTERS) (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INFLATION (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RUNNING (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); DEREGULATION (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); BANK BRANCHES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (68%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (62%); GOVERNORS (58%); BUDGET DEFICITS (53%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (53%); INTEREST RATES (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: RESERVE BANK OF INDIA (57%); FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (57%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); MANMOHAN SINGH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%) ILLINOIS, USA (68%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



122 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; CONVERSATIONS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: A Pioneering Auction Company Shows the Way to China

BYLINE: By JOHN GROSSMANN

 BODY:
Deb Weidenhamer is happy to say she practices the world's oldest profession -- it's just not the one that occurs to most people. ''Auctions are truly the oldest known profession,'' she said. ''They've got a longer recorded history than even prostitution.''
When Ms. Weidenhamer first picked up a gavel in 1995, there were few female auctioneers. Since then, she has helped invigorate the ancient profession and built her company, Auction Systems Auctioneers and Appraisers, to more than $100 million in annual revenue. She has added new formats, like simulcasting her live auctions, and she has helped establish that auctions are not just for liquidations and closeouts. She has even taken her gavel to China, where she has mastered enough Mandarin to handle auction chants and where she is creating a new channel for Western companies to introduce products into the vast Chinese market.
She discussed all of that, from a dozen time zones away in Shanghai, in a conversation that has been condensed and edited. 
Q. How did you get started in the business?
A. I was working in San Francisco doing merger and acquisition arbitrage work. My husband worked for American Express in Phoenix. So I commuted back and forth to Phoenix every week. On a flight one night I sat by a man in his 80s who was an auctioneer, and he started telling me about the kind of work he did and how big the auction industry was. A month later I resigned my position and signed up to go to auction school.
Q. How many years ago was that and how old were you at the time?
A. I'll tell you how many years ago it was. It was 18 years ago. I was basically told: go find product and if you find product, we'll let you sell it when you bring it to the auction. I think they thought I wouldn't find anything.
Q. Was this test a way to keep you out of the industry?
A. Right. There were very few women in the business. For some good reasons, women in the auction industry have always struggled. It's really because a high-pitched voice is extremely hard to listen to for hours. Plus, it was an old boys' network. The first things I found and sold were surplus computers.
Q. Since then, what kinds of things have you auctioned off?
A. Everything from multimillion-dollar haunted mansions to gold teeth recovered from safe deposit boxes.
Q. Have you said no to anything?
A. We do have standards, things we won't sell -- like pornographic material.
Q. Why did you call your company Auction Systems?
A. Back in 1995, it was a very ma-and-pa industry that seemed to lack consistency and systems. I wanted to offer a consistent experience to both the seller of goods and the buyer of goods.
Q. What did your business look like at the start?
A. I started by myself with a little, 6,000-square-foot warehouse in downtown Phoenix. I conducted the auctions right there. A lot of auction houses have stages, so without one, I bought a step ladder and stood on the ladder and would sell.
Q. What did your husband think when you told him you weren't going to commute to San Francisco any more -- but you were starting an auction company?
A. Honestly, he thought I'd lost my mind.
Q. How long until he realized otherwise?
A. I'm not 100 percent sure he's convinced yet. I started in October of the first year and did about $150,000 in commissions by year's end. Typically our commission is about one-third of the sale price. In 1996 we did about $1.5 million. I had three employees unpacking and tagging goods and helping with accounting and sales support.
Q. Where's the business today?
A. Annual revenues are about $135 million and we've got 200-plus employees. We're now in a huge warehouse with about 150,000 square feet on four acres, but we also do auctions all over.
Q. Is $135 million the total amount of goods you've sold -- or is that your commission?
A. The commission.
Q. How do you explain that kind of growth?
A. Growth is a combination of good processes, great people and operating outside the traditional parameters of auctions by looking for all kinds of opportunities -- everything from real estate to microbrewery products to the latest technology. People value the open-market transparency that auctions create.
Q. When did auctions become a distribution channel for everyday merchandise?
A. I think we were pioneers -- the idea that auctions are a first resort and not a last chance.
Q. Explain that.
A. Manufacturers right now are primarily represented in big-box retailers, so they create their products, consign them to the big-box retailer and then wait to be paid -- often four to six months. Let's say you're a bicycle manufacturer. With an auction, you can consign a large number of bicycles to the auction. We'll sell them, and you will get paid in three weeks. Oh, and by the way, they will sell for much more than you'd get from that big-box retailer.
Q. Why?
A. We're trying to get to the end-user -- to get that bike to a consumer -- because an end-user will pay more for the bike than a dealer will. We're selling a bike every 15 seconds when we're auctioning. In a few weeks, we can probably move 250 bikes for you. Point is, this becomes a regular sales channel.
Q. What percentage of your sales are new products?
A. It really changes with the economy, but I'd say we deal in 60 percent new products, 40 percent used products.
Q. How are you operating in China?
A. We're selling entirely new goods and, increasingly, Western-made goods to the Chinese. For many small American companies that can't afford to have a full-blown, multinational presence in China but want to see if there is a good fit for their products, we can introduce their products at auction. We also provide some additional marketing and survey feedback for the company we're selling for: Would the purchaser of the item buy it again? Would they recommend it? Did they like the packaging? Of course, the biggest question is price point.
Q. Can you give us an example of a company that you helped introduce a product into China?
A. We've helped a variety of companies from entrepreneurial-type ventures to high-end department stores break into the Chinese market, including beer makers, high-end handbag manufacturers, small kitchen appliance businesses and even cigar companies. Online auctions generally bring in at least 120,000 online views and more than 500 people usually attend the live auctions. Bids are accepted simultaneously from the auction floor or online, creating a very competitive environment to set the market price.
Q. Are there other ways you can help these companies?
A. We work with companies to allow them to avoid complicated registration and regulations that typically make China market entry difficult. This includes registering their logo in China to protect their brand, surveying buyers, conducting market research, shipping the product to China, producing a video of the product, conducting the online auction and conducting the live auction. Often, as we begin selling these goods into China, interested distributors suddenly appear who are able to distribute these Western products throughout China on a larger scale. We help verify the distributor's reputation and then make appropriate introductions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Deb Weidenhamer began Auction Systems Auctioneers and Appraisers in a small warehouse in Phoenix in 1995. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAMANTHA SAIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (77%); MERGERS (75%); HISTORY (72%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (51%); PORNOGRAPHY (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (55%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (71%) EAST CHINA (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) CHINA (91%); UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



123 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: Enduring Favorite for the Fed

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As President Obama turned to second-term job openings soon after his re-election, the topic one day in the Oval Office was probably the most important economic decision he would make: Who should succeed the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, after 2013?
The president's preference: His former economic adviser, Lawrence H. Summers.
Mr. Obama, well aware of Mr. Summers's love-him-or-hate-him reputation and the trouble he could face winning Senate confirmation, reasoned that it was hardly too soon to think about courting senators, even if a final decision on a nominee was nearly a year off. Shifting from his confidants -- Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and the man who soon would succeed him, the White House chief of staff, Jacob J. Lew -- the president gave Rob Nabors, then his liaison to Congress, the Summers project. 
''He needs to do some work on the Hill,'' Mr. Obama said, according to people with knowledge of the meeting. ''You need to work with him, Rob.''
Months later, decision time is here, and Mr. Obama still has not settled on Mr. Summers or Janet L. Yellen, the economist he named to be Fed vice chairwoman in 2010.
Yet as that Oval Office exchange shows, the president has long had Mr. Summers in mind -- and still has him in mind -- to become the world's most powerful central banker. The relationship is based on an intellectual partnership that dates to the 2008 campaign and was ''forged in the crucible of the financial crisis,'' as the longtime Obama strategist David Axelrod put it.
A former administration official, who like most others did not want to be identified speaking of such a sensitive matter, said, ''It's like the attachment you feel for your heart surgeon after he performs a quadruple bypass.''
But as that Oval Office meeting last year also suggests, Mr. Obama's one concern about nominating Mr. Summers has been the potential for a Senate battle -- not only from Republicans spoiling for fights, but also from Democrats who view Mr. Summers as having been too friendly toward deregulating big banks when he was Treasury secretary in the Clinton administration.
That concern about confirmation has been affirmed in recent weeks as bloggers and groups on the left have mobilized, either to oppose Mr. Summers outright or to urge Mr. Obama to pick Ms. Yellen to be the first female Fed chairman. Mr. Summers declined to comment for this article.
The president has already interviewed Mr. Summers and Ms. Yellen for the job, as well as Donald L. Kohn, a former Fed vice chairman, aides say. But administration insiders say they believe Mr. Obama remains inclined to nominate the man who, as his chief economic adviser through 2009 and 2010, helped him through the worst global financial crisis since the Depression.
Mr. Summers's edge, the insiders say, reflects that relationship and not any arguments against Ms. Yellen, whom Mr. Obama does not know well. And they do not rule out another candidate, though no other names are known to be in the mix.
Many current and former presidential advisers also favor Mr. Summers, including several who had run-ins with him on policy or chafed at what many call his condescension and arrogance. But they say Mr. Obama knows Mr. Summers so well that he does not need their input.
Among the people the president is said to have consulted are Mr. Geithner, Mr. Lew and Mr. Axelrod. The list also includes Mayor Rahm Emanuel of Chicago, Mr. Obama's first chief of staff and a Summers advocate, and Denis R. McDonough, the current chief of staff. (Aides say Mr. McDonough has stayed neutral.) Two of the most influential advisers on the nomination are the deputy chiefs of staff, Mr. Nabors and Alyssa Mastromonaco, given their knowledge of Senate confirmation politics.
Also influential -- and described as the one insider pulling for Ms. Yellen -- is Valerie Jarrett, the president's close adviser and a longtime Chicago friend, who had a cool relationship with Mr. Summers.
An announcement had been possible next week, aides said, until plans for the debate in Congress over military intervention in Syria scrambled the timing. While Mr. Bernanke's four-year term -- his second -- does not end until Jan. 31, a decision on his successor is needed soon because Senate confirmation hearings and votes take time.
Neither Mr. Obama nor Congress can afford much time or controversy. In addition to Syria, they will be battling through the fall over two other must-act matters: financing the government by the Oct. 1 start of the fiscal year to avoid a shutdown, and increasing the nation's borrowing limit by mid-October to maintain the nation's creditworthiness and avert an economic crisis.
Also, Fed insiders, markets and America's allies are eager to know who will be heading the central bank in the next four years, particularly as it weighs winding down the expansionary monetary policy that Mr. Bernanke engineered to sustain the economic recovery.
The criticism of Mr. Summers is familiar in Washington. His widely acknowledged intellect is offset by imperiousness that makes him hard to work with, some of his opponents say. At the Clinton Treasury, others say, he contributed to the later financial crisis both by supporting repeal of a Depression-era law regulating banks, and by opposing regulation of financial products called derivatives. Women's groups recall that as Harvard president he once made comments widely criticized as sexist.
But Mr. Obama has heard it all before, advisers say, even before he brought Mr. Summers into his 2008 campaign and then the White House. The two men are hardly golf buddies. But having worked side by side daily in stressful times, aides say, the president knows Mr. Summers's plusses and minuses, and he decided -- like most of his aides, male and female -- the balance on Mr. Summers was positive.
''There is nothing that people on the outside are saying about Larry that wasn't known, and he's been our colleague besides,'' said one longtime official. ''Larry used to get on my freaking nerves. I would kill for Larry now. Larry is many things -- he is brash, he is crass, he does not tolerate fools well, and he has to be the smartest person in the room.''
But, the official added, ''Larry earned my friendship and respect while he was here. We were sort of in a foxhole together, and he was a stand-up dude.''
Mr. Obama signaled his own willingness to confront the critics when he came to Mr. Summers's defense last month in private meetings with House and Senate Democrats. People at the meeting, said the president called the criticism unfair and credited Mr. Summers with helping to restore the economy.
Past and current administration officials say that Mr. Summers has been the Fed candidate-in-waiting arguably since Mr. Obama was first elected, notwithstanding that the president renominated Mr. Bernanke in 2009.
After the 2008 election, Mr. Summers had wanted to become Treasury secretary again, or else Fed chairman when Mr. Bernanke, the choice of President George W. Bush, ended his term. He and the president discussed the Fed chairmanship then, according to people familiar with the talks.
While some liberal and feminist groups objected at the time to Mr. Summers, Mr. Obama had his own reasons for giving the adviser's desired jobs to others. He chose Mr. Geithner for Treasury after being impressed by him, aides said, at their pre-election introduction. And the following August, he decided that for continuity in fragile economic times, he wanted Mr. Bernanke to stay at the Fed and Mr. Summers in the White House.
The job that Mr. Summers got -- director of the White House National Economic Council, brokering administration policies and briefing the president daily -- was one that, while influential especially in times of crisis, was seen as a step down for a former Treasury secretary. But, Obama associates say, Mr. Summers's willingness to serve loyally won points with the president.
When Mr. Summers prepared to leave after two exhausting years, Mr. Obama did not implore him to stay, as the president later did Mr. Geithner. But Obama advisers say that the two men parted on good terms, and that Mr. Obama still calls on Mr. Summers for economic advice.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama in 2009 with Lawrence H. Summers, said to be the president's preferred candidate to lead the Fed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM YOUNG/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); DEREGULATION (70%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (64%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (90%); JACK LEW (73%); DAVID AXELROD (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



124 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: In Bloomberg's City of Bike Lanes, Data Show, Cabs Gain a Little Speed

BYLINE: By MATT FLEGENHEIMER

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, builder of bike lanes and champion of congestion pricing, has seldom been cast as a friend to the automobile.
But according to the New York City Transportation Department, a lengthy campaign to reallocate street space for cyclists and pedestrians has produced a curious result: If anything, officials said, cars are moving more quickly in the city's most congested areas.
Citing GPS data from the city's yellow cabs, the Bloomberg administration said that average traffic speeds in Manhattan's primary central business district, south of 60th Street, had increased nearly 7 percent since 2008. 
And it is not as though the streets have become less congested: traffic volume has remained relatively level in recent years, as transit ridership and bike commuting have increased. In 2008, about 756,000 cars entered Manhattan south of 60th Street each day, transportation officials said. In 2011, the most recent year for which full data is available, the figure was 764,000.
''We're not, despite our reputation, trying to take from one and give to the other,'' Bruce Schaller, the department's deputy commissioner for traffic and planning, said. ''It isn't a zero-sum game.''
The most recent speed data, part of an annual report known as the Sustainable Streets Index, was calculated using taxi trip logs, drawing on the distance and duration of a trip, including time spent stopped in traffic or at lights. The report also includes a section on taxi driver behavior in the rain -- cabbies, happily, were found to drive 11.9 percent slower on days with at least an inch of precipitation -- and an appraisal of the city's bike-share program, which has attracted more than 75,000 annual members.
As it has in the past, the study also examined how the calendar might affect traffic speeds in Manhattan. January, February, March and August were the fastest months; May, June, July and December were the slowest, with one caveat: The fastest average speed, 14.8 miles per hour, was recorded on Christmas Day. The analysis excluded days during and immediately after Hurricane Sandy.
The city has observed speed fluctuations in past years, officials said, but a flagging economy, service cuts on subways and buses, and increases in transit fares had made it difficult to tease out long-term trends.
Janette Sadik-Khan, the city's transportation commissioner, said that with more comprehensive post-recession data now available, the department could say with confidence that traffic speeds had at least remained stable after the introduction of pedestrian plazas and hundreds of miles of bike lanes. (If 2009 is used as a comparison instead of 2008, traffic speeds have increased 0.3 percent as traffic volumes remained roughly flat.)
Critics of the Transportation Department, including some local officials, have in the past accused the city of selectively using data to bolster its claims about improving the streets. And among drivers, the department's most recent conclusions were met with nearly universal distrust.
''They cut the streets in half to have people sit,'' said Abdullah Muhammed, a general contractor, sitting in his truck near 49th Street and Broadway on Tuesday.
Asked if this had made navigating Midtown more difficult, Mr. Muhammed gave a lengthy smirk, then nodded toward a clogged portion of Broadway.
Christopher McBride, a transportation specialist with AAA New York, noted that while traffic volumes had been fairly consistent in recent years, they had decreased significantly compared with 10 to 15 years ago, suggesting that some commuters had simply given up on Midtown driving in the Bloomberg years.
''It is more of a hassle now than ever to drive into the central business district,'' he said. ''Some of these changes that have occurred, they're more intimidating for drivers. And a lot of parking has been eliminated.''
He added improvements in the city's traffic signal system had offset the ''negative traffic speed impacts of pedestrian plazas and bike lanes,'' allowing speeds to at least remain steady.
The city's report does not discuss how certain projects, like the closing of several blocks along Broadway, have affected speeds in their immediate surroundings, though a 2010 study found that travel speeds near the plaza had improved. A separate report released that year from New York City Transit suggested that the plazas of Times and Herald Squares had slowed some buses as traffic was rerouted onto Seventh Avenue.
But Mr. Schaller argued that additions like protected bike lanes were not especially disruptive to drivers. ''When we put in a bike lane, you think, 'Oh, you're taking a lane,' '' Mr. Schaller said. ''But that left curb was always taken by the left-turning cars anyway. And the through traffic has the same number of lanes that it did before.''
In his final years in office, Mr. Bloomberg has at times taken great pains to slow down the city's drivers. He pushed for a measure, recently enacted, to install speed-tracking cameras near some city schools, and has introduced designated ''slow zones'' where the speed limit is reduced to 20 miles per hour, from 30 m.p.h.
But drivers in much of Manhattan can rarely flout the law, even if they try. The average taxi speed south of 60th Street was 9.3 miles per hour, the report said, leaving passengers behind the pace of a well-trained runner.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: According to New York City data, while congestion below 60th Street in Manhattan has remained stable, speeds have increased by nearly 7 percent since 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BENJAMIN NORMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (88%); TRENDS (78%); CYCLING (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ANNUAL REPORTS (74%); CHRISTMAS (61%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (50%); HURRICANE SANDY (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



125 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: The Next Emerging Market Crisis

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: No developing-world crisis seems imminent, but that could change quickly if overconfidence returned to the global markets, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Simon Johnson, former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, is the Ronald A. Kurtz Professor of Entrepreneurship at the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management and co-author of "White House Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It Matters to You." 
Do the world's middle-income countries - known in the investment business as "emerging markets" - face a serious risk of crisis? If such a crisis unfolds in one country, could there be contagion, with panic spreading around the world?
My answer is a cautious "no" on both questions. But it would be a mistake to dismiss or ignore these questions, in part because they are being asked by smart people in financial markets and in part because sometime in the not-too-distant future the answer could be a decisive "yes" - with disastrous consequences. 
There are three main sources of concern.
First, India faces real economic difficulties, building up to a type of crisis, as I explained here last week. Arvind Subramanian, my colleague at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, said in The New York Times over the weekend that the slowdown in Indian growth had longstanding causes and a quick recovery did not seem to be in the cards.
Most financial crises begin with one weak country and then spread as investors re-evaluate prospects more broadly. The 1982 "developing country debt" crisis was brought on initially in Mexico, and the financial unraveling of Asia in 1997 started with Thailand. Greece was supposed to be an isolated case in early 2010, but then pressure followed on Ireland, Portugal, Spain and Italy. 
Second, there are potential funding issues. In Europe, budget deficits need to be funded - and the main problem is that government finances may not be sustainable when interest rates rise. In some emerging markets, there are budget deficits (e.g., in India and Brazil), but the generally shared characteristic of shaky countries is current account deficits - the country is buying more from the world than it is selling.
Current account deficits are typically financed by capital inflows. As long as investors are happy to pile in because they like a country's prospects, this works fine. But when markets get jittery, for example because China is slowing down, domestic residents and foreigners take their capital out from many emerging markets and into relative safe havens (like the United States) - meaning that interest rates go up in emerging markets. If this sufficiently undermines economic growth, then prophesies of a slowdown can be self-fulfilling.
Third, the macro policy environment in the United States is not helpful to emerging markets. In part, this is because the Fed is inclining toward a less easy monetary policy and may either raise short-term rates or make statements that push up longer-term interest rates (broadly speaking, this is what has happened since the spring).
In 1982, higher interest rates in the United States raised borrowing costs for Mexico and other emerging markets, contributing to the onset of what became known as the Latin American debt crisis and, for many of the affected, a "lost decade." And in early 1997 the United States was also tightening monetary policy. Sometimes small changes in global funding can have big consequences on emerging markets.
In addition, heightened uncertainty about United States fiscal policy tends to cause capital to flow to safe havens - paradoxically, including the United States. This is not helpful to emerging markets with current account deficits that need financing.
The transmission mechanism for the spread of crisis is globalized financial markets, which flip from being sensible to crazed at the touch of a few buttons. You can add a wide variety of wild cards that would help unsettle investors under pressure, including the kind of erroneous trades caused by Goldman Sachs's trading system recently or the unrelated software problem at Nasdaq. We have surely not seen the last crisis involving so-called high-speed trading, in which computers place - by design - huge orders faster than their human overseers can completely control them.
But the underlying issue remains macroeconomics, and the question of whether capital will continue to flow to emerging markets as their economic prospects become somewhat less positive. Bookmark the International Monetary Fund's July economic growth forecasts and watch for how these are revised down for "developing Asia" and other emerging markets when the latest numbers come out in October. (Or take a look at the I.M.F.'s DataMapper for growth numbers and watch how it changes color as forecasts change.)
At the same time, two positive factors lower the probability of a serious worldwide crisis.
First, the continuing series of fiascos involving major international banks has a positive side: they are forced to be more careful and they are on the defensive relative to regulation. Almost all the big names have been involved in at least one big scandal in the last couple of years, including JPMorgan Chase's whale-size trading losses; investigations of money laundering at HSBC and Standard Chartered that ended with the banks agreeing to large settlements, and Barclays (and many others) on Libor. Deutsche Bank, UBS, Barclays and others remain under pressure to increase their equity funding (which means, if the pressure is meaningful, they must reduce their debt levels relative to total assets).
Hubris among international bankers is never low, but it is at more moderate levels than seen in 2005-7. And the pressure from regulators remains meaningful; people still remember the collapse of Lehman five years ago. Leverage (debt relative to total assets) in the largest banks is high - and much higher than we should regard as reasonable - but not at the atmospheric levels of 2007. As a result, losses on emerging market investments (or anything else) are less likely to tip major banks immediately into insolvency.
Second, many emerging markets have larger holdings of foreign exchange reserves than in the past, and they are less inclined to squander these reserves on defending a particular value of their exchange rate. To the extent that these countries can allow their currencies to depreciate modestly as capital flows out, they will naturally tend to increase their exports and reduce their imports - thus tending to reduce their current account deficits (and lower their future funding needs).
Watch carefully for developments in Brazil, Indonesia, South Africa and Turkey. How they respond to financial market pressure will be central to what happens next. If they moderate the effects - allowing some depreciation while raising interest rates somewhat - and keep confidence (and growth) at reasonable levels, there will be no wave of emerging market crises.
But when the big international financial companies get their mojo back, it will be a different story. Big crises follow prolonged episodes of exuberance, when people think there are only one-way bets (on emerging markets or anything else), leverage increases substantially and any downturn can quickly become a disaster. All really big crises start with overconfident investors.

        
India's Economic Crisis
        
Japan's Women to the Rescue
        
A Better Way to Think About Trade
        
The Current U.S. Economy: Text and Subtext
        
'Financialization' as a Cause of Economic Malaise

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (86%); INTEREST RATES (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); WRITERS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); TRENDS (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); MONETARY POLICY (67%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Economic Conditions and Trends; India; International Monetary Fund; International Trade and World Market; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: International Monetary Fund

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SPAIN (79%); EUROPE (79%); THAILAND (69%); GREECE (68%); PORTUGAL (53%) India

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



126 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: New York Today: Number One

BYLINE: ANDY NEWMAN


HIGHLIGHT: What you need to know for Thursday: a global survey gives New York City a big thumbs up, more perfect weather and a cross-country chicken flight. 

 BODY:
Updated 11:43 a.m. | Surveys are a dime a dozen - except, perhaps, for this one.
A new study of more than 18,000 people in 24 countries by the British market-research giant Ipsos MORI found New York the most popular city on the planet, ahead of London and Paris.
The Internet survey ranked New York the best city for business, second in where they'd "most like to visit" (behind Paris) and the fifth most desired place to live (Zurich was No. 1). 
The survey revealed some interesting global preferences. Belgians would much rather visit New York than live here, while Poles said the opposite (they'd rather see Mumbai or Madrid).
The pollsters tried to spin the results for their hometown. "The citizens of the world have spoken and given a massive vote of confidence in London and the U.K.," Ipsos MORI's boss told The Telegraph.
But even Britons put London second.
Americans, on the other hand, gave New York top marks.
Here's what you need to know for Thursday. 
 WEATHER 
As nice as yesterday: mostly sunny with a high of 78.
 TRANSIT & TRAFFIC 
 Mass Transit [11:43 a.m.] Delays on the northbound F train. Click for latest M.T.A. status.
 Roads: Click for traffic map or radio report on the 1s.
Alternate-side parking is suspended for Rosh Hashana today and tomorrow. Meter rules remain in effect.
 COMING UP TODAY 
 A parade of candidates on "Good Day New York": Christine C. Quinn at 7:15 a.m., Joseph J. Lhota at 7:30 and William C. Thompson Jr. at 8:10.
 Later, Ms. Quinn unveils a plan to help immigrant business owners and hosts a town hall meeting with Latino voters in the Bronx. Mr. Thompson promotes a plan to support city college students and their families. Bill de Blasio goes on Al Sharpton's radio show at 2:20 p.m.
 Fashion Week begins. Some people are getting tired of it.
 Walmart is not in New York City yet, but its striking workers will be, at 10 a.m., to deliver a petition to a member of the chain's board of directors as part of a nationwide day of protests.
 Live like a king, or a bishop, at a human chess session in Riverside Park, where people play the pieces. 4 to 6 p.m. [Free]
 A summer jam presided over by old-school D.J. Grandmaster Caz at Concrete Plant Park in the Bronx. 4 p.m. [Free]
Live-stream a concert of experimental-music vocalists: It's opening night of the Resonant Bodies Festival at ShapeShifter Lab in Brooklyn. [Live-stream free; tickets cost money]
 Time for a new moon (at 7:36 a.m., to be precise).
 Last day to enter the Empire State Building photo contest.
 Free outdoor movie: "Les Roseaux Sauvages" ("Wild Reeds" to you) on the steps of Columbia University's Low Library. 7:30 p.m.
 IN THE NEWS 
 The comptroller's race remains a dead heat, a poll found, with white voters overwhelmingly supporting Scott M. Stringer and black voters similarly inclined toward Eliot Spitzer. [New York Times]
 Anthony D. Weiner got into a shouting match with a heckler at a kosher bakery in Brooklyn. [New York Times]
 He also fulfilled a "lifelong dream" of being a TV weatherman. [Daily News]
 Despite all the new bike lanes and pedestrian plazas, the city says Manhattan car traffic is moving 7 percent faster since 2008. [New York Times]
 An assistant principal at a public high school in Williamsburg raped a female student, city investigators said. [New York Times]
 The police stepped up patrols near synagogues after a six-foot-high menorah in Brooklyn burned to the ground. [WABC Eyewitness News] 
 Carmelo Anthony may have caught a fish with his bare hands. [Gothamist]
 Poultry news: nearly 1,200 retired laying hens rescued from a California farm are being flown to New York to live out their lives at East Coast sanctuaries. And a rampaging wild turkey caused $5,000 worth of damage in New Jersey. [Sacramento Bee, Star-Ledger]
 At the United States Open, Rafael Nadal crushed his countryman Tommy Robredo to advance to the semifinals.
 Yankees beat White Sox, 6-5, to sweep series. Mets beat Braves, 5-2.
 AND FINALLY... 
Ken Delmar, a retired real estate salesman in Connecticut who longed to be an artist, discovered something interesting about paper towels: they're great at soaking up oil paint.
And so was started his second career, as a painter of portraits on two-ply Bounty towels.
His most ambitious work to date may be a matrix painting of the nine Supreme Court justices. [Click to see the painting.]
It's in a show of Mr. Delmar's work that opens tonight at the George Billis Gallery in Chelsea.
Nicole Higgins DeSmet contributed reporting. 
New York Today is a morning roundup that stays live from 6 a.m. till about noon. 
 What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, e-mail us at nytoday@nytimes.com or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. 
 Find us on weekdays at nytimes.com/nytoday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); RANKINGS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (71%); FASHION DESIGNERS (71%); MUSIC (70%); PETITIONS (68%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (66%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (62%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (62%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (61%); STRIKES (50%); ROSH HASHANAH (50%) New York Today

COMPANY: IPSOS MORI (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%)

PERSON: AL SHARPTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



127 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1722 words

HEADLINE: Morning Agenda: Sprint's Record Bond Offering

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Sprint Nextel sells $6.5 billion of high-yield bonds. | The Verizon Wireless deal highlights what bankers describe as the continued health of the debt markets. | Mail.ru sells its remaining stake in Facebook for around $525 million. | Charles Schwab &#038; Company is seeking to eliminate the option of class-action lawsuits for its clients. 

 BODY:
Sprint Nextel sold $6.5 billion of high-yield bonds on Wednesday, breaking the record for the single biggest noninvestment-grade offering ever sold directly to investors, DealBook's Michael J. de la Merced reports. The deal shows that investors remain interested in buying up new debt, despite concerns about the Federal Reserve raising rates in the near future.
The Sprint offering surpasses Freeport's $6 billion junk-bond offering in 2007 and Freescale Semiconductor's $5.95 billion note sale the previous year, Mr. de la Merced writes. With the sale, Sprint is planning to retire about $3 billion of debt owed by Clearwire, the wireless network operator it agreed to buy earlier this year. "We didn't wake up thinking we would do the biggest high-yield offering ever," Joseph J. Euteneuer, Sprint's chief financial officer, said by phone on Wednesday, adding praise for the performance of its adviser, JPMorgan Chase. 
VERIZON'S DEAL FINANCING MOVES QUICKLY | Verizon Communications' $130 billion deal to take full control of its wireless unit highlights what bankers describe as the continued health of the debt markets, Mr. de la Merced reports. Even after the deal was announced, the price of Verizon's bonds moved only a few basis points. And credit ratings agencies quickly announced they were downgrading the company by only one notch, keeping it at investment grade. That is what JPMorgan Chase and Morgan Stanley, the lead banks arranging the $61 billion in financing, had hoped.
"The pace of syndicating the initial bridge loan, provided by the two banks alongside Bank of America and Barclays, to other firms is moving quickly, according to people briefed on the matter. It will eventually be replaced with a $49 billion bond offering and $14 billion worth of loans."
RUSSIAN TECH GIANT SELLS FACEBOOK SHARES | The Russian Internet company Mail.ru, which is owned by the billionaire Alisher Usmanov, announced on Thursday that it had sold its remaining stake in Facebook for around $525 million, more than a year after Facebook's botched initial public offering, Mark Scott reports in DealBook. The Russian company initially bought its stake in Facebook in 2009 for around $200 million, and has had holdings in a number of other Internet start-ups in the United States.
ON THE AGENDA | The National Football League season begins Thursday night, with the Baltimore Ravens playing the Denver Broncos in Colorado. Data on factory orders in July is out at 10 a.m. Harvey R. Miller, a prominent bankruptcy lawyer, is on Bloomberg TV at 7 a.m. Thomas J. Curry, the comptroller of the currency, is on Bloomberg TV at 10:10 a.m.
SCHWAB CASE PUTS SPOTLIGHT ON ARBITRATION | The discount brokerage firm Charles Schwab & Company is finding itself at odds with regulators as it seeks to eliminate the option of class-action lawsuits for its clients, Susan Antilla reports in DealBook. "For Wall Street, the skirmish has inadvertently brought fresh and unwelcome attention to the investor arbitration process and its flaws, and could severely curtail efforts by investors hurt by widespread problems."
Investors generally have not been able to use the public court system for their disputes with their stockbrokers since a Supreme Court decision in 1987, but one exception was for issues that were pervasive enough to warrant class-action status. In 2011, though, Schwab added a clause to its customer agreement that required clients to agree not to pursue or participate in class-action suits - a move that did not sit well with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Wall Street's self-regulator. The enforcement division of Finra filed a disciplinary action against Schwab, and now the case is set to go before the association's adjudicatory panel next Wednesday.
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
A Bloody Ballmer and the Long Road to a Nokia Deal | Before Microsoft agreed this week to buy Nokia's mobile phone and services business for $7.2 billion, the two sides engaged in lengthy, on-and-off talks that often went nowhere, Nick Wingfield reports in the Bits blog. NEW YORK TIMES BITS
Music Executive Starts New Entertainment Business | Irving Azoff, who resigned last year as Live Nation Entertainment's executive chairman, announced on Wednesday the creation of Azoff MSG Entertainment, a multifaceted company backed by $175 million from the Madison Square Garden Company. NEW YORK TIMES
Bezos Is a Hit in Visit to Washington Post Newsroom | Jeffrey P. Bezos, Amazon's founder who recently agreed to buy The Washington Post, assured newsroom employees on Wednesday that he was committed to preserving quality journalism, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
BlackBerry Aims for a Sale by November | BlackBerry "intends to run a fast auction process that could be wrapped up by November, according to people familiar with the matter," The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Jay Z Said to Be Selling Stake in Nets | The rapper is selling his small ownership stake in the Brooklyn Nets to Jason Kidd, the team's coach, according to Page Six. NEW YORK POST
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Another Glitch for Nasdaq | Reuters reports: "Nasdaq OMX Group said the system at the center of the Nasdaq exchange's three-hour trading halt on Aug. 22 had a six-minute outage on Wednesday for a small number of stock symbols, but the issue had been resolved and trading was not affected." REUTERS
Rates on Big Mortgages Fall Below Those on Smaller Ones | Lending executives say the flip has never happened before, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Deutsche Bank Haunted by Concerns Over Capital | "No one feels like they've dealt with the issues yet," Christopher Wheeler, a London-based banking analyst with Mediobanca, said of Deutsche Bank's leverage ratio, according to The Wall Street Journal. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Three Managers to Leave Trading Firm | KCG Holdings, the firm that was formed after Getco took over the Knight Capital Group, said on Wednesday the head of its exchange-traded funds business and two other managers would depart, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Related's Ross Gives $200 Million to University of Michigan | The $200 million gift from the real estate developer Stephen M. Ross is the single largest gift in the university's history. DealBook »
PRIVATE EQUITY »
EP Energy, Owned by Apollo, Files for I.P.O. | The oil and gas company EP Energy was taken private by Apollo Global Management last year. REUTERS
HEDGE FUNDS »
Fund Responds to Chief's Prostitution Arrest | Common Sense Investment Management, a $2.9 billion fund of funds based in Oregon, sought to distance itself on Wednesday from a prostitution scandal involving its chief executive. DealBook »
A Rough August for Pershing Square | Pershing Square Capital Management, the hedge fund run by William A. Ackman, was down 3.6 percent in August, according to Reuters. REUTERS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
LinkedIn Raises $1.2 Billion in Stock Offering | LinkedIn said on Wednesday that it priced the offering of 5.4 million Class A shares at $233 a share. REUTERS
Stock Sale Looks Right for LinkedIn | Even though LinkedIn does not need the money, its stock sale looks a lot better for shareholders than an overpriced buyback, Robert Cyran writes in Reuters Breakingviews. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Hearsay Social Raises $30 Million to Give Bankers an Online Presence | The Silicon Valley start-up - and its investors - are betting that highly regulated companies will see social media channels as a way to make money. DealBook »
Path Wants to Define Your Inner Circle | Path, a mobile social network founded by a former Facebook executive, will begin rolling out a software update that allows users to designate an "inner circle" of close friends, the Bits blog reports. NEW YORK TIMES BITS
Start-Up Brings an Internet Sensibility to Time Shares | The investors in the current round of seed financing include top executives or former executives of Zillow, eHarmony, Expedia, Loopnet and Starwood Capital. DealBook »
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Obama's Favorite in Fed Succession Faces Opposition | President Obama has long had Lawrence H. Summers, his former economic adviser, in mind to be the next chairman of the Federal Reserve, Jackie Calmes reports in The New York Times. One former administration official said of their relationship, "It's like the attachment you feel for your heart surgeon after he performs a quadruple bypass." NEW YORK TIMES
For India's Central Bank Chief, Honeymoon May Be Short | Raghuram Rajan, a University of Chicago finance professor who took charge on Wednesday of the Reserve Bank of India, used his initial news conference to announce a long list of financial deregulatory measures. But some of the biggest problems bedeviling the Indian economy are beyond his control, The New York Times writes. NEW YORK TIMES
A Proposal to Strengthen Protections on Customer Funds | The staff of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission is "expected to recommend as early as this week the agency approve a package of rules, including a provision that could require futures brokers to put aside about twice as much collateral that firms currently must hold, according to people familiar with the matter," The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
SAC Capital Said to Increase Bonuses | Bloomberg News reports: "SAC Capital Advisors, the hedge-fund firm that's facing federal insider-trading charges and a money-laundering lawsuit, is raising 2014 bonuses for its portfolio managers by 3.5 percentage points to help retain employees, a person with knowledge of the decision." BLOOMBERG NEWS
GateHouse Media Plans Prepackaged Bankruptcy | GateHouse Media, backed by the Fortress Investment Group, plans to restructure its $1.2 billion of debt through a Chapter 11 filing. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Bank of England May Pause After Policy Decision | Reuters reports that the Bank of England is "expected to take a breather" after announcing its latest policy decision on Thursday after "a hectic couple of months" under its new governor, Mark J. Carney, as the economy is showing fresh signs of life. REUTERS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HIGH YIELD BONDS (92%); BONDS (91%); BOND MARKETS (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); BOND ISSUES (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LITIGATION (86%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (77%); STARTUPS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (74%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (74%); CREDIT BUREAUS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (71%); LAWYERS (65%); INTERNET & WWW (62%); FACEBOOK INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING (62%); DISCOUNT BROKERS (60%); CLASS ACTIONS (60%); EXECUTIVES (53%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: SPRINT CORP (97%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); CHARLES SCHWAB & CO INC (60%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); FACEBOOK INC (53%); BLOOMBERG LP (51%)

TICKER: S (NYSE) (97%); JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%); VZC (LSE) (91%); VZ (NYSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); FB (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (97%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: ALISHER USMANOV (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (73%) COLORADO, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



128 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1722 words

HEADLINE: Morning Agenda: Sprint's Record Bond Offering

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Sprint Nextel sells $6.5 billion of high-yield bonds. | The Verizon Wireless deal highlights what bankers describe as the continued health of the debt markets. | Mail.ru sells its remaining stake in Facebook for around $525 million. | Charles Schwab &#038; Company is seeking to eliminate the option of class-action lawsuits for its clients. 

 BODY:
Sprint Nextel sold $6.5 billion of high-yield bonds on Wednesday, breaking the record for the single biggest noninvestment-grade offering ever sold directly to investors, DealBook's Michael J. de la Merced reports. The deal shows that investors remain interested in buying up new debt, despite concerns about the Federal Reserve raising rates in the near future.
The Sprint offering surpasses Freeport's $6 billion junk-bond offering in 2007 and Freescale Semiconductor's $5.95 billion note sale the previous year, Mr. de la Merced writes. With the sale, Sprint is planning to retire about $3 billion of debt owed by Clearwire, the wireless network operator it agreed to buy earlier this year. "We didn't wake up thinking we would do the biggest high-yield offering ever," Joseph J. Euteneuer, Sprint's chief financial officer, said by phone on Wednesday, adding praise for the performance of its adviser, JPMorgan Chase. 
VERIZON'S DEAL FINANCING MOVES QUICKLY | Verizon Communications' $130 billion deal to take full control of its wireless unit highlights what bankers describe as the continued health of the debt markets, Mr. de la Merced reports. Even after the deal was announced, the price of Verizon's bonds moved only a few basis points. And credit ratings agencies quickly announced they were downgrading the company by only one notch, keeping it at investment grade. That is what JPMorgan Chase and Morgan Stanley, the lead banks arranging the $61 billion in financing, had hoped.
"The pace of syndicating the initial bridge loan, provided by the two banks alongside Bank of America and Barclays, to other firms is moving quickly, according to people briefed on the matter. It will eventually be replaced with a $49 billion bond offering and $14 billion worth of loans."
RUSSIAN TECH GIANT SELLS FACEBOOK SHARES | The Russian Internet company Mail.ru, which is owned by the billionaire Alisher Usmanov, announced on Thursday that it had sold its remaining stake in Facebook for around $525 million, more than a year after Facebook's botched initial public offering, Mark Scott reports in DealBook. The Russian company initially bought its stake in Facebook in 2009 for around $200 million, and has had holdings in a number of other Internet start-ups in the United States.
ON THE AGENDA | The National Football League season begins Thursday night, with the Baltimore Ravens playing the Denver Broncos in Colorado. Data on factory orders in July is out at 10 a.m. Harvey R. Miller, a prominent bankruptcy lawyer, is on Bloomberg TV at 7 a.m. Thomas J. Curry, the comptroller of the currency, is on Bloomberg TV at 10:10 a.m.
SCHWAB CASE PUTS SPOTLIGHT ON ARBITRATION | The discount brokerage firm Charles Schwab & Company is finding itself at odds with regulators as it seeks to eliminate the option of class-action lawsuits for its clients, Susan Antilla reports in DealBook. "For Wall Street, the skirmish has inadvertently brought fresh and unwelcome attention to the investor arbitration process and its flaws, and could severely curtail efforts by investors hurt by widespread problems."
Investors generally have not been able to use the public court system for their disputes with their stockbrokers since a Supreme Court decision in 1987, but one exception was for issues that were pervasive enough to warrant class-action status. In 2011, though, Schwab added a clause to its customer agreement that required clients to agree not to pursue or participate in class-action suits - a move that did not sit well with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Wall Street's self-regulator. The enforcement division of Finra filed a disciplinary action against Schwab, and now the case is set to go before the association's adjudicatory panel next Wednesday.
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
A Bloody Ballmer and the Long Road to a Nokia Deal | Before Microsoft agreed this week to buy Nokia's mobile phone and services business for $7.2 billion, the two sides engaged in lengthy, on-and-off talks that often went nowhere, Nick Wingfield reports in the Bits blog. NEW YORK TIMES BITS
Music Executive Starts New Entertainment Business | Irving Azoff, who resigned last year as Live Nation Entertainment's executive chairman, announced on Wednesday the creation of Azoff MSG Entertainment, a multifaceted company backed by $175 million from the Madison Square Garden Company. NEW YORK TIMES
Bezos Is a Hit in Visit to Washington Post Newsroom | Jeffrey P. Bezos, Amazon's founder who recently agreed to buy The Washington Post, assured newsroom employees on Wednesday that he was committed to preserving quality journalism, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
BlackBerry Aims for a Sale by November | BlackBerry "intends to run a fast auction process that could be wrapped up by November, according to people familiar with the matter," The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Jay Z Said to Be Selling Stake in Nets | The rapper is selling his small ownership stake in the Brooklyn Nets to Jason Kidd, the team's coach, according to Page Six. NEW YORK POST
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Another Glitch for Nasdaq | Reuters reports: "Nasdaq OMX Group said the system at the center of the Nasdaq exchange's three-hour trading halt on Aug. 22 had a six-minute outage on Wednesday for a small number of stock symbols, but the issue had been resolved and trading was not affected." REUTERS
Rates on Big Mortgages Fall Below Those on Smaller Ones | Lending executives say the flip has never happened before, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Deutsche Bank Haunted by Concerns Over Capital | "No one feels like they've dealt with the issues yet," Christopher Wheeler, a London-based banking analyst with Mediobanca, said of Deutsche Bank's leverage ratio, according to The Wall Street Journal. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Three Managers to Leave Trading Firm | KCG Holdings, the firm that was formed after Getco took over the Knight Capital Group, said on Wednesday the head of its exchange-traded funds business and two other managers would depart, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Related's Ross Gives $200 Million to University of Michigan | The $200 million gift from the real estate developer Stephen M. Ross is the single largest gift in the university's history. DealBook »
PRIVATE EQUITY »
EP Energy, Owned by Apollo, Files for I.P.O. | The oil and gas company EP Energy was taken private by Apollo Global Management last year. REUTERS
HEDGE FUNDS »
Fund Responds to Chief's Prostitution Arrest | Common Sense Investment Management, a $2.9 billion fund of funds based in Oregon, sought to distance itself on Wednesday from a prostitution scandal involving its chief executive. DealBook »
A Rough August for Pershing Square | Pershing Square Capital Management, the hedge fund run by William A. Ackman, was down 3.6 percent in August, according to Reuters. REUTERS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
LinkedIn Raises $1.2 Billion in Stock Offering | LinkedIn said on Wednesday that it priced the offering of 5.4 million Class A shares at $233 a share. REUTERS
Stock Sale Looks Right for LinkedIn | Even though LinkedIn does not need the money, its stock sale looks a lot better for shareholders than an overpriced buyback, Robert Cyran writes in Reuters Breakingviews. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Hearsay Social Raises $30 Million to Give Bankers an Online Presence | The Silicon Valley start-up - and its investors - are betting that highly regulated companies will see social media channels as a way to make money. DealBook »
Path Wants to Define Your Inner Circle | Path, a mobile social network founded by a former Facebook executive, will begin rolling out a software update that allows users to designate an "inner circle" of close friends, the Bits blog reports. NEW YORK TIMES BITS
Start-Up Brings an Internet Sensibility to Time Shares | The investors in the current round of seed financing include top executives or former executives of Zillow, eHarmony, Expedia, Loopnet and Starwood Capital. DealBook »
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Obama's Favorite in Fed Succession Faces Opposition | President Obama has long had Lawrence H. Summers, his former economic adviser, in mind to be the next chairman of the Federal Reserve, Jackie Calmes reports in The New York Times. One former administration official said of their relationship, "It's like the attachment you feel for your heart surgeon after he performs a quadruple bypass." NEW YORK TIMES
For India's Central Bank Chief, Honeymoon May Be Short | Raghuram Rajan, a University of Chicago finance professor who took charge on Wednesday of the Reserve Bank of India, used his initial news conference to announce a long list of financial deregulatory measures. But some of the biggest problems bedeviling the Indian economy are beyond his control, The New York Times writes. NEW YORK TIMES
A Proposal to Strengthen Protections on Customer Funds | The staff of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission is "expected to recommend as early as this week the agency approve a package of rules, including a provision that could require futures brokers to put aside about twice as much collateral that firms currently must hold, according to people familiar with the matter," The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
SAC Capital Said to Increase Bonuses | Bloomberg News reports: "SAC Capital Advisors, the hedge-fund firm that's facing federal insider-trading charges and a money-laundering lawsuit, is raising 2014 bonuses for its portfolio managers by 3.5 percentage points to help retain employees, a person with knowledge of the decision." BLOOMBERG NEWS
GateHouse Media Plans Prepackaged Bankruptcy | GateHouse Media, backed by the Fortress Investment Group, plans to restructure its $1.2 billion of debt through a Chapter 11 filing. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Bank of England May Pause After Policy Decision | Reuters reports that the Bank of England is "expected to take a breather" after announcing its latest policy decision on Thursday after "a hectic couple of months" under its new governor, Mark J. Carney, as the economy is showing fresh signs of life. REUTERS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HIGH YIELD BONDS (92%); BONDS (91%); BOND MARKETS (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); BOND ISSUES (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LITIGATION (86%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (77%); STARTUPS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (74%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (74%); CREDIT BUREAUS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (71%); LAWYERS (65%); INTERNET & WWW (62%); FACEBOOK INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING (62%); DISCOUNT BROKERS (60%); CLASS ACTIONS (60%); EXECUTIVES (53%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: SPRINT CORP (97%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); CHARLES SCHWAB & CO INC (60%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); FACEBOOK INC (53%); BLOOMBERG LP (51%)

TICKER: S (NYSE) (97%); JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%); VZC (LSE) (91%); VZ (NYSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); FB (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (97%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: ALISHER USMANOV (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (73%) COLORADO, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



129 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: Months After Storm, Mennonites Stay and Rebuild

BYLINE: EDNA ISHAYIK


HIGHLIGHT: A volunteer crew of Mennonites arrived in New York within days of Hurricane Sandy&#8217;s landfall, and with some 80 projects in various stages of rehabilitation, they have now set up house in temporary quarters. 

 BODY:
Within days of Hurricane Sandy's arrival in New York, Frank Hoover started coordinating vans full of Mennonites to repair homes ravaged by the storm. His impromptu crews finished their farm chores in Pennsylvania Dutch country in the middle of the night and left for Staten Island or Far Rockaway, Queens, by 3 a.m. They worked 8 or 10 hours, then drove back to Lancaster County.
Since then, over 1,300 Mennonites have come into the city. Volunteers from the conservative sect of Protestant Christianity that includes the Amish, known for their skillful carpentry (as well as their beards and bonnets), have already returned dozens of low-income, hurricane-struck families to their homes. They have another 80 projects in various stages of rehabilitation. 
"We do this in our own community - if someone has storm damage, the neighbors all come together and help," said Mr. Hoover, 57, a long-term volunteer who lives in Lancaster. "We believe the Bible teaches us that we have to share our blessings. I think if God blesses us, we can't hoard that to ourselves."
While Mr. Hoover's volunteers made the round trip in one day at first, the Mennonites have now set up house in temporary quarters, allowing volunteers from as far away as the Midwest and Canada to stay for days or weeks at a time. 
"They are so humble. They are reluctant to ever ask for anything," said Brad Gair, director of the mayor's NYC Recovery office. "But we finally got it out of them that they were commuting daily from Pennsylvania. That was really not sustainable. Sometimes they were sleeping in the houses they were working on - it was winter and there were no utilities."
On Staten Island, the Mennonites are staying in a defunct Roman Catholic seminary near Midland Beach. In Far Rockaway, behind the First Church of God stands a small cluster of prefabricated barracks on trailer beds. The squat shelters were built by Amish carpenters in Pennsylvania, hitched to trucks and delivered to the church's gravel parking lot. Inside, unfinished wood bunk beds are dressed in plain white sheets. Other trailers house bathroom and kitchen facilities.
"As long as we offer a place to sleep, a place to shower, and food in their belly, they're happy," said John Tolvin, a volunteer from Oregon stationed at Far Rockaway.
The Mennonite crews do an array of tasks, including replacing floors, plumbing and overhauling roofs.
Logan Orpin, 20, came from Wichita, Kan., to Far Rockaway for three weeks. One recent afternoon, he took a break from his work priming and painting walls and listed the steps that will let a family confined to two rooms of their house move back into the whole home - insulation, drywall, painting, shelving.
"The Lord has blessed me with the construction skills I have, and this is my way of helping those in need," Mr. Orpin said.
Female Amish volunteers, who are generally assigned to domestic chores, have also been known to pitch in rebuilding roofs and hanging drywall.
Mennonite Disaster Service, the organization coordinating the volunteer response, looks to help those lowest on the economic rungs or with extenuating circumstances. "Most of the ones that we do are special cases: cancer victims, people who are wheelchair-bound, handicapped," said Bruce Smith, a project director for the service.
Theodora Friscia, a retired nurse, is one of those helped by the Mennonites. Her tiny 1920s bungalow in Midland Beach was nearly destroyed.
"It was an absolute shell," she said. "I lost everything. Twelve feet of water we had here. I would have had to hire privately and it would have eaten up my pension. And that money I needed to save for when I'm 80 years old. I have no one to fall back on."
Winston Penner, 72, of Manitoba, Canada, was one of the long-term volunteers who helped fix Ms. Friscia's home. He worked on her plumbing and electrical work, and replaced the house's siding.
"I'm not saying we work harder than any other carpenters, but when people are grateful like Thea, it makes it more rewarding," Mr. Penner said. "It's just for the joy of helping people out who are in need."
During the warm months, the Pennsylvania volunteers who live on farms have mostly stayed home to tend the fields, but the temporary housing has allowed more modern Mennonites, not tied to the fields, to come in from farther away. When this year's harvest is in, around the anniversary of Hurricane Sandy, more Amish and Old Order Mennonites will rejoin the rebuilding efforts. This time, they will have a place to stay. 
 The disaster service has committed to fixing 50 more homes on Staten Island before April. Beyond that, Mr. Smith said he did not see the Mennonites' leaving New York anytime soon. 
"Long term, you're looking at anywhere between two to five years here," he said. "And it doesn't begin to cover it all. We get more calls every day."
 An earlier version of the article incorrectly characterized Brad Gair's role with the mayor's NYC Recovery office. He is its director, not a representative. 

        
Rescue Team at a Beach Tries to Save the Summer
        
The House That Generosity Built: Staten Island Little League Plans Opener
        
Thieves Target Volunteers Aiding Staten Island
        
Staten Island Volunteers Fear City Will Hamper Their Hurricane Relief Efforts
        
Sign-Language Interpreter Uses Newfound Fame to Advocate for the Deaf

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); HURRICANE SANDY (92%); HURRICANES (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); FAMILY (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (61%) Far Rockaway (Queens, NY); Hurricane Sandy (2012); Mennonite Churches; Staten Island (NYC); Volunteers and Community Service; People & Neighborhoods

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LANCASTER, PA, USA (79%); WICHITA, KS, USA (69%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (54%) UNITED STATES (94%) Far Rockaway (Queens, NY); Staten Island (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



130 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: An Unusually Crowded Summer Box Office, in Charts

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: It&#8217;s not your imagination: there really were more would-be blockbusters than usual this summer. A look at historical trends in summertime releases, and the effect of &#8220;Jaws.&#8221; 

 BODY:
Hollywood's summer season officially ended last weekend, and overall box-office revenues were up even after adjusting for inflation. Yet there were also a lot of high-profile flops and disappointments ("Lone Ranger," "Turbo," "R.I.P.D.," "White House Down," and so on). What gives?
Part of the problem was that the release schedule these last few months was so crowded, with lots and lots of would-be blockbusters opening almost simultaneously, as I write in an It's the Economy column for The New York Times Magazine. 
Summer usually brings a higher number of these big "tent pole" releases than other seasons. Which makes sense, given that Americans' appetite for movie outings probably increases during the summer thanks to school breaks, vacations and heat waves. But this summer the release schedule was unusually congested, and moviegoing demand doesn't increase quite enough during the dog days to absorb an unlimited number of big-budget films.
To give you a sense of scale: There were 31 films that each played on at least 3,000 screens nationwide this summer (a decent proxy for a film aiming for a very wide audience). That's a new high. The average over the previous decade was 23.3 films, according to data from Box Office Mojo.
Now, summer is an especially long season, at least the way that Hollywood divides the calendar year. Hollywood's summer lasts from the first Friday in May through Labor Day, typically about 122 days (that is, a third of the year). So of course you'd expect more movies to be released then. Even if you adjusted for the number of days in each season, though, summer still has a disproportionately high number of tent-pole movies released. Here's the same data from the chart above, adjusted for number of days in each season each year:
As you can see, summer and the holiday season usually have a higher number of these mega-release movies per day. And this summer took the cake, with an average of 0.25 films playing on at least 3,000 screens per day.
I mentioned earlier, of course, that consumer demand for moviegoing increases during the summer. And box-office revenues are indeed higher during the summer, typically about 40 percent of the calendar year's total domestic gross. Studios see this higher summertime gross and think that the best way to maximize their tent-pole movie's potential audience is to release sometime in that early-May-through-Labor-Day window.
This reasoning is flawed, though, and not only because films face more competition during the summer season (which means studios are chasing after a smaller share of what appears to be a slightly bigger pie). The other issue is that the box-office pie might be bigger in the summer precisely because the tent-pole films are released then. As I write in the magazine article, the expected box-office appeal of the movie could be driving the release date, instead of the release date's causing the box-office performance.
In economics and statistics, this problem is referred to as endogeneity. Use that jargon around any academic and you'll get lots of Brownie points. But people in the regular world, including studio executives and even lowly journalists, have a lot of trouble wrapping their heads around the concept when figuring out how to parse past trends.
Liran Einav, an economics professor at Stanford, wrote his dissertation on seasonal swings in the movie industry and tried to get around this problem by controlling for film quality (that is, the likely box-office appeal of a movie). He concluded that about a third of the seasonal swing in moviegoing was due to the release of films with wider appeal at the same times each year. The other two-thirds of the swing is indeed due to potential audiences' being bigger on times like Memorial Day weekend or Christmas week (because of school breaks, etc.).
It's not as if studios always saved their biggest movies for release in the summer and holiday seasons, by the way.
Pretty much everyone I spoke with in the industry dates this industry mind-set back to "Jaws," the original summer blockbuster. It was released in late June 1975, around the time of year that the events depicted in the film also took place. After "Jaws" broke all sorts of box-office records, it helped change the conventional studio strategy in releasing blockbusters.
If you look at the highest-grossing movie each year going back to the early 20th century, you'll see what appears to be a turning point in the thinking about when to release big blockbusters around the time that "Jaws" swam into the picture.
In the 50 years before "Jaws," only 20 percent of the time was the year's highest-grossing movie released in what is now considered the summer season.
After "Jaws," the summertime hits started to become much more frequent. In subsequent years, the highest-grossing movie each year was a summer release more than 60 percent of the time.
And lately studios and distributors have appeared even keener on releasing their biggest films in the summer, as you can tell from the fact that there were so many tent poles released this summer. In fact, in the last decade, summer has been the setting for the year's highest-grossing film 80 percent of the time, with the holiday season contributing the other 20 percent.
(Note: For a few films, the best way to categorize the season of opening is ambiguous, because sometimes there was a gap of several weeks or months between the premiere in New York or Los Angeles and a wider release, particularly in the earlier parts of the 20th century. There are not enough cases where the premiere and wide-release dates fell in different seasons to substantially change the patterns above, though.)

        
Reviewing the Movies: Audiences vs. Critics
        
A Rating With a High Return: NC-17
        
Hollywood's Biggest Bang for Its Buck
        
A Not-So-Great Great Recession
        
The Perils of Significant Misunderstandings in Evaluating Medicaid

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); TRENDS (90%); FILM (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); MOVIE REVENUES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (86%); US LABOR DAY (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%) Advertising and Marketing; Movies; Seasons and Months; Statistics

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



131 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 433 words

HEADLINE: A Banking Bankruptcy That Takes a Different Path

BYLINE: STEPHEN J. LUBBEN


HIGHLIGHT: A small bank holding company in Wisconsin plans to use Chapter 11 to recapitalize, not to liquidate as typically happens. The company hopes to use the bankruptcy to save its bank, AnchorBank. 

 BODY:
When a bank holding company files for bankruptcy, it usually occurs after the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has taken away its banking subsidiary. In such a Chapter 11 case, the only thing left for the company to do is marshal the assets - including a typically large tax refund - and pay out the results to creditors before liquidating. Washington Mutual provides the most obvious example of this basic model. 
But a small bank holding company in Wisconsin is following a different model. The company, Anchor BanCorp Wisconsin, plans to use Chapter 11 to recapitalize rather than liquidate. And it filed for Chapter 11 before its bank, AnchorBank, was taken over by regulators. Indeed, it hopes that its Chapter 11 case will avoid such a takeover.
During the financial crisis, the holding company received more than $100 million from the federal Troubled Asset Relief Program. But it was still wobbly, and faced the prospect of losing its bank.
By filing for Chapter 11, it could take three crucial steps. First, it would be able to pay off more than $180 million in debt owed to other banks for just $49 million.
Second, it could convert the United States Treasury's preferred stock - received as part of the TARP bailout - into a small equity stake, worth about $6 million, in the holding company. As a result, the Treasury Department would realize a loss on its TARP investment, though that is a relatively small piece of that program. 
And most important, Anchor said it would cancel its existing shares and sell the remaining new equity to investors, leading to the recapitalization of the holding company.
Anchor filed its Chapter 11 petition on Aug. 12, and a judge approved its plan late last week. Federal regulators still need to officially sign off on the plan, but Anchor said in its disclosure statement that it had been in contact with those regulators and that they "have not raised any objection." 
The speedy trip through bankruptcy was the result of a prepackaged bankruptcy case that included the creditors voting on the plan before the bankruptcy filing. This may well provide another template for use of Chapter 11 in connection with other financial institutions, although it does require swift, pre-emptive action by the debtor's management before the problems at the regulated subsidiaries get out of hand. The crucial question is whether it can be applied at a financial institution that needs a recapitalization in the hundreds of billions, rather than the hundreds of millions.

        
Regulators Seek Stiffer Bank Rules on Capital
        
Trader's Day in Court May Lack Some Details

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); DEREGULATION (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); PETITIONS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); PREFERRED STOCK (71%); JUDGES (63%); SUBPRIME LENDING (59%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (59%) Anchor BanCorp Wisconsin; AnchorBank; Bankruptcies; Emergency Economic Stabilization Act (2008); Federal Deposit Insurance Corp; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; In Debt; Legal/Regulatory; Restructuring & Bankruptcy

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (91%); ANCHOR BANCORP WISCONSIN INC (84%); WMI HOLDINGS CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Deposit Insurance Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (91%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



132 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2013

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1522 words

HEADLINE: Poor Infrastructure Hampers India's Export Chances in Downturn

BYLINE: MARK BERGEN


HIGHLIGHT: Without an earlier manufacturing boom, India is now bereft of companies that can build the things its builders need. 

 BODY:
BANGALORE -On the outskirts of Bangalore, Karnataka, in a manufacturing unit for Indo-US MIM Tec Private Limited, dozens of workers in blue uniforms stood behind tall, nearly noiseless machines. The equipment pumped and swerved, quietly fusing bits of metal and polymer. Founded in 1997, the company builds a range of parts for cars, factories and consumer goods using a rare manufacturing technique called metal injection molding. It pioneered the technique in India, and claims to be the world's largest practitioner. 
Shivashankar T.S., 41, the company's vice president of operation, bounded across his plant like a proud parent. He stopped at one production unit and showed off its final product: a small silver widget, bound for a sports car in Canada. Rows of sharp, tiny triangles sat on shelves nearby. An American company will soon set them atop long crossbows it can sell to eager game hunters in the United States. In the adjacent building, metallic slabs used in commercial airplane wheels wait to be fastened in Dubai. Two years ago, Indo-US MIM poured in over $2 million to add an aerospace component division.
Mr. Shivashankar detailed the molding mechanics briskly in a highly technical language; his voice brimmed with giddy reverence for his plant's technical prowess. 
If any business in India should be giddy today, it is his. Economic growth has plummeted and the rupee has gone with it, losing a fifth of its value against the dollar since May. When a country's currency deflates, textbook economics says the country's exports should boom, as its goods will be cheaper in overseas markets.
Indo-US MIM ships more than 90 percent of its production of parts for automobiles, medical and aerospace industries abroad to 65 countries. Production costs at home - the rent on two plants and salaries for 1,800 employees - are paid in rupees. The payment for the company's exports is in dollars or euros.
But Indo-US MIM isn't experiencing an export euphoria. Its molding technique requires advanced machinery and five rare metal powders. For its high-tech needs, it must look outside of India. "When the rupee tanks, we take a hit on raw materials," said the company's chief executive, Krishna Chivukula Jr.
Mr. Chivukula now faces the frustrating predicament of many Indian exporters: standing beneath the economy's one bright spot, when exports are suddenly poised to blossom, they're unable to seize it. 
India's current economic crisis illuminates the country's familiar weakness in industry next to its neighbors. When the East Asian crisis struck in 1997 and 1998, the affected nations, whose currencies rapidly sank, got back on the road to recovery through their exports. India's odds of repeating the tactic now appear very low. Many of its export industries with the most growth potential lack the basic infrastructure to expand. 
Without an earlier manufacturing boom, the country is now bereft of companies that can build the things its builders need. And these exporters can't escape the costs of doing business in India - the rising price of goods, political torpor.
As the rupee collapsed, some exports have picked up. In July, exports reached $25.8 billion, up from $23.1 billion in July 2012 , according to the commerce ministry. Pharmaceuticals, textiles and agricultural goods, like wheat, netted solid gains.
Yet a dour report, released on Monday by HSBC, noted that Indian manufacturing shrank in August to its lowest levels in over four years. Demand for exports contracted as well. More critically, India's imports in July, the most recent month of data, have not slowed enough to curb its bruising trade deficit of $12.27 billion, the same total as in June.
Some industry leaders maintained the trade gap will slim in the coming months as the rupee depreciation settles. Spurts in exports in large-scale industries tend to lag. For an Indian manufacturer with imports below 40 percent of production costs the rupee slide is a gift, argued J. Crasta, regional head of the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry, a business lobby in Karnataka, one of the five states in India that account for 63 percent of the country's exports, by the latest figures. 
Mr. Crasta said that his company, CM Envirosystems, which makes testing chambers built mostly from domestic parts, has seen a threefold increase in exports so far this year. "It is now an opportunity for all the industries to look out for exports," he said.
Still, many of India's top export industries - textiles, engineering products and jewelry - lean heavily on imports. For those that don't, hitches to rapid expansion remain. Retail inflation has mellowed but remains high, at 9.6 percent in July, a burden on purchases inside India. Several exporters set lengthy contracts with clients or use pre-fixed rates that don't allow them to take advantage of the weaker rupee. Others report that international customers are now demanding higher prices, fretful of India's wayward economy.
Even India's prized tech sector may see blunter export gains than it could. As the rupee collapsed, stocks in several major Indian information technology companies rose. Within foreign contracts and little costs beyond labor, technology services in theory stand to benefit considerably from a weak rupee. Back in February, before the rupee nosedive began, Nasscom, the high-tech industry body, predicted upwards of 14 percent growth in exports for the fiscal year.
But a drop-off in investment into India, coupled with the broader rocky economy, now makes that target unrealistic. "The government situation today doesn't make us very attractive to the investment community," said Sanchit Vir Gogia, C.E.O. of Greyhound Knowledge Group, a technology consultancy. He estimates that export growth for the year may barely topple 10 percent.
Mr. Gogia also said that he doesn't expect to see exports rising considerably soon. Global tech giants are setting up operations in cheaper nations, in Southeast Asia and Eastern Europe. Some Indian outsourcers have joined them. The trend is not slowing, particularly as the Indian economy sputters. "There's no confidence in bidding with Indian IT companies," he said. "There's too much uncertainty."
For many industrialists, a similar culprit of lackluster confidence is behind the export conundrum. "The government is doing everything that it possibly can to restrict export growth," said Mr. Chivukula of Indo-US MIM, a young, United States-born executive.
India suffers from a well-known infrastructure deficit: a lack of efficient roads, ports and distribution channels necessary for manufacturing strength. Scores of industrial projects are stuck in bottlenecks nationwide. Easy access to land is a common complaint of manufacturing chieftains. Mr. Chivukula voiced a refrain among business owners that the land acquisition bill, passed recently in the lower house of Parliament, is largely a populist measure that signals the government's inability to tackle its fiscal deficits.
The government is very much aware of the nation's tepid exports. In the most recent central government budget, presented in February, Finance Minister P. Chidambaram proposed multiple new tax incentives and investment plans to prop up manufacturing sectors, building on earlier policies set in place. These plans are steadily taking shape, explained Suresh Nair, a regulatory expert at Ernst & Young. But he said that the positive windfalls for exporters may be undone by the damage from inflation.
Sanjay Nayak runs Tejas Networks, a telecommunication equipment maker outside Bangalore, and is active in discussions on the electronics industry, where India's imports far outweigh its production. "They're progressing," he said of the policies. "But, as usual, very slowly."
Mr. Nayak's company, along with Indo-US MIM, is the type of industry economic policy makers in India have pined for - high-skilled manufacturing firms that partner with companies across the globe. At the moment, these Bangalore companies suffer from an infrastructure deficit that doesn't involve potholes and bureaucratic red tape. The business network to fully support them inside India simply doesn't exist. Tejas Networks must import roughly half of its materials and capital equipment since they are not produced in India. Any export gains from a historically low rupee, Mr. Nayak admitted, are a wash.
At Indo-US MIM, Mr. Shivashankar points to three of their pricey tooling machines quietly humming inside on the shop floor. They came from Germany, Switzerland and Singapore. "We tried some Indian components. It failed miserably," he said. 
If India were to produce the advanced machinery and metals they need, the story would be different. "Then the devaluation would be like Christmas," lamented Mr. Chivukula. "It would just be unbelievable."
 Mark Bergen is a Bangalore-based freelance journalist. 

        
What They Said: Indian Rupee Hits Record Low
        
Falling Rupee Puts Brakes on India's Auto Industry
        
India's Tata Group Maps U.S. Expansion
        
A Conversation With: U.S.A.I.D. Administrator Rajiv Shah
        
India's Prime Minister Asks Developed Nations to Use Less Energy and Water

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); TRENDS (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%) Bangalore (India); Economic Conditions and Trends; India; Indian Rupee (Currency); International Trade and World Market; Typography; United States Economy

GEOGRAPHIC: KARNATAKA, INDIA (90%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) INDIA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); CANADA (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) Bangalore (India); India

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



133 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2013

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: A 'Peculiar' Peek at Thomas Pynchon's Latest

BYLINE: JOHN WILLIAMS


HIGHLIGHT: The book trailer for Mr. Pynchon&#8217;s new novel, &#8220;Bleeding Edge,&#8221; has viewers scratching their heads. 

 BODY:
Bloggers have called it "bizarre," "highly bizarre," "peculiar" and "appropriately odd." It's the book trailer for Thomas Pynchon's new novel, "Bleeding Edge," which will be published on Sept. 17. 
In the low-budget video, a young man calling himself the "king of the Upper West Side" and wearing a T-shirt that reads, "Hi, I'm Tom Pynchon," wanders around the city discussing his routines: "I try to just sort of occupy Zabar's for five to six hours; just sort of sweat it out, get that sawdust smell into my lungs." At the end of the trailer, he uses smoked fish as a face wrap on a bench in Central Park after looking at a display of Philip Roth books and saying, "He's everywhere."
The trailer does briefly mention Maxine Tarnow, a character in "Bleeding Edge," but otherwise connections to the novel seem scant. The book is set in New York City in 2001. The flap copy says: "There may not be quite as much money around as there was at the height of the tech bubble, but there's no shortage of swindlers looking to grab a piece of what's left."
Reaction to the trailer on Twitter has been mixed. The author William Gibson called it "Absolutely the best novel trailer so far in the history of the world." The book designer Peter Mendelsund weighed in: "The trailer for Pynchon's new novel is, um, bad?" And the blog kottke.org hedged its bet, calling the teaser "either brilliant or the dumbest thing ever."
Mr. Pynchon is becoming an old hand at generating talk around his sneak peeks. In 2009, the reclusive author narrated the stoner-toned trailer for his private-eye novel "Inherent Vice." Last year, a slick trailer announced the e-book editions of Mr. Pynchon's collected works.
Bleeding Edge book trailer from The Penguin Press on Vimeo.

        
Thomas Pynchon to Publish New Book
        
A Macabre Mystery: Poe Ballantine Talks About Memoir and True Crime
        
'Redshirts' Takes Hugo Award for Best Science-Fiction Novel
        
Book Review Podcast: Life With J. Paul Getty
        
Seamus Heaney's 'Journey Into the Wideness of Language'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (92%); WRITERS (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (79%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (78%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE (78%); LITERATURE (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); PODCASTING (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (74%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (73%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (73%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (51%) Bleeding Edge (Book); Books and Literature; Pynchon, Thomas; Books

PERSON: Pynchon, Thomas

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



134 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1659 words

HEADLINE: A New Divestment Focus: Fossil Fuels

BYLINE: RANDALL SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Concern over global warming has spurred students to dust off investment choice as a weapon in their campaign. But whether it will be as effective this time is another matter. 

 BODY:
In the 1980s, it was South Africa. In the 1990s, it was tobacco.
Now fossil fuels have become the focus of those who would change the world through the power of investing.
 A student movement has gathered momentum at more than 300 campuses over the last year. Members have encouraged college and university endowments to divest themselves of their holdings of companies in the fossil fuel business to avoid profiting from the release of carbon associated with the risk of global warming.
While the efforts have gained some traction, they have also met strong opposition from critics who favor the traditional proxy-voting process of engagement, in which institutional investors try to prod corporations to change their practices, with divestiture a last resort.
The push also comes as some big institutional investors are paying more attention to broader programs devoted to environmental, social and corporate governance issues. 
For example, the California Public Employees' Retirement System has a sprawling program that includes 111 initiatives. They include proxy voting, investing in funds devoted to green energy or to urban and rural areas "underserved" by investment capital, and an annual list of underperforming companies. Calpers is working to integrate such issues throughout its $264 billion fund, including research to determine how such factors affect risk and return.
In July, Harvard's endowment, the nation's largest at $31 billion, hired the leader of that research initiative, Jameela Pedicini, as vice president for sustainable investing, becoming only the second top college after Stanford to have full-time endowment employees devoted to such issues.
Ms. Pedicini's appointment was seen in part as a response to two student groups that have been calling for more action. The Responsible Investment at Harvard coalition has been pushing for "more transparent and comprehensive" environmental, social and governance efforts throughout the endowment. The other, Divest Harvard, said in April, "By sponsoring climate change through our investments, our university is threatening our generation's future."
The campus divestiture campaigns have been spurred by a group led by the environmental activist William McKibben, who has also battled the Keystone XL oil pipeline. The McKibben group has urged the sale of the 200 companies with biggest carbon reserves globally, including Exxon Mobil and Chevron.
The push to rid portfolios of fossil fuel stocks echoes earlier movements by endowments and pension funds in the 1980s to sell stocks of companies doing business with South Africa because of its apartheid policies and in the 1990s to sell tobacco stocks because of the health hazards posed by smoking. Harvard, Stanford and Calpers all sold their tobacco stocks around that time.
A few small colleges have chosen to divest themselves of their fossil fuel stocks. Unity College in Maine, which specializes in environmental science and has a small $14.5 million endowment, this spring completed a move to a lineup of 33 exchange-traded sector funds that minimize exposure to fossil fuel stocks. "If we don't deal with climate change now, we consign our grandkids to an unlivable planet," said Unity's president, Stephen Mulkey.
But officials at Harvard and many other endowments are resisting the calls for full divestiture in favor of other means of persuasion.
When three student members of Divest Harvard met in February with Robert D. Reischauer and Nannerl O. Keohane, two members of Harvard's governing board who serve on a shareholder responsibility panel, Mr. Reischauer cautioned that advanced economies were highly energy-dependent and that divestment would not change the basic supply-demand equation, according to the students.
Mr. Reischauer added that the companies were unlikely to respond because divestiture by Harvard would not affect the price of their stocks or their products, said another person briefed on his remarks. He acknowledged that Harvard could sell the few carbon stocks it owns directly without "a major impact" on its endowment performance; such stocks account for only $30 million of the fund's $1 billion in direct United States stock holdings, the students estimate. But Mr. Reischauer warned that selling such stocks from the endowment's large investments in hedge funds, mutual funds and other pooled vehicles could be costly, hurting returns.
At a meeting in April, Ms. Keohane argued that the primary purpose of the endowment was to maximize returns, that divestiture wasn't effective and that a better way to hold fossil fuel companies accountable would be through Harvard's proxy votes as a shareholder. Yet Harvard does not disclose the names of outside managers who run one-third of its money, so students do not know many of its holdings.
A Harvard spokesman, Kevin Galvin, added, "The university has traditionally maintained a strong presumption against divesting stock for reasons unrelated to investment purposes," preferring that the college make its "distinctive contributions to society" through its "research and educational activities."
Christianna Wood, a trustee of Vassar College who advocates pursuing social and governance goals through engagement and proxy voting, said that when she oversaw global stock investments at Calpers from 2002 to 2007, outside consultants estimated the costs of the fund's South Africa and tobacco stock sales at $1 billion each. She said by divesting, colleges will "not only lose money, they will lose their voice" on such issues. She predicted that the movement would fail at most schools.
Administrators at Bowdoin and Swarthmore have cited such potential costs in responding to calls for divesting, and Middlebury and Vassar have decided not to divest. Middlebury cited the difficulty, costs and risks. Vassar's president, Catharine Bond Hill, said students "have lots of proactive ways to engage policy makers" on climate change, and divesting themselves of certain stocks could hurt endowment returns without addressing the causes of climate change.
Ms. Wood said the proxy process had produced gains over the last decade in shareholder voting rights and the election of directors. For example, she said there was a big victory this year when shareholders successfully urged Continental Resources, an Oklahoma oil and gas company, to curb its gas emissions in North Dakota. But she acknowledged that getting the oil giants to respond to proxy proposals on greenhouse gas limits would be more difficult.
Stanford's investment responsibility policy, adopted in 1971, addresses the risk of "substantial social injury" in categories including diversity, environmental sustainability and human rights. For example, Stanford has voted for proxy resolutions asking companies to report on their efforts to avoid using minerals whose sale finances human rights abuses in Africa. Nevertheless, Stanford does not routinely disclose specific proxy votes as Harvard does.
John F. Powers, chief executive of Stanford Management, which runs the endowment, said the school's process for evaluating the call for fossil fuel divestiture might take the better part of the coming academic year. He said selling tobacco stocks did not hurt Stanford's performance much because they were "a narrow universe" and "plenty of other stocks went up."
Harvard, Stanford and the other universities whose endowments pursue environmental and social goals are in the minority. John S. Griswold of Commonfund, which tracks endowments, says one-fifth or less of endowments have such programs. He says some endowment managers prefer to "focus on producing the best returns they can," and "don't want to be distracted" by other issues.
Even the proxy route may be losing some of its influence.
Jon Lukomnik, a corporate governance consultant, said college endowments' ability to use the proxy process had been curtailed by their increased holdings in alternatives like private equity, venture capital, real estate and hedge funds. That trend has left "an ever decreasing portion of their assets" in publicly traded stocks.
At Harvard, the number of proxy proposals on social issues that its shareholder responsibility committee has considered has fallen from a recent peak of 157 in 2004 to 41 in 2012. And the committee's most recent annual report shows the limits of the tactics against some energy giants.
In 2012, Harvard voted in favor of a climate change call for ConocoPhillips to set targets for reducing its greenhouse gas emissions. But the proposal, which this year received a 29 percent vote, has failed repeatedly since 2008. "They have basically brushed it aside," said the Rev. William Somplatsky-Jarman of the Presbyterian Church (USA), the measure's sponsor. Harvard has also voted for such a proposal at Exxon Mobil, which this year received a 27 percent vote.
While a 20 percent vote is considered significant, "the current approach where we see incremental progress is clearly insufficient," said Andrew Logan, an oil and gas specialist at Ceres, a sustainability advocacy group.
At Calpers, Anne Simpson, director of an 18-member global governance team, says she is "flattered" that Harvard recruited one of them. She said Calpers, which manages 80 percent of its assets internally, also prefers engagement to divesting.
"We're such a big owner, we can't find a tidy corner of the market of complete purity and virtue," she said. "You've got to get down and dirty to deal with this. We visit companies. We meet with directors. They know we're not going away. Walking away from that table is really not going to help."
An earlier version of a caption with this article misspelled the given name and surname of a student who is part of a group, Divest Harvard, that encourages college endowments to drop holdings in the fossil fuel business. She is Chloe Maxmin, not Chole Maxim.

        
Dartmouth Controversy Reflects Quandary for Endowments
        
Kering Takes Minority Stake in Altuzarra Fashion Label

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DIVESTITURES (91%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); SUSTAINABLE INVESTING (89%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (89%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (84%); SMOKING (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (72%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (68%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (67%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (63%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (60%) California Public Employees Retirement System; Colleges and Universities; Endowments; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Harvard University; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Energy; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: California Public Employees Retirement System; Harvard University

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (55%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



135 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Lens)

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2013

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 387 words

HEADLINE: Getty Images Announces Winners of Photography Grants

BYLINE: JAMES ESTRIN


HIGHLIGHT: On Thursday at the Visa Pour l&#8217;Image festival in Perpignan, France, a Getty Images Grant for editorial photography was awarded to Eugene Richards &#8212; allowing him to expand on his work documenting Iraq war veterans in the United States &#8212; and others. 

 BODY:
PERPIGNAN, France - Eugene Richards received his second Getty Images Grant for editorial photography Thursday evening at the Visa Pour l'Image photography festival. The grant will allow him to expand his project, "War Is Personal," about Iraq war veterans returning to the United States. His earlier work, which resulted in a book, was partially funded by his first Getty Images Grant in 2008. 
Mr. Richards has published 16 books including "Dorchester Days," a personal view of the working-class neighborhood where he grew up in Boston, "Exploding Into Life," which followed his first wife, Dorothea Lynch, and her struggle with breast cancer, and "Cocaine True, Cocaine Blue," on the ravages of drug abuse. 
The Getty Images Grant for editorial photography was established in 2005 to support photojournalists working on personal projects and documenting important, but underreported stories. Each photographer will receive $10,000.
The judges for this year's awards were Jean-François Leroy, the director of Visa Pour l'Image, Olivier Laurent, acting deputy editor of the British Journal of Photography, Jon Jones, director of photography at The Sunday Times Magazine, Tiziana Faraoni, photo editor of l'Espresso and Fiona Rogers, founder of Firecracker, an online platform that supports European women photographers.
Samuel James won a grant for his project on the oil economy's effects on the people of the Niger Delta (his photos were featured on Lens in February). Marco Gualazzini earned a grant for his photo essay on the M23 military faction in the Democratic Republic of Congo, and Tomas van Houtryve also won a grant for his proposal for a story on the use of drones to target enemy combatants.
Matt Eich received a grant for his project on race in Greenwood, Miss., "Sin & Salvation in Baptist Town." Mr. Eich, who was previously profiled on Lens, said the grant will allow him continue the work after some unexpected delays.
"It also a reminder to me to be patient," he said in an interview on Thursday. "I've applied to this grant at least five different times." 
 Follow @JamesEstrin and @nytimesphoto on Twitter. Lens is also on Facebook. 

        
Behind the Scenes: Silence at a Festival
        
Who Will Crowdfund the Crowdfunder?
        
Moving Walls - and Minds
        
Photographing an Invisible Subject
        
Joao Silva: Looking Back, Moving Forward

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PHOTOJOURNALISM (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); VETERANS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); COCAINE (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (69%); CROWDSOURCING (66%); BREAST CANCER (56%) "War Is Personal"; British Journal of Photography; Eugene Richards; Firecracker; Getty Image Grants; James Estrin; l'Espresso; Marco Gualazzini; Matt Eich; Samuel James; The Sunday Times Magazine; Tomas Van Houtryve; Visa Pour l'Image photo festival; Richards, Eugene; Photography; France; Showcase

COMPANY: GETTY IMAGES INC (90%); FACEBOOK INC (52%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541922 COMMERCIAL PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); NAICS541430 GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: Richards, Eugene

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (72%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); FRANCE (91%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); NIGER (79%) France

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



136 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Academia's Fog of Male Anxiety

BYLINE: LOUISE ANTONY


HIGHLIGHT: Yes, the PC police are out there, and the real worry for men is that they will have to change their ways. 

 BODY:
 This is the fourth of five posts this week on women in philosophy. 
I don't want to talk about Colin McGinn. I want to talk about Steven Pinker - or rather, about something Steven Pinker said, in a letter he wrote in June to Professor Edward Erwin at the University of Miami, defending McGinn. Referring to the university's threatened disciplinary action against McGinn in response to complaints from a female student, Pinker wrote that "such an action would put a chill on communication between faculty and graduate students and on the openness and informality on which scholarship depends."
What I want to say about this is: Really? For a university to treat lewd conversation as a serious offense threatens scholarship as we know it? Aren't we being just a tad apocalyptic? 
To be fair to Pinker, a well-known Harvard psychologist and author, his main worry at the time was about the proportionality of the university's response to the alleged offense - he was appalled that behavior "apparently no more serious than exchanging sexual banter with a graduate student" had been met with the academic equivalent of the nuclear option. Later, as more of the facts emerged, Pinker admitted that the alleged wrongdoing might have been more serious than he had originally thought. (Pinker apparently did not know all of the facts when he wrote this letter; he now acknowledges that McGinn "behaved badly," but still maintains that "the outcome was too severe.") But the fact that Pinker had found it plausible that a university would have forced out "a brilliant and distinguished scholar" just for joking around betrays some high paranoia.
Pinker's reflexive and overheated reaction to the events in Florida is simply one precipitate of the fog of male anxiety that floats through the halls of academia. I'm always hearing from stressed-out men, worrying aloud what "all this fuss" about sexual harassment means for them. I've heard it at training sessions on university sexual harassment policy: "Does this mean I can't even tell a woman that she looks nice?" I've heard it in coffee lounges: "Make sure you keep your door open when you're talking to a woman student - you never know what she might say later." And I've had it confided to me, with a sigh of regret, at conference happy hours: "I'm afraid now to form any relationships with female students - they might take it the wrong way."
In fact, there are very, very few cases in which academic men have even been brought up on formal charges, much less fired, for sexual harassment. (Otherwise, the Florida case would have not been worthy of such media attention.) And I would venture that almost any woman in the profession can give you four or five examples of egregious misbehavior by male professors that has gone completely unsanctioned.
So what's the worry? The real worry, I think, for men is that they will have to change their ways. They will have to monitor what they say to female students and colleagues. They will have to think twice before chatting up that attractive graduate student they see at a conference. They'll have to stop relying on smutty double entendres to get laughs in their seminars.
And all this would all be bad because.....? Here's the good news, fellas: none of this behavior on its own is going to get you fired; it probably won't even get you a note on your permanent record. But you're right - the P.C. police are out there, and if you step out of line, they will impose one of the following penalties: dirty looks; explicit criticism; sensitivity training. You may be subjected to blogging.
What can you do to be safe? Well, you might try educating yourself about the problems of sexual harassment and hostile environments, and particularly about the toxic effects of these on your female colleagues and students. You might try having a frank discussion with one of your colleagues who seems to "get it" about whether you are doing anything you're not aware of that is contributing to a problem in your department. You might try adopting one or more of the behavioral strategies found to be effective in dulling the effects of implicit bias (for example: make it a conscious policy to maintain eye contact whenever you are having a conversation with a woman. Oh! and hey, women - this applies to you, too!) You can find out what people are doing in your discipline to address existing problems, and join the effort. (Philosophers can start here or here.)
Whatever you do, though, don't tell me that the cost of your heightened vigilance is going to be the loss of "open and informal" pedagogical relationships. I don't buy it. I just know too many men who have formed close and mutually rewarding intellectual relationships with women without ever once mentioning, um ... manicures.
 Louise M. Antony is a professor of philosophy at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. Her teaching and research interests include the philosophy of mind, the philosophy of religion and feminist theory. She is the co-editor, with Charlotte Witt, of "A Mind of One's Own: Feminist Essays on Reason and Objectivity." In 2011, she and Ann Cudd founded the Mentoring Program for Junior Women in Philosophy. 

        
What's Wrong With Philosophy?
        
Women in Philosophy? Do the Math
        
The Disappearing Women
        
Walking While Black in the 'White Gaze'
        
What Is Economics Good For?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); WRITERS (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (68%) Graduate Schools and Students; Philosophy; sexual harassment; women in philosophy; Sexual Harassment; The Stone

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



137 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: New Ad Campaign Targets Childhood Hunger

BYLINE: By JANE L. LEVERE

 BODY:
THE Advertising Council and Feeding America, a domestic hunger relief organization, introduced a public service campaign on Thursday to tackle childhood hunger.
According to data released on Wednesday by the Agriculture Department, almost 16 million children, or more than one in five, face hunger in the United States. This condition can affect their future physical and mental health, academic achievement and economic productivity.
The department also found that close to 50 million Americans were living in ''food insecure'' households, or ones in which some family members lacked ''consistent access throughout the year to adequate food.'' And it found that although the figures were unchanged since the economic downturn began in 2008, they were much higher than in the previous decade. 
The ad campaign is the latest initiative in a long collaboration between the Ad Council and Feeding America, which each year supplies food to more than 37 million Americans through a network of some 200 local food banks. Those food banks, in turn, distribute food to 61,000 food pantries, soup kitchens and shelters.
Awareness efforts by the two groups began in the late 1990s, when Feeding America was called America's Second Harvest. Previous advertising -- some featuring celebrities like the actors Matt Damon and Ben Affleck -- was aimed at raising awareness about the problem of hunger.
A TV spot this year, created by the San Francisco-based Cutwater, featured the ''Today'' co-host Savannah Guthrie and focused on childhood hunger. As preparation, Ms. Guthrie visited the Fox Run Elementary School in Norwalk, Conn., which participates in a program run by the Connecticut Food Bank, part of the Feeding America network. One child she spoke to mentioned a ''food angel who leaves baskets of food outside the house with all the food the family needs,'' a concept that became Cutwater's inspiration for the latest campaign.
The new ads are being released to coincide with Feeding America's Hunger Action Day, part of the organization's Hunger Action Month, held annually in September. They include TV, radio, print, outdoor and digital executions.
Television spots use video of workers and volunteers at the Food Share food bank in Oxnard, Calif., which is also part of the Feeding America network; they are depicted wearing drawings of angel wings. The voice-over says, ''They've earned their wings and you can, too.''
Radio spots feature the singer Kelly Clarkson, the boxer Laila Ali, the chef Curtis Stone and Ms. Guthrie. In one, Ms. Clarkson says: ''Seventeen million kids in America don't know where their next meal is coming from or if it's even coming at all. That's why the Feeding America nationwide network of food banks gets surplus food to hungry kids. They're like food angels. And you can earn your wings, too. Find out how at FeedingAmerica.org.''
Priscilla Natkins, an executive vice president of the Ad Council, said that when the organization began working on hunger relief efforts, only one in 10 Americans was hungry; that number is now one in six adults and more than one in five children.
''One reason we've chosen to focus on children is that it is a more poignant approach of illustrating the problem,'' she said. ''The numbers are more stark; it drives home the severity of the issue.''
Chuck McBride, founder and chief creative officer of Cutwater, said the issue of childhood hunger ''isn't cancer. It's a completely rectifiable issue. The quantity of surplus food clearly outnumbers the number of hungry people. It's logistics.''
He said the ''food angel'' ads ''take the rhetoric and flip it.''
''Instead of saying 'Here's a problem and we can fix it,' ' Mr. McBride said, ''we say, 'Here's the solution and we can help.' ''
Maura Daly, chief communication and development officer at Feeding America, said the new campaign was aimed at ''adults who care'' and could make financial contributions or volunteer at a food bank.
Michael Deimler, a senior partner at the Boston Consulting Group and the firm's top expert in the Americas on poverty and hunger, said the campaign's focus on children ''helps bring to life the special cause of childhood hunger in America.'' He also said he was ''hopeful'' it would ''create a large increase in the number of Americans aware of this growing problem.''
According to Mr. Deimler, BCG has advised Feeding America on its strategy in the past, though it does not currently do so.
Hunger experts in academia were generally critical of the new initiative.
Janet Poppendieck, emeritus professor of sociology at Hunter College at the City University of New York and director of public policy at Hunter's New York City Food Policy Center, said that by failing to mention impending cuts to the federal food stamp program, the campaign ''seems to imply that charity is the answer, that donations to your local food bank can solve the problem.'' Republicans in Congress are fighting to reduce federal expenditures on the food stamp program; these benefits will be cut in November, when a provision in the 2009 stimulus bill expires.
''We cannot end hunger in America with a canned goods drive,'' Ms. Poppendieck said. ''We need to strengthen, not weaken, the federal nutrition safety net, and we need full employment and a living wage.''
Mariana Chilton, an associate professor of public health at Drexel University who studies childhood hunger, said that although Feeding America was ''a wonderful organization,'' the way ''it runs its ad campaigns and fund-raising gives the American public the wrong idea about how to solve hunger in America.''
''People are hungry because they are poor,'' she said, adding that 80 percent of families that report food insecurity have at least one working adult in their households.
''As much as we wish we could solve hunger through charity, it's not enough,'' she said. ''We need to invest in government programs and living wages, and not hope some angel will deliver a bag of food to the back door.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The campaign from the Ad Council and Feeding America underscores how food banks bring food to people in need. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (95%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (91%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); CHILDREN (89%); FOOD SECURITY (78%); RADIO ADVERTISING (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); FAMILY (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (76%); CELEBRITIES (76%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEEDING AMERICA (92%); ADVERTISING COUNCIL (91%)

PERSON: BEN AFFLECK (55%); MATT DAMON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



138 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY ADVISER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: When Health Deductibles Rise, Men Delay Emergency Care

BYLINE: By ANN CARRNS

 BODY:
Here's a situation that may sound familiar to you: A man visits his doctor's office with his wife, who laments how stubborn he is about seeking medical care.
Frank Wharam, a doctor and researcher at Harvard Medical School, says he often hears these words, ''My wife made me come.''
That gender dynamic may provide fodder for stand-up comics, but it can have serious health implications, especially given the increasing use of high-deductible health insurance plans. 
Men, it turns out, are more likely to delay treatment for serious conditions under high-deductible plans, in contrast to women, who tend to be more selective and cut back care for minor ailments only.
That's according to a recent study led by Katy Kozhimannil, a researcher at the University of Minnesota's school of public health. (Dr. Wharam was a co-author.)
Such plans generally have lower monthly premiums than traditional health plans but higher out-of-pocket costs -- sometimes, $4,000 or $5,000 for a family, or even higher. About a third of workers now have such plans. And that number is likely to grow, since lower-cost plans on the new health care marketplaces created by the Affordable Care Act are likely to have relatively high deductibles.
Other studies have shown that low-income people also tend to put off care under such plans. But Ms. Kozhimannil says her study is the first to examine the different impact of such plans on men and women.
The study compared emergency room visits for about 12,000 people -- roughly half men and half women -- for a year before, and two years after, they were involuntarily switched by their employers to a high-deductible plan.
For the first year after the switch, men's use of the E.R. dropped across the board, even for severe conditions, like irregular heartbeat. Women cut back too, but mostly for less threatening symptoms, like headache or sore throats.
''It's concerning that men were not going to the E.R.'' for ailments like kidney stones and irregular heartbeats, Ms. Kozhimannil said. ''That's an urgent situation that requires medical care.''
Unfortunately, men also ended up with more hospitalizations in subsequent years, suggesting that they may have let a serious condition go untreated.
So, what is behind this approach? Other findings have suggested that ''masculinity beliefs'' make it harder for men to ask for help, Ms. Kozhimannil said, so the added worry of spending more on health care may reinforce that tendency.
Jim Kiefert, who runs an ''Us Too'' prostate cancer support group in Olympia, Wash., said men often worry that spending on their own care may lead to economic hardship for their families. ''That is a reality with men,'' he said, adding that with a costly illness and a high deductible, ''You can deplete your savings in a very short period of time.''
Here are some questions to consider, if you're a man on a high-deductible plan -- or that man's spouse.
â- How can I use my high-deductible plan wisely?
Understand your benefits. Not all high-deductible plans are the same, and many cover preventive care outside of the deductible. Under the Affordable Care Act, all plans sold on the new marketplaces and many others must offer many preventive services free, like colorectal cancer screenings.
â- How should I decide when to seek treatment?
No one expects you to be a physician, but health plans increasingly offer sound online information that can help you learn about symptoms of serious situations, like a heart attack. ''It's very useful to know what your risk factors are,'' said Ms. Kozhimannil said. Most health plans also have nurse advice lines that can offer guidance, too.
â- What if I need care, but I'm worried I can't pay for it?
Talk about this with your doctor, who might not know what cost burden you're facing when you make decisions about proposed treatments. ''Say to your doctor, 'I have a high-deductible plan. Is there a different way to do this?' '' suggests Alison Galbraith, a doctor at the Harvard Pilgrim Healthcare Institute who has studied the plans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); MEN (78%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (78%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (78%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (78%); MEN'S HEALTH (76%); FAMILY (76%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (75%); CANCER (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); POOR POPULATION (71%); PROSTATE DISEASE (71%); KIDNEY DISEASE (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (65%); PROSTATE CANCER (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OLYMPIA, WA, USA (70%) MINNESOTA, USA (76%); WASHINGTON, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



139 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Fertility Rate Stabilizes As the Economy Grows

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The sharp decline in the country's fertility rate during the economic downturn has come to an end, federal data show, as an improving economy encouraged Americans to resume having babies.
The number of babies born in the United States in 2012 remained flat, the first time in five years that the number did not significantly decline, according to the National Center for Health Statistics.
The leveling off capped a 9 percent decline in the fertility rate from 2007 to 2011, a drop that demographers say began after the recession took hold and Americans started feeling less secure about their economic circumstances. 
The decline ''has come pretty close to grinding to a halt,'' said Carl Haub, a demographer with the Population Reference Bureau, a nonprofit research group.
The fertility rate is the total number of babies born per 1,000 women ages 15 to 44. Last year it stood at 63, down slightly from 2011. At the current rate, women could expect 1.9 babies on average over their lifetimes, down from a high of 3.8 in 1957, said Brady E. Hamilton, a demographer and an author of the report.
The United States has a higher fertility rate than many other developed countries, bolstered by Hispanic immigrants, who are more likely than whites to be in their childbearing years. When rates are lower, as they are in countries like Germany and Japan, youth populations shrink, which can lead over time to a reduction in the size of the labor force and diminished tax bases.
''There's a widespread perception that a moderately growing population is advantageous for economic growth and for a growing society,'' said Hans-Peter Kohler, a professor of sociology at the University of Pennsylvania.
That is why news of the 2012 figures had demographers buzzing.
''It's exciting,'' Professor Kohler said. ''My prediction would be that we'll see further stabilization and possibly growth in 2013.''
The birthrate tends to rise and fall with economic cycles. The rate fell by a fifth during the Great Depression in the 1930s, according to Mr. Haub, creating a crater in the population that moved up the age ladder over time.
In 2011, the Pew Research Center analyzed the fall in fertility by geography and found a strong link between falling fertility and economic malaise: the only state to show a slight increase in fertility between 2008 and 2009 was North Dakota, which had one of the lowest unemployment rates in the country.
The decline had been particularly pronounced for women who were among the hardest hit by the recession: young women and Hispanics. The data released on Friday showed that the fertility rate for both groups was still in decline, though the pace of the drop had slowed considerably.
Young Hispanics have experienced the largest decline, with the rate down by a third since 2007 among women ages 20 to 24, said Kenneth Johnson, a demographer at the University of New Hampshire.
But slightly older women, in their early 30s, saw an increase in their fertility rate in 2012, up from a flat rate in 2011 and a decline in 2010. Women in their early 40s were the only ones not to experience a decline in fertility during the economic downturn, as they did not have the time to delay childbearing.
''It seems like change is working its way backwards,'' said Gretchen Livingston, a demographer at the Pew Research Center. ''We are seeing the next youngest group dipping a toe in the water.''
It is still unclear if the recent decline in births will be made up by a surge in fertility over the next few years, as happened during the baby boom after World War II.
''A big question is what will happen to the 1.3 million forgone births?'' Professor Johnson said. ''Will women start to have these babies, or will the births never be made up?''
Another bright spot was births to Asian and Pacific Island women, which were up by 7 percent in 2012 from the previous year. The increase may be related to the fact that 2012 was the Year of the Dragon in the Chinese zodiac, an auspicious year to be born for many Asian families, Mr. Hamilton said.
The report showed continued declines in the birthrate to teenagers, which dropped by 6 percent last year from 2011, marking another historical low for that group. The preterm birthrate fell for the sixth straight year, and the share of babies born with low birth weight also declined.
The share of all births to unmarried women in 2012 was unchanged from 2011 at 40.7 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: One-day-old Lincoln Marie McGeorge with her parents, Morgan McGeorge and BryonWaltz, in Casper, Wyo., last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEAH MILLIS/CASPER STAR-TRIBUNE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERTILITY RATES (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); RECESSION (89%); WOMEN (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); HEALTH STATISTICS AGENCIES (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); STATISTICS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); SOCIOLOGY (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: POPULATION REFERENCE BUREAU (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CASPER, WY, USA (59%) WYOMING, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



140 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: After Storm, Mennonites Stay in City And Rebuild

BYLINE: By EDNA ISHAYIK

 BODY:
Within days of Hurricane Sandy's arrival in New York, Frank Hoover started coordinating vans full of Mennonites to repair homes ravaged by the storm. His impromptu crews finished their farm chores in Pennsylvania Dutch country in the middle of the night and left for Staten Island or Far Rockaway, Queens, by 3 a.m. They worked 8 or 10 hours, then drove back to Lancaster County.
Since then, over 1,300 Mennonites have come into the city. Volunteers from the conservative sect of Protestant Christianity that includes the Amish, known for their skillful carpentry (as well as their beards and bonnets), have already returned dozens of low-income, hurricane-struck families to their homes. They have another 80 projects in various stages of rehabilitation. 
''We do this in our own community -- if someone has storm damage, the neighbors all come together and help,'' said Mr. Hoover, 57, a long-term volunteer who lives in Lancaster. ''We believe the Bible teaches us that we have to share our blessings. I think if God blesses us, we can't hoard that to ourselves.''
While Mr. Hoover's volunteers made the round trip in one day at first, the Mennonites have now set up house in temporary quarters, allowing volunteers from as far away as the Midwest and Canada to stay for days or weeks at a time.
''They are so humble. They are reluctant to ever ask for anything,'' said Brad Gair, a representative at the mayor's NYC Recovery office. ''But we finally got it out of them that they were commuting daily from Pennsylvania. That was really not sustainable. Sometimes they were sleeping in the houses they were working on -- it was winter and there were no utilities.''
On Staten Island, the Mennonites are staying in a defunct Roman Catholic seminary near Midland Beach. In Far Rockaway, behind the First Church of God stands a small cluster of prefabricated barracks on trailer beds. The squat shelters were built by Amish carpenters in Pennsylvania, hitched to trucks and delivered to the church's gravel parking lot. Inside, unfinished wood bunk beds are dressed in plain white sheets. Other trailers house bathroom and kitchen facilities.
''As long as we offer a place to sleep, a place to shower, and food in their belly, they're happy,'' said John Tolvin, a volunteer from Oregon stationed at Far Rockaway.
The Mennonite crews do an array of tasks, including replacing floors, plumbing and overhauling roofs.
Logan Orpin, 20, came from Wichita, Kan., to Far Rockaway for three weeks. One recent afternoon, he took a break from his work priming and painting walls and listed the steps that will let a family confined to two rooms of their house move back into the whole home -- insulation, drywall, painting, shelving.
''The Lord has blessed me with the construction skills I have, and this is my way of helping those in need,'' Mr. Orpin said.
Female Amish volunteers, who are generally assigned to domestic chores, have also been known to pitch in rebuilding roofs and hanging drywall.
Mennonite Disaster Service, the organization coordinating the volunteer response, looks to help those lowest on the economic rungs or with extenuating circumstances. ''Most of the ones that we do are special cases: cancer victims, people who are wheelchair-bound, handicapped,'' said Bruce Smith, a project director for the service.
Theodora Friscia, a retired nurse, is one of those helped by the Mennonites. Her tiny 1920s bungalow in Midland Beach was nearly destroyed.
''It was an absolute shell,'' she said. ''I lost everything. Twelve feet of water we had here. I would have had to hire privately and it would have eaten up my pension. And that money I needed to save for when I'm 80 years old. I have no one to fall back on.''
Winston Penner, 72, of Manitoba, Canada, was one of the long-term volunteers who helped fix Ms. Friscia's home. He worked on her plumbing and electrical work, and replaced the house's siding.
''I'm not saying we work harder than any other carpenters, but when people are grateful like Thea, it makes it more rewarding,'' Mr. Penner said. ''It's just for the joy of helping people out who are in need.''
During the warm months, the Pennsylvania volunteers who live on farms have mostly stayed home to tend the fields, but the temporary housing has allowed more modern Mennonites, not tied to the fields, to come in from farther away. When this year's harvest is in, around the anniversary of Hurricane Sandy, more Amish and Old Order Mennonites will rejoin the rebuilding efforts. This time, they will have a place to stay.
The disaster service has committed to fixing 50 more homes on Staten Island before April. Beyond that, Mr. Smith said he did not see the Mennonites' leaving New York anytime soon.
''Long term, you're looking at anywhere between two to five years here,'' he said. ''And it doesn't begin to cover it all. We get more calls every day.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Logan Orpin, left, and Gary Eicher cut and placed drywall while working with the Mennonite Disaster Service in Queens in June. The group seeks to aid those lowest on the economic rungs or with extenuating circumstances. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JABIN BOTSFORD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (91%); RELIGION (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); HURRICANE SANDY (78%); FAMILY (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LANCASTER, PA, USA (79%); WICHITA, KS, USA (74%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); KANSAS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (54%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



141 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: Germany's Conspicuous Silence

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN. 
David Brooks is on book leave.

 BODY:
BERLIN -- Germany is the world's most popular country, according to a BBC World Service survey this year, not bad for a nation that has probably fretted more over its self-image than any other. It is also an enigma, a powerful state wary of power, a lusterless leader. Angst is a German word but not a German condition.
As world leaders debate the Syrian crisis, Europe's dominant power is conspicuous for its silence. It murmurs that the regime must be punished if use of chemical weapons is proved, and it contributes intelligence, but it wants no part of any riposte. Britain's rejection of military involvement gives comfort to Berlin's reticence. Gassing in Syria, shamefully, is scarcely a German concern. Germany is the ghost of international relations. 
Federal elections are to being held this month. The fate of the European Union is in Germany's hands. Yet when I ask people what the major electoral theme is, I am met with a blank stare.
Success sedates. Unemployment, at 5.3 percent, is a fraction of the European average. Growth is robust by European standards. The budget is balanced. Consensus binds and inequality, while increasing, is less conspicuous than elsewhere in the West.
No wonder the opposition Social Democrats, whose candidate is Peer Steinbrück, have been unable to provoke substantive policy debate. ''Germany is strong -- and must remain so,'' screams a slogan of Chancellor Angela Merkel, leader of the Christian Democrats, whose victory on Sept. 22 is almost assured.
But remain strong for what? The United States wants Germany to assume a global role commensurate with its power. Nobody sees a resolution of the euro crisis without a decisive German role. Even Poland, which paid the highest price for German might, has called Germany Europe's ''indispensable nation.''
Time then for a reality check: Germany will not lead. The very word for leadership -- ''führung'' -- is problematic through historical association. The nation's institutional architecture -- a sprawl of counterbalancing federal bodies -- is insurance against assertive leadership. Conventional symbols of national power, like flags or the military, leave modern Germans cold.
The postwar giants -- Adenauer, Brandt, Schmidt and Kohl -- were fine when Germany was weak, but Germany's current strength needs offsetting rather than underscoring. If it flexes its newfound muscle, as in giving austerity lessons to shipwrecked Southern European economies, it finds Hitler images resurfacing. Contemporary German psychology is in sync with the steady Merkel style (a frequent criticism of Steinbrück is that he is a ''loose cannon'').
''The scars of history are really very, very serious, and so we made the decision to bid farewell to the concept of a state based on power and become a merchant state,'' Joschka Fischer, the former foreign minister, told me.
In the age of the borderless online world where the nation-state feels like a curious hangover, and at a time when the post-9/11 wars have tired Europeans and Americans of militarism, this rejection of what Fischer called the ''machtstaat'' (the power state) explains much of Germany's global popularity. No European nation is less hung-up about sovereignty.
The economy also stirs admiration. German husbandry, suspicion of debt and social consciousness were learned from bitter inflationary history. Germany resisted the profligacy and contempt for risk that produced the meltdown of 2008.
The danger of German success combined with reticence is inward-looking complacency. But it would be illusory to expect major change after the election. People clamor for a German ''vision'' for Europe. Been there, done that -- and lost about one-third of German territory in the catastrophic, brutal process. No, what Germany can offer Europe is nothing more nor less than its own example.
In Germany, solidarity counts. Rich regions support the poor regions at great expense -- on condition that the poorer regions do not cheat and budgetary discipline is respected. In an age of rampant distrust of the powerful, Germans still trust the government (the former president, who had to quit, is being charged with accepting less than $950 toward payment of a Munich hotel bill).
Merkel says that Europe has 7 percent of the world's population, 25 percent of its output and 50 percent of its social spending. Without fiscal discipline the euro will fail; and without the surrender of some sovereignty to European institutions, fiscal cohesion won't be achieved.
I do not know if Europeans are ready to follow German examples. I am sure Germany will not change. Outside the Wittenbergplatz subway, 80 years after Hitler's assumption of power, I stumbled on a large sign naming a dozen places that ''must never be forgotten.'' Among them were Auschwitz and Buchenwald.
This is the history that precludes leadership. Germany is popular. It is admired. But it is doubtful any other nation can emulate it because the price of its immense achievements was purgatory.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); EURO CRISIS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (70%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); HISTORY (61%)

COMPANY: BBC WORLD SERVICE TELEVISION LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (58%); PEER STEINBRUECK (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%) GERMANY (97%); EUROPE (95%); SYRIA (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); POLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (74%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



142 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Group Financed by Business Leaders Has Put Nearly $7 Million Into Council Races

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
A group aligned with the city's real estate industry has unleashed a torrent of spending to support pro-business candidates for the City Council, upending the frequently sleepy local contests and angering other candidates.
The infusion of money -- totaling nearly $7 million so far -- reflects the anxieties of New York business leaders, who are about to lose an important ally in City Hall as Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg departs at the end of the year.
The money is coming from Jobs for New York, a political action committee financed by real estate developers, property owners and other interests eager to ensure that the pro-business, pro-jobs and pro-development policies of Mr. Bloomberg outlive his term. 
Election experts say that the amount of money the organization has invested -- $275,000 per race, on average -- has injected a new dynamic into City Council contests, which normally hinge on community connections and neighborhood issues.
''I don't think we've ever seen this kind of big-money, outside group try to hijack local races,'' said Austin Shafran, a Democratic candidate in the 19th Council District in northeastern Queens.
Mr. Shafran, once an aide to Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and former Representative Gary L. Ackerman, is locked in a four-way Democratic primary battle that includes a candidate who has received hundreds of thousands of dollars in support from Jobs for New York.
The group's efforts are playing out in 17 races throughout the city at a time when the Council is facing extensive turnover, with 21 of its 51 members stepping down, mainly because of term limits.
In the 36th Council District, which covers Bedford-Stuyvesant and parts of Crown Heights in Brooklyn, Jobs for New York deployed dozens of paid canvassers to knock on doors promoting the candidacy of Kirsten John Foy, a Democrat who recently broke his foot and has had a hard time getting around the district on his own.
In all, the committee has spent more than $200,000 raising the profile of Mr. Foy, one of five candidates who are running in the Democratic primary to succeed Councilman Albert Vann, who is leaving office because of term limits.
In the 22nd Council District covering Astoria and Long Island City in Queens, Jobs for New York is distributing fliers and other campaign literature in English, Spanish and Greek promoting Costa Constantinides, a Democrat and one of three candidates running for the seat being vacated by Peter F. Vallone Jr.
The committee has also gone on the attack in the 19th Council District, where Jobs for New York is backing Paul Vallone, a Democratic candidate who is the councilman's brother. Charges of mudslinging recently erupted in that race after the committee sent out campaign mailers leveling harsh attacks against three of Mr. Vallone's rivals: Mr. Shafran, Chrissy Voskerichian and Paul Graziano. In one of the mailers, mug shots of all three candidates appear under a headline that reads: ''Queens Can't Trust These Candidates to Represent Our Values on the City Council.''
Whether the business-backed group will prevail in its effort to reshape the Council is not clear. Mr. Shafran said he believed that many local residents had been turned off by the negative tone the group had injected into the race. ''It's made people more frustrated than they already have been with politics,'' he said.
The focus on Council races underscores the influence council members exercise over development in the city. The full Council tends to follow the wishes of individual members on whether to approve, modify or reject projects being proposed in their districts.
The effort is being organized by the Real Estate Board of New York, which includes some of the most influential figures and families in the industry, like Larry A. Silverstein, the developer of the World Trade Center, Richard S. LeFrak, Daniel R. Tishman, the Speyers and the Rudins.
The group also has the support of several unions that would benefit from development projects: Mason Tenders District Council of Greater New York, which represents supermarket workers, and the New York City District Council of Carpenters.
''The only way new supermarkets get built is if there's a viable economy and this group was formed to elect candidates that will help make that happen,'' Patrick Purcell, a spokesman for United Food and Commercial Workers Local 1500, said. The organization has not recruited any of the candidates it is supporting in these races. Instead, it decided to back candidates who were already in the races after extensively researching their positions, according to officials coordinating the campaign.
Bill Lipton, the state director of the Working Families Party, a progressive coalition based in New York City, predicted that Jobs for New York's efforts would ultimately backfire because many of the candidates it is backing have long records as liberal activists.
''Wealthy real estate interests are trying to buy the loyalty of these candidates with a very big checkbook,'' he said. ''But these candidates are not going to throw away a lifetime of progressive advocacy for someone sending junk mail in their district.''
Phil Singer, a spokesman for Jobs for New York, said: ''Being progressive and being pro-jobs are not mutually exclusive.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TERM LIMITS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (88%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); MAYORS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (73%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (71%); ANDREW CUOMO (56%); GARY L ACKERMAN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



143 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1618 words

HEADLINE: A New Divestment Focus on Campus: Fossil Fuels

BYLINE: By RANDALL SMITH

 BODY:
In the 1980s, it was South Africa. In the 1990s, it was tobacco.
Now fossil fuels have become the focus of those who would change the world through the power of investing.
A student movement has gathered momentum at more than 300 campuses over the last year. Members have encouraged college and university endowments to divest themselves of their holdings of companies in the fossil fuel business to avoid profiting from the release of carbon associated with the risk of global warming.
While the efforts have gained some traction, they have also met strong opposition from critics who favor the traditional proxy-voting process of engagement, in which institutional investors try to prod corporations to change their practices, with divestiture a last resort.
The push also comes as some big institutional investors are paying more attention to broader programs devoted to environmental, social and corporate governance issues. 
For example, the California Public Employees' Retirement System has a sprawling program that includes 111 initiatives. They include proxy voting, investing in funds devoted to green energy or to urban and rural areas ''underserved'' by investment capital, and an annual list of underperforming companies. Calpers is working to integrate such issues throughout its $264 billion fund, including research to determine how such factors affect risk and return.
In July, Harvard's endowment, the nation's largest at $31 billion, hired the leader of that research initiative, Jameela Pedicini, as vice president for sustainable investing, becoming only the second top college after Stanford to have full-time endowment employees devoted to such issues.
Ms. Pedicini's appointment was seen in part as a response to two student groups that have been calling for more action. The Responsible Investment at Harvard coalition has been pushing for ''more transparent and comprehensive'' environmental, social and governance efforts throughout the endowment. The other, Divest Harvard, said in April, ''By sponsoring climate change through our investments, our university is threatening our generation's future.''
The campus divestiture campaigns have been spurred by a group led by the environmental activist William McKibben, who has also battled the Keystone XL oil pipeline. The McKibben group has urged the sale of the 200 companies with biggest carbon reserves globally, including Exxon Mobil and Chevron.
The push to rid portfolios of fossil fuel stocks echoes earlier movements by endowments and pension funds in the 1980s to sell stocks of companies doing business with South Africa because of its apartheid policies and in the 1990s to sell tobacco stocks because of the health hazards posed by smoking. Harvard, Stanford and Calpers all sold their tobacco stocks around that time.
A few small colleges have chosen to divest themselves of their fossil fuel stocks. Unity College in Maine, which specializes in environmental science and has a small $14.5 million endowment, this spring completed a move to a lineup of 33 exchange-traded sector funds that minimize exposure to fossil fuel stocks. ''If we don't deal with climate change now, we consign our grandkids to an unlivable planet,'' said Unity's president, Stephen Mulkey.
But officials at Harvard and many other endowments are resisting the calls for full divestiture in favor of other means of persuasion.
When three student members of Divest Harvard met in February with Robert D. Reischauer and Nannerl O. Keohane, two members of Harvard's governing board who serve on a shareholder responsibility panel, Mr. Reischauer cautioned that advanced economies were highly energy-dependent and that divestment would not change the basic supply-demand equation, according to the students.
Mr. Reischauer added that the companies were unlikely to respond because divestiture by Harvard would not affect the price of their stocks or their products, said another person briefed on his remarks. He acknowledged that Harvard could sell the few carbon stocks it owns directly without ''a major impact'' on its endowment performance; such stocks account for only $30 million of the fund's $1 billion in direct United States stock holdings, the students estimate. But Mr. Reischauer warned that selling such stocks from the endowment's large investments in hedge funds, mutual funds and other pooled vehicles could be costly, hurting returns.
At a meeting in April, Ms. Keohane argued that the primary purpose of the endowment was to maximize returns, that divestiture wasn't effective and that a better way to hold fossil fuel companies accountable would be through Harvard's proxy votes as a shareholder. Yet Harvard does not disclose the names of outside managers who run one-third of its money, so students do not know many of its holdings.
A Harvard spokesman, Kevin Galvin, added, ''The university has traditionally maintained a strong presumption against divesting stock for reasons unrelated to investment purposes,'' preferring that the college make its ''distinctive contributions to society'' through its ''research and educational activities.''
Christianna Wood, a trustee of Vassar College who advocates pursuing social and governance goals through engagement and proxy voting, said that when she oversaw global stock investments at Calpers from 2002 to 2007, outside consultants estimated the costs of the fund's South Africa and tobacco stock sales at $1 billion each. She said by divesting, colleges will ''not only lose money, they will lose their voice'' on such issues. She predicted that the movement would fail at most schools.
Administrators at Bowdoin and Swarthmore have cited such potential costs in responding to calls for divesting, and Middlebury and Vassar have decided not to divest. Middlebury cited the difficulty, costs and risks. Vassar's president, Catharine Bond Hill, said students ''have lots of proactive ways to engage policy makers'' on climate change, and divesting themselves of certain stocks could hurt endowment returns without addressing the causes of climate change.
Ms. Wood said the proxy process had produced gains over the last decade in shareholder voting rights and the election of directors. For example, she said there was a big victory this year when shareholders successfully urged Continental Resources, an Oklahoma oil and gas company, to curb its gas emissions in North Dakota. But she acknowledged that getting the oil giants to respond to proxy proposals on greenhouse gas limits would be more difficult.
Stanford's investment responsibility policy, adopted in 1971, addresses the risk of ''substantial social injury'' in categories including diversity, environmental sustainability and human rights. For example, Stanford has voted for proxy resolutions asking companies to report on their efforts to avoid using minerals whose sale finances human rights abuses in Africa. Nevertheless, Stanford does not routinely disclose specific proxy votes as Harvard does.
John F. Powers, chief executive of Stanford Management, which runs the endowment, said the school's process for evaluating the call for fossil fuel divestiture might take the better part of the coming academic year. He said selling tobacco stocks did not hurt Stanford's performance much because they were ''a narrow universe'' and ''plenty of other stocks went up.''
Harvard, Stanford and the other universities whose endowments pursue environmental and social goals are in the minority. John S. Griswold of Commonfund, which tracks endowments, says one-fifth or less of endowments have such programs. He says some endowment managers prefer to ''focus on producing the best returns they can,'' and ''don't want to be distracted'' by other issues.
Even the proxy route may be losing some of its influence.
Jon Lukomnik, a corporate governance consultant, said college endowments' ability to use the proxy process had been curtailed by their increased holdings in alternatives like private equity, venture capital, real estate and hedge funds. That trend has left ''an ever decreasing portion of their assets'' in publicly traded stocks.
At Harvard, the number of proxy proposals on social issues that its shareholder responsibility committee has considered has fallen from a recent peak of 157 in 2004 to 41 in 2012. And the committee's most recent annual report shows the limits of the tactics against some energy giants.
In 2012, Harvard voted in favor of a climate change call for ConocoPhillips to set targets for reducing its greenhouse gas emissions. But the proposal, which this year received a 29 percent vote, has failed repeatedly since 2008. ''They have basically brushed it aside,'' said the Rev. William Somplatsky-Jarman of the Presbyterian Church (USA), the measure's sponsor. Harvard has also voted for such a proposal at Exxon Mobil, which this year received a 27 percent vote.
While a 20 percent vote is considered significant, ''the current approach where we see incremental progress is clearly insufficient,'' said Andrew Logan, an oil and gas specialist at Ceres, a sustainability advocacy group.
At Calpers, Anne Simpson, director of an 18-member global governance team, says she is ''flattered'' that Harvard recruited one of them. She said Calpers, which manages 80 percent of its assets internally, also prefers engagement to divesting.
''We're such a big owner, we can't find a tidy corner of the market of complete purity and virtue,'' she said. ''You've got to get down and dirty to deal with this. We visit companies. We meet with directors. They know we're not going away. Walking away from that table is really not going to help.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Anne Simpson, the director of corporate governance at the public pension fund Calpers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAX WHITTAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Chloe Maxmin is part of Divest Harvard, which encourages colleges to reconsider investments. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MYLAN CANNON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIVESTITURES (90%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); SUSTAINABLE INVESTING (89%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (89%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (84%); SMOKING (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (72%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (70%); GLOBAL WARMING (70%); CIVIL SERVICES (68%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (68%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (67%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (63%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (50%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (90%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (55%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



144 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: Economy Is Showing New Signs Of Strength

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Bright spots of momentum are emerging in the economy, a trend that increases the chance that the Federal Reserve will begin to ease its stimulus program this month. 
On Thursday, reports showed that services companies were increasing hiring and that fewer people were applying for unemployment benefits. That data followed reports of stronger auto sales and faster expansion by American factories. A report is due Friday on job growth in August. This year's job growth, with a sharp drop in layoffs, has helped lower the unemployment rate to 7.4 percent in July from 7.9 percent in January. In anticipation of the report on Friday, analysts were predicting that employers added 180,000 jobs in August, with the jobless rate staying stable at 7.4 percent.
The improved jobs market is a major reason many economists expect the Fed to begin scaling back purchases of Treasury and mortgage-backed securities this month. The $85 billion in monthly bond buying has helped keep interest rates low to encourage consumers and businesses to borrow and spend more.
At its policy meeting on Sept. 17 and 18, the Fed will consider whether to taper its bond purchases and, if so, by how much.
Several reports released on Thursday and earlier this week have backed Fed officials who say the economy is healthy enough to stand the tapering.
Services businesses, which employ about 90 percent of the American work force, expanded last month at their fastest pace in nearly eight years, the Institute for Supply Management reported. Sales and new orders rose. Services companies hired at their fastest pace in six months. The institute's index of service sector growth has jumped 5.8 points in the last two months, to 58.6 -- the biggest two-month increase since it began in 1997.
The four-week average of first-time applications for unemployment benefits fell in the last month to its lowest point since October 2007, two months before the recession. In the latest reporting week, initial jobless claims dropped 9,000, to a seasonally adjusted 323,000.
The payroll provider ADP reported that American businesses added 176,000 jobs in August. Factory activity last month reached its strongest pace in more than two years. Americans bought new cars and trucks in August at the fastest annual pace since November 2007, with sales jumping 17 percent from a year earlier.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRENDS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); RECESSION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); NEW ORDERS (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (68%); BOOKKEEPING & PAYROLL SERVICES (60%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



145 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Europe Offers U.S. a Deal, Hoping for Global Rules on Airline Emissions

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER

 BODY:
BRUSSELS -- Seeking to end years of acrimony, the European Union has made concessions to the United States to try to gain support for global rules on airline emissions.
Under the arrangement, the European Union would pare back its regulations, applying them only to its own airspace. The original plan, which the United States and other countries rejected, would have imposed charges for emissions over an airline's entire route if the flight began or ended in Europe.
In exchange, Europe is pushing for a global deal on aviation emissions. 
The European concessions -- proposed quietly over the summer and made public this week -- aim to end a trans-Atlantic dispute over a European law to curb emissions on major international routes. In doing so, the European Union is looking to present a united front with the Americans and press the rest of the world to adopt similar or more extensive controls.
''This is a multilateral negotiation where you give and take,'' Isaac Valero-Ladrón, a spokesman for the European Commission, said in a statement. ''We should not miss the bigger picture: a global deal means more emissions covered in the long term.''
The European law, which came into force on Jan. 1, 2012, covers emissions from most flights that touch down in, or take off from, European airports, obliging foreign airlines to buy some carbon permits from traders and governments. Airlines face fines of 100 euros, or $131, for each excess ton of carbon dioxide emissions that they fail to offset with permits. Repeated breaches can even lead to a ban from European airports.
So far, the rules have been applied only to flights within Europe, and European carriers and most non-European airlines have complied. The program is supposed to be expanded next year to include international flights in and out of Europe.
Despite the proposed concessions, a global deal is still a long shot. The United States and other countries have supported the arrangement, according to European Union diplomats. But emerging nations like China and India are resisting similar levels of regulation, which could make it difficult to develop global standards.
From the start, the aviation emissions law approved by European Union nations in 2008 has generated intense opposition among foreign governments, which say the rules violate their sovereignty and unfairly raise the costs of airlines from developing countries.
Carriers like China Eastern Airlines and Air India have refused to participate in the system, and they face the prospect of fines for not providing emissions data. Airbus, the European aircraft manufacturer, warned that Chinese carriers had halted some aircraft orders to signal their dissatisfaction with the European law.
Last year, President Obama signed the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme Prohibition Act. The law could exempt carriers like American Airlines and Delta Air Lines from making payments.
Amid the outcry, Connie Hedegaard, the European Union climate commissioner, announced late last year that she would ''stop the clock'' on the system for 12 months, relieving airlines of making the first payments, which would have been due in April 2013. Those payments were expected to be modest. But the airlines balked because they could face big bills in coming years as the number of permits they needed to buy potentially rose.
Now, the European Union is putting forth a compromise.
Under the compromise, countries could regulate, for now, ''the portion of those flights within the airspace of that state or group of states,'' according to a copy of a working paper. But the paper also calls for a global set of regulations by 2016, and for that system to be carried out ''from 2020 as part of a basket of measures which also include technologies, operational improvements and sustainable alternative fuels.''
On Wednesday, the International Civil Aviation Organization, a United Nations group based in Montreal, agreed to forward the European compromise proposal to a meeting of its general assembly that will start this month. The group is examining ways to regulate pollution from aircraft engines, which account for about 3 percent of greenhouse gas emissions.
European officials said paring back their system in exchange for a global deal would represent a better outcome. Under the new proposal, emissions would be reduced 37 percent by 2050 from 2005 levels, compared with just 20 percent under the original plan.
But some environmentalists said they had doubts about the value of the compromise.
''Timing is everything when it comes to global warming because of the cumulative effect of CO2 emissions,'' said Bill Hemmings, an aviation expert at Transport and Environment, an environmental group based in Brussels. ''So why would we give up on a law that is already cutting aviation emissions when it is very uncertain what the climate will get in return?''
Anthony Concil, a spokesman for the International Air Transport Association, an industry group representing the world's major carriers, declined to comment on Europe's new proposal. Instead, Mr. Concil encouraged nations at the International Civil Aviation Organization meeting to ''achieve a global agreement'' allowing airlines to offset their carbon emissions and avoid ''a patchwork of uncoordinated measures.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (77%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); AIRCRAFT MFG (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (72%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); LEGISLATION (69%); FACTORY ORDERS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (60%)

COMPANY: CHINA EASTERN AIRLINES CORP LTD (84%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); AIRBUS SAS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: K3CD (SGX) (84%); CEA (NYSE) (84%); 0670 (HKSE) (84%); DAL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (74%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); BELGIUM (92%); INDIA (92%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



146 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 297 words

HEADLINE: Red Obsession

BYLINE: By NICOLE HERRINGTON

 BODY:
With the fierce purchasing power of its elite class, China has become the biggest importer of wines from the Bordeaux region of France. The tension generated by these new kids on the clubby French wine scene -- who were driving up prices and clearing out cellars just a few years ago -- is the subject of Warwick Ross and David Roach's fast-paced, ripped-from-the-headlines documentary, ''Red Obsession.'' 
Lovingly shot by Steve Arnold and Lee Pulbrook and narrated by Russell Crowe, the film is at its best when showing how staid Bordeaux winemakers are struggling to embrace a new clientele (whose sensibilities do not always align with French tradition), supply the increasing demand for a finite product and uphold label integrity. For the Chinese, bottles from Lafite and other chateaus are akin to luxury brands -- the Birkin purse of the wine world. The winemakers and critics interviewed for this film talk about the prized terroir that creates a wine so good it's an ''ethereal, dreamy experience,'' as the British wine writer Oz Clarke says.
''Red Obsession,'' a little too stuffed for its nearly 80 minutes, may already be dated, since China's wine fever has cooled recently. Still, the movie raises legitimate concerns about the cultural and economic implications of status-minded overconsumption. The featured Chinese wine enthusiasts -- including the sex-toy manufacturer Peter Tseng and Kelly Cheng, who, tired of bidding at a 2011 auction, more than doubled the last offer and paid 1.5 million Hong Kong dollars (close to $200,000) for a Lafite -- relish the role of collector, if only as a symbol of their success. Oenophiles of all backgrounds will toast to that.
Opens on Friday in New York and Miami. Directed by Warwick Ross and David Roach 1 hour 16 minutes; not rated

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (91%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); WINERIES (89%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); BEVERAGE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); AUCTIONS (77%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (67%) FRANCE (91%); CHINA (91%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



147 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Selling Health Care Reform

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
The long years of Republican obstruction and obfuscation on health care reform have taken their toll. More than half of Americans still say they don't know how they and their families will be affected by the Affordable Care Act, according to a new Kaiser Family Foundation poll, about the same percentage as in 2010. More Americans have a negative view of the act than a positive one.
But now the Obama administration, which has been outshouted by its opponents, is fighting back. It recently announced it will pay $67 million to more than 100 community groups and health care providers to evangelize for the program and help people navigate its complexities in preparation for the opening of health care exchanges on Oct. 1. President Obama, Vice President Joseph Biden Jr. and their spouses are preparing an extensive road trip in the next few weeks to encourage enrollment. 
And on Wednesday, former President Bill Clinton -- described by Mr. Obama as ''the secretary of explaining stuff'' -- was deployed to give the first in a series of speeches describing the law's importance to public health and to those now unable to obtain or afford insurance. Speaking at his library in Little Rock, Ark., he made a forceful case:
''This does give us the best chance we have to achieve nearly universal coverage, provide higher quality health care and lower the rate of cost increases, which we have got to do in a competitive global economy.''
The public relations effort is desperately needed. The Republican Party has spent the last few months trying to dampen enthusiasm for enrollment with misinformation and opportunism. (House Speaker John Boehner, for example, falsely claimed the law would raise the nation's health care costs.) The Senate minority leader, Mitch McConnell, has promised to make it the single biggest issue in next year's midterm elections. One presidential hopeful, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, spent his summer on a ''Defund Obamacare'' tour, cynically aware that it would be far more successful at bringing him name recognition and dollars than at achieving its purported goal.
Many Republican governors and state lawmakers are doing everything they can to stymie the opening of exchanges, deliberately creating stumbling blocks for their own uninsured residents to get coverage. The National Football League knuckled under to Republican pressure not to help promote the law (though at least the Baltimore Ravens agreed to market Maryland's program). Missouri, Ohio and several other states decreed that the ''navigators'' hired by the administration to help people understand the law must have state certification, an unnecessary requirement designed only to preserve ignorance and reduce enrollment.
In Washington, Republican members of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce have sent intimidating letters to many of the groups hired as navigators, demanding all their paperwork and suggesting that the groups intend to exploit the work for fund-raising or political purposes. These are nonprofit groups that are simply trying to help uninsured people through the bureaucracy, and Henry Waxman, the ranking Democrat on the committee, was right to accuse Republicans of ''an abuse of your oversight authority.''
Those who oppose health care reform will keep erecting hurdles, but as Mr. Clinton said on Wednesday, ''it is the law,'' and in less than a month, uninsured people will begin signing up for coverage. The more information they get -- from the president, from the Baltimore Ravens and from the community group next door -- the better their decisions will be.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); FAMILY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE MARKETPLACE (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (69%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (66%); GOVERNORS (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); TED CRUZ (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); JOE BIDEN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%) ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



148 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Plan at G-20 Is to Tighten Global Rules On Taxes

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- Many of the leaders of the world's richest economies are convening at the eighth Group of 20 summit meeting in St. Petersburg, Russia, with the economic winds at their back, ready to sign on to a sweeping new set of tax rules for multinational corporations.
They are expected on Friday to agree to enact new tax laws that would limit the ability of multinational corporations like Apple and Starbucks to legally avoid paying taxes by operating subsidiaries in certain countries. 
The practice came to the fore during the global recession as national coffers were strained and leaders looked for new sources of revenue. The recent positive economic news has not damped that desire or relieved the pressure to crack down.
In the United States, economic news has pointed to continued growth. On Friday, the Labor Department is expected to issue a healthy jobs report with 180,000 jobs created in August. It is the last set of economic data the government will release before the Federal Reserve meets to consider tightening monetary policy and raising interest rates in the United States.
On Thursday, the Institute for Supply Management issued its closely watched report, which said service companies were hiring more, and fewer people are applying for unemployment benefits. Auto sales are up sharply.
Recent economic reports from Britain, France, Germany and other countries in Europe's northern tier have also been optimistic, although central bankers there remain cautious.
If the United States government reports that even more jobs were created, analysts expect that the 10-year Treasury note, which rose to 3 percent on Thursday, will rise further.
Currencies in many of the developing economies that benefited from the expansionist policies of the Federal Reserve have recently been falling sharply against the dollar as the Fed signaled its plans to tighten, and as money flows have reversed. Growth in many of the so-called BRICS economies -- Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa -- that had buoyed global growth have slowed as momentum shifts to the United States, Japan and northern Europe.
The heads of state have two days of meetings and will issue a communiqué on Friday that is expected to address the tax overhaul and other questions of economic policy.
Though the meeting is overshadowed by the crisis in Syria, and deep divisions between nations over possible American military action there, the heads of state are still expected to collectively endorse an economic policy statement that will encourage the continuing fiscal stimulus, or government spending, to help the recovery.
Germany, in the driver's seat of European economic policy, had objected but appeared ready to acquiesce to a statement endorsing fiscal stimulus at a ministerial-level meeting in July in Moscow.
That meeting also encouraged governments to carefully coordinate tapering off monetary stimulus programs like the Federal Reserve's so-called quantitative easing. The end of cheap credit has curbed growth in emerging markets as investors bring money back to the United States to take advantage of rising interest rates.
On Thursday, Russia's deputy minister of finance, Sergei A. Storchak, said the leaders were set to endorse a similarly worded statement on Friday.
''It's not going to be more than the agreements that were reached in Moscow,'' Mr. Storchak told Reuters at the summit meeting, being held in the restored Czarist-era Catherine Palace in St. Petersburg.
In a reflection of the depth of concern about currency outflows caused by rising interest rates in the United States -- meaning investors can obtain similar returns in emerging markets at far lower risk -- the BRICS nations announced an intention to create a collective fund of $100 billion to defend their weakening local currencies. It was unclear when it would be operating and able to intervene in currency trading.
The effort at tax reform, if enacted widely, would squeeze more money from multinational corporations and shift a portion of the global tax burden from individuals and small businesses to large corporations. The proposal is for countries to better coordinate tax treaties to close loopholes that multinational corporations exploit by registering in tax havens like Delaware or the Cayman Islands. Another tactic of concern is shifting profits to low-tax jurisdictions and costs to high-tax ones.
In one widely cited example, Starbucks last year paid no corporate tax in Britain despite generating sales of nearly $630 million from more than 700 stores in that country. The company volunteered to pay more in coming years. Apple, despite being the most profitable American technology company, avoided billions in taxes in the United States and around the world through a web of complex subsidiaries.
Even with the high-level agreement, it will take years to put in place, and companies that benefit and have structured their business to comply with the laws in place today are all but certain to lobby to retain these advantages. The G-20 governments endorsed a draft of the tax agreement in Moscow in July.
The reform would encourage nations to adopt new standardized tax treaties, to replace the web of thousands of such agreements that exists now.
Russia is hosting the G-20 for the first time since the group was formed in 1999 and began discussing strategies for priming the global economy.
Mr. Storchak, the deputy finance minister in Russia, said in an interview before the opening meeting on Thursday that Russia had asked all governments to explain their spending plans for the years ahead, and that most had complied and agreed to release the results of this survey during the forum.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, President Vladimir Putin of Russia and Christine Lagarde of the International Monetary Fund on a screen in a news media hub on Thursday in St. Petersburg. At left, Sergei Storchak. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC FEFERBERG/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
 ROMAN YANDOLIN/RIA NOVOSTI VIA GETTY IMAGES) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); BRICS COUNTRIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); RECESSION (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); SALES FIGURES (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); MONETARY POLICY (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); TAX REFORM (71%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (67%); INTEREST RATES (52%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (51%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (68%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); EUROPE (93%); FRANCE (79%); INDIA (79%); SYRIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); BRAZIL (79%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (69%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



149 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2263 words

HEADLINE: A Small-Town Girl Who Wants Out

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
The tourism bureaus of western Massachusetts will probably not want to send potential visitors to ''The Hill Town Plays,'' the cycle of five dramas by Lucy Thurber that is mostly set in those leafy parts, and whose plays are being presented concurrently across stages in Greenwich Village, courtesy of the Rattlestick Playwrights Theater. Although occasional reference is made to the appealing ''smell of wood smoke hitting the cold air,'' or the cozy intimacies of small-town life, the world presented in Ms. Thurber's plays is not a place that would tempt you to start browsing real estate brochures.
Among the more benign activities the local residents engage in are deer hunting and poker playing, alongside the occasional dazed stare at a television screen. More often, they are pouring beer down their throats as if engaging in a frat boy consumption contest -- although only one of this hill town's denizens gets near a college campus. The beer is usually followed by generous doses of whiskey, and the occasional joint or pill. When the characters take breaks from self-medication, they do more damage by lighting up Marlboros. (The smoke-sensitive might think twice about attending.) 
Should these everyday pastimes pall, there is always a fistfight or a vicious hair-pulling brawl to liven things up, along with often violent and inappropriate sex. ''Abandon all decorum, ye who enter here'' might be the local slogan, in the ornery vision of impoverished small-town life depicted by Ms. Thurber.
The Rattlestick's decision to stage five of a single writer's works at the same time certainly impresses with its ambition and its novelty. I can't think of another instance in which a contemporary playwright has been given a similar honor. Only one of the plays is new: ''Ashville,'' directed by Karen Allen at the Cherry Lane Theater. The other four were first produced from 2001 to 2009, all but one by the Rattlestick.
The collective presentation allows interested audiences to trace the arc of the life of the central character, who begins here as a desperately yearning 11-year-old named Rachel in ''Scarcity,'' and who, by the end of the cycle, has matured into a 33-year-old college professor and fiction writer of the same name in ''Stay.'' In the other plays, the character essentially remains the same -- she's a smart young woman fighting to escape the legacy of her upbringing in a town full of bad boys and worse influences -- but her name and some of the circumstances change.
Aside from a sudden flight into mysticism and the surreal in ''Stay,'' Ms. Thurber's style remains consistent throughout the ''Hill Town Plays'': life is sliced thinly and observed closely, with careful attention to the soul-deadening anomie that can spread itself like an undetected gas through a town where economic opportunities are few. Most of the residents are too demoralized by the dead-end roads stretching in every direction, and the bum choices they've made, to muster the energy to break out of the destructive patterns of their lives.
''Scarcity,'' directed with a sure grip on its black humor by Daniel Talbott, sets the grim tone: Rachel, played with a fine, sullen intensity by Izzy Hanson-Johnston, sticks hard to her schoolwork, her inspiration being the equally impressive scholastic achievement of her 16-year-old brother, Billy (a fresh, vital Will Pullen), whose studiousness and intelligence have enabled him to attend the ''progressive'' local school.
With their natural curiosity and sensitivity, both he and Rachel feel alienated from the local residents and from their own parents: the affectionate but feckless Martha (Deirdre O'Connell, bringing her usual humanizing warmth to a potentially off-putting character), and the useless, occasionally abusive Herb (a convincing Gordon Joseph Weiss), who drinks much more than he works.
The passage of five years has only slightly brightened the future for Ms. Thurber's heroine in ''Ashville.'' The 16-year-old Celia (Mia Vallett) seems to be caught between her yearning to escape the disorder through her studies, and the centrifugal force of her toxic family life. Her slatternly mother, Shelly (Tasha Lawrence), praises Celia as a ''good girl,'' but doesn't do much to cultivate her daughter's chances; Shelly sleeps late and sleeps around -- currently with a guy, Harry (Andrew Garman), who makes a drunken, lurching and violent pass at Celia. Perhaps to keep away the competition, perhaps to protect her, Shelly seems to think that Celia's hit the jackpot when her 22-year-old boyfriend, Jake (Joe Tippett), proposes marriage.
Celia's anxiety at the shrinking prospects of her future inspires impulsive attempts to connect with people who seem to promise a different way forward. She engages in fumbling sex with Joe (the excellent James McMenamin), a pothead and drug dealer who at least has a poster of James Joyce on his wall, and with Amanda (Aubrey Dollar), to whom Celia opens up about her unshakable feeling: ''I want something more,'' she says, repeatedly.
But the sexually pathological environment in which she's grown up results in Celia's making an aggressive pass at Amanda that turns queasily violent. When Amanda plays along and begins pulling her hair and slapping her, then suddenly withdraws, Celia pleads: ''You're not hurting me. I like it. I want it.''
Throughout the ''Hill Town Plays,'' sex and violence are ineluctably and disturbingly intertwined. But Ms. Thurber tends toward a grim determinism in linking the two, so that the outbreaks of violence and brutality often feel pasted-on, or trumped up to give a sudden dramatic charge to plays that largely consist of mundane dialogue meant to underscore the blunted sensibilities of the characters.
Sitting through all five plays in six days, I sometimes felt myself slipping into the same torpor that infects the characters, even when the acting was keenly felt and persuasive. There's only so much time you can spend watching well-drawn but stunted characters swilling beer and making desultory gossip about local affairs before you feel the urge to reach for some numbing palliative yourself.
True, you cannot help rooting for Ms. Thurber's heroine eventually to slip free of the bonds that, despite her intellectual ambition, keep pulling her back to her hometown. In ''Where We're Born,'' directed by Jackson Gay, Lilly (a sometimes overwrought Betty Gilpin), as the heroine is now called, has become a student at Amherst, and comes home during a break to stay with her cousin Tony (a standout Christopher Abbott, the guy who got away from Allison Williams's character on ''Girls''). There, she finds herself falling in with the old crowd -- Nick Winthrop Lawson and Daniel Abeles are funny and mildly touching as Tony's beer-sodden, barely employed friends -- and, more dangerously, falling in love with Tony's girlfriend, Franky (MacKenzie Meehan).
In the most ferociously violent play, ''Killers and Other Family,'' directed by Caitriona McLaughlin, the character, now called Elizabeth (Samantha Soule, doing her best with an implausible role), is finishing up her dissertation in New York, where she lives with her girlfriend, Claire (Aya Cash), when two nagging ghosts from her past show up: her brother, Jeff (Chris Stack), and her ex-boyfriend Danny (Shane McRae). The excellent Mr. Stack and Mr. McRae exude equal parts ingratiating charm and sexual menace. (Oddly, throughout the ''Hill Town Plays,'' the men's roles tend to be more potently acted and sometimes more convincingly drawn).
But Elizabeth's susceptibility to the dark urges she felt she had smothered under her newly civilized exterior felt contrived to me, and the play's spasms of brutality are so gruesome that any point Ms. Thurber may be trying to make about the way sexual violence spreads its poisonous influence is rendered absurd through overstatement.
This dark theme recedes into the background, for the most part, in ''Stay,'' which stars Hani Furstenberg -- with her pallid, planed face and full lips, she strikingly resembles an Ingmar Bergman heroine -- as the mature Rachel, beginning her career as an English professor at an unnamed liberal arts college. Rachel's inner voice is embodied by a character called the Floating Girl (Jenny Seastone Stern), who clambers around her bookshelves, unseen by the other characters but a sometimes comforting, sometimes nagging presence to Rachel.
Ms. Thurber here pushes her playwriting voice in new directions. The occasional flight into lyricism of the earlier plays is indulged more freely, if not always more artfully, and the seductive student Rachel becomes involved with, Julia (Mikaela Feely-Lehmann), seems to possess bizarre mystical powers.
But some things remain the same: Rachel's inability to make appropriate sexual choices once again flares up, and her brother, Billy (McCaleb Burnett), suffers from a similar pathology. Although, like Rachel, he physically left behind the toxic town where they grew up, his career as a lawyer has been abruptly halted after an ill-advised relationship with an underling turned violent.
''Stay,'' fluidly directed by Gaye Taylor Upchurch, concludes with Rachel singing an incantatory refrain -- ''There's nothing in the world more beautiful than you'' -- that seems addressed to herself as an affirmation of her ultimate victory over circumstances that might so easily have destroyed her. But the overarching idea left behind by ''The Hill Town Plays'' remains a dark variation on a familiar truism: No matter how far from home you may stray, in some sense you take it with you wherever you go.
Scarcity
By Lucy Thurber; directed by Daniel Talbott; sets by Raul Abrego; costumes by Tristan Raines; lighting by Joel Moritz; sound by Janie Bullard; production stage manager, Devorah Jaffe; production manager, Eugenia Furneaux; fights by UnkleDave's Fight-House. Presented by Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, David Van Asselt, artistic director; Brian Long, managing director, as part of the Theater: Village Festival. At the Cherry Lane Studio Theater, 38 Commerce Street, West Village; theatervillage.com. Through Sept. 28. Running time: 1 hour 55 minutes.
WITH: Natalie Gold (Ellen), Izzy Hanson-Johnston (Rachel), Deirdre O'Connell (Martha), Will Pullen (Billy), Pamela Shaw (Gloria), Michael Warner (Louis) and Gordon Joseph Weiss (Herb).
Ashville
By Lucy Thurber; directed by Karen Allen; sets by John McDermott; costumes by Jessica Pabst; lighting by Matt Richards; sound by Bart Fassbender; stage manager, Megan Schwarz Dickert; production manager, Eugenia Furneaux; fights by UnkleDave's Fight-House. Presented by Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, David Van Asselt, artistic director; Brian Long, managing director, as part of the Theater: Village Festival. At the Cherry Lane Theater, Mainstage, 38 Commerce Street, West Village; theatervillage.com. Through Sept. 28. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes.
WITH: George West Carruth (Joey), Aubrey Dollar (Amanda), Andrew Garman (Harry), Tasha Lawrence (Shelly), James McMenamin (Joe), Joe Tippett (Jake) and Mia Vallet (Celia).
Where We're Born
By Lucy Thurber; directed by Jackson Gay; sets by John McDermott; costumes by Katherine Roth; lighting by Paul Whitaker; sound by Broken Chord; production stage manager, Catherine Costanzo; production manager, Eugenia Furneaux; fights by UnkleDave's Fight-House; assistant director, Rebecca Poulson. Presented by Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, David Van Asselt, artistic director; Brian Long, managing director, as part of the Theater: Village Festival. At the Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, 244 Waverly Place, West Village; theatervillage.com. Through Sept. 28. Running time: 2 hours.
WITH: Christopher Abbott (Tony), Daniel Abeles (Drew), Betty Gilpin (Lilly), Nick Winthrop Lawson (Vin) and MacKenzie Meehan (Franky).
Killers and Other Family
By Lucy Thurber; directed by Caitriona McLaughlin; sets by John McDermott; costumes by Emily Rebholz; lighting by David Zeffren; sound by Steve Fontaine; production stage manager, Michelle Scalpone; production manager, Eugenia Furneaux; fights by UnkleDave's Fight-House; assistant director, Emma Rosa Went. Presented by Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, David Van Asselt, artistic director; Brian Long, managing director, and the Axis Company, Randy Sharp, artistic director; Brian Barnhart, producing director; Jeffrey Resnick, executive producer, as part of the Theater: Village Festival. At the Axis Theater, 1 Sheridan Square, Greenwich Village; theatervillage.com. Through Sept. 28. Running time: 1 hours 30 minutes.
WITH: Aya Cash (Claire), Shane McRae (Danny), Samantha Soule (Elizabeth) and Chris Stack (Jeff).
Stay
By Lucy Thurber; directed by Gaye Taylor Upchurch; sets by Rachel Hauck; costumes by Jessica Pabst; lighting by Burke Brown; music and sound by Leon Rothenberg; production stage manager, Samantha Watson; production manager, Eugenia Furneaux; projections by Sean Leo, assistant director; violence consultant, J. David Brimmer; movement consultant, Dan Safer. Presented by Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, David Van Asselt, artistic director; Brian Long, managing director, in association with the New Ohio Theater, as part of the Theater: Village Festival. At the New Ohio Theater, 154 Christopher Street, West Village; theatervillage.com. Through September 28. Running time: 1 hours 35 minutes.
WITH: Mikaela Feely-Lehmann (Julia), Hani Furstenberg (Rachel), Brian Miskell (Tommy) McCaleb Burnett (Billy) and Jenny Seastone Stern (Floating Girl), with the voice of Deirdre O'Connell (voice of Martha Lawrence).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Hill Town Plays: MacKenzie Meehan, left, Betty Gilpin and Christopher Abbott in ''Where We're Born,'' by Lucy Thurber, at the Rattlestick Playwrights Theater. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C1)
''The Hill Town Plays'' at Theater: Village Festival include, clockwise from top left: ''Scarcity,'' with Gordon Joseph Weiss and Izzy Hanson- Johnston
''Ashville,'' with James McMenamin and Mia Vallet
''Stay,'' with Hani Furstenberg, standing, and Jenny Seastone Stern
and ''Killers and Other Family,'' with Shane McRae and Samantha Soule. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA BRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (89%); WRITERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (64%); THEATER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



150 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: Syria and the Risks of Regional War

 BODY:
Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg and Ulf Gartzke bemoan Germany's reluctance to join the U.S. military in order to defend ''our common values and interests'' (''Germany's culture of reluctance,'' Aug. 31). But the airstrikes we are likely to witness in the coming days would seem to constitute a violation rather than a defense of those values.
President Obama appears willing to circumvent the U.N. Security Council altogether. Many Germans pride themselves on the fact that since 1945 their country has been reluctant to wage or participate in wars of aggression of the kind we have seen in Iraq, and the same goes for punitive actions that have not been sanctioned by the United Nations. 
If there is a U.S. ''punishment'' of the Syrian government, we will likely witness another reckless military adventure costing many lives and leading to further erosion of U.S. credibility among the citizens of the Middle East.
Gabriele vom Bruck, London
Since Obama established his first red line, matters in Syria have drastically changed for the worse. I believe putting the president's credibility at stake now would be a worthwhile sacrifice.
Bodo Schlosshan, Frankfurt
Meddling in Syria's internal affairs serves no American interest, whether the Assad regime used chemical weapons against rebel elements or not. The lessons from Iraq and Lebanon have not been learned. Syrian problems, even if as horrifying as the use of indiscriminate weapons imply, are not American problems. The world has lost its taste for well-meaning global intervention in the spirit of democracy and human rights, and the American public will not support Obama's attempt to intervene on behalf of embattled Syrian elements.
The repercussions for American intervention are stark. Intervening in Syria -- even if limited to the use of cruise missiles or surgical air strikes -- to right the wrongs of hundreds of Syrian citizens murdered in gas attacks does not justify the risk of the fallout.
Jared Murphey, Washington
Roger Cohen is right in ''Red lines matter'' (Globalist, Sept. 4) to quote Senator John McCain saying that a no vote in the U.S. Congress would be ''catastrophic'' for the United States and its credibility in the world. In the Arab world, America's deliberations are seen as a sign of the spinelessness of U.S. policy.
Samih Sherif, Montreux, Switzerland
Red lines do matter, which is why the president pivoted and became interested in getting Congress on board. Obama recognized that the American public has its own red line that he was reluctant to cross on his own. That line is the one that keeps us from engaging, once again, in hostilities in the Middle East. To cross that one, he wants accomplices.
Andrea Economos, Scarsdale, New York
For those who breathed a sigh of relief that Obama decided to seek congressional approval for a military strike, be careful what you ask for. When a president acts unilaterally, it has to be quick: get in and get out. Military action in Iraq and Vietnam had congressional approval, and those wars lasted years, costing many lives. Unfortunately, we are on that road again. Congress has rarely, if ever, denied a president the right to use the military.
Donald Medwed, Zurich
Regarding ''Antigone in Damascus'' (Views, Sept. 3): The eloquent defense by Ronald Sokol of the moral duty to intervene in Syria, in case its government proves to be the agent responsible for the crime, fails to address the double standard problem. Moral sensibility seems to be at work in some cases, though not in others. What to think of the discouragement by the Clinton administration of the use of the word ''genocide'' during the mass murders in Rwanda or of the French arms shipments to the culpable government of that country? What are Sokol's indicators for separating cases of moral behavior from immoral cases of strategic action in the garb of morality? Spain used mustard gas during the Rif War in the 1920s, and France's history book contains a bloody page on the bombing of Damascus in 1926 -- not for morality in this case.
H.W. Houweling, Monnickendam, Netherlands
Vali Nasr is right in ''Forcing Obama's Hand in Syria'' (Views, Sept. 2) that this is ''a defining moment for American foreign policy'' and that ''America should act decisively,'' but wrong in arguing for a military strike. U.S. action would not likely topple the Assad regime or change the stalemated situation on the ground, and could contribute to metastasizing the conflict into a disastrous regional war.
All the major outside parties, including Russia and Iran, recognize that the use of chemical weapons is horrific and presents a grave threat to important international norms. This, combined with the threat posed by expanding involvement of extremist Islamist elements, has increased the urgency and the possibility of a U.N. Security Council-supported agreement for resolving the conflict, including a political transition that provides assurances for all of Syria's communities and for the legitimate interests of the major outside parties. The Obama administration should be working urgently and diplomatically to achieve this goal.
Ron Young, Everett, Washington

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RED LINE ON WEAPONS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); SYRIA (97%); GERMANY (92%); IRAQ (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); LEBANON (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



151 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: An American Sports Lesson for Europe

BYLINE: By KLAUS F. ZIMMERMANN

 BODY:
If Real Madrid has in fact paid &#x20ac;100 million for midfielder Gareth Bale, as news reports have suggested, another record-breaking player transfer is on the books. That underscores that it's time for Europeans to learn a lesson about fairness and holding down the role of money in professional sports from, of all places, the United States.
Europeans usually view the United States as a winner-take-all society. But despite the big role money undoubtedly plays in American professional football, basketball, baseball and ice hockey, few teams dominate their leagues year after year the way European soccer teams do. 
The problem is especially pronounced in Germany and Spain, in each of which two clubs run away with most of the titles. Between them, Bayern Munich and Borussia Dortmund have won 10 Bundesliga titles. In Spain, FC Barcelona and Real Madrid have won 11 La Liga titles, beginning with the 2000-2001 season. The situation is only slightly better in England, where three teams -- Manchester United, Arsenal and Chelsea -- have won 12 British Premier League and nine FA Cup titles in the same period.
What can be done so that the wheels of commerce do not further promote dominance and undermine fairness? Resolving this issue is not only of interest to millions of sports fans; it also intrigues me as a labor economist. And it requires a Europe-wide solution.
In principle, people should be free to contract for their services with whomever they want and at whatever price they agree on. But any society -- and any profession -- also benefits from fairness. At a minimum, that ensures true competition.
The U.S. approach can provide fresh impetus to the European debate on balancing these conflicting goals. Since the 2000-2001 season, nine different National Football League teams have won the Super Bowl in the United States; six different teams have won the National Basketball Association championship; and nine different teams have won the World Series of baseball.
The United States does have teams with global appeal, such as the New York Yankees or the Los Angeles Lakers, but these teams do not dominate their sports year after year. How do the Americans do it?
The key operating principle of U.S. professional team sports is positively ''European'' in nature. In all major leagues, a strong regulatory hand prevails. Its explicit purpose? To ensure fairness and competition.
The main tool is the salary cap. This requires each team not to exceed a certain total payroll. The mechanism does limit the richest teams' ability to snap up all available talent by offering the highest salaries. The current N.B.A. champion, Miami Heat, for example, pays big salaries to its ''Big Three'': LeBron James, Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh. But the team has to fill the rest of its roster with lesser-paid players to stay under the salary cap.
The other key means of ensuring fair play in American football, basketball and baseball is the draft process. The weakest teams get to dip first into the pool of new players, enabling them to get the best talent from college teams.
But implementing any such measure in just one European country would put its teams at a competitive disadvantage in Europe-wide tournaments. If Germany, but not Spain, were to institute a wage cap, for example, Bayern Munich would likely lose to Barcelona or Real Madrid. So any salary cap or draft needs to be pan-European, and under the auspices of U.E.F.A., the Union of European Football Associations.
In the interest of fairness, the Bundesliga, La Liga and the Premier League should all steal a page from the American playbook. The British Premier League, long known for outlandish spending and the resulting financial losses of its clubs, has started the ball rolling in the right direction by instituting an annual loss limit and has begun to limit salary spending.
If we Europeans want to continue being beaten by the Americans on the issue of fairness, something we have always considered a core European value, then we should strongly embrace this example of combining market principles with basic principles of fairness and true competition.
Klaus Zimmermann is the director of the Institute for the Study of Labor, in Bonn.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SOCCER (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BASEBALL (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (75%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (75%); SPORTS FANS (73%); WINTER SPORTS (73%); ICE HOCKEY (73%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (70%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (58%)

COMPANY: MANCHESTER UNITED PLC (55%)

TICKER: MANU (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (55%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (55%)

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (55%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); BAVARIA, GERMANY (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (95%); SPAIN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (79%); ENGLAND (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



152 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM EUROPE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Syria Crisis Reveals New Paradigm

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL

 BODY:
BERLIN -- In the early 19th century, the German military theorist Carl von Clausewitz concluded that war is an act of politics pursued by other means. Two centuries on, a student of modern conflict might be forced to recast the doctrine for the globalized, 24-hour-news-cycle era: War is a political act pursued to the extent that politics itself permits.
In recent days, indeed, as Western leaders wrestled with claims of chemical weapons use on the outskirts of Damascus on Aug. 21, the balance between politics at home and the ability to project military power abroad seems to have shifted into a new and more circumspect era, as voters tire of fruitless wars overseas and of their leaders' rationales for fighting them. 
When the contenders for the German leadership in elections this month faced off in a televised debate the other day, for instance, the gathering showdown over Syria seemed almost a postscript.
Only when the 90-minute discussion between Chancellor Angela Merkel and her Social Democratic challenger, Peer Steinbrück, was in its final stages did it turn to the question of whether Germany should participate alongside the United States in any military intervention in Syria.
The encounter came just three days after the British Parliament rebuffed Prime Minister David Cameron's quest for a mandate to join in the punishment of President Bashar al-Assad for what the United States says was the forbidden use of sarin gas.
That setback -- unparalleled in the memory of latter-day British interventionism -- molded President Barack Obama's decision, announced two days later, to seek congressional consent for a military strike in Syria.
Even in France, where President François Hollande wields executive power to send his forces to war, opposition lawmakers clamored -- albeit in vain -- for the right to vote on a French deployment when they debated the issue on Wednesday.
''Can France seriously, without any European ally, charge into an adventure of this sort?'' said the lawmaker Christian Jacob from the rightist opposition. ''We don't think so.''
The responses pointed to a broader hesitancy.
Despite, or perhaps because of, their numbers, their wealth and their ever-expanding ranks, the 28 nations of the European Union are far from any sense of common purpose -- beyond risk aversion -- in their collective response to the crisis in Syria.
In Germany, the journalist Daniel Brössler wrote in Süddeutsche Zeitung, ''It is clear that the overwhelming majority of citizens utterly reject German participation'' in military reprisals.
European analysts drew much the same conclusion when Parliament rejected Mr. Cameron's blandishments -- a defeat described by the columnist Moritz Schuller in the Berlin daily Tagesspiegel as ''the symbol of an era in which Western powers are in retreat.''
''There is no sign,'' he wrote, ''of foreign policy that defines and pursues objectives, lays out and defends its options. Some are willing, many are not. But there is more or less no sign of a coalition of one side or another. Syria's civil war is unfolding within this global power vacuum.''
So, compared with the resolve displayed by a limited, U.S.-led coalition in the 2003 invasion of Iraq, or the breadth of NATO involvement in Afghanistan, where soldiers from Germany and many other nations are deployed, what happened?
Even in 2011, Ms. Merkel withheld support for the air campaign by Britain and France that hastened the demise of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi in Libya (although, paradoxically, German Patriot missile batteries are deployed to shield her country's NATO ally, Turkey, from Syrian attack).
As elections approach on Sept. 22, Germany is far more preoccupied with matters closer to home -- unemployment, the euro-zone crisis. Berlin's own history, in any event, has left a powerful antipathy toward militarism.
In Britain, war fatigue was magnified by the sense that the invasion of Iraq was built on the false premise that Saddam Hussein was able at short notice to draw on an arsenal of weapons of mass destruction.
The echo of that untruth subverted Mr. Cameron's effort to maintain Britain's reputation as a global player punching beyond its weight.
For the first time in decades, Britain forfeited its familiar and cherished role as Washington's plucky ally, supplanted by its prickly neighbor, France, once the archfoe of U.S. intervention in Iraq.
The vote in Parliament ''could turn out to be the signal for a strategic shift in favor of insularity,'' said Ian Bond, a foreign policy specialist at the Center for European Reform in London. British lawmakers risked ''sending the message that in the future the U.K. will be content to stay on the sidelines, regardless of what is happening in distant lands.''
For Mr. Hollande, emboldened by his army's thrust into Mali earlier this year, and seeking to eclipse the Libyan triumph of his predecessor, Nicolas Sarkozy, more than glory is at stake.
''If the United States and France do not want to lose all credibility,'' the journalist and politician Noël Mamère wrote on the Rue89 news Web site in Paris, ''they are obliged to intervene.''
''The current chaos in Syria is hard for European citizens to understand,'' he said, ''but what is happening concerns us all,'' threatening to swamp the stirrings of Arab democracy with resurgent dictatorships, both secular and religious.
The teachings of von Clausewitz, Mr. Mamère said, have ''never been more relevant than now, on the eve of taking up arms in Syria.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); WRITERS (63%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (73%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%); PEER STEINBRUECK (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); ANGELA MERKEL (58%); DAVID CAMERON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%) GERMANY (95%); SYRIA (94%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (59%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



153 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Years Of Tragic Waste

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
In a few days, we'll reach the fifth anniversary of the fall of Lehman Brothers -- the moment when a recession, which was bad enough, turned into something much scarier. Suddenly, we were looking at the real possibility of economic catastrophe.
And the catastrophe came. 
Wait, you say, what catastrophe? Weren't people warning about a second Great Depression? And that didn't happen, did it? Yes, they were, and no, it didn't -- although the Greeks, the Spaniards, and others might not agree about that second point. The important thing, however, is to realize that there are degrees of disaster, that you can have an immense failure of economic policy that falls short of producing total collapse. And the failure of policy these past five years has, in fact, been immense.
Some of that immensity can be measured in dollars and cents. Reasonable measures of the ''output gap'' over the past five years -- the difference between the value of goods and services America could and should have produced and what it actually produced -- run well over $2 trillion. That's trillions of dollars of pure waste, which we will never get back.
Behind that financial waste lies an even more tragic waste of human potential. Before the financial crisis, 63 percent of adult Americans were employed; that number quickly plunged to less than 59 percent, and there it remains.
How did that happen? It wasn't a mass outbreak of laziness, and right-wing claims that jobless Americans aren't trying hard enough to find work because they're living high on food stamps and unemployment benefits should be treated with the contempt they deserve. A bit of the decline in employment can be attributed to an aging population, but the rest reflects, as I said, an immense failure of economic policy.
Set aside the politics for a moment, and ask what the past five years would have looked like if the U.S. government had actually been able and willing to do what textbook macroeconomics says it should have done -- namely, make a big enough push for job creation to offset the effects of the financial crunch and the housing bust, postponing fiscal austerity and tax increases until the private sector was ready to take up the slack. I've done a back-of-the-envelope calculation of what such a program would have entailed: It would have been about three times as big as the stimulus we actually got, and would have been much more focused on spending rather than tax cuts.
Would such a policy have worked? All the evidence of the past five years says yes. The Obama stimulus, inadequate as it was, stopped the economy's plunge in 2009. Europe's experiment in anti-stimulus -- the harsh spending cuts imposed on debtor nations -- didn't produce the promised surge in private-sector confidence. Instead, it produced severe economic contraction, just as textbook economics predicted. Government spending on job creation would, indeed, have created jobs.
But wouldn't the kind of spending program I'm suggesting have meant more debt? Yes -- according to my rough calculation, at this point federal debt held by the public would have been about $1 trillion more than it actually is. But alarmist warnings about the dangers of modestly higher debt have proved false. Meanwhile, the economy would also have been stronger, so that the ratio of debt to G.D.P. -- the usual measure of a country's fiscal position -- would have been only a few points higher. Does anyone seriously think that this difference would have provoked a fiscal crisis?
And, on the other side of the ledger, we would be a richer nation, with a brighter future -- not a nation where millions of discouraged Americans have probably dropped permanently out of the labor force, where millions of young Americans have probably seen their lifetime career prospects permanently damaged, where cuts in public investment have inflicted long-term damage on our infrastructure and our educational system.
Look, I know that as a political matter an adequate job-creation program was never a real possibility. And it's not just the politicians who fell short: Many economists, instead of pointing the way toward a solution of the jobs crisis, became part of the problem, fueling exaggerated fears of inflation and debt.
Still, I think it's important to realize how badly policy failed and continues to fail. Right now, Washington seems divided between Republicans who denounce any kind of government action -- who insist that all the policies and programs that mitigated the crisis actually made it worse -- and Obama loyalists who insist that they did a great job because the world didn't totally melt down.
Obviously, the Obama people are less wrong than the Republicans. But, by any objective standard, U.S. economic policy since Lehman has been an astonishing, horrifying failure.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECESSION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); JOB CREATION (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); AGING TRENDS (65%); TAX INCENTIVES (65%); TAX INCREASES (64%); AGING (50%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



154 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Reports Lift Wall St. to Slight Gain

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
More evidence of improving job growth helped the stock market post slim gains on Thursday, but it weighed on the bond market, where the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note jumped to 3 percent for the first time in more than two years.
The Labor Department reported that the four-week average of applications for unemployment benefits fell to its lowest point since October 2007, two months before the recession officially began. And a survey from the payroll company ADP showed that American businesses added 176,000 jobs in August. 
The encouraging news came a day before the government reports on employment growth in August. Many investors believe that solid growth will prompt the Federal Reserve to start tapering off its economic stimulus program later this month.
The Fed's stimulus has helped drive a bull market in stocks that has lasted more than four years.
The improving job market means that ''the Fed probably lays out a tapering schedule in September,'' said Philip J. Orlando, chief equity strategist at Federated Investors.
While stock trading may be volatile in the coming weeks, Mr. Orlando said, investors will ultimately see the reduced stimulus as a positive sign because it means that the economy is strong enough to expand without the Fed's help. ''It should leave stocks in great shape,'' he said
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 6.61 points, or less than 0.1 percent, to close at 14,937.48. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 2 points, or 0.1 percent, to 1,655.08. The Nasdaq composite index gained 9.74 points, or 0.3 percent, to 3,658.78.
Some retail stocks were among the bigger gainers for the day. Costco rose $3.12, or 2.8 percent, to $114.62 after the discount store chain said revenue at stores open at least a year rose 4 percent in August, slightly faster than Wall Street's expectations. Walgreens rose 70 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $50.19 after reporting a 4.8 percent increase in sales last month.
In government bond trading, the price of the Treasury's 10-year note fell 26/32, to 95 25/32, while its yield climbed to 3 percent, from 2.90 percent late Wednesday. The 10-year yield is the highest it has been since late July 2011, as bond traders anticipate that the Federal Reserve will cut back on its stimulus. The yield has risen sharply from a recent low of 1.63 percent in early May.
Rising yields on Treasury notes over the last few months have pushed up mortgage rates and other interest rates. The average fixed rate on a 30-year mortgage rose to 4.57 percent this week.
Stocks slumped in August, partly because of investors' concern that the Fed would start winding down its stimulus program and higher interest rates would harm the economy. The S.& P. 500 index fell 3.1 percent in August, its biggest monthly decline since May 2012.
It appears, however, that investors are getting more comfortable with higher borrowing costs.
''We don't anticipate that a gradual rise in rates will choke off the economy,'' said David W. Roda, regional chief investment officer for Wells Fargo Private Bank. ''We are still looking at very low rates historically.''
Among the stocks on the move on Thursday, Conn's fell $7.95, or 12 percent, to $60.36 after the consumer finance company reported second-quarter earnings that missed Wall Street expectations.
Groupon rose 36 cents, or 3.5 percent, to $10.66 after Morgan Stanley raised its recommendation on the stock to ''overweight'' as the company adjusted its business model.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); INTEREST RATES (83%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); BOOKKEEPING & PAYROLL SERVICES (70%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); RETAILERS (68%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (68%); MORTGAGE RATES (62%)

COMPANY: AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INC (83%); FEDERATED INVESTORS INC (55%)

TICKER: ADP (NASDAQ) (83%); FII (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (83%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (83%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



155 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; WEEKEND MISER; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: Heading to Queens, Just Not for the Tennis

BYLINE: By A. C. LEE

 BODY:
This weekend, tennis pilgrims by the thousands will descend upon the Billie Jean King National Tennis Center in Flushing, Queens, for the final matches of the United States Open. Though a tennis fan, the Miser, priced out of even the cheapest seats at Arthur Ashe Stadium, won't be one of them. But there are still plenty of good reasons to be in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park this weekend. 
Adjacent to the tennis complex is the Flushing Meadows Golf Center. Golfers of all skill levels can hone their short games on the not unreasonably priced ''pitch and putt'' course, but the mini-golf course ($8.25 for adults; $6.75 for children under 12 and adults over 62, including ball and club) is the better deal. And, since it's the only city course equipped with lights, you can play well into the night.
(Friday through Sunday, 8 a.m. to midnight, 100 Flushing Meadows Corona Park Road, at Perimeter Road; 718-271-8182, golfnyc.com.)
Next to the course is the pristine and expansive aquatic center, where swimmers can take advantage of an Olympic-size pool divided into dedicated areas for laps, diving and open swim. Daily admission ranges from $10 for adult open swim to as low as $3 for adults over 62 who merely want to swim laps. Admission is free for members of the Parks Department's recreation centers.
(Friday, from 6 a.m. to 9:45 p.m.; Saturday, from 9 a.m. to 9:45 p.m.; and Sunday, from 9 a.m. to 7:45 p.m.; Avery Avenue at 131st Street, Flushing; 718-271-7572, usapools.com/flushingmeadows.)
Across the Grand Central Parkway is the New York Hall of Science, which features interactive exhibitions for all ages. Now on view is the ''Arthur Ashe Learning Center Inspirational Tour,'' a media-rich look at the life and legacy of that pioneering tennis champion. Admission to the entire museum is free during the show's run, which ends on Monday.
(Friday and Monday, from 9:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturday and Sunday, from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; 47-01 111th Street; 718-699-5227, nysci.org.)
REBUILDING AT GROUND ZERO
Like many immigrants, the Miser adopted New York City in spite of the often exasperating skirmishes among its civic, economic and aesthetic leaders. The battle over what to build in place of the World Trade Center is a perfect example, and its history is retold in the recent documentary ''16 Acres,'' which will be screened on Friday at the Noguchi Museum in Long Island City, Queens. The screening is in partnership with the Architecture and Design Film Festival and is preceded by a lecture devoted to Noguchi's 1982 sculpture ''Break Through Capestrano.'' Both events are part of the museum's free First Friday series.
(The lecture is on Friday at 6 p.m., and the screening is at 7; 9-01 33rd Road, at Vernon Boulevard; 718-204-7088, noguchi.org.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TENNIS (93%); SPORTS (93%); SWIMMING (90%); GOLF (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS FANS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); CHILDREN (74%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (74%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); WATER SPORTS (71%); FESTIVALS (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (62%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (62%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



156 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: The Perils When Megabanks Lose Focus

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
Five years ago, as Lehman Brothers teetered, there was remarkably little concern about what would happen if it failed and virtually none about what would happen to the rest of Wall Street if it did.
But it did fail, endangering virtually every other large financial institution. Bailouts became plentiful.
Since those terrifying days, new attitudes have come to the fore. Where once the public, and regulators, took for granted that big banks were adequately capitalized, now there are newly determined regulators. That is especially true for the big banks -- now known as Sifis, for strategically important financial institutions. They face tougher regulations than their smaller competitors because of the greater damage their failure could cause.
That move to tougher regulation is particularly sharp in the largest financial markets -- the United States, Britain and Switzerland. Having a big financial industry was viewed as a sign of success before 2008; now it is seen as a risk to the economy. Iceland and Ireland went broke because of financial systems that were too large and too badly managed.
Along with initiatives to assure that the large institutions could survive a new crisis there are efforts to assure that even if they did fail, they could be dismantled without severe damage to the rest of the system or to the economy. Whether those efforts would work remains to be seen. 
Bailouts were necessary in 2008 to keep the financial system operating, but it is now more important than ever to distinguish why that was important. We need banks to provide payment systems, safe places for deposits and loans to individuals and businesses. In other words, we need them to provide the services that were traditionally provided by commercial banks and savings and loans. It is those functions that justify offering deposit insurance as well.
It was once taken for granted that letting the banks do all those other things somehow made them stronger. We now know that need not be true, and that it is possible the opposite will often be the case.
The big bank that seemed to most successfully navigate the shoals of 2008 was JPMorgan Chase. Whether by luck or good judgment, it avoided the worst excesses of the boom. Jamie Dimon, the bank's chief executive, became the most respected man on Wall Street.
Now, he sometimes seemed to be the most beleaguered. Rarely does a month go by without some new legal problem for his bank. JPMorgan's most recent quarterly report contains nine pages of small type listing its legal issues. It says that resolving them is likely to cost -- in excess of reserves already taken -- somewhere between nothing and $6.8 billion.
For a company the size of JPMorgan, that is not all that much money. The latest balance sheet shows shareholders' equity of $209 billion and total assets of $2.4 trillion. The bank says it has plenty of capital, although it will have to take steps to reduce its assets -- or increase its equity -- to meet proposed leverage rules aimed at large bank holding companies.
JPMorgan does sound chastened by the widespread problems. ''Our control agenda is priority No. 1,'' said a spokesman, Mark Kornblau. ''We still have work to do and will cooperate with our regulators as partners in order to get it right.''
Reading through the list of legal problems, one thing stands out: most of them stem from activities outside traditional commercial banking. In other words, they were caused by activities other than the ones that justify the bank's receiving the benefit of deposit insurance or a possible bailout if it gets into trouble again.
Foremost among them is the so-called London Whale trading conducted by the bank's chief investment office, which cost the bank $6.2 billion. It was gambling in credit default swaps tied to corporate debt, and when the bets went wrong it threw good money after bad, with disastrous results. The bank now says that some of the people involved in the trading hid the scale of losses from their bosses by lying about how much the securities were worth. Two former employees are under indictment in federal court in New York.
The Whale tale provides a series of lessons about banks, circa 2013. One is that there is no certainty that bank gambling will be seriously restricted by the Volcker Rule, which supposedly bans ''proprietary trading'' by banks. That rule, named for Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman, was part of the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law, but final regulations have yet to be issued.
When the trading was first disclosed, JPMorgan assured us that it was really hedging, and therefore acceptable under the Volcker Rule as proposed. An official at JPMorgan's primary regulator, the comptroller of the currency, endorsed that view in conversations with Senate staff members.
It turned out, as revealed by an extensive investigation by a Senate subcommittee led by Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, that it was not hedging at all, no matter how liberally you define the term. And it turned out that the regulator was largely ignorant of what was going on when those false assurances were relayed. The lesson there is that the more complicated an institution is, the less likely regulators are to really understand it.
Another loophole in the ban on proprietary trading is that banks may continue to be ''market makers'' in securities. That requires them to be ready to buy and sell securities in response to customer orders.
The fiction there is that such orders materialize without salesmanship. They don't, particularly with complex financial products being sold to customers who are far less knowledgeable than the people doing the selling.
The long list of JPMorgan legal problems contains some examples of how that function can lead to problems. JPMorgan, like other banks, made a market in interest-rate swaps and aggressively sold them to many customers as ways to protect themselves against losses if interest rates moved the wrong way. In many cases, the products did not work, and the suits stretch around the world.
Alabama's largest county went bankrupt in part because of huge losses on such swaps -- and it turned out JPMorgan employees had paid bribes to get the business. In Italy, a 2005 interest rate swap with Milan led to civil and criminal proceedings. Two JPMorgan employees were convicted of aggravated fraud, and the bank was ordered to pay 25 million euros in fines and restitution. All of that is on appeal.
Those liabilities shed light on a common problem in the world of finance. When the sale is being made, the banks want customers to view the salesman as a trusted adviser. If the investment goes bad, the customer suddenly becomes a counterparty to whom the bank owes no obligation at all.
To be fair to JPMorgan, some of its problems stem from its shotgun marriage to Bear Stearns -- a union that brought, among other assets, some uneconomical electric power plants. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission is extracting $410 million from JPMorgan for what it deemed to be unethical practices aimed at persuading public power authorities that it was offering competitive prices when in fact it was not.
Some of the legal problems at JPMorgan do stem from traditional banking. There are issues with the way it collected credit card debts and the procedures it used in selling mortgages and then foreclosing on them when the payments were not made. Others are sort of connected, like JPMorgan's sale of so-called identity-theft products to credit card customers. Regulators are expected to fine the bank about $80 million for misleading customers.
There is nothing intrinsically wrong with many of the things that the megabanks do. The issue is whether they should be done by banks that have the benefit of deposit insurance and an implicit federal guarantee. If a hedge fund wants to gamble in the swaps market, or a private equity fund wants to run electric power plants, that is fine. A failure would not endanger the financial system, and if they engage in criminal behavior prosecutors would not fear to bring charges, as they may do now with large banks.
I asked Mr. Volcker what he thought of the wide variety of legal issues that can confront the megabanks.
''The swirl of legal and ethical questions surrounding the diverse activities of our largest banking organizations raises important questions for both management and public policy,'' he replied. ''The risk of loss of focus on the core essential commercial banking functions -- maintaining a safe and efficient payment system and providing loans and deposit facilities for large businesses and individuals -- is real.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman, during a hearing in Washington in 2009. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN SNYDER/REUTERS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (76%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (64%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); ICELAND (75%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



157 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: White House Looks at Vote As Rudder for Rest of Term

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
ST. PETERSBURG, Russia -- President Obama and his advisers view the coming decision on military action against Syria as a potential turning point that could effectively define his foreign policy for his final three years in office.
As he lobbied world leaders at a summit meeting here in person and members of Congress back in Washington by telephone on Thursday, Mr. Obama argued that a failure to act would be an abdication of the so-called indispensable role played by the United States since the end of the cold war, leaving no one to step in when international bodies fail to.
In private, Mr. Obama and his team see the votes as a guidepost for the rest of his presidency well beyond the immediate question of launching missiles at Syrian military targets. If Congress does not support a relatively modest action in response to a chemical attack that killed more than 1,400 people in Syria, Obama advisers said, the president will not be able to count on support for virtually any use of force. 
Although Mr. Obama has asserted that he has the authority to order the strike on Syria even if Congress says no, White House aides consider that almost unthinkable. As a practical matter, it would leave him more isolated than ever and seemingly in defiance of the public's will at home. As a political matter, it would almost surely set off an effort in the House to impeach him, which even if it went nowhere could be distracting and draining.
As a result, Mr. Obama would be even more reluctant to order action in the one case that has most preoccupied military planners: the development of a nuclear bomb by Iran. Any operation to take out Iranian nuclear facilities would require a far more extensive commitment of military force than the missile strike envisioned against Syria. Moreover, a rejection of the Syria strike would make Mr. Obama less likely to leave behind a robust force in Afghanistan after combat troops are withdrawn at the end of 2014.
''I think this vote determines the future of his foreign policy regardless of whether it's a yes vote or a no vote,'' said Rosa Brooks, a former top Defense Department official under Mr. Obama. ''If he ekes out a yes vote, he's beholden to the Republicans.'' But, she added, ''if he gets a no vote and stands down on Syria, he's permanently weakened and will indeed probably be more inward looking.''
Already a sometimes-reluctant warrior, Mr. Obama pulled out all American troops from Iraq, ordered a withdrawal from Afghanistan and lately has talked about scaling back his aggressive use of drones in Pakistan and eventually ending the war against terrorism. Some critics have argued that in subcontracting the Syria decision to Congress, Mr. Obama was looking for an excuse not to act and someone else to blame.
White House officials deny that, saying what the president really wants is a united front. But to opponents of a Syria strike, a retreat from further use of force in the wake of a Congressional rejection would finally reverse what they see as excessive militarism since Sept. 11, 2001. The restraint on future military flexibility that the White House professes to fear, in this view, would be something to celebrate.
It may be that the dire talk from the White House reflects a strategy to muscle Congress into line: Vote against this, the message being, and you vote against protecting Israel from Iran. And it may be that even if White House officials believe that today, Mr. Obama would still act to stop developments in the Iranian nuclear program or to address some other threatening circumstance if the moment ever arrived.
''Obviously defeat would be a blow to presidential leadership but I think not fatal to a decision to attack Iran because the stakes are different,'' said Gary Samore, a former national security aide to Mr. Obama. ''The danger is that Iran might misread Congressional opposition to a Syria attack as a green light to move toward building nukes, which would force Obama's hand.''
Nancy Soderberg, who was a diplomat at the United Nations under President Bill Clinton, said a negative vote would cut Congress out of foreign policy. ''Rather than tying the president's hands for the next three years, a failure in the House would leave him more reliant on his inner circle and a few key world leaders in making the difficult choices between force and diplomacy,'' she said.
But Mr. Obama and his aides are trying to thread a needle at home and abroad. Even as they argue that the stakes are profound, they assure that the intervention would be modest. While Mr. Obama argues that nothing less than world credibility is at stake, he is aiming only a ''shot across the bow'' to deter further use of chemical weapons, not to end a civil war that has killed 100,000. That makes this situation different from, say, the circumstances surrounding Kosovo in the 1990s, when the United States led NATO forces to stop mass slaughter.
Mr. Obama presented his case to leaders gathered here from the Group of 20 nations, but found as much wariness as he has in Congress. While France, Turkey and Saudi Arabia support such a strike, most of the others were more cautious, and the meeting's host, President Vladimir V. Putin, was openly hostile.
Chinese officials warned that a strike would raise oil prices and upset the global economy, while Italy's prime minister said he worried that it would widen the conflict. From the Vatican, Pope Francis wrote a letter urging the leaders ''to lay aside the futile pursuit of a military solution.''
Mr. Obama, who met separately with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan and President Dilma Rousseff of Brazil, was hoping mainly to win support for the idea of holding Syria responsible even if not for his method.
The Group of 20 meeting put on full display the increasingly awkward and tense relationship between Mr. Obama and Mr. Putin. To protest Russia's decision to grant temporary asylum to Edward J. Snowden, the former National Security Agency contractor who disclosed secret programs, Mr. Obama last month canceled a separate one-on-one meeting in Moscow and declined even a private session here in St. Petersburg.
As he arrived at Constantine Palace, Mr. Obama was greeted by Mr. Putin, and the two shook hands and smiled in a businesslike if not warm encounter lasting about 15 seconds. They did not pat backs or grab elbows as leaders often do, and at the opening session they sat separated by the leaders of Australia and Indonesia, with nothing to say to each other as long as the cameras were on.
Diving into the meetings, Mr. Obama tried to manage dual audiences, the one in front of him representing the world's greatest powers and the one back home that holds the fate of his foreign policy in its hands.
''One thing for Congress to consider,'' said Benjamin J. Rhodes, his deputy national security adviser, ''is the message that this debate sends about U.S. leadership around the world -- that the U.S. for decades has played the role of undergirding the global security architecture and enforcing international norms. And we do not want to send a message that the United States is getting out of that business in any way.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama and President Vladimir V. Putin after a brief greeting at a meeting on Thursday in St. Petersburg, Russia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DMITRY LOVETSKY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COLD WAR (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); LOBBYING (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); TERRORISM (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%) SYRIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAQ (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



158 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 4750 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current productions, additional listings, showtimes and ticket information are at nytimes.com/theater. A searchable, critical guide to theater is at nytimes.com/events.
Previews and Openings
'All the Faces of the Moon' (in previews; opens on Wednesday) Too late if you want to catch all 29 parts of this new piece by the monologuist Mike Daisey (''The Agony and the Ecstasy of Steve Jobs''), which he describes as delving into the secret history of New York. Each night of the current lunar cycle he's performing new material, each night onstage with a different oil painting commissioned just for the show. Fear not: If you start on Friday, you can still see 28 of the bunch. Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com. (David DeWitt) 
'Arguendo' (previews start on Tuesday; opens on Sept. 24) After nearly seven hours of parsing American literature (in the acclaimed ''Gatz''), Elevator Repair Service and the Public Theater can be forgiven for shifting their collective attention to something a little racier. Their latest collaboration focuses on a 1991 Supreme Court case over whether exotic dancers ran afoul of a law about public nudity. Elevator Repair Service's reputation for bold visuals will come into play, but get your mind out of the gutter: the collaborator of note is the visual artist Ben Rubin, who is contributing animated text projections. Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Eric Grode)
'Big Fish' (in previews; opens on Oct. 6) Among the season's more intriguing projects, this musicalization of the 2003 Tim Burton film -- about a young man trying to sift through his father's extremely unreliable stories -- garnered rave reviews during its Chicago engagement this spring. Norbert Leo Butz, Kate Baldwin and Bobby Steggert lead the cast; Andrew Lippa (''The Addams Family'') wrote the music and lyrics; and Susan Stroman (who gave Mr. Butz his big break in ''Thou Shalt Not'') is the director and choreographer. Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (866) 870-2717, bigfishthemusical.com. (Grode)
'Fetch Clay, Make Man' (in previews; opens on Thursday) Pairing one of black America's most beloved heroes (Cassius Clay, soon to be known as Muhammad Ali) with one of its most reviled performers (Lincoln Perry's screen character Stepin Fetchit) may sound like the makings of a cheeky improv skit, but the two men actually became friends in the 1960s. Will Power (''The Seven'') builds his drama around this unlikely relationship; Des McAnuff (''Jersey Boys'') directs. New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 460-5475, nytw.org. (Grode)
'The Film Society' (previews start on Tuesday; opens on Oct. 1) The Keen Company has earned a reputation for salvaging nearly forgotten works by the likes of Thornton Wilder and Robert Anderson. Now it is focusing on someone a bit more contemporary: Jon Robin Baitz, who's still going strong with plays like ''Other Desert Cities.'' His first New York revival, fittingly, is of his first play to be produced in New York, a 1988 drama set in a South African school for boys. The company's artistic director, Jonathan Silverstein, will direct Euan Morton and Roberta Maxwell. Clurman Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, keencompany.org. (Grode)
'The Glass Menagerie' (in previews; opens on Sept. 26) This classic Tennessee Williams drama, lavishly honored and about as canonical an American work as they come, returns for its seventh Broadway run after opening there in 1945. This time the members of the Wingfield family are played by Cherry Jones, Celia Keenan-Bolger and Zachary Quinto, with Brian J. Smith as the Gentleman Caller. Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com. (DeWitt)
'I Can See Clearly Now (the Wheelchair on My Face)' (previews start on Tuesday; opens on Sept. 17) Another year, another Edinburgh Fringe Festival award winner. This one, Sonya Kelly's one-woman comedy about a girl with 20/900 eyesight who got by for years without glasses, won the prestigious Fringe First Award in 2012. Presented by the Dublin company Fishamble, it is part of this year's 1st Irish festival. 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200, 59e59.org. (Grode)
'The Machine' (opens on Friday) Chess is not the activity you might expect to command attention in the spacious Park Avenue Armory, but this play, by Matt Charman and staged by Josie Rourke of the Donmar Warehouse in London, challenges that thought. It tells of Garry Kasparov's famed 1997 match in New York against Deep Blue, the IBM supercomputer. Park Avenue Armory, 643 Park Avenue, at 67th Street, (212) 616-3930, armoryonpark.org. (DeWitt)
'Mr. Burns, a Post-Electric Play' (in previews; opens on Sept. 15) The end of civilization has been on artists' minds lately, and now the adventurous Civilians have joined the post-apocalyptic parade. In this new play by Anne Washburn, one random episode of ''The Simpsons'' is the last remnant of Western culture. If the all-star downtown cast (which includes Quincy Tyler Bernstine, Matthew Maher and Jennifer R. Morris) and subject matter aren't enough of a draw, there's also a new score by Michael Friedman (''Love's Labour's Lost''). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Grode)
'The Old Friends' (in previews; opens on Thursday) The Signature Theater's devotion to Horton Foote continues with the premiere of this drama by Foote, who died in 2009 and whose late-career success was fueled in no small part by the Signature's season of his works in 1994. Michael Wilson (''The Trip to Bountiful'') directs two fellow Foote veterans, Lois Smith and Horton's daughter Hallie Foote, as well as Betty Buckley in this play about an uneasy meeting between two Texas farming families. Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Grode)
'Philip Goes Forth' (in previews; opens on Sept. 22) George Kelly wrote several timeless comedies in the 1920s, including ''The Show-Off'' and ''The Torch Bearers,'' but the mixed reviews he received for this 1931 work put him off playwriting for five years. If anyone is equipped to make the case for this gently satirical play, about an aspiring young playwright with more ambition than talent, it is the Mint Theater, which is giving ''Philip Goes Forth'' its first New York City revival. Mint Theater, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, minttheater.org. (Grode)
'The Recommendation' (opens on Friday) An old friendship gets a jolt when the popular, plugged-in Aaron Feldman is pulled over for a broken taillight and his friend, the unconnected Iskinder Iudoku, has the advantage. This is the most prominent staging to date for Jonathan Caren, who won a playwriting award for the piece when it had its premiere last year at the Old Globe in San Diego. Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101, theflea.org. (Grode)
'Romeo and Juliet' (in previews; opens on Sept. 19) Despite being maybe the best-known romance in the history of Western theater, ''Romeo and Juliet'' has not been performed on Broadway in more than 35 years. Stepping in to fill the breach are Condola Rashad, fresh off ''The Trip to Bountiful,'' and the relative stage neophyte Orlando Bloom. (Sadly, this production is set in modern times, so the sword skills Mr. Bloom honed for the ''Lord of the Rings'' and ''Pirates of the Caribbean'' films will most likely go unused here.) David Leveaux has surrounded his young stars with seasoned stage veterans like Brent Carver, Chuck Cooper and Jayne Houdyshell. Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com. (Grode)
'stop. reset.' (in previews; opens on Sunday) The future of the written word is very much on the minds of the employees of a Chicago publishing house in this new play written and directed by Regina Taylor (''Crowns''). In the course of trying to find an answer, the company's owner meets what the press materials describe as ''a mysterious youth plugged into the future,'' which seems like a pretty good description of young people in general these days. Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Grode)
'A User's Guide to Hell, Featuring Bernard Madoff' (in previews; opens on Saturday) Hell really is other people for the titular Ponzi schemer, among them Josef Mengele and Mohammed Atta, in this black comedy by the versatile Lee Blessing (''A Walk in the Woods,'' ''Down the Road''). But it also looks a lot like New York City. Atlantic Stage 2, 330 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 352-3101, projectytheatre.org. (Grode)
'Women or Nothing' (in previews; opens on Sept. 16) The Atlantic Theater has had several hits with batches of one-act plays by Ethan Coen (who, with Joel, is part of the Academy Award-winning Coen brothers tandem), and now Mr. Coen has written his first full-length work for the company. It's about two women who are eager to have a baby -- so eager that they might even be willing to sleep with a man to get one. David Cromer directs Susan Pourfar, one of his stars from ''Tribes,'' as one half of the couple, along with Halley Feiffer. Linda Gross Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, atlantictheater.org. (Grode)
'You Never Can Tell' (in previews; opens on Sept. 15) George Bernard Shaw wrote this play after ''Mrs. Warren's Profession,'' so he'd already been known for giving his women articulate wit and their own spark of divine fire. Here such women include Mrs. Clandon, a feminist author who's returned her family to England, and her two grown daughters. Pearl Theater, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 563-9261, pearltheatre.org. (DeWitt)
Broadway
'Annie' James Lapine's revival of the singing comic strip from 1977 is merely serviceable. But its smiley-faced mixture of hope and corn scratches an itch in a city recovering from a recession and a hurricane. Theatergoers may occasionally feel the urge both to mist up and throw up, but Lilla Crawford is a nigh irresistible Orphan Annie. With Anthony Warlow and Faith Prince as Miss Hannigan (2:25). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Ben Brantley)
'First Date' The winning Zachary Levi and Krysta Rodriguez star in this cliché-ridden romantic comedy, with a book by Austin Winsberg and a score by Alan Zachary and Michael Weiner. Mr. Levi is the nice Jewish boy who's had his heart kicked around, Ms. Rodriguez a boho chick with lots of experience. They're all wrong for each other, right? Sorry, but no prizes will be given for guessing how this familiar story ends (1:30). Longacre Theater, 220 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Charles Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Kinky Boots' Cyndi Lauper has created a love-and-heat-seeking score that performs like a pop star on Ecstasy. This Harvey Fierstein-scripted tale of lost souls in shoe business, in which a young factory owner (Stark Sands) teams up with a drag queen (Billy Porter), sometimes turns into a sermon. But it's hard to resist the audience-hugging charisma of the songs (2:20). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Matilda the Musical' The most satisfying and subversive musical ever to come out of Britain. Directed by Matthew Warchus, with a book by Dennis Kelly and addictive songs by Tim Minchin, this adaptation of Roald Dahl's novel is an exhilarating tale of empowerment, told from the perspective of that most powerless group, little children (2:35). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Motown: The Musical' A dramatically slapdash but musically vibrant joy ride through the glory days of the Detroit music label founded by Berry Gordy. Mr. Gordy's book is sketchy and obvious -- you want to plug your ears whenever the music stops. But the music is, of course, some of the greatest R&B ever recorded, and the performers mostly electric (2:40). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)
'Pippin' Diane Paulus sends in the acrobats for her exhaustingly energetic revival of Stephen Schwartz and Roger O. Hirson's 1972 musical. As for the 99-pound story at the center of this muscle-bound spectacle -- the one about the starry-eyed son of Charlemagne (Matthew James Thomas) -- that's there too, if you look hard. With Patina Miller and a delightful Andrea Martin (2:35). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Rodgers & Hammerstein's Cinderella' This ultimate and most enduring of makeover stories, via the team who gave us ''Oklahoma!,'' has been restyled by the director Mark Brokaw and the writer Douglas Carter Beane into a glittery patchwork of snark and sincerity, with a whole lot of fancy ball gowns. Laura Osnes and Santino Fontana are the appealing leading lovers (2:20). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Soul Doctor' The story of Shlomo Carlebach (Eric Anderson), the folk-singing rabbi who made a splash in the 1960s (and befriended Nina Simone, played by the elegant Amber Iman), makes for an odd and mostly hackneyed musical, despite the use of his often lovely music, set to overly drippy lyrics by David Schechter and a similar book by the director, Daniel S. Wise (2:30). Circle in the Square Theater, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (800) 432-7780, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
'The Trip to Bountiful' Michael Wilson's slow-handed staging of Horton Foote's 1953 drama about an old woman's journey into the past is most notable for its remarkable star, Cicely Tyson, who seems thoroughly rejuvenated by her return to Broadway. The supporting cast includes Vanessa Williams, Leon Addison Brown and Adepero Oduye (2:10). Stephen Sondheim Theater, 124 West 43rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
Off Broadway
'Around the World in 80 Days' This stage version of the Jules Verne novel is an odd combination of steampunk and vaudeville. The actors' shameless mugging grows annoying after a while, but the pace stays brisk and the energy level high (2:00). New Theater at 45th Street, 354 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, aroundtheworldinnyc.com. (Neil Genzlinger)
'Bill W. and Dr. Bob' Making the story of the founding of Alcoholics Anonymous 99 percent preachiness-free is quite an accomplishment. Samuel Shem and Janet Surrey's purpose-driven script, which never forgets the humor of the human experience, goes a long way toward making this a satisfying revival (2:15). SoHo Playhouse, 15 Van Dam Street, South Village, (866) 811-4111, billwanddrbob.com. (Anita Gates)
&#x2605; 'Breakfast With Mugabe' To his critics in the West, the Zimbabwean president Robert Mugabe is an election-rigger, a thug who uses past victimhood to justify further oppression. To Dr. Peric, a white psychiatrist, he is just another patient. That is the premise of Fraser Grace's trenchant, magnificently acted play, inspired by news reports that Mr. Mugabe did seek counsel from a white psychiatrist despite his lifelong image as one opposed to white authority figures. What follows is less a cooperative, therapeutic relationship than an unwinking power struggle (1:30). Alice Griffin Jewel Box Theater, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, breakfastwithmugabe.com. (Catherine Rampell)
&#x2605; 'Buyer & Cellar' Jonathan Tolins has concocted an irresistible one-man play from the most peculiar of fictitious premises -- an underemployed Los Angeles actor goes to work in Barbra Streisand's Malibu, Calif., basement -- allowing the playwright to ruminate with delicious wit and perspicacity on the solitude of celebrity, the love-hate attraction between gay men and divas, and the melancholy that lurks beneath narcissism. In the capable hands of the director Stephen Brackett and the wickedly charming actor Michael Urie, this seriously funny slice of absurdist whimsy creates the illusion of a stage filled with multiple people, all of them with their own droll point of view (1:30). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (David Rooney)
'The Cheaters Club' The latest from the Amoralists is a murky swamp of a gothic drama, (over) written and directed by Derek Ahonen, about New York siblings who head south for a weekend of adultery and find themselves involved in spooky doings in ghost-ridden Savannah, Ga. (2:30). Abrons Arts Center, 466 Grand Street, at Pitt Street, Lower East Side, (866) 811-4111, theamoralists.com. (Isherwood)
'Cougar the Musical' Three older women find themselves attracted to younger men, two against their better judgment. The concept seems made for bus tours, but imagination, appealing numbers with original melodies and theme-transcending jokes lift this show well above the level of ''Menopause: The Musical'' and its ilk (1:30). Fridays and Saturdays only. St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Gates)
'Cuff Me: The Fifty Shades of Grey Musical Parody' What can I possibly say that isn't said by the title of this production? Here's one thing: It's not exactly great theater, but I'd still rather see ''Cuff Me'' than read the novel upon which it's based (1:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Claudia La Rocco)
'It's Just Sex' Jeff Gould's lightweight comedy, a long-running hit in Los Angeles, is about three married couples whose party turns into an evening of spouse-swapping and postcoital navel-gazing (metaphorically). The cast is personable, but the script's only deep thought is that if women were told they could talk only to one person for the rest of their lives, they would understand why sexual fidelity is so stifling for men (1:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Gates)
'Me and Jezebel' Kelly Moore (that's Mr. Kelly Moore) is great fun to watch as Bette Davis in Elizabeth Fuller's real-life ''Man Who Came to Dinner'' story. Too bad Ms. Fuller, who plays herself, isn't really an actress. This comedy about a movie star taking over the guest room and the lives of a Connecticut family one month in 1985 is admirably self-deprecating (1:45). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (212) 921-7862, ticketmaster.com. (Gates)
&#x2605; 'Peter and the Starcatcher' The most exhilarating and inventive example of story theater since the Royal Shakespeare Company's ''Life and Adventures of Nicholas Nickleby.'' This production, about the boy who became Peter Pan, is an enchanted anatomy of the urge to defy gravity. Roger Rees and Alex Timbers direct (2:10). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'The Two-Character Play' Playing strung-out sibling theater troupers in Tennessee Williams's rarely seen fever dream of an eternal folie à deux, Amanda Plummer and Brad Dourif don't just strike sparks. They're a raging conflagration that keeps changing form and direction. Gene David Kirk directs this revival of a demented, messy and oddly affecting self-portrait from an American master (2:10). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Unbroken Circle' Eve Plumb, a k a Jan of ''The Brady Bunch,'' demonstrates a flair for grown-up comedy as a born-again Christian with drinking and divorce habits in James Wesley's comic drama. Too bad the production is uncertainly paced and a little unpolished, because this story of a 1970s Texas family dealing with the death of an abusive patriarch has a lot going for it (1:50). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Gates)
&#x2605; 'The Weir' This first-rate revival of Conor McPherson's play gathers a group of friends as they tell ghost stories to drive away a loneliness than can be even more frightening (1:30). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Ken Jaworowski)
Off Off Broadway
'Avi Hoffman's Still Jewish After All These Years' Avi Hoffman's 75 minutes of songs and reminiscences is sometimes no more than warm and cabaret-cozy, but it has its moments, like a powerful performance of ''Brother, Can You Spare a Dime?'' and a lovely tribute to his father (1:30). Stage 72, 158 West 72nd Street, (800) 838-3006, stage72.com. (Gates)
&#x2605; 'Then She Fell' Inspired by Lewis Carroll's ''Alice'' books, this transporting immersive theater work occupies a dreamscape where the judgments and classifications of the waking mind are suspended. A guided tour of Wonderland, created by Third Rail Projects, leads its participants through a series of rooms and an interactive evening of dance, poetry, food and drink (2:00). The Kingsland Ward at St. John's, 195 Maujer Street, near Humboldt Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 374-5196, thenshefell.com. (Brantley)
'Totally Tubular Time Machine' This show is less a play or musical than a big, campy, drinking party, with a little bit of singing thrown in. Held at an '_80s-theme dance club in Midtown, it features celebrity impersonators who wander through the crowd handing out party favors (lollipops from Katy Perry, trucker hats from Justin Bieber) and taking turns at karaoke. The impersonations come with varying degrees of similitude and singing talent (2:00). Saturdays only. Culture Club, 20 West 39th Street, (212) 921-1999, totallytubularnyc.com. (Rampell)
&#x2605; 'The Vaudevillians' The drag performer Jinkx Monsoon (real name: Jerick Hoffer) and her accompanist, Major Scales (Richard Andriessen), turn a simple conceit into a hilarious evening. They are vaudeville performers who were frozen in an avalanche in the 1920s. Thawed out in the present, they find that many of their songs -- ''I Will Survive,'' for instance -- have been repurposed by more recent performers. They reclaim them, vaudeville style (1:25). Laurie Beechman Theater at the West Bank Cafe, 407 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 352-3101, SpinCycleNYC.com. (Genzlinger)
Long-Running Shows
'Avenue Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Berenstain Bears Live! In Family Matters, the Musical' This adaptation of three of Stan and Jan Berenstain's children's books is pleasant enough, but the cubs are showing their age. Saturday and Sunday only (:55). Marjorie S. Deane Little Theater, 5 West 63rd Street, (866) 811-4111, berenstainbearslive.com.
'Black Angels Over Tuskegee' The tear-jerker story of these trailblazing African-American pilots (2:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
Blue Man Group Conceptual art as entertainment (1:45). Astor Place Theater, 434 Lafayette Street, East Village, (800) 258-3626, ticketmaster.com.
'The Book of Mormon' Singing, dancing, R-rated missionaries proselytize for the American musical (2:15). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com.
'Chicago' Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Fantasticks' Boy meets girl, forever (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'Fuerza Bruta: Look Up' A sensory bath aimed at clubgoing college kids in search of cultural diversion (1:05). Daryl Roth Theater, 20 Union Square East, at 15th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Jersey Boys' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Lion King' Disney's call of the wild (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.
'Mamma Mia!' The jukebox musical set to the disco throb of Abba (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Newsies' Extra! Extra! enthusiasm (2:20). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (866) 870-2717, newsiesthemusical.com.
'Old Jews Telling Jokes' A winning revue with old jokes, a few songs and a little schmaltz (1:20). Westside Theater, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Once' Almost love, in a singing Dublin (2:15). Bernard B. Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Perfect Crime' The murder mystery that has been investigated since 1987 (1:30). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'The Phantom of the Opera' Who was that masked man anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Rock of Ages' Big hair, thrashing guitars and inspired humor fuel this jukebox musical (2:25). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Sistas: The Musical' Black women reflect on their lives, with songs (1:30). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Sleep No More' A movable, murderous feast at Hotel Macbeth (2:00). The McKittrick Hotel, 530 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, sleepnomorenyc.com.
'Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark' Web surfing with music (2:45). Foxwoods Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (800) 745-3000, spidermanonbroadway.marvel.com.
'Stomp' And the beat goes on (and on), with percussion unlimited (1:30). Orpheum Theater, 126 Second Avenue, at Eighth Street, East Village, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com.
'Wicked' Oz revisited (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
Last Chance
'The Awake' (closes on Sunday) Ken Urban's extraordinarily ambitious and intricate play follows three characters and their intersecting lives, dreams and nightmares, which often are performed in counterpoint. It's easy to be skeptical about plots structured around dreams and hallucinations, so often hallmarks of lazy writing. But Mr. Urban embraces dreams as a stylized way to tell his characters' stories, not to rescue a runaway plot. Voices and story lines converge and diverge like an elaborately mixed song, bringing to mind Walter Pater's famous dictum that all art aspires toward the condition of music, a fusion of form and subject matter (1:30). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Rampell)
'Awake & Sing!' (closes on Sunday) The National Asian American Theater Company's low-budget production of this 1935 Clifford Odets play about a Jewish family struggling through the Depression makes its statement eloquently. The humanity of frightened, imperfect people facing difficulties transcends ethnicity (2:10). Walkerspace, 46 Walker Street, TriBeCa, (866) 811-4111, naatco.org. (Gates)
'Harbor' (closes on Sunday) Family and children are on the playwright Chad Beguelin's mind in this comedy about a gay couple and the manipulative sister who came to stay. ''Harbor'' doesn't quite succeed as social satire -- the humor often feels overfamiliar and the sister's quips about gayness start to grate the audience as well as their intended targets. But the play, a Primary Stages production, does better as a study of characters realigning family loyalties in a changing world (2:00). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200, primarystages.org. (Rachel Saltz)
'Wanda's Monster' (closes on Sunday) Making Books Sing, which turns children's books into musicals, has adapted Eileen Spinelli's 2002 picture book about Wanda, a little girl who knows that a monster lives in her closet. Barbara Zinn Krieger, who wrote the script, has transformed Wanda's Granny -- the only adult who acknowledges the truth of Wanda's perception -- from a sensible soul into a kick-out-the-jams rocker. This characterization works beautifully with the show's upbeat score and lyrics by the children's pop star Laurie Berkner. This charming production brings home a point worth considering at any age: embrace what you fear, and you just may find a friend (1:00). Vineyard Theater, 109 East 15th Street, (646) 601-1406, wandasmonster.com. (Laurel Graeber)
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROL ROSEGG) (C18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (74%); PAINTING (74%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (70%); DANCERS (69%); VISUAL ARTS (69%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%); MUSIC (64%); THEATER (58%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (50%); SUPREME COURTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



159 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: A Newspaper in Las Vegas, at Risk of Closing, Divides a Family

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY PRATT

 BODY:
Tanned and fit, collar unbuttoned and no socks under his loafers, Brian Greenspun, the president of The Las Vegas Sun, stood in the middle of the newsroom, surrounded by $500 Herman Miller chairs, flat-screen monitors and floor-to-ceiling third-story windows offering an unmatched view of the Las Vegas Strip.
It was June 2005. Mr. Greenspun, whose family has owned the paper since his parents founded it in 1950, told dozens of reporters and editors that the joint operating agreement between The Sun and its more conservative rival, The Las Vegas Review-Journal, had been amended: The Sun would become the first daily in the country to be delivered inside its competitor, as if it were a separate section.
Despite the skepticism of some staff members that day, the newspaper was able to attract top journalists from across the country, resulting in national awards, including a Pulitzer Prize in 2009. But the financial downturn, particularly harsh in Nevada, pummeled the paper, and dozens of longtime employees were laid off. 
And now, the paper itself might disappear. Stephens Media, owner of The Review-Journal, wants to dissolve the joint agreement, intended to preserve newspapers. In exchange, the Greenspun family would receive the domain name lasvegas.com, a Web site the family currently leases from Stephens for up to $2.5 million a year and then subleases to the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority.
Mr. Greenspun's brother, Danny Greenspun, and two sisters, Susan Greenspun Fine and Jane Greenspun Gale, all voted to accept the offer, but Brian wants to fight. Last month, he accused his siblings of ''deciding to kill The Las Vegas Sun,'' and he is suing Stephens, claiming that the offer gives The Review-Journal a local monopoly over news gathering and opinion.
At stake, he says, is Las Vegas's future as a two-newspaper town. Doing away with the joint operating agreement ''is equivalent to buying The Sun and shutting it down,'' he said, adding of his siblings, ''It's a business deal to them.''
The dispute is the latest twist in the outsize history of the Greenspuns and Las Vegas. While there are better-known publishing families in the United States, few are more colorful.
Hank Greenspun started the paper with his wife, Barbara, after working as a publicist for the gangster Bugsy Siegel. In the 1940s, he was convicted of running guns to the paramilitary group that would become the Israeli Defense Forces. (He was fined, never jailed and later pardoned by President John F. Kennedy.) In the ensuing decades, he helped end segregation on the Strip, developed an 8,000-acre master-planned community and brought cable television to Las Vegas. He was also revealed to be a proposed target of the Watergate burglars. The Greenspun name is on schools, clinics and colleges.
The Sun first came to prominence in the 1950s for its opposition to Senator Patrick McCarran's red-baiting tactics. (Hank Greenspun was also a vociferous opponent of Senator Joseph McCarthy.) It continued to be a liberal voice amid the city's dizzying growth, but by the time of Hank Greenspun's death in 1989, the paper was losing millions. Within months, the joint agreement was created, but circulation continued to slide. By 2005, when the deal was revised, The Sun had fewer than 30,000 readers and essentially became a 6- to 10-page insert with no advertising.
On that day in 2005, Mr. Greenspun assured the 75 or so staff members that the deal would let the paper reinvest in journalism. In 2009, the paper won the industry's highest honor, a Pulitzer Prize, for a series about construction deaths on the Strip.
But as the economy staggered, many of those same journalists were laid off or left. The paper once received as much as $12 million a year in profit-sharing through the joint agreement and now receives $1.3 million. Last month, the Greenspuns voted to dissolve the partnership.
None of the other Greenspun siblings would discuss the case. Brian Greenspun maintains that the deal violates antitrust laws. ''In every antitrust violation, there's always been at least two parties who combine based on it being a good business decision,'' he said. His lawyers include Leif Reid, son of the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, another prominent family in Nevada and long supported by The Sun.
But Donald Campbell, outside counsel for Stephens, said: ''We believe his beef is with the wrong people. He is a dissident shareholder. The problem he has is with his own family.'' Mr. Campbell also said the offer did not include a noncompete clause, so the Greenspuns, or anyone else, would face no legal obstacle in continuing to print The Sun. Mr. Greenspun contends that the costs to do so would be prohibitive.
Rabbi Mel Hecht, who served at the synagogue the Greenspuns attended in the 1980s, said he thought that Mr. Greenspun was starting a quixotic campaign to preserve the paper's ethos of speaking truth to power.
''I think they're rolling over in their graves,'' he said of Hank and Barbara Greenspun. ''They represent an age and a dream that is passing, and they've got to be disappointed in three of their children.''
But Michael Green, a historian at the College of Southern Nevada, said that the influx of new residents to Las Vegas over the years might care little about the paper, or the family. Add to that the death of Barbara Greenspun in 2010, and the three siblings may appear to be making a practical decision, Mr. Green said.
''It's easy for an outside observer to say, 'You've turned your backs' '' on the family, he said. ''But it's also easy to imagine Hank and Barbara Greenspun saying, 'Live your lives.' ''
Drex Heikes, a former deputy managing editor at The Sun who edited the Pulitzer Prize-winning series, said he had sensed a division among the siblings over whether to keep the paper alive even during the heady days of the mid-2000s. Given the family's losses in real estate, casinos and other ventures during the recent downturn, ''the pressure's only built,'' he said.
The deal was to go through on Sept. 1. In a ruling on Aug. 27 that granted Mr. Greenspun a temporary restraining order, Judge James Mahan of United States District Court appeared to suggest that the issue might be out of his hands, saying that the court was not inclined to maintain the joint agreement. He added that the Justice Department or the state attorney general could intervene if the courts found that the deal violated antitrust laws. Both sides are to present their cases in a hearing on Friday.
Splits in newspaper families that have reached the second generation and beyond are not unusual, said Alex S. Jones, director of the Joan Shorenstein Center on the Press, Politics and Public Policy at Harvard. ''That's the classic pattern: ownership of the paper gets divided over generations, and one is usually deeply involved, while for the others it's about money or some sort of psychic reward. If the psychic reward stops, they decide they'd rather have the money.''
Still, Mr. Jones said, ''if The Las Vegas Sun was to go away, it would be a shame for Las Vegas.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ric Anderson, center, the managing editor of The Las Vegas Sun, speaking to Brian Greenspun, its editor and publisher. (B1)
 The Henderson, Nev., newsroom of The Las Vegas Sun, which won a Pulitzer Prize in 2009. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RONDA CHURCHILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOURNALISM (78%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); WRITERS (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); LITIGATION (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%); CONSERVATISM (70%); CRIMINAL FINES (69%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (68%); FINES & PENALTIES (67%); DOMAIN NAMES (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); PARDONS (60%); BURGLARY (60%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (50%)

COMPANY: LAS VEGAS SUN INC (92%); HERMAN MILLER INC (58%)

TICKER: MLHR (NASDAQ) (58%); MHR (FRA) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%); NAICS337215 SHOWCASE, PARTITION, SHELVING & LOCKER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS337214 OFFICE FURNITURE (EXCEPT WOOD) MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS337211 WOOD OFFICE FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2542 OFFICE & STORE FIXTURES, PARTITIONS, SHELVING, & LOCKERS, EXCEPT WOOD (58%); SIC2522 OFFICE FURNITURE EX. WOOD (58%); SIC2521 WOOD OFFICE FURNITURE (58%); SIC2426 HARDWOOD DIMENSION & FLOORING MILLS (58%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%) NEVADA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



160 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: Proudly Patriotic but Skeptical on Syria Attack

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES

 BODY:
WAYNESBURG, Pa. -- From his bar-side perch at Hot Rod's House of Barbeque here, 57-year-old Wolf Tripp argued that President George W. Bush had ample cause a decade ago to dispatch troops and armor into Iraq to topple Saddam Hussein. ''Look at the mass graves,'' he declared. ''Hussein gassed his own people.''
The gassing last month of hundreds of Syrian civilians is entirely another matter. And sending cruise missiles there to punish the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad, is out of the question, Mr. Tripp said this week.
''What are we going to do, borrow more money from China to fight?'' he said. ''It's their civil war. Why are we going in there?'' 
As President Obama tries to rally domestic support for military action against Syria, the skepticism in Waynesburg only underscores the political hurdles he faces. This bucolic, if fading, corner of southwest Pennsylvania wears its patriotism on its sleeve, shirttail and pockets. At the time of Mr. Bush's decision to invade Iraq, a Quinnipiac University poll in Pennsylvania found that 86 percent of the voters in and around Waynesburg were solidly behind him.
But in myriad ways, the calculus has changed. Some say they now believe that domestic needs neglected during a decade of war override foreign imperatives. Some, reviewing years of pitched struggle in Afghanistan and Iraq, see the Middle East as quicksand that must be avoided at all costs. Some say that Syria's civil war is Syria's problem, and that the United States is not the Mr. Fix-it for all of the world's crises.
And here, at least, more than a few see military action against Syria as unacceptable simply because it is Mr. Obama's idea.
In town to speak to students at Waynesburg University about Syria, the area's congressman, Tim Murphy, a Republican who called himself undecided, said his office had received a few hundred calls and messages from constituents about Syria. ''Generally, the calls are like this: 'I can't stand President Obama; don't you dare go along with him,' '' he said.
In the university library, Mr. Murphy spent an hour tutoring some 20 undergraduates on the complexities of Congress's impending decision. When he finished, all but one of the students pronounced involvement in Syria a mistake. Mr. Obama's main argument that the world has a moral obligation to act against those who use chemical weapons went unmentioned.
''I wouldn't go in if I were you,'' said one of the undergraduates, Jon Waldon, 22. ''Public opinion was against it. Second off, we're in a lot of debt. Third off, there haven't been United States citizens targeted in the attack.''
Off campus, the attitudes were similar. Jennifer Taylor said that she was managing the officers' club at the Marine Corps Air Station in Cherry Point, N.C., and cheering on Mr. Bush when American forces invaded Iraq. But this week, from her spot tending bar at Hot Rod's, she was decidedly against the use of force in Syria and questioned Mr. Obama's motivations in proposing it.
''Obama was against'' the invasion of Iraq, Ms. Taylor noted, ''and I don't understand why he's changed his stance.'' Seconds later, she offered an explanation: ''He's having trouble keeping his popularity up; this war on guns has made him unpopular. And this is his way of getting back up.''
Indeed, her customer, Mr. Tripp, suggested that the use of chemical weapons was actually a plot by Al Qaeda to lure the United States into toppling the Syrian government, and that Mr. Obama was falling for it. Terrorists will rush into the vacuum once Mr. Assad is gone, he warned.
To be sure, not everyone here believes a strike against Syria is a mistake. ''We're the watchdog of the world, and something's got to be done,'' Blair Zimmerman, a Democrat and a Greene County commissioner -- Waynesburg is the county seat -- said during a chat in the county office building. ''I'm all for missile and airstrikes -- but ending it there.''
Perhaps the strongest argument for force came from Rudy Marisa, the retired men's basketball coach at Waynesburg University. ''Somebody has to stop putting a Band-Aid on it,'' he said. ''It has to be stopped some way, some how. You can take a stand and say, 'O.K., we're not going to do this anymore; you guys keep fighting and whatever happens, happens.' But my opinion is that if we do that and stand back, they'll come in and take us over.''
And in nearby Uniontown, callers to an afternoon talk show on WMBS radio, ''What's on Your Mind?,'' seemed about equally split over the wisdom of striking at Syria's chemical weapons ability, said the program's host, Mark Rafail.
But, he noted, ''most of the people that don't want to go in feel that if we do go in, the United States should be compensated by our allies, because we need to clean up our own backyard before we go out and protect other people.''
That complaint -- that Americans spend too much wading into foreign crises while allies stand idle -- was perhaps the most common refrain among opponents of a Syria strike. Underlying that, in many discussions here, was the belief that from Vietnam to Iraq, a self-absorbed government had wasted money on foreign adventures while the needs of its own citizens went unmet and their security slowly eroded. This is Tea Party country, where even the Democrats are conservative, and the towns that hug the junction of the Ohio and West Virginia border, less well off and educated than most in the state, were hit hard by the long recession.
To Martin Wilson, a gray-bearded Vietnam War veteran who served in Laos, Thailand and Cambodia, an attack on Syria would only continue a habit of squandering money and lives abroad instead of building the nation's security at home.
''We're not going to accomplish nothing over there,'' he said. ''Middle East countries have fought for centuries. We're in Afghanistan, and we're not doing any good there. Russia tried it, and they failed.''
He added: ''Our defenses are still down. We just had another bombing, at the Boston Marathon. We just don't have control over anything anymore.''
Mr. Wilson was working at Waynesburg's Veterans of Foreign Wars Post 4793, festooned with eagles, flags, photos of uniformed servicemen and red-white-and-blue banners strung from the ceiling. Nearby, Dan and Malinda Dulaney, 51 and 49, were having a drink to celebrate their third anniversary.
''It's going to be a 'Red Dawn' situation,'' Ms. Dulaney said, referring to a film about a Russian takeover of the United States. ''You see that movie? They're going to come over here, on boats, on planes, and take over. Who's going to defend us? We're sending them all overseas.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Tim Murphy of Pennsylvania talked to students at Waynesburg University on Wednesday about Syria.
Jennifer Taylor, 36, questioned President Obama's motives in seeking to strike Syria.
 ''I wouldn't go in if I were you,'' Jon Waldon, center, a university student, said of Syria. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (87%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (76%); ARMED FORCES (72%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (71%); LIBRARIES (69%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); TIM MURPHY (77%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (72%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%) SYRIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



161 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: More Glass Towers for New York?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Gotham's Towering Ambitions,'' by Kenneth T. Jackson (Op-Ed, Aug. 30):
You don't need to be a preservationist to oppose the Midtown East rezoning proposal now being rushed through the approval process. A coalition of New York City community boards issued 44 pages of analysis that questioned everything from whether needed mass transit improvements will ever materialize to why the public should be shut out of the new approval process the proposal envisions.
The City Club opposes the rezoning on legal grounds. And why should the architecturally distinctive buildings immediately around Grand Central Terminal be destroyed when there is plenty of room -- and less distinguished buildings -- within the large rezoning area? 
New York is in no danger of turning into Charleston, S.C. The proliferation of new towers throughout the city answers that concern.
Opponents of the current proposal aren't opposed to ''change.'' They are opposed to a plan that could overwhelm mass transit in the area, ignores historical resources as a key attraction of the city, and does not ensure real benefits to the public.
PEG BREEN President, New York Landmarks Conservancy New York, Sept. 2, 2013
To the Editor:
Kenneth T. Jackson is right that New York City's future requires new skyscrapers: office buildings to compete with other global cities, residential towers to increase supply dramatically.
On the other hand, preservation is also vitally important to the city's character. But those who advocate preservation need to recognize the rising prices and gentrification that result from their efforts and should support aggressive rezoning where the infrastructure can support it.
We can't have preservation, neighborhood stability and diversity without building tall wherever it is feasible. And the city needs a more inclusive, collaborative planning process that would allow these competing values to be worked through comprehensively rather than fought out case by case.
ALLEN J. ZERKIN Brooklyn, Sept. 2, 2013
The writer teaches negotiation and conflict management at N.Y.U.'s Wagner Graduate School of Public Service.
To the Editor:
Kenneth T. Jackson's vision of New York's changing landscape makes it much harder financially for those of us who do not benefit from high-paying jobs in big businesses with fancy offices.
As one of the young adults who willingly pay more to live in New York (my hometown), I also cannot envision sustaining the cost of living here while raising a family. And what of the arts, also a historically vibrant presence in the city?
If New York's changes center solely on sparkling new skyscrapers to create more room for businesses and banks, and the overpriced luxury condominiums that seem to accompany them, what is to be left in our city for those who offer immense value beyond the walls of a shiny, glass-walled office?
ELENA HECHT Long Island City, Queens, Aug. 30, 2013
To the Editor:
New York has always had regulations and guidelines for growth. Furthermore, Kenneth T. Jackson essentially claims that the impulse to preserve streetscapes dooms cities.
No one is saying that East Midtown or the whole city should be frozen; to state it as a position is a straw-man argument favored by the real estate industry.
Despite a national economic recession and the collapse of the housing market, new towers still rose in New York. They will continue to do so, and that's a good thing. We oppose the East Midtown rezoning because it promotes growth without guidance or oversight, and that's not healthy for New York.
SIMEON BANKOFF Exec. Dir., Historic Districts Council New York, Aug. 30, 2013
To the Editor:
Kenneth T. Jackson knows better than to mix the zoning issues at stake in East Midtown with a different set of issues involved in landmark preservation.
As a city planning tool, zoning is used to manage sustainable growth for the future, while landmark preservation seeks to protect our architectural and cultural resources that give our cities character, identity and historical context. These two tools are complementary, not conflicting.
Preservationists do not seek to block all change. Rather, we work to accommodate and reconcile growth and change to the existing built environment so that our neighborhoods remain livable and attractive to residents, business owners and visitors alike.
ARLENE SIMON President, Landmark West! New York, Aug. 30, 2013
To the Editor:
Why can't New York City be more like Paris rather than Tokyo, London and Hong Kong, the models favored by Kenneth T. Jackson?
Let's compete on a human scale. The city is already unbearably dense, and we have lost so much of the city's uniqueness.
PATRICK D. PAGNANO New York, Sept. 1, 2013
To the Editor:
As I write this, our beautiful city is turning to glass. As I write this, we are about to enter upon the last days of the most developer-friendly administration since the days of Robert Moses, and yet there's no place to live, unless of course you have millions.
This is not Dubai. Those old buildings are built in such a way that will never happen again: the detail, the materials, the skill, the dignity. Retrofit is just not that hard to do.
We're sick of glass towers.
MICHAEL LESLIE New York, Aug. 31, 2013

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TIMOTHY HULL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ZONING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); APPROVALS (77%); CITIES (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); WRITERS (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (70%); CONDOMINIUMS (69%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



162 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Declining Rupee Brings Gains for IT Giants, Woes for Small Units

BYLINE: RAKSHA KUMAR


HIGHLIGHT: Fall in the rupee will benefit Indian companies with overseas arms as it will increase the dividend amount that comes into the coffers of the Indian parent. 

 BODY:
BANGALORE- Though the steep fall in the value of the rupee has affected several sectors of the Indian economy adversely, India's information technology giants, Tata Consultancy Services, Infosys and Wipro are expected to be the biggest gainers from a weak rupee.
"At 65 rupees to a dollar, the three will approximately gain an additional 5,700 crore, or 5.7 billion rupees ($86 million), 3,600 crore and 2,700 crore, respectively, on net dollar earnings for 2013-14," said an Economic Times Survey report published in August. 
The rupee ended at 66.27 against the U.S. dollar on the Sept. 5, bringing its decline since early May to a little more than 20 percent due to concerns about the country's widening current account deficit. The record low seen last week was 68.85 rupees to the dollar.
Infosys generates 97 percent of its revenues from the U.S. and Europe. The company is likely to use rupee depreciation as a competitive lever to rebuild lost market share.
"In general for Indian IT, the costs would go up by 5 to 6 percent, while revenue would go up by 12 to 14 percent. Thus a net gain of 7 to 8 percent in near term," said Rakesh Gupta, managing director Allianz Cornhill Information Services in Trivandrum, Kerala. "The costs and revenue cycle have a time lag and thus immediate quarterly results may show up increase in margins by high of 15 percent and then come down to 7 to 8 percent," he added.
But Infosys officials remain guarded in their approach.
"The depreciation of the rupee is positive for all exporters including Infosys," said V. Balakrishnan, an Infosys board member and the former chief financial officer of the company. "However, extreme volatility in the currency will hurt our ability to hedge effectively."
Tata Consultancy Services generates 92 percent of its revenues from U.S. and Europe and Azim Premji's Wipro generates about 90 percent of its revenues from the U.S. and Europe. "As a policy we do not comment on the rupee depreciation," said senior officials at Tata.
The actual effects of the rupee's decline will likely be revealed in the coming earnings announcements by these companies. However, advantages at the operating levels would not necessarily trickle down to net profits. IT companies are in the practice of hedging their foreign exchange risks, dampening any immediate upside from currency drops. And they typically lock in an exchange rate for future transactions.
"If the currency remains weak for a long period of time these companies are set to gain, because the new projects they draw out now will be based on the current exchange rate," said Sachin Bhatia, vice president of Drishti Soft Solutions based in Gurgaon, Haryana. "If there is too much volatility, they might not benefit a lot."
The fall in the rupee will benefit Indian companies with overseas arms as it will increase the dividend amount that comes into the coffers of the Indian parent without increasing the operational costs on the foreign subsidiaries. Tata, India's most valuable company and largest software exporter, received 1,050 crore as dividends from overseas subsidiaries in 2013.
However, the entire industry does not benefit from a depreciating rupee. A substantial chunk of Indian companies whose costs and revenues are in Indian rupees are hit as badly as other sectors of the economy.
"These companies, in fact, import some goods from external markets. Their competitive advantage goes out of the window," said Mr. Bhatia. "It only benefits those big services and product companies that sell globally and have a competitive advantage in the global market."
Even the big companies are cautiously optimistic.
"It is extremely difficult to take a long-term view on the currency," said Mr. Balakrishnan of the Infosys. "The clients are focusing on total cost of ownership and volatility in the currency does not enter the pricing discussion."
Since economic recession set in the U.S. in 2008, the software industry in India has been going through a bad phase. Most companies, including market leaders, talked openly about the delays in starting their offshore projects. Also, pricing of their products and services had been under pressure as most Indian companies were trying to cover high costs. Hence, there was almost no positive news on the pricing front. In addition, the companies are facing a tough time in getting visa permits to send their employees to work overseas, curtailing their offshoring advantages. The depreciating rupee has given them a breather, if not a permanent reason to cheer.
India's economic growth has slowed sharply in the last two years, falling from 9.2 percent in the financial year ending in March 2011 to just 5 percent for the year ending in March 2013. Sridhar Sharma, Chief Technology Officer at the Dallas-based Ugam Interactive, argued that in the long run, the negative economic growth of the country will affect the short term gains of the software industry.
"Overall, a weak currency over the long term is more damaging for a country like India, where imports far exceed exports," he said. "Increasing cost of living and inflation will catch up and impact even those sectors that initially did well due to a weaker currency."
 Raksha Kumar is a Bangalore-based freelance journalist. 

        
Poor Infrastructure Hampers India's Export Chances in Downturn
        
What They Said: Indian Rupee Hits Record Low
        
New American Bill Threatens Indian Outsourcing Companies
        
Falling Rupee Puts Brakes on India's Auto Industry
        
India's 'Cyberabad' Smiles as the Rupee Falls

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); DIVIDENDS (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (72%); MARKET SHARE (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (68%); EXPORT TRADE (68%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Europe; India; Indian Rupee (Currency); Infosys Technologies Ltd; International Trade and World Market; Premji, Azim H; Tata Consultancy Services; United States; United States Economy; US Dollar (Currency); Wipro Ltd; Tata Consultancy Services|TACSF|other-OTC; Wipro Ltd|WIT|NYSE

COMPANY: INFOSYS LTD (92%); WIPRO LTD (85%); TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES LTD (58%); ALLIANZ SE (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Infosys Technologies Ltd; Tata Consultancy Services; Wipro Ltd

TICKER: INFY (PAR) (92%); INFY (NYSE) (92%); INFY (NSE) (92%); WIT (NYSE) (85%); WIPRO (NSE) (85%); TCS (NSE) (58%); ALV (FRA) (54%); ALV (BIT) (54%) Tata Consultancy Services; TACSF; other-OTC; Tata Consultancy Services; TACSF; other-OTC; Wipro Ltd; WIT; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (85%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (85%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (85%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (58%); SIC7376 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%)

PERSON: Premji, Azim H

GEOGRAPHIC: KARNATAKA, INDIA (74%); KERALA, INDIA (73%); HARYANA, INDIA (58%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); INDIA (93%); ASIA (79%) Europe; India; United States

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



163 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: Today in Small Business: Gratuity Not Included

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Unemployment rate falls. Lessons learned from bootstrapping. Are our things spying on us? 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners today.
 Today's Best Read 

        
One company's lessons learned from 10 years of bootstrapping.
Economy

        
Unemployment rate declined in August, and nonfarm productivity increased (pdf) at a 2.3 percent annual rate in the second quarter.
Taxes 

        
An Internal Revenue Service rule is leading some restaurants to rethink automatic tips - gratuities added for large groups will be taxed as service charges.
Management

        
Here are six situations where you should get help from others (instead of doing it yourself).
        
According to one chief executive, this is some of the worst advice you can give a small business: "You have to spend money to make money."
        
A Chicago small-business owner says running a wine shop involves more than just tasting samples. Scott Crestodina says that, despite the temptation, he always spits what he samples at work and doesn't partake on the clock: "Never, never ever. I've seen people fail in this industry because of it."
Start-Up

        
Next week TechCrunch Disrupt 2013, a start-up conference, begins. Sam Biddle looks back at the 2011 class and finds that of 32 start-ups, 71 percent "are either dead or dying. That's an overwhelming majority of promising outfits that bombed, gathering tens of millions of dollars in investments along the way."
        
Does an M.B.A. help when starting a business?
        
Stanford University plans to invest in student start-ups.
        
Richard Florida says today's start-ups are choosing urban lofts over suburban office parks: "Ever since its birth 50 years ago, venture capital-financed technology has had a suburban orientation. Suburban 'nerdistans' sprouted in low-rise office parks just off highway interchanges across California's vaunted Silicon Valley; in the suburbs that line Boston's Route 128; and in Redmond, where Microsoft is located, to name just a few. The upshot is that the longstanding model is giving way to 'urban tech.'"
Around the Country

        
Small-business hiring dips in Phoenix.
        
Pennsylvania is near the bottom for job growth since 2010.
        
An organization receives a $700,000 grant from the Sam's Club Giving Program to support an entrepreneurship education program for young people in 15 communities.
        
A Detroit Rotary District seeks entrepreneurs (especially women) for a microloan program.
Around the World

        
Boeing plans to triple airplane deliveries to China.
Social Media

        
A small-business forum on LinkedIn lets entrepreneurs and small-business owners swap ideas.
        
Here are 10 Google Plus tools for digital marketers.
        
Some people are creating Twitter accounts for their babies. "These are the tools that I didn't have growing up," said Darren Rovell, an ESPN sports business reporter and ABC News correspondent. "It's important to have your dot-com for your entire life. It's part of your brand."
Technology

        
 The smart watch market is poised to explode.
        
Are our things spying on us?
 Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter. 

        
Is Silicon Beach Being Over-Hyped?
        
Today in Small Business: Employee Monitoring
        
Today in Small Business: Loan Demand Declines
        
Today in Small Business: The Salad Dressing Barometer
        
Today in Small Business: Walmart Vs. Amazon

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (93%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); GRATUITIES & TIPS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (74%); TAX AUTHORITIES (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); SUBURBS (68%); CHILDREN (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION (64%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (64%); SPORTS (64%); SOCIAL MEDIA (60%); MICROFINANCE (60%) Entrepreneurship; Small Business; Start-ups; Dashboard

COMPANY: SAM'S CLUB (63%); GOOGLE INC (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); BOEING CO (51%); ESPN INC (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); BOE (LSE) (51%); BAB (BRU) (51%); BA (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (51%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



164 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 213 words

HEADLINE: Population Growth Outpaces Jobs

BYLINE: BINYAMIN APPELBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: The share of adults with jobs fell slightly to 58.6 percent in August. The unemployment rate continues to fall because a growing share of the nonworking population is not seeking jobs. 

 BODY:
Not a good morning for the employment report.
The share of American adults with jobs fell slightly to 58.6 percent in August as population growth outpaced job growth. 
The United States is more than four years into a recovery so weak that this "employment rate" has not recovered at all. As I noted last month, 63 out of 100 adults had jobs before the recession. Now 59 do.
The unemployment rate continues to decline because a growing share of the nonworking population is not even trying to find jobs. Some policy makers argue that the unemployment rate is a more accurate barometer of economic conditions because it's impossible to tell how many of the larger group of those not working actually want jobs, and how many don't.
Others say reversing the trend is beyond the power of short-term measures like the Federal Reserve's monetary stimulus.
But these views only raise further questions: Why are more Americans choosing not to work? What kinds of government policies might be able to reverse the trend? And, if we cannot, what are the long-term consequences for our nation's fiscal and economic health?

        
'The Great Shift': Americans Not Working
        
The Age Equation in Employment Numbers
        
Financial Sector Continues a Rebound
        
Handicapping the Fed's Next Move
        
An Economy Stuck in Second Gear

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); TRENDS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RECESSION (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%) Labor and Jobs; Unemployment; United States Economy; The Jobs Report

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



165 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 399 words

HEADLINE: Persistent Scars of Long-Term Joblessness

BYLINE: ANNIE LOWREY


HIGHLIGHT: About 4.3 million Americans have been out of work for six months or more, and hundreds of thousands without jobs for long spells have simply given up. 

 BODY:
Hugely elevated levels of long-term unemployment remain one of the worst and most persistent scars from the Great Recession, as underscored yet again in the mediocre August jobs report. All in all, about 4.3 million Americans have been out of work for six months or more. 
For those workers, the chance of getting a job gets slimmer and slimmer as time goes on, skills degrade and employers' biases harden. Even if those workers do become re-employed, it is often for lower wages or worse work.
Granted, the number of Americans that count themselves among the long-term jobless has declined sharply over the last three years, dropping by about 2.4 million from a peak of 6.7 million in 2010. But the number remains significantly elevated, and hundreds of thousands out of work for long spells have simply given up and dropped out of the labor force. 
The slowly improving economy is not really improving for the long-term unemployed: Short-term joblessness has actually declined a smidge since 2007. Long-term joblessness is up 244 percent.
Now, economists are debating how strong the recovery really is, given that the job reports have weakened through the year. "This report says that we're barely creating enough jobs to keep the unemployment rate falling from its current high levels," said Justin Wolfers of the Brookings Institution. "Policy makers have been looking for a signal that the recovery has become self-sustaining. This report doesn't provide it."
Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at PNC, noted that payroll jobs have grown at a monthly pace of 186,000 in 2013. He called it a "solid number, with no signs of the labor market slowdowns that emerged in the spring and summer in each of the three previous years."
But the further you dig into the numbers, the worse they look. "The jobs count may be up, but for recent college graduates and middle-aged adults seeking positions the situation is grim," said Peter Morici of the University of Maryland. "Adding in part-timers who want full-time employment and discouraged adults who have abandoned searching for jobs, the unemployment rate becomes 13.7 percent. This figure has fallen because more adults appear reconciled to permanent part-time status."

        
The Case Against Tapering in September
        
Population Growth Outpaces Jobs
        
'The Great Shift': Americans Not Working
        
The Age Equation in Employment Numbers
        
Financial Sector Continues a Rebound

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (64%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (61%) Labor and Jobs; Unemployment; United States Economy; The Jobs Report

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



166 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: One Month's Data May Not Sway the Fed

BYLINE: BINYAMIN APPELBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: Although some say the August jobs report makes it less likely the Federal Reserve will pull back this month from its stimulus campaign, Fed officials have sounded eager to taper. 

 BODY:
A number of economic commentators said Friday morning that the disappointing August jobs report makes it less likely the Federal Reserve would begin to pull back in September from its economic stimulus campaign. 
It is surely true that these numbers add weight to the "wait" side of the scale. But that doesn't mean the Fed will wait. Officials have sounded awfully eager to taper. Many analysts said they still expect the Fed's policy-making committee, which meets the week after next, to conclude that the balance of considerations still favors doing less.
The Fed has established the unemployment rate as its primary measuring stick, and that rate continues to decline. Some officials continue to doubt that the asset purchases are doing much good; some officials continue to worry that the purchases are a destabilizing influence on financial markets. Perhaps most importantly, because monetary policy works slowly, officials are calibrating policy based on their expectations about what the economy will need next year and the year after that. And lately, Fed officials have sounded pretty optimistic about the next few years. 
Justin Wolfers, an economist at the University of Michigan, wrote on Twitter that the latest data - particularly revisions that cut estimated job growth in June and July - had changed his expectations for the Fed's September meeting. 
Never thought you would hear this said, but *revisions* mean: TAPER OFF.
- Justin Wolfers (@justinwolfers)6 Sep 13
Jared Bernstein, a fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, and a contributor to this blog, likewise said that "data are driving away from the taper":
Bernanke & co have consistently-and wisely-said they'll be data driven. Well, data are driving away from the taper: http://t.co/Q6bDL7PbSw
- Jared Bernstein (@econjared)6 Sep 13
Others, however, reacted more cautiously. Diane Swonk, chief economist at Mesirow Financial in Chicago, wrote that while the data reduced the chances of tapering in September, she still regarded it as a "coin flip."
September tapering really is a coin flip now; I'd put odds at maybe 51% for/49% against, I told Simon @SquawkStreet @CNBC @HobbsieNY
#Fed
- Diane Swonk (@DianeSwonk)6 Sep 13
"Should be enough, just, to trigger tapering this month," wrote Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics:
So, too, Jim O'Sullivan, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics: "We still expect the Fed to start the tapering process at this month's meeting, although this report will keep the debate going.
Michael Gapen, chief United States economist at Barclays Financial, saw even less reason to doubt the imminence of Septaper. "The August employment report was softer than expected, but, in our estimation, is sufficient to keep the Fed on track for a tapering in the pace of its purchases at the September meeting," he wrote.
And Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at PNC: "The decline in household jobs has the market thinking that the F.O.M.C. might postpone the start of tapering to October or December. I still expect the F.O.M.C. will likely start to taper."

        
Handicapping the Fed's Next Move
        
The Case Against Tapering in September
        
Study Suggests Shift in Fed Bond-Buying
        
Implications for Monetary Policy
        
Updates on the Fed Announcement

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); INTEREST RATES (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (66%) Federal Reserve System; Interest Rates; Labor and Jobs; United States Economy; The Jobs Report

ORGANIZATION: Federal Reserve System

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); WILLIAM P SULLIVAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



167 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: The Case Against Tapering in September

BYLINE: JARED BERNSTEIN


HIGHLIGHT: The latest jobs report is by no means terrible, but the economy remains too fragile for the Federal Reserve to pull back from its bond-buying program this month, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Jared Bernstein is a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington and a former chief economist to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. 
Last month on jobs day, I wrote in this space about an economy stuck in second gear. On this month's jobs day, I'd like to reiterate that point but add a question, one aimed at the folks across town at the Federal Reserve:
Do you really want to make a car that's puttering along in second gear climb a hill? Because that's, I fear, what you'd be doing if you proceed with your plans to taper this month. 
Let me be clear. This was not a disastrous jobs report. The top-line payroll number - 169,000 - wasn't that far off expectations (and, in fact, as I forecast 170,000, it's about where I thought it would be). But there were pretty large negative revisions to prior months' data: July's already subpar 162,000 jobs was revised way down to only 104,000. June's revisions subtracted another 16,000. 
Also, in a clear sign of weak labor demand, the share of folks participating in the job market - working or looking for work - continued its slide and fell to its lowest rate since the late 1970s. Some analysts want to write that off as a function of demographic change: our aging work force. But that's a minor part of the story - the reason the unemployment rate fell last month, from 7.4 percent to 7.3 percent, was not because more people got jobs. It was because more people gave up looking for them.
Now, also consider this: over the last couple of months, longer-term interest rates, say those on 30-year fixed rate mortgages or the yields on 10-year government T-bills, went up a full percentage point. That, too, isn't a disaster. In fact, it's in part a signal that the economy is improving and bond investors want a bit more of a premium if they're going to lock up their money.
But much of that increase is because of monetary policy, in particular the Fed's suggestion that it very well might begin to taper off its $85 billion-a-month bond purchases at its meeting later this month. With the Fed decreasing its demand for bonds, their prices pull back as their yields rise.
And then there's the other thing the Fed has told everyone: these decisions are going to be data driven. Mr. Bernanke and the vice chairwoman, Janet Yellen, have been particularly clear about factoring the health of the job market into their decisions.
Well, the job market is not getting healthier. I'm not reading too much into this one month's data - I'm talking about trends, like the participation rate mentioned above. Or the fact that if you average the job gains over the past three months, you get 148,000. That would be enough to stabilize the unemployment rate at its elevated level above 7 percent, were it not for the shrinking labor force. It's not nearly a pace of job growth that would consistently nudge the rate down, such that we might actually create a bit of bargaining power for lower-wage workers, who are seeing almost none of the gains in macroeconomic growth.
So, if they're really data driven, Fed officials will drive away from a September taper. I can't speak for Wall Street, but that's the best move for Main Street.

        
Implications for Monetary Policy
        
Wall Street's Ideal Jobs Gain: Middling
        
Handicapping the Fed's Next Move
        
Bernanke: By Unemployment, Not So Good
        
The Old Are Working, but Not the Young

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BONDS (89%); INTEREST RATES (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); MONETARY POLICY (76%); OLDER WORKERS (72%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (62%) Bernanke, Ben S; Federal Reserve System; Labor and Jobs; Unemployment; United States Economy; Yellen, Janet L; The Jobs Report; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: Federal Reserve System

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (78%); JARED BERNSTEIN (74%); JOE BIDEN (73%) Bernanke, Ben S; Yellen, Janet L

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



168 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: Wheelies: The Hip Mercedes Edition

BYLINE: BENJAMIN PRESTON


HIGHLIGHT: Mercedes-Benz reaches out to younger customers with an edgy YouTube filmmaker, and Elon Musk announces plans to take his five sons on a cross-country road trip in a Model S. 

 BODY:
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wM2KDQskhHA
In which we bring you motoring news from around the Web:
 In an effort to reach out to younger buyers, Mercedes-Benz sought the help of a young filmmaker who made a name for himself making catchy, albeit inexpensive, YouTube videos. The filmmaker, Casey Neistat, hasn't stuck to one particular genre during his decade-long career, but his videos - like his bike lane video, which has netted more than 6.8 million views over the last two years - caught the luxury automaker's attention. So Mercedes paid him to make an ad for the CLA. Mr. Neistat shot in New York City and on the Bonneville Salt Flats in Utah, and the result is flashy and colorful. (Gizmodo) 
 The New York City Police Department confirmed in an e-mail early Friday morning that it has arrested a man suspected of being the driver in a YouTube video posted last week of a 24-minute lap around the 26-plus miles of highway on Manhattan's outer edge. Christopher Adam Tang, 30, was charged with reckless endangerment, reckless driving, a traffic device violation, moving from a lane unsafely, following too closely and for a speed violation. After reviewing the YouTube video of the speed run, officers from the city's Highway District Collision Investigation Squad were able to identify Mr. Tang. In addition to arresting Mr. Tang, they also seized a 2006 BMW Z4.
"It appears Mr. Tang has hit a speed bump," said Deputy Police Commissioner John J. McCarthy in an e-mail.
 The European Union has refuted claims that it was considering a plan to limit vehicle speed automatically, according to a report from Drive. The plan, which was reported by The Daily Mail and The Telegraph to have called for equipment upgrades to new and existing cars that would, among other things, keep them from going faster that 70 miles per hour, was found to be inaccurate. A spokesman from the European Commission's Mobility and Transport Department said in a statement that although the commission had supported research into speed-limiting technology, it had no plans to push forward any such recommendations or regulation. (Drive)
 According to Reuters, disputes with Hyundai's South Korean labor union have prevented the automaker from building more than 50,000 vehicles - worth more than $1 million - since Aug. 20. But the trouble may be at an end for now. Hyundai and the union appear to have reached an agreement over wages, resulting in an increase in pay for workers at the automaker's South Korean factory. Reuters says that the union has gone on strike almost annually over the 26 years it has been in existence. (Reuters)
https://twitter.com/elonmusk/status/375535096998006784
 Elon Musk, chief executive of Tesla Motors, indicated that he planned to join the ranks of harried dads everywhere later this year: He's going on a 3,200-mile road trip with his five sons. Mr. Musk tweeted that he would drive a Tesla from Los Angeles to New York over six days, taking about nine hours of down time for charging. The trip will ostensibly be a publicity campaign for Tesla's ever-expanding network of charging stations. According to a report by CNN Money, there are 19, concentrated on the East and West Coasts, but there should be more by year's end. Let's hope Mr. Musk doesn't end up having pay any a shady mechanic-sheriff like Clark Griswold did in "Vacation." (CNN Money)
 Modern automotive glass may protect motorists during collisions, but it doesn't necessarily guard against the sun's skin-damaging ultraviolet rays, says a report from the Associated Press. Windshields, which must, by law, be made from laminated glass, do provide U.V. protection, as do sunroofs, which are also typically coated with layers of U.V. absorbing plastic. But side windows don't necessarily do much to protect motorists' skin, leading to higher incidences of cancer. Although glass with higher sun protection capability is more expensive to manufacture, some automakers are using it because it protects passengers and lowers vehicles' interior temperatures, meaning the air-conditioning won't have to work as hard and better fuel economy can be realized. (The Washington Post)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); POLICE FORCES (88%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); ARRESTS (73%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (72%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (69%); STRIKES (68%); ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (68%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); SPORTS CARS (64%); EUROPEAN UNION (63%) Automobiles

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



169 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 2176 words

HEADLINE: 10 Questions for Tom Cole

BYLINE: JOHN HARWOOD


HIGHLIGHT: An Oklahoma Republican known for working across the aisle, Representative Tom Cole spoke to John Harwood about Syria, the budget negotiations and choices for the Republican Party. 

 BODY:
Representative Tom Cole, a Republican, has brought the pragmatism of a former political operative to his work representing Oklahoma's Fourth Congressional District. He served as a bridge between the two parties during last year's fiscal negotiations, when he urged fellow Republicans to accept higher taxes on the wealthiest Americans. He continues to advocate a compromise budget deal to avoid a government shutdown or a debt crisis, and he maintains a good relationship with the White House.
But Mr. Cole, whose district includes the massive Tinker Air Force Base, leans strongly against President Obama's request to authorize military force against Syria. During a day of meetings with constituents, he sat down with John Harwood of The Times and CNBC in Midwest City, Okla. What follows is a condensed and edited transcript of their conversation.
 Q. 
 What about the argument that a vote no on using force is a vote for Assad, for Iran, and to weaken American leadership?
 A. 
 Well, I don't buy the argument. First of all, you know, that's probably something a president should have taken into consideration when he made that decision, and I think largely without consulting with Congress, to go out on that limb. Number one, the nature of the war is pretty messy, to say the least. It's a civil war, it's a proxy war between regional powers, and it's a religious war. Is there any direct security threat to the United States here? No, there's really not. Is there a long-term interest in Syria? Probably not. In the region, yes, but within the country, no. Third, has this been going on a while? Yes, we know this isn't the first use.
We have no international justification at this point. The U.N. hasn't asked us to act. NATO has not taken a formal position. The Arab League is sort of - is both divided and certainly leading from behind, to put it nicely.
If you're the Iranians looking at this, it's not going to appear very decisive. We're not trying to bring down the regime. It's not going to be an overwhelming military force. I have a hard time asking men and women to go into harm's way to make a political statement.
 Q. 
 So when your Republican colleague John McCain says a no vote from Congress would be a catastrophe, you say what?
 A. 
 I disagree. I'm not afraid to vote for it, I just simply don't think it's in the American interest. I supported the president on the Afghanistan surge. I've supported him on continuing aid to Egypt. It's not particularly popular around here, but I think it's the right thing to do. I supported him on the N.S.A. vote only last month, you know, when most of his own party in the House did not. But I'm not going to vote for something that I think is a bad idea simply because the president of United States, you know, announced that that's what he wanted to do.
 Q. 
 In a case like this that involves intelligence assessments, very complex foreign-policy calculations, what is the role of the reaction of your constituents who maybe don't pay close attention?
 A. 
 It matters a great deal, because at the end of the day, this is not a treaty or foreign-policy move. This is a direct application of force, and it puts young men and women in harm's way. I've got the largest air depot in United States, maybe the world, sitting right across the street. And believe me, if we're in serious conflict, they're going to be deployed.
People around here take this stuff very seriously. We've had our National Guard deployed three times in combat situations, the last time in Afghanistan. They lost 20 people. They're willing to sacrifice, they're proud to sacrifice, they are extraordinarily pleased to host the American military. But they also love the men and women in uniform, and they think long and hard before using them. 
 Q. 
 Why, in a district that is so military-oriented, are you sensing such negative reaction?
 A. 
 I don't think, honestly, the president has yet made the case. He's been good enough to come to Congress. I give him credit for that, because he knew it was going to be a tough sell, but I don't think it's been particularly well handled. There should have been a lot more discussion and consultation when the president lay down a red line, which had not existed, really, before in American foreign policy.
It's sort of putting us in the position in Congress of cashing a check that he wrote whether we wanted to or not. The fact that the president, on the night before he announced this, surprises his own staff at 7 o'clock in the evening - this is the announcement the next day at 1 p.m.? Does that sound like well-thought-through, closely considered policy? I don't think it is. And it's not the right way to think about these things, in my opinion, or to execute them.
 Q. 
 How big is the isolationist wing within the Republican Party? Are you part of it?
 A. 
 I'm for a pretty robust foreign policy. Frankly, I would consider myself much more of a national security, international point of view. I'm not for having a small military. I'm not for abandoning our treaty obligations. I think foreign aid is a legitimate tool for foreign policy. So I don't think I would put myself in any sort of isolationist wing.
I think some [Republicans], after a decade, are wary of this sort of thing. I think they would be wary regardless of who's president.
 Q. 
 Do you expect, in the end, a majority of the House to vote with the president?
 A. 
 I don't know. I would say he certainly has a good chance to win this. I think he will win in the Senate. He's got the majority of his own party there. The House is going to be a tougher sell. The president's going to need, I think, a substantial Democratic majority - that's where his support should begin. I don't think we should look at this as an R and D situation, but having lived through this during the Bush presidency, the core of your support when you're going to make a decision of this consequence starts in your party.
On our side, I think there's considerable resistance to this. The speaker and leader, they're not breaking arms and legs, and I think that's appropriate. Where they will count is, people respect them both. But at the end of the day, I don't think any of that stuff matters very much to my constituents. I think they're pretty well informed about this, and they will probably be better informed over the next week. It may change some minds, but so far I don't sense that, and my staff doesn't sense that. I haven't seen a case compelling enough to make me say I'm going to ignore the public opinion of my own district.
 Q. 
 You had, over the break, some number of your colleagues who talked with their constituents about impeaching the president.
 A. 
 I forgive politicians a lot at town hall meetings. Everybody can be inartful in their language. It certainly comes up in my town hall meetings. I don't think it's helpful to engage in that sort of thing. I think you have to be honest with people about both political realities and the consequences of engaging in action like that. So I just try to stay away from that because it's not going to happen and, in my opinion, wouldn't be the appropriate thing to do. I have very strong differences with the president on a variety of issues, but also I find places where we've been able to work together. That's the way the system is supposed to work.
I can't tell you how unpopular Obamacare is. I can't tell you how strongly, in an oil and gas state, people feel about things like fracking, or what they would consider the trashing of the domestic energy industry. I can't tell you how hostile people are about the E.P.A., and regulation, and what they would consider overregulation in general. This is a very pro-military state; he's been interested in cutting the military. This is a very pro-energy state; he has a different take on energy than we do. About the only part of our economy where he's really well liked is on Indian affairs, which is a big part of our economy and our culture.
 Q. 
 What effect will the debate on Syria have on the fiscal fights that we're looking at this fall?
 A. 
 It may, strangely enough, be helpful, because it's not going to be a partisan debate. It's not going to be our team versus their team. Maybe some relationships will be built, and some cooperation and some friendship developed in a common cause. When you work with somebody on a contentious issue that is normally on the other side, you begin to understand them. So I don't think it'll make things more difficult. This debate will happen quickly and be over one way or the other. But if there is some cooperation that's built, and some camaraderie, that can only help as we move toward things like the end of the fiscal year and the debt ceiling.
We've got to come to a larger agreement here. We can't just simply be operating in the manner where every few months we're looking at either shutting down the government or having cuts that are across the board and not well inspired. So whatever it takes to give the two sides the window to sit down and discuss, I'm for doing. I have some hope there because, by the way, we did that in March. We didn't shut down the government. So hopefully people are beginning to think that's really not a very good tool to use, or weapon to use, in these kind of disputes.
 Q. 
 You've talked about sensing a growing divide within your district between business-oriented Republicans who want to make a deal, and the grassroots activists who are more ready to fight and risk things like a government shutdown to end Obamacare.
 A. 
 The difference is a tactical one, but it's an important one. Tactically, business groups tend to think, look, if you shut down government, you're putting people out of work; you're disrupting everything. It seems like you're throwing a temper tantrum because you didn't get your way. We'll go to work, win some more elections, bargain, make the changes you can, but don't disrupt the economy.
At a town hall meeting, people are angry about this. They think it was forced down their throats. He's gotten the votes, and he did win the election, and that's hard for them to understand. At an Oklahoma town hall meeting it's sort of, "What in the world's wrong with the rest of the country and they can't see this?" And I'm sure, you know, California looks that way at Oklahoma. But there is a great frustration.
One of the elected representatives here, we were talking about this and I said, "Give me a list of the 14 Democratic senators that are going to join with the 46 Republican senators to actually pass a repeal. And then give me the seven that are going to sign on after voting against the repeal to override the president's veto."
It's just not going to work. And at some point, you know, people are going to start asking, why in the world did you put 15,000 families without a paycheck at Tinker Air Force Base? Why in the world did you shut down a veterans center? I've got four of them. A lot of these guys are in their 80s or 90s and did everything the country ever asked them to do. I'm going to make sure they don't have a hot meal or a roof over their head, somebody to help them? I think not. In this case you're actually putting the gun to your own head. You're basically saying, do what I want or I'll shoot.
 Q. 
 In one of your town halls, a constituent said the chained Consumer Price Index on Social Security would hurt a lot of people - "Instead of putting chains on us, why don't you put the chains on the spending?" Is the White House right in thinking that when push comes to shove, Republicans are not going to be willing to cut those programs because so many people feel that way?
 A. 
 I don't think they really understand where most of the spending's at. We've cut discretionary spending three years in a row. That's the first time that's happened since the 1940s. If we could just do it by discretionary spending, believe me, we would do it. But it's simply not enough. It's not a big enough piece of the pie, and it's not a big enough driver of the debt.
I've actually had this discussion with the White House. And one of them made the point, look, I've seen these guys at Tea Party rallies, "Keep your hands off my Social Security and Medicare." And I said, "First of all, you've got to test us. We said we're willing to do it. Test us." I think actually this is an area where the Republican conference is quite courageous and very brave, and willing to do what it says it's going to do.
You've got to make some reforms. They can be gradual, they can be over time. There's some common ground in both the Ryan and Obama budgets to work from. Paul Ryan likes to call it: maybe not the grand bargain, but a down payment. And I think that is possible. The country's getting frustrated that they don't see adults willing to work across party lines. 

        
Obama and G.O.P. Spar Over Direction of Cuts
        
Obama Tells House Democrats He Will Confront Republicans on Taxes
        
Ryan Expects Debt Deal but Takes Taxes Off the Table
        
G.O.P. Congressman's Remarks Undermine Party's Immigration Efforts
        
Racial Makeup of Red and Blue America

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); BUDGETS (91%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); DEBT CRISIS (71%); AIR FORCES (70%); TRANSCRIPTS (69%); RELIGION (50%) Cole, Tom; Federal Budget (US); House of Representatives; Oklahoma; Republican Party; Syria; United States International Relations; United States Politics and Government; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives; Republican Party

PERSON: TOM COLE (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Cole, Tom

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); SYRIA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); EGYPT (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Oklahoma; Syria

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



170 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: A Mortgage Market Out of Balance

BYLINE: PETER EAVIS


HIGHLIGHT: The vast system that provides home loans to millions of Americans has long been a strange place. A surprising development has made it even stranger. 

 BODY:
The vast system that provides home loans to millions of Americans has long been a strange place. A surprising development has made it even stranger.
Recently, interest rates on mortgages for expensive homes have fallen below those for smaller mortgages that the government promises to repay if the borrower defaults.
 On Thursday, for instance, Wells Fargo, the nation's largest mortgage lender, was offering to make the larger so-called jumbo loans at a fixed rate of 4.625 percent for 30 years. That compared with the 4.875 percent that the bank was charging on fixed 30-year loans that qualify for government backing. 
On the surface, these moves in rates make little sense. The jumbo mortgages do not have a taxpayer guarantee of repayment. Anyone holding such loans relies solely on the creditworthiness of the borrowers to be repaid. Most of the jumbo borrowers are wealthy and have good credit scores, so they are not that high a risk right now. Still, their credit probably isn't as strong as that of the federal government, which guarantees the smaller loans. As a result, those loans, often called conforming mortgages, should have lower rates than those on jumbo mortgages. Indeed, as far back as industry participants can remember, that has been the case.
The fact that jumbos are now cheaper points to dysfunctions in the mortgage market, which is going through a jarring adjustment that appears to be influencing guaranteed mortgages more than jumbo loans.
Since the financial crisis of 2008, the mortgage market has had two substantial sources of government support. First, government entities have been backing a far higher proportion of mortgages than in recent decades. Banks make these loans but don't hold them. They package them into bonds and sell nearly all of them to investors, like pension and mutual funds. The second support has come from Federal Reserve. As part of its efforts to invigorate the economy, the Fed has been buying large amounts of those taxpayer-backed mortgage bonds. That helped bring about a big decline in mortgage rates in the grim years after the crisis.
 But the Fed, believing the economy is gaining strength, has signaled that it may soon buy fewer of these bonds. Their price has fallen. This pushes up the yields on the bonds, which in turn drives up mortgage rates for people taking out new conforming home loans.
The rates on jumbo loans have also risen over the last few months. But because fewer jumbo mortgages trade in markets, they are less vulnerable to big swings in investor sentiment. That is not the case for guaranteed loans, which investors have sold heavily in recent weeks.
 Of course, once uncertainty about future interest rates dissipates, and markets settle down, the rate on guaranteed mortgages could fall back below that of jumbo loans.
 But policy makers have reason to be unnerved. If jumbo rates remain lower for a long time, it could mean that banks have begun to believe that there will be lower losses from defaults on jumbo loans than on conforming mortgages. That might seem a preposterous stance, given the government guarantee on conforming loans.
 Still, there are circumstances under which the conforming loans might be riskier for the banks that make them - and recent efforts to overhaul the mortgage market may heighten that risk.
 The government guarantees the conforming loans, but with one big caveat. If there are problems with those loans that lead to default - if the bank didn't properly check a borrower's income, for example - the government can effectively send them back to the bank that made them. Returning loans can saddle the lender with hefty losses, which has already happened after the government rejected many shoddy precrisis loans. As a result, mortgage experts say, banks have since the crisis charged borrowers extra interest to cover the risk of losses from taking loans back.
 Amid all this, it's possible to see why banks might believe that jumbo loans will result in fewer losses than conforming loans. From the outset, jumbo loans may simply experience fewer defaults than conforming mortgages, partly because their borrowers have higher credit scores. And when the conforming mortgages do default, the banks may not be able to predict what their losses will be because of the government's ability to send back faulty loans.
 If the situation persists, housing market officials might have to revisit some of the knotty questions at the heart of the mortgage system.
 The government could loosen its standards and send fewer bad conforming mortgages back. The banks would stop fearing high losses on rejected loans, prompting them to charge borrowers less at the outset. Some people might ask why the government should relax its standards when it is the banks' own inefficiencies that lead to loans that are sometimes sent back.
 One way to reduce the risk of conforming loans is to require solid down payments, because these can reduce defaults and increase the amount recovered when a borrower does default. Right now, down payments are reasonably high on conforming mortgages, and maybe even in line with those on some jumbo mortgages.
 But that could change.
 In the housing overhaul, regulators had plenty of opportunities to draft rules that would enshrine sturdy down payments. They have gone out of their way to avoid doing that. The motivation was to maximize access to credit, which is another way of saying that the market has to be built to include borrowers who cannot afford sizable down payments.
 That may be an admirable goal. But if down payments are allowed to fall on a large proportion of conforming loans, banks may respond by hoisting their rates to cover the risk that the government may send them back if they default in large numbers.
For prospective home buyers, access to credit would be diminished.
 At that point, the government would have a stark choice. It could decide to change nothing, leaving some people unable to get mortgages. Or it could become more lenient, by signaling to the banks that it will send fewer loans back. While some in Congress would fight such a move, the housing lobby would likely support it - and it nearly always wins.

        
Regulators and 13 Banks Complete $9.3 Billion Deal for Foreclosure Relief
        
Errors Afflict More Checks Issued to Aid Homeowners

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (94%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); LOAN DEFAULTS (73%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (62%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Federal Reserve System; Interest Rates; Mortgages; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Real Estate; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Reserve System

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



171 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: Corruption in the Confederacy

BYLINE: RODNEY STEWARD


HIGHLIGHT: How Southern agents used the Act of Sequestration to enrich themselves at the expense of their innocent neighbors. 

 BODY:
Between 1862 and 1865, officers of the Confederate District Court of North Carolina, empowered by a new national law, confiscated and sold millions of dollars worth of property from North Carolinians accused of being "alien enemies." The proceeds of confiscated and sold property were to be sent immediately to Richmond, but most was never reported. Many officers of the District Court, like David Schenck of Lincoln County, became wealthy enforcing the Act of Sequestration while thousands of their fellow Tar Heels were deprived of their property, charged with disloyalty, and in some cases even executed as enemies of the Confederacy. 
The Confederate law was inspired by the Union's First Confiscation Act of Aug. 6 1861, which laid the legal groundwork for Northern forces to confiscate Southerners' private property being used to aid the rebellion. Although not directly mentioned in the act itself, it was understood, and later confirmed by executive order, that "property" included slaves. 
Passage of the confiscation law touched a raw nerve with Confederates. Protection of personal property rights, and particularly the right to slave property, underpinned the Confederate government's entire political philosophy. Not surprisingly, within a month, the Jefferson Davis administration responded with its own version of government-sanctioned confiscation. The Confederate Act of Sequestration was passed on Aug. 30, 1861. 
The Southern Congress designed the Act of Sequestration to strike at Northern financial interests within the Confederate states. It mandated that Confederate agents would locate "all and every lands, tenements, hereditaments, goods, and chattels, rights and credits within these Confederate states and every right and interest therein held, owned, possessed or enjoyed by or for any alien enemy." Such property would be "sequestered by the Confederate States of America." Confiscated property of "alien enemies" would be sold and the proceeds paid into a fund, administered by the Treasury Department, from which "loyal Confederates" could make indemnity claims. The indemnity clause was problematic however, for it stated that confiscated property "shall be held for full indemnity of any true and loyal citizen of these Confederate states," yet nowhere did the act define or offer any criteria for identifying "true and loyal citizens." 
The primary difficulty with enforcing the law would be locating Northern-owned property. The Confederate government would rely heavily on information volunteered by ordinary citizens, but if anyone proved reluctant to provide the government the information it sought, sequestration officials were given extraordinary punitive powers to search out and seize confiscable property. Enforcement of the law fell to two newly created arms of the Confederate Department of Justice, receivers and federal grand juries. Receivers tracked down and seized property suspected of belonging to a Northerner, while federal grand juries aided receivers by interrogating those whose loyalty was suspect, which could be anyone. The Confederate attorney general was charged with putting the law into effect, but aside from that stipulation the act set no parameters or limitations on the power of receivers and grand juries to acquire the information or property they sought. 
The system's bureaucratic process for facilitating sequestration was complex, and with few exceptions receivers seldom left a record of their involvement with seizing property; grand jury identities were secret and the minutes of their interrogations destroyed after each session. Rather than keeping detailed records of all property confiscated and sold, and the amount each property fetched at auction, receivers reported only on those properties that were sold. In this way the system placed a partial veil of secrecy over sequestration. 
The act's silence on nearly all interpretative matters placed the awesome responsibility of defining the terms "loyal Confederate" and "alien enemy" entirely in the hands of local sequestration officials. Moreover, unlike other laws, like conscription, impressments and tax-in-kind, which were administered by state officials, sequestration proceedings were the exclusive jurisdiction of the Confederate district courts. Judges thus wielded unprecedented power. For example, Asa Biggs, the judge of the North Carolina Confederate District Court, personally appointed every officer of the court in North Carolina, including the ardent secessionist David Schenck, who became a receiver. 
At the outset of the war, Schenck was a struggling middle-class lawyer who was put out of work by North Carolina's Stay Act, which drastically reduced the type and number of cases that could be brought before the district court. He owned a small farm on the outskirts of Lincolnton and owned no slaves. He began his duties as receiver in the Western Piedmont, including Cleaveland, Catawba, Lincoln, Gaston, Iredell and Mecklenburg Counties, in September 1862. Within days he confided to his diary that he had already sold some $20,000 worth of sequestered real estate - an amount exceeding the state comptrollers' report of the gross value of all non-real estate taxable property (gold watches, wagons, carriages) in Cleaveland and Catawba Counties combined. In the adjoining district, receiver C.N. White sold 354 acres of prime cotton land in Union County at auction for $5 an acre on Sept. 16, 1862. Assuming the land Schenck sold fetched the same amount, he would have sold some 4,000 acres of land. A few weeks later Schenck purchased his first slave for $1,225, bought some land to build a new house, and by year's end he estimated his earnings to be $9,000. 
The question that necessarily arises here regards the source of such wealth, especially when, as a Confederate bureaucrat, Schenk was paid in Confederate currency, which was depreciating daily. The Receivers Ledger for the Sequestration Fund from the Confederate Treasury offers a clue. According to the ledger, which kept track of all funds remitted, Schenck's district remitted only $3,610.24 in 1862. It also shows that he was paid $319.58 to cover the cost of expenses incurred while executing the duties of his office. There is no evidence that the full $20,000 from confiscated property sold at auction in September was ever deposited into the Sequestration Fund in Richmond. Could it be that members of the district court distributed those and other funds liberally among themselves?
Still another important question is, who was buying all this property? In an economy that quickly fell victim to hyperinflation and rapid devaluation of its currency, who possessed enough ready capital to buy so much land and property? In Wilmington, the receiver DuBrutz Cutlar seized real estate belonging to J.B. Allen when a neighbor, William Gordon, accused Allen of being disloyal. When Cutlar auctioned Allen's property it was bought by William Gordon. In Union County, the receiver C.N. White sold mineral rights on 288 acres of land to Robert Hall Morrison, the father-in-law of the generals Daniel Harvey Hill and Thomas J. "Stonewall" Jackson. Morrison also owned land adjacent to the land he purchased from White. Notably, Schenck emerged from the Civil War owning six lots in Lincolnton and several pieces of land nearby.
What became of the officers of the North Carolina District Court? Asa Biggs and DuBrutz Cutlar practiced law in Tarboro and Wilmington, respectively. David Schenck practiced law in Lincolnton after the war, and later became a superior court judge for the Ninth judicial district. He also became the leader of the Ku Klux Klan in western North Carolina. As for the countless men and women accused of being "enemy aliens," none ever received restitution.
 Follow Disunion at twitter.com/NYTcivilwar or join us on Facebook. 
 Rodney Steward is an assistant professor of history at the University of South Carolina, Salkehatchie. 

        
A Colored Man's Constitution
        
The Plight of the Black P.O.W.
        
The Name of War
        
When Douglass Met Lincoln
        
When Andrew Johnson Freed His Slaves

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GRAND JURY (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (78%); SLAVERY (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); CORRUPTION (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (68%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (66%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (66%); INDEMNITY AGREEMENTS (62%) Civil War (US) (1861-65); Search and Seizure; Slavery; Disunion

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



172 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: Big Ticket | Opulent Duplex for $22 Million

BYLINE: ROBIN FINN


HIGHLIGHT: A 12-room duplex at 950 Fifth Avenue has four bedrooms and ample Central Park views. 

 BODY:
A 12-room duplex at 950 Fifth Avenue, a vertical bastion of billionaires with just seven residences and an infinitely selective co-op board, sold for $22 million and was the most expensive sale of the week, according to city records. 
The original asking price for No. 5/6 was $27.5 million, and last fall a deal for the apartment fell through, according to a broker who was not involved in the transaction. The monthly maintenance is $19,516, and a maid's room, No. 8, transferred with the residence.
With opulent interiors designed by Mica Ertegun and Chessy Rayner of MAC II, the four-bedroom, five-and-a-half-bath apartment has 11-foot ceilings, ample Central Park views, parquet de Versailles floors, and retains its original handmade wrought-iron-and-gilt banister on the sweeping staircase that leads to the private bedroom quarters on the upper level, where there is also a small kitchen for nighttime convenience. 
The dramatic corner living room has a wood-burning fireplace and adjoins a cozy library that has a fireplace as well as a powder room and dry bar. The formal dining room, which has travertine floors and another marble fireplace, faces south. The eat-in kitchen was fully renovated with SieMatic cabinetry, marble countertops, a Garland range and a double oven, and its adjacent breakfast room overlooks the cityscape and the Carlyle Hotel.
Besides its park views and a hidden fireplace, the corner master suite has two of everything - two bedrooms, two bathrooms, two walk-in closets. There are two additional guest bedrooms, both with en-suite baths.
The building was designed by the renowned James E.R. Carpenter in 1926 and its power broker residents past and present include Mortimer Zuckerman, the uber-media and real estate mogul; Howard Schultz, the chief executive of Starbucks; L. Dennis Kozlowski, the disgraced former head of Tyco; and Robert Hurst, the former president of the Whitney Museum. Mr. Zuckerman presides from the penthouse, and all seven residents sit on the board.
The sellers, Jerome and Joan Serchuck, were represented by Cindy Kurtin and Jessica Vertullo Maher of Stribling & Associates. The new buyer opted for anonymity through a limited liability company, JIE Trust.
 Big Ticket includes closed sales from the previous week, ending Wednesday. 

        
Big Ticket | Terrace Swimming for $14.7 Million
        
Big Ticket | $23 Million for a Floor on Park Avenue
        
Empty Prison in Chelsea Is Now a Valuable Piece of Real Estate
        
Big Ticket | $12 Million for a Luxury Co-op at the Pierre Hotel
        
Big Ticket | $29 Million on Central Park West

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); HOME PRICES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (65%); EXECUTIVES (62%) Fifth Avenue (Manhattan, NY); Real Estate and Housing (Residential); Big Ticket; Housing & Economy

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%)

PERSON: HOWARD SCHULTZ (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) Fifth Avenue (Manhattan, NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



173 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: Pointing at Pornography for Job Losses

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Employment in the motion picture and sound recording industries plunged in August, and some attributed the downturn to a shutdown in the X-rated film industry. But the evidence may be shaky. 

 BODY:
 Updated, 4:24 p.m. | to include point about how employees are counted. 
The pornography industry, long accustomed to being a scapegoat for the country's moral ills, is now beingblamedfor America's economic failings, too. 
Employment in the motion picture and sound recording industries plunged in August, for a loss of 22,200 jobs. It was the sector with the biggest losses last month, and also represented the largest monthly decline since the Labor Department started keeping track of jobs in the industry in 1990.
Some have attributed the job losses to the X-rated film industry. After an H.I.V. scare, the industry temporarily shut down around the time that the Labor Department conducts its monthly survey.
It sounds like a plausible theory, but there are a few reasons to be skeptical.
First, the numbers are volatile from month to month, and for some reason have gotten more so in recent years. So the decline could just be noise.
Second, as Josh Barro points out, workers are counted by the Labor Department as employed if they worked anytime in the pay period including Aug. 12, and depending on when industry employees get paid, the shutdown may have fallen in a different pay period (since it was Aug. 21-27). I'm actually not sure if this definitively disproves the argument for blaming the porn industry, since it's plausible that the 12th could be in the same pay period as the shutdown, depending on how regularly industry paychecks go out, and since employees may not come into the office/studio every day. 
Third, the motion picture and sound recording sector has 366,000 jobs, but the much smaller pornographic film industry may not employ 22,200 people even when things are good. The Los Angeles Times reported that the industry generated 10,000 jobs annually. I contacted an industry group, the Free Speech Coalition, to ask about this estimate, and was told they did not have an accurate figure available for the whole industry.
But in an e-mail, a spokeswoman, Joanne Cachapero, did mention another reason to be skeptical that the pornography shutdown drove the large decline in film payrolls: performers in X-rated films, who number about 3,000, are independent contractors, which means they wouldn't be counted in the Labor Department's payroll data anyway. Everyone who works behind the scenes (directors, editors, camera operators, wardrobe and catering workers, drivers, publicists and so forth), though, is a payroll employee and would be affected. 
That said, she also suggested that ripple effects from a pornography production moratorium could affect employment in related industries as it could disrupt "activities like set building and more support-services type of employment." That's one way a 10,000-person subsector, if wholly out of commission, could potentially reduce total motion picture industry employment by more than 10,000.

        
The Old Are Working, but Not the Young
        
The Case Against Tapering in September
        
Persistent Scars of Long-Term Joblessness
        
Population Growth Outpaces Jobs
        
'The Great Shift': Americans Not Working

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (93%); MOVIE RATINGS (93%); PORNOGRAPHY (91%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (91%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); FILM (90%); RECORD INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BUSINESS INTERRUPTIONS (76%) Labor and Jobs; Movies; Pornography; Unemployment; United States Economy; The Jobs Report

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (65%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



174 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1903 words

HEADLINE: Why Janet Yellen, Not Larry Summers, Should Lead the Fed

BYLINE: JOSEPH E. STIGLITZ


HIGHLIGHT: Ms. Yellen, the central bank&#8217;s No. 2, has the stature and wisdom for the top job. Mr. Summers championed the deregulation that caused the 2008 financial crisis. 

 BODY:
The controversy over the choice of the next head of the Federal Reserve has become unusually heated. The country is fortunate to have an enormously qualified candidate: the Fed's current vice chairwoman, Janet L. Yellen. There is concern that the president might turn to another candidate, Lawrence H. Summers. Since I have worked closely with both of these individuals for more than three decades, both inside and outside of government, I have perhaps a distinct perspective.
But why, one might ask, is this a matter for a column usually devoted to understanding the growing divide between rich and poor in the United States and around the world? The reason is simple: What the Fed does has as much to do with the growth of inequality as virtually anything else. The good news is that both of the leading candidates talk as if they care about inequality. The bad news is that the policies that have been pushed by one of the candidates, Mr. Summers, have much to do with the woes faced by the middle and the bottom. 
The Fed has responsibilities both in regulation and macroeconomic management. Regulatory failures were at the core of America's crisis. As a Treasury Department official during the Clinton administration, Mr. Summers supported banking deregulation, including the repeal of the Glass-Steagall Act, which was pivotal in America's financial crisis. His great "achievement" as secretary of the Treasury, from 1999 to 2001, was passage of the law that ensured that derivatives would not be regulated - a decision that helped blow up the financial markets. (Warren E. Buffett was right to call these derivatives "financial weapons of mass financial destruction." Some of those who were responsible for these key policy mistakes have admitted the fundamental "flaws" in their analyses. Mr. Summers, to my knowledge, has not.)
Regulatory failures have been at the center of previous crises as well. At Treasury in the 1990s, Mr. Summers encouraged countries to quickly liberalize their capital markets, to allow capital to flow in and out without restrictions - indeed insisted that they do so - against the advice of the White House Council of Economic Advisers (which I led from 1995 to 1997), and this more than anything else led to the Asian financial crisis. Few policies or actions have greater culpability for that Asian crisis and the global financial crisis of 2008 than the deregulatory policies that Mr. Summers advocated.
Supporters of Mr. Summers argue that he is exceptionally qualified to manage crises - and that, while we hope that there won't be a crisis in the next four years, prudence requires someone who excels at those critical moments. To be fair, Mr. Summers has been involved in several crises. What matters, however, is not just "being there" during a crisis, but showing good judgment in its management. Even more important is a commitment to taking actions to make another crisis less likely - in sharp contrast to measures that almost ensure the inevitability of another one.
Mr. Summers's conduct and judgment in the crises was as flawed as his lack of commitment in that regard. In both Asia and the United States, he seemed to me to underestimate the severity of the downturns, and with forecasts that were so off, it was not a surprise that the policies were inappropriate. The performance of those in the Treasury who were responsible for managing the Asian crisis was, to say the least, disappointing - converting downturns into recessions and recessions into depressions. So, too, while the banking system was saved, and the United States avoided another depression, those responsible for managing the 2008 crisis cannot be credited with creating a robust, inclusive recovery. Botched efforts at mortgage restructuring, a failure to restore the flow of credit to small and medium-size enterprises, and the mishandling of the bailouts have all been well documented - as were the failure to foresee the severity of the economic collapse.
These issues are important to anyone concerned with inequality for four reasons. First, crises and how they are managed are real creators of poverty and inequality. Just look at what havoc this crisis wrought: median wealth fell by 40 percent, those in the middle still have not seen their incomes recover to pre-crisis levels, and those in the upper 1 percent enjoyed all the fruits of the recovery (and then some). It is ordinary workers who have suffered most: they are the ones who face high unemployment, who see their wages cut, and who bear the brunt of cutbacks in public services as a result of the budget austerity. They are the ones who lost their homes in the millions. The Obama administration could have done more, far more, to help homeowners, and to help localities maintain public services (for instance, through the kind of revenue sharing with states and localities that I urged at the beginning of the crisis).
Second, deregulation contributed to the financialization of the economy. It distorted our economy. It provided greater scope for those who manipulate the rules of the game for their benefit. As James K. Galbraith has forcefully argued, as we look around the world, bloated and underregulated financial sectors are closely linked with greater inequality. Those, like Britain, that emulated America's deregulation have seen inequality soar, too.
Third, the most invidious aspect of this deregulation-induced inequality is that associated with the abusive practices of the financial sector - which prospers at the expense of ordinary Americans, through predatory lending, market manipulation, abusive credit card practices or taking advantage of its monopoly power in the payments system. The Fed has enormous powers to prevent these abuses, and even more since the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010. Yet the central bank has repeatedly failed at this, systematically focusing on strengthening the banks' balance sheets, at the expense of ordinary Americans.
Fourth, it is not only the case that America's financial sector did what it shouldn't have done, but it also didn't do what it was supposed to do. Even today, there is a dearth of loans to small and medium-size enterprises. Good regulation would shift banks away from speculation and market manipulation, back to what should be their core business: making loans.
Whoever succeeds Ben S. Bernanke as the Fed's leader will have to make repeated judgment calls about when to raise or lower interest rates, the levers of monetary policy.
Two elements enter into these judgments. The first is forecasting. Wrong forecasts lead to wrong policies. Without a good sense of direction of where the economy is going, one can't take appropriate policies. Ms. Yellen has a superb record in forecasting where the economy is going - the best, according to The Wall Street Journal, of anyone at the Fed. As I noted earlier, Mr. Summers's leaves something to be desired.
Ms. Yellen's superlative performance should not come as a surprise. Janet Yellen, whom I taught at Yale, was one of the best students I have had, in 47 seven years of teaching at Columbia, Princeton, Stanford, Yale, M.I.T. and Oxford. She is an economist of great intellect, with a strong ability to forge consensus, and she has proved her mettle as chairwoman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers (she succeeded me in that role), as president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, from 2004 to 2010, and in her current role, as the Fed's No. 2.
Ms. Yellen brings to bear an understanding not just of financial markets and monetary policy, but also of labor markets - which is essential at a time when unemployment and wage stagnation are primary concerns.
The second element of Fed policy making is risk assessment: if one steps on the brakes too hard, one risks excessively high unemployment; too gently, one risks inflation. Ms. Yellen has shown herself to be not only excellent in forecasting, but balanced. Legitimate questions have been raised: Would Mr. Summers, with his close connections with Wall Street, reflect financiers' single-minded focus on inflation, and be more worried about the effects on bond prices than on ordinary Americans? In the past, central banks have focused excessively on inflation. Indeed, this single-minded focus, with little regard to financial stability, not only has contributed to the crisis, but as I argued in my book "Freefall," it has also contributed to the declining share of total income that is earned by ordinary workers.
Though the willingness to take actions to prevent crises, and good judgments in a crisis, are undoubtedly critical in the choice of the next Fed chair, there are other important considerations. The Fed is a large organization that has to be managed - and Ms. Yellen demonstrated her management skills at the San Francisco Fed. One has to obtain consensus among a diverse group of strong-minded individuals, some more worried about inflation, some more worried about unemployment. One needs someone who knows how to build consensus, not someone who excels in bullying, who knows how to listen to and respect the views of others. When I was chairman of Economic Policy Committee of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, I saw how effectively Ms. Yellen represented the United States, and the respect in which she was held. In the ensuing years, she has gained in stature, and today has the enormous respect of central bank governors around the world. She has the stature, wisdom and gravitas one should expect of the leader of the Fed.
Finally, the Fed is an enormously important institution, but regrettably, its conduct in the years before Ms. Yellen took up her role in Washington - both its failures in dealing with the bubble and certain aspects of its conduct in the immediate aftermath of the crisis (like the lack of transparency) - has undermined confidence in it. It is important that Mr. Obama's nominee not be - or even be seen to be - acting at the behest of financial markets. That person cannot be someone who can be tainted even by an accusation of conflict of interest, which is inevitable with the "revolving door" that has too often been associated with the regulation of this sector. Nor should it be someone who suffers from "cognitive capture" by Wall Street. At the same time, the person has to have the confidence of the financial markets, and a deep understanding of those markets. Ms. Yellen has managed to do this - an impressive achievement in its own right.
One might say that the country is fortunate to have two candidates who, as the Harvard economist Kenneth S. Rogoff, a former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, writes, are "brilliant scholars with extensive experience in public service." But brilliance is not the only determinant of performance. Values, judgment and personality matter, too.
The choices have seldom been so stark, the stakes so large. No wonder that the choice of the Fed leader has stirred such emotion. Ms. Yellen has a truly impressive record in each of the jobs she has undertaken. The country has before it one candidate who played a pivotal role in creating the economic problems that we confront today, and another candidate of enormous stature, experience and judgment.

        
The Right Leader for the Fed
        
What Is Economics Good For?
        
The Wrong Lesson From Detroit's Bankruptcy
        
Data, Data, What Do You See?
        
A Sneaky Way to Deregulate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); DEREGULATION (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); BANKING LAW (71%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (66%); SUBPRIME LENDING (59%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (59%) Federal Reserve System; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Summers, Lawrence H; Yellen, Janet L; The Great Divide

ORGANIZATION: Federal Reserve System

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (92%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%) Summers, Lawrence H; Yellen, Janet L

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



175 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY ADVISER; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: As Policy Deductible Rises, Men Delay Care

BYLINE: By ANN CARRNS

 BODY:
Here's a situation that may sound familiar to you: A man visits his doctor's office with his wife, who laments how stubborn he is about seeking medical care.
Frank Wharam, a doctor and researcher at Harvard Medical School, says he often hears these words, ''My wife made me come.''
That gender dynamic may provide fodder for stand-up comics, but it can have serious health implications, especially given the increasing use of high-deductible health insurance plans. 
Men, it turns out, are more likely to delay treatment for serious conditions under high-deductible plans, in contrast to women, who tend to be more selective and cut back care for minor ailments only.
That's according to a recent study led by Katy Kozhimannil, a researcher at the University of Minnesota's school of public health. (Dr. Wharam was a co-author.)
Such plans generally have lower monthly premiums than traditional health plans but higher out-of-pocket costs -- sometimes, $4,000 or $5,000 for a family, or even higher. About a third of workers now have such plans. And that number is likely to grow, since lower-cost plans on the new health care marketplaces created by the Affordable Care Act are likely to have relatively high deductibles.
Other studies have shown that low-income people also tend to put off care under such plans. But Ms. Kozhimannil says her study is the first to examine the different impact of such plans on men and women.
The study compared emergency room visits for about 12,000 people -- roughly half men and half women -- for a year before, and two years after, they were involuntarily switched by their employers to a high-deductible plan.
For the first year after the switch, men's use of the E.R. dropped across the board, even for severe conditions, like irregular heartbeat. Women cut back too, but mostly for less threatening symptoms, like headache or sore throats.
''It's concerning that men were not going to the E.R.'' for ailments like kidney stones and irregular heartbeats, Ms. Kozhimannil said. ''That's an urgent situation that requires medical care.''
Unfortunately, men also ended up with more hospitalizations in subsequent years, suggesting that they may have let a serious condition go untreated.
So, what is behind this approach? Other findings have suggested that ''masculinity beliefs'' make it harder for men to ask for help, Ms. Kozhimannil said, so the added worry of spending more on health care may reinforce that tendency.
Jim Kiefert, who runs an ''Us Too'' prostate cancer support group in Olympia, Wash., said men often worry that spending on their own care may lead to economic hardship for their families. ''That is a reality with men,'' he said, adding that with a costly illness and a high deductible, ''You can deplete your savings in a very short period of time.''
Here are some questions to consider, if you're a man on a high-deductible plan -- or that man's spouse.
â- How can I use my high-deductible plan wisely?
Understand your benefits. Not all high-deductible plans are the same, and many cover preventive care outside of the deductible. Under the Affordable Care Act, all plans sold on the new marketplaces and many others must offer many preventive services free, like colorectal cancer screenings.
â- How should I decide when to seek treatment?
No one expects you to be a physician, but health plans increasingly offer sound online information that can help you learn about symptoms of serious situations, like a heart attack. ''It's very useful to know what your risk factors are,'' said Ms. Kozhimannil said. Most health plans also have nurse advice lines that can offer guidance, too.
â- What if I need care, but I'm worried I can't pay for it?
Talk about this with your doctor, who might not know what cost burden you're facing when you make decisions about proposed treatments. ''Say to your doctor, 'I have a high-deductible plan. Is there a different way to do this?' '' suggests Alison Galbraith, a doctor at the Harvard Pilgrim Healthcare Institute who has studied the plans.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); MEN (78%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (78%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (78%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (78%); MEN'S HEALTH (76%); FAMILY (76%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (75%); CANCER (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); POOR POPULATION (71%); PROSTATE DISEASE (71%); KIDNEY DISEASE (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (65%); PROSTATE CANCER (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OLYMPIA, WA, USA (70%) MINNESOTA, USA (76%); WASHINGTON, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2013



176 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: European Automakers Hope Technology Can Lure Younger Buyers

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- Sometimes it is more fun to dream about the future than to dwell on the present, especially if you are a European car executive.
With sales at their lowest level in two decades, auto industry managers gathering for the Frankfurt auto show next week will be doing their best to focus on shiny new technologies rather than on the European car market, which, in contrast to the thriving market in the United States, is in a terrible state.
The buzz at the show, which opens to the public on Wednesday, is likely to be about new battery-powered cars and vehicles that are able to drive themselves. Those are more cheerful topics than auto sales, which have fallen 20 percent in Western Europe since the financial crisis began in 2008 and are at their lowest level since 1993.
Only European carmakers with substantial sales in the United States or China -- BMW, Mercedes and Volkswagen -- have escaped relatively unscathed. 
The emphasis on technology is more than just a distraction from market misery. Carmakers are desperate for ways to excite young buyers, who are increasingly apathetic about car ownership. The push toward cars that are rechargeable and loaded with software is part of a search to make automobiles as essential to young adults as smartphones. Otherwise, there is a big risk that auto sales may never reach their previous peaks even if the European economy keeps improving.
''There are products that are hipper for young people than cars,'' said Ferdinand Dudenhöffer, a professor at the University of Duisburg-Essen in northern Germany and an industry analyst. ''The car companies are still using the old marketing pitch -- more horsepower. That doesn't speak to young people any more.''
Interest in battery-powered cars has faded after disappointing initial sales, but it could pick up again this year with the market introduction of the BMW i3. The vehicle has perhaps the most revolutionary new design by an established carmaker in years, not only because of its electric propulsion system but also because the passenger compartment is made of carbon fiber rather than steel, to save weight and extend the distance the car can travel between charges.
There is also speculation that Continental, a German parts supplier, will announce an alliance with Google next week to further develop self-driving cars. A spokesman for Continental, which will hold a news conference at the auto show on Tuesday, declined to comment.
As such initiatives illustrate, it is no longer enough for a car to take a person from one place to another without breaking down. A car must be green, so the owner does not feel guilty driving it. And being in the car should not interrupt the perpetual connectivity that many younger people take for granted.
BMW is going to extremes to make the i3 the most carbon-neutral car on the road. A wind turbine outside the BMW factory in Leipzig provides power for the i3 assembly line, and the carbon fiber for the passenger compartment comes from a factory in Washington State that uses hydropower. And of course the i3 itself has no tailpipe emissions (unless buyers choose a range-extender version that has a small gasoline motor).
With a price of about $42,000 in the United States, the i3 will be an option only for higher-end buyers when it arrives in showrooms by the middle of next year, though government incentives could lower the price by more than $7,000. But since BMW's clientele already tends to be wealthy and urban, the company may be in a better position than other carmakers to find a market.
''What the mobile phone did for communication, electric mobility will do for individual mobility,'' Norbert Reithofer, the chief executive of BMW, said during an introduction event for the i3 in New York in July.
Despite Mr. Reithofer's enthusiasm, no one expects battery-powered cars to sell in large numbers soon, and certainly not to solve the industry's deep-seated problems. About 77,000 electric vehicles were sold in the United States in the last 12 months, far more than in any other country, according to Roland Berger Strategy Consultants in Munich. That number, which includes cars like the Chevy Volt that have range-extender motors, is tiny compared with the 14.5 million cars of all types sold in the United States last year.
Modest expectations may also be in order for self-driving cars. Cars are coming on the market that can relieve drivers of some of the tedium of driving in traffic or on the highway. The latest edition of the Mercedes-Benz S-Class, introduced this year, can steer and brake autonomously in traffic or on the autobahn.
The S-Class technology inspired a fake commercial by a group of German film students. The professional-looking spot shows the Mercedes automatically stopping for children in a turn-of-the-century Austrian village but mowing down a lad who turns out to be a young Adolf Hitler. The tag line: detects danger before it occurs.
Google already has a small fleet of self-driving cars, but analysts are skeptical about how long it will take the technology to reach the market because of the cost and unresolved legal issues. If a self-driving car gets into an accident, for example, is the manufacturer liable or the driver?
While they search for ways to become hip again, the European carmakers have been cutting costs and dealing with factories that are operating well below capacity. Underused factories are ruinous for carmakers because many operating costs remain the same no matter how many cars a plant produces. In Italy, home of Fiat, factories are producing only 40 percent as many vehicles as they could, according to estimates by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
European carmakers have been shutting down plants or sometimes idling them temporarily to avoid the political outcry that accompanies a plant closure. General Motors, which makes Opel cars in Europe and is planning to stop producing cars at a plant in Bochum, Germany, reduced its loss on the Continent to $100 million in the second quarter from $400 million a year earlier.
PSA Peugeot Citroën, which may be the most troubled big carmaker in Europe, cut its loss for the first half of this year to 510 million euros, or $672 million, from 657 million euros a year earlier, in part by laying off some workers. At the Frankfurt show, it will present a redesign of its Peugeot 308, which competes with cars like the Volkswagen Golf. That is a crucial segment in Europe, and much rides on whether the car becomes a hit.
''They'll be hoping for a big lift,'' said Tim Urquhart, an analyst at IHS Automotive. ''They need to compete in that mainstream market and get some serious market share.''
Over all, Mr. Urquhart said, the European car market may be close to its nadir. ''In the medium term, it will stabilize and then bump along the bottom for a bit,'' he said. ''Everyone is asking me when are we going to get back to precrisis levels. It's going to be a long time.''
The German carmakers -- Mercedes, BMW and Volkswagen -- have avoided the worst of the sales crisis, partly because they have been able to sell more cars in the vibrant American market, where Peugeot and Renault are not present. American auto manufacturers added 19,000 jobs in August, according to official figures published on Friday, and sales in the United States are at their highest level since 2007.
But in Europe, even sales in Germany are suffering. That is especially disturbing news for the auto manufacturers, since cars are Germany's biggest export product and something of a national obsession. Chancellor Angela Merkel, who faces national elections this month, will officially open the Frankfurt auto show on Wednesday, a measure of the industry's importance.
It bodes ill for the German market when, as Mr. Dudenhöffer of the University of Duisburg-Essen pointed out, the average age of a car buyer is 52 and annual sales have fallen below three million for the first time since the fall of the Berlin Wall.
''Google and Facebook are taking away the young customers,'' Mr. Dudenhöffer said. ''But none of the automakers has a big idea, none of them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Mercedes-Benz S-Class car in a wind tunnel. The latest edition can steer and brake by itself. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANZISKA KRAUFMANN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); TRADE SHOWS (77%); EURO CRISIS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (51%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (85%); GOOGLE INC (58%)

TICKER: BMW3 (FRA) (85%); BMW (BIT) (85%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (93%) GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2013



177 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: Obama Tries to Soothe Brazil and Mexico Over Spying Reports

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; Damien Cave contributed reporting from Mexico City.

 BODY:
RIO DE JANEIRO -- President Obama said Friday that he was seeking to ease tensions with the leaders of Latin America's two largest nations, Brazil and Mexico, over reports that the National Security Agency had spied not only on their nations, but on them and their inner circles as well.
At a news conference at the Group of 20 summit meeting in St. Petersburg, Russia, Mr. Obama said he had told President Dilma Rousseff of Brazil and President Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico that ''I take these allegations very seriously.'' 
''I understand their concerns; I understand the concerns of the Mexican and Brazilian people, and that we will work with their teams to resolve what is a source of tension,'' Mr. Obama said.
The assurances notwithstanding, Ms. Rousseff continued to express disdain for the spying, contending that it put Brazil's economic interests and sovereignty at risk. Even after meeting with Mr. Obama to discuss the issue at the summit meeting, she said a state visit to the United States planned for October could be canceled.
''My trip to Washington depends on the political conditions to be created by President Obama,'' Ms. Rousseff told reporters before returning to Brazil on Friday. She added that Mr. Obama had assumed ''direct responsibility'' for investigating the spying allegations, agreeing to give the Brazilian government information on the surveillance practices by Wednesday.
The reports of American spying have put the Obama administration on the defensive when Washington is seeking stronger ties with Brazil, recognizing its rising profile and hoping to offset the influence of China, which emerged as Brazil's top trading partner over the last decade.
''Obviously, for the two largest nations in the hemisphere to have a strong relationship, that can only be good for the people of our two countries, as well as the region,'' Mr. Obama said. ''The same is true of Mexico, one of our closest friends, allies and neighbors. And so we will work through this particular issue.''
Mr. Obama assured Mr. Peña Nieto by phone on Thursday that the White House would determine whether the N.S.A. did in fact spy on Mexico's leaders, and respond accordingly.
''What I got from President Obama was a commitment to a full investigation,'' Mr. Peña Nieto told the BBC in an interview. He added that Mr. Obama had also promised to impose ''corresponding sanctions'' if the allegations turned out to be true.
On Friday, the two presidents met in person. An official traveling with Mr. Peña Nieto said that in an effort to move past the spying issue, they had focused on how to reaffirm their strategic partnership and revive attention to growing economically.
Mr. Peña Nieto has adopted a softer response than Ms. Rousseff to the spying revelations, which were made on Sunday in Brazil in a report on the Globo television network. She had halted some preparations for the visit to Washington, canceling an organizing trip there by diplomats and security personnel.
Scholars who specialize in Brazil's ties with the United States said they expected Ms. Rousseff to go forward with the visit given the vibrant commerce between the two countries. Still, they said expectations for the visit should not be high.
''It would be naïve to think the United States is going to stop spying,'' said Cristina Pecequilo, a professor at the Federal University of São Paulo. ''Brazil needs to protect itself better, and fortunately that's what the government is doing,'' she said, pointing to new measures aimed at bolstering the security of satellite and Internet communications.
Still, the spying revelations may just be getting started. Glenn Greenwald, the American journalist living in Brazil who has reported on documents provided by Edward J. Snowden, the former N.S.A. contractor, said he was working with Globo on a report about ''surveillance done for industrial and economic advantage,'' a prominent concern that Ms. Rousseff referred to on Friday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama greeted President Dilma Rousseff of Brazil as the Group of 20 leaders in St. Petersburg, Russia, met for a portrait. Ms. Rousseff said her state visit to the United States was jeopardized by news of American spying. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); DILMA ROUSSEFF (89%); ENRIQUE PENA NIETO (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (89%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); LATIN AMERICA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2013



178 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: Now It's the Developed Nations' Turn to Grow

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
CALL it the rebound of the rich.
During and after the Great Recession, developed economies tended to fare worse than emerging ones, and that was shown in the amount of business going to manufacturers and service companies in various countries around the globe. But in the last few months, that tide has turned. Companies in developed countries are more likely to be reporting growing business than are companies in emerging markets. 
The accompanying charts look at trends in the most prominent developing countries -- Brazil, Russia, India and China, the so-called BRICS -- and four major developed regions, the United States, Britain, the euro zone and Japan.
They are based on the monthly surveys of companies taken by the Institute for Supply Management in the United States and by Markit in many other countries around the world. The surveys ask whether business is improving or getting worse, both over all and in a number of specific areas. The charts focus on the question of whether new orders are increasing or decreasing.
In each case, a figure above 50 shows that more companies are reporting rising orders than are reporting falling orders, and the higher the number, the broader the rising order trend. Similarly, figures below 50 indicate that a plurality of companies sees orders declining. Figures above 60 show widespread growth in orders.
For the first time in more than two years, the four developed regions shown in the graphic all reported rising orders for both manufacturing and service economies in August. There was still growth in some emerging markets, but Indian and Brazilian manufacturers reported falling orders in both July and August. The last period when both of those countries reported declines was March 2009, at the bottom of the worldwide credit crisis.
A simple way to compare the two groups is to average the four reported figures for developed countries and compare it to the average for the four emerging markets, which is done in the bottom chart. The developed-area advantage is the highest it has been since the Great Recession began in the United States in December 2007.
It is worth emphasizing that the figures are intended to show change, not the level of new orders. A company with booming business would presumably report a decline if the boom eased a little, while a struggling company could see a small gain from a low level.
Nonetheless, it is impressive that of the eight euro zone countries where surveys are taken of manufacturing companies, only France registered a figure under the neutral number of 50 in August, and that figure, at 49.8, was the best French manufacturers had posted in more than two years. Even Greece posted a positive figure, that first time that had happened in four years. Germany's manufacturers, which reported order declines earlier this year, are again reporting increases.
Both the United States and Britain had figures above 60 for new manufacturing orders. That had not happened since the spring of 2010, when order books were still rebounding from the credit crisis. Similarly, the slip in new business has extended to many other emerging markets. While Chinese manufacturers reported a rise in new orders in August, the first such report in four months, the countries registering declines included Taiwan, South Korea, Indonesia and Vietnam. Their manufacturing exports run the gamut, from inexpensive clothes in Vietnam to cars and electronic products in Korea.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Rise of Developed Economies: For most of the time since the American economy went into recession at the end of 2007, both manufacturing and service companies in emerging markets have outperformed their counterparts in the developed world. But now that has changed. The charts show the results of monthly surveys of both manufacturing and service companies in four major developed markets: the United States, Britain, the euro zone and Japan, and in the four emerging markets that became known as the BRIC economies: Brazil, Russia, India and China. Figures over 50 show that a plurality of companies said new orders were growing, while figures below that level show the opposite. Below them are two charts showing the average difference each month between the two groups. Figures above zero indicate that companies in developed markets are reporting stronger orders than emerging ones. (Sources: Markit
 ISM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); TRENDS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); NEW ORDERS (89%); BRIC COUNTRIES (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); BRICS COUNTRIES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); BRAZIL (93%); CHINA (92%); INDIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%); GREECE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2013



179 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: G-20 Leaders Agree to Continue Stimulus Plans

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- The leaders of the world's 20 largest economies issued a joint statement on Friday saying it was too early to ease off government stimulus spending, in spite of recent positive economic news. 
The opening lines of the statement, which was issued at the end of the Group of 20 meeting hosted by Russia, said that ''strengthening growth and creating jobs is our top priority'' with no mention of tackling deficits.
The leaders also approved a plan to crack down on multinational corporations that had been able to legally avoid taxes by shuffling profits and costs between various jurisdictions. The overhaul should, over time, shift some of the global tax burden away from individuals and small businesses to large, global companies. But the first step, a plan to share tax information, would only be implemented at the end of 2015, the statement said.
The economic tone of the statement was little changed from a draft issued in July after a summit meeting of finance ministers, suggesting that the world's most influential leaders are still nervous about growth prospects despite a recent spate of positive economic news. Governments in the Group of 20 countries collectively account for about 90 percent of the world's economic output.
''We agreed that it remains critical for the G-20 countries to focus all our joint efforts on engineering a durable exit from the longest and most protracted crisis in modern history,'' the statement said.
Although not openly critical of austerity measures like the across-the-board federal budget cuts in the United States or the diminished state spending lenders have insisted on in Greece, the statement suggested that most governments considered the recovery too weak to risk reducing spending on unemployment benefits, job training or infrastructure.
The statement comes as the United States Federal Reserve considers pulling back from its stimulus efforts, which have helped keep interest rates low and spurred growth.
The expectation of a change in Fed policy is sending tremors through the global economy. Currencies like the rupee in India to the ruble in Russia have lost value. Emerging market bonds, too, have suffered.
The G-20 statement offered little consolation. It said central banks would better ''communicate'' their intentions but made no promises of easing the sell-off in countries with poorer investment climates.
The statement seemed in part a concession by developing countries like India, where the rupee has lost 17 percent of its value against the dollar this year, that they would have to fend for themselves. It referred vaguely to ''collective and country specific measures'' to improve the investment climates in such nations.
The statement, a senior United States Treasury official said in a telephone interview, was ''a recognition that certain emerging markets that are seeing weakened investor appetite need to look at their policy reform agenda'' and help themselves.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); CURRENCIES (85%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); APPROVALS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); BUDGET CUTS (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (67%); INTERVIEWS (61%); HISTORY (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2013



180 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: House Republicans Say Voters Oppose Intervention

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD and JONATHAN WEISMAN; John Harwood reported from Midwest City, and Jonathan Weisman from Washington.

 BODY:
MIDWEST CITY, Okla. -- Representative Tom Cole started hearing it in the morning when he went to grab coffee.
''I was just at Starbucks, and a woman there recognized me,'' he told a Chamber of Commerce gathering here. ''She said, 'Everybody here's a no on Syria.' ''
Mr. Cole, a six-term Republican, would seem a potential candidate to support President Obama on Syria. A pragmatic Congressional veteran, he has been open to compromise with the White House in the past and is not afraid to break with House conservatives. But after portraying himself as leaning against a strike, Mr. Cole on Thursday afternoon came down firmly in the opposition when his office issued a statement announcing that he would vote no.
Given the intensity of opposition in his district, he said it would take a ''road to Damascus experience'' to change his mind now. ''I literally cannot walk across the parking lot without being stopped to talk about this issue,'' he said. ''I haven't seen anything quite like this.'' 
He is hardly alone. Fewer than a dozen House Republicans, a total that includes the top two leaders, have publicly said they would back the president on a military strike, making the White House climb to a House majority exceedingly steep given significant Democratic resistance as well. Not only is the administration not winning over Republicans, it lost at least one it had. Representative Michael G. Grimm, Republican of New York, said Thursday that he was reversing his support. ''The moment to show our strength has passed,'' he said.
Mr. Cole's constituent experience is not isolated. Representative Mick Mulvaney, a Republican swept into power in 2010 in military-focused South Carolina on a platform of small government, said that in his three-plus years in Congress, no issue had elicited as passionate a response as Syria. And, he added, ''to say it's 99 percent against would be overstating the support.''
Of the 1,000 or so calls and e-mails he has received, 3 supported some kind of response. And two-thirds of the correspondents had never reached out to him before.
Representative Candice S. Miller, Republican of Michigan, said she was at a peach festival parade last weekend in her district, an event that does not typically draw the type of constituent who is overly political. But as she made her way down the parade route, one person after another urged her to vote no on any authorization of force in Syria.
''It was not a political event at all,'' Ms. Miller said. ''But there were a lot of people, older veterans especially in their hats, all saying, 'No on Syria!' ''
In the face of such overwhelming constituent opposition, Congressional Republican leaders are treading extremely lightly. Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the majority leader, has come out strongly for military intervention in Syria, but in a one-on-one conversation with Representative Jason Chaffetz, Republican of Utah, he did not press the point, Mr. Chaffetz said.
In Mr. Cole's case, speaker after speaker at an evening town hall meeting questioned Mr. Obama's assertion that he has constitutional authority to strike on his own -- and insisted that Congress not give him authority.
''Where does he get this -- a Cracker Jack box?'' asked Steve Byas, who teaches government at Hillsdale Free Will Baptist College in Moore, Okla. Criticizing Mr. Obama's ''red line,'' Mr. Byas added, ''Just because the president made a statement he should not have made should not bind the Congress to go ahead and approve this.''
The applause Mr. Byas received from the crowd of 150 people mirrored the flow of telephone calls Mr. Cole's office aides have fielded. ''Not one'' in favor of striking Syria, he said.
The majority of people Mr. Cole represents in this southwest Oklahoma district rarely support Mr. Obama on much of anything; two-thirds of voters here backed the Republican presidential nominee, Mitt Romney, in November. At the town meeting, which stretched beyond three hours in a Rose State College lecture hall, constituents derided Mr. Obama as a socialist, demanded that Republicans shut down the government to block his health care plan, and called for his impeachment. Many House Republicans have echoed those sentiments, seemingly making it difficult for them to back the president on his Syria plan despite their embrace of American military power.
Tinker Air Force Base, employing 8,000 soldiers and 15,000 civilians here, gives the area an affinity for the military. But that does not translate into reflexive support for the mission the commander in chief wants to order.
Partly that reflects the military's traditional hesitance about hazy and circumscribed mission objectives. Before Mr. Obama decided to strike in response to the use of chemical weapons in Syria, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, warned Congress in a letter this summer that ''deeper involvement is hard to avoid.''
But wariness here is also a measure of years of strain on American forces, from conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan and, lately, the budget squeeze at home.
Over lunch at Tinker, Lt. Gen. Bruce Litchfield told Mr. Cole that the six furlough days caused by ''sequester'' budget cuts had cost the base $77 million and degraded readiness. At the town meeting, a civilian employee at the base complained that workers who lost six days' pay have not had a raise for four years.
''The American people are getting a little war weary,'' said Tom Hinkle, 58, an Army veteran who noted that some troops had faced four or five deployments. ''Who's guarding our backs?''
Amanda Miller, 30, an unemployed mental health worker, warned, ''This could get ugly very quickly.'' Cheryl Cooper, an Air Force retiree, suggested that Congress calculate how much the administration has spent preparing for a Syria strike and ''take it off the Obamacare.''
Mr. Cole, chief of staff at the Republican National Committee before winning his House seat, has occasionally raised the ire of more aggressive Tea Party-style conservatives. One activist in the back of his town hall meeting handed out fliers casting him as disloyal to the Republican cause.
Mr. Cole genially deflected talk of socialism and impeachment, and disappointed some of those on hand by telling them Republicans lack the power to repeal the health care law. He praised the administration's responsiveness after a tornado ravaged his hometown, Moore, in May.
He also praised Mr. Obama for seeking Congressional authorization of the Syria mission. But he rejected every argument the administration has made for it.
''It's a civil war, it's a proxy war between regional powers, and it's a religious war,'' Mr. Cole said in an interview. ''Is there any direct security threat to the United States here? No. There's really not.''
He predicted the Democratic-controlled Senate would back the president. Mr. Obama has ''a good chance'' of prevailing in the House, Mr. Cole said, but it is no sure thing.
''If I break with my district, I better have an awfully compelling reason,'' he said. ''I'm going to listen to that kind of expert opinion. But I'm sure going to listen to opinion at the Starbucks.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At a town hall meeting in Midwest City, Okla., Representative Tom Cole listened as Steve Byas questioned President Obama's assertion that he has constitutional authority to strike on his own. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYAN TERRY/OKLAHOMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); VETERANS (75%); PARADES & MARCHES (60%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (52%)

PERSON: TOM COLE (90%); BARACK OBAMA (71%); CANDICE S MILLER (58%); MICHAEL GRIMM (56%); MICK MULVANEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%) OKLAHOMA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); SYRIA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2013



181 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIX; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: Pointing at Pornography

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
Updated, 4:24 p.m. | to include point about how employees are counted.
The pornography industry, long accustomed to being a scapegoat for the country's moral ills, is now being blamed for America's economic failings, too. 
Employment in the motion picture and sound recording industries plunged in August, for a loss of 22,200 jobs. It was the sector with the biggest losses last month, and also represented the largest monthly decline since the Labor Department started keeping track of jobs in the industry in 1990.
Some have attributed the job losses to the X-rated film industry. After an H.I.V. scare, the industry temporarily shut down around the time that the Labor Department conducts its monthly survey.
It sounds like a plausible theory, but there are a few reasons to be skeptical.
First, the numbers are volatile from month to month, and for some reason have gotten more so in recent years. So the decline could just be noise.
Second, as Josh Barro points out, workers are counted by the Labor Department as employed if they worked anytime in the pay period including Aug. 12, and depending on when industry employees are paid, the shutdown may have fallen in a different pay period (since it was Aug. 21-27). I'm actually not sure if this definitively disproves the argument for blaming the porn industry, since it's plausible that the 12th could be in the same pay period as the shutdown, depending on how regularly industry paychecks go out, and since employees may not come into the office or studio every day.
Third, the motion picture and sound recording sector has 366,000 jobs, but the much smaller pornographic film industry may not employ 22,200 people even when things are good. The Los Angeles Times reported that the industry generated 10,000 jobs annually. I contacted an industry group, the Free Speech Coalition, to ask about this estimate, and was told they did not have an accurate figure available for the whole industry.
But in an e-mail, a spokeswoman, Joanne Cachapero, did mention another reason to be skeptical that the pornography shutdown drove the large decline in film payrolls: performers in X-rated films, who number about 3,000, are independent contractors, which means they wouldn't be counted in the Labor Department's payroll data anyway. Everyone who works behind the scenes (directors, editors, camera operators, wardrobe and catering workers, drivers, publicists and so forth), though, is a payroll employee and would be affected.
That said, she also suggested that ripple effects from a pornography production moratorium could affect employment in related industries as it could disrupt ''activities like set building and more support-services type of employment.'' That's one way a 10,000-person subsector, if wholly out of commission, could potentially reduce total motion picture industry employment by more than 10,000.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PORNOGRAPHY (91%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); MOVIE RATINGS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); FILM (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); RECORD INDUSTRY (77%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); BUSINESS INTERRUPTIONS (76%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (65%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2013



182 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIX; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 383 words

HEADLINE: Long-Term Gloom

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
Hugely elevated levels of long-term unemployment remain one of the worst and most persistent scars from the Great Recession, as underscored yet again in the mediocre August jobs report. All in all, about 4.3 million Americans have been out of work for six months or more. 
For those workers, the chance of getting a job gets slimmer and slimmer as time goes on, skills degrade and employers' biases harden. Even if those workers do become re-employed, it is often for lower wages or worse work.
Granted, the number of Americans that count themselves among the long-term jobless has declined sharply over the last three years, dropping by about 2.4 million from a peak of 6.7 million in 2010. But the number remains significantly elevated, and hundreds of thousands out of work for long spells have simply given up and dropped out of the labor force.
The slowly improving economy is not really improving for the long-term unemployed: Short-term joblessness has actually declined a smidge since 2007. Long-term joblessness is up 244 percent.
Now, economists are debating how strong the recovery really is, given that the job reports have weakened through the year. ''This report says that we're barely creating enough jobs to keep the unemployment rate falling from its current high levels,'' said Justin Wolfers of the Brookings Institution. ''Policy makers have been looking for a signal that the recovery has become self-sustaining. This report doesn't provide it.''
Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at PNC, noted that payroll jobs have grown at a monthly pace of 186,000 in 2013. He called it a ''solid number, with no signs of the labor market slowdowns that emerged in the spring and summer in each of the three previous years.''
But the further you dig into the numbers, the worse they look. ''The jobs count may be up, but for recent college graduates and middle-aged adults seeking positions the situation is grim,'' said Peter Morici of the University of Maryland. ''Adding in part-timers who want full-time employment and discouraged adults who have abandoned searching for jobs, the unemployment rate becomes 13.7 percent. This figure has fallen because more adults appear reconciled to permanent part-time status.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2013



183 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: Putin Takes Center Stage on Syria

BYLINE: By DMITRI TRENIN

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- As Barack Obama was agonizing over what to do after the poison-gas attacks last month in Syria, Vladimir Putin was dealing with a different kind of emergency: record floods in the Russian Far East. At a press conference in Khabarovsk, the Russian president himself set out the Kremlin's reading of the Syrian situation.
The reports that the Syrian government had used chemical weapons were ''utter nonsense,'' he said. His analysis was essentially based on his sense of who stood to gain from crossing Obama's ''red line,'' especially when a U.N. inspection team was already on the ground in Syria. It was not the Assad government, in Putin's view; he had earlier declared that such an attack would be suicidal for the government. While the Russians generally see Bashar al-Assad as tough and even brutal, they still believe he is basically rational and has full control over his chemical weapons. 
In Putin's judgment, therefore, the Syrian opposition was a much likelier perpetrator. Lacking support, weapons and expertise to topple Assad themselves, the rebels have an interest in involving the United States directly in the war. Thus, in Putin's mind, what happened in the Ghouta area of Damascus was a deliberate provocation.
Putin also admitted being surprised by what followed the Aug. 21 event. While Secretary of State John Kerry's tough statement on Aug. 26 was predictable -- the United States was preparing to attack Syria and to make Assad accountable for the alleged chemical weapons use -- the rest of the week's developments were not foreseen. The British Parliament vote against the Cameron government's motion robbed the United States of the support of its closest ally, which had been at America's side in all U.S. military missions since the Cold War. Putin's concept of the Western alliance as a latter-day replica of the Warsaw Pact was dealt a serious blow.
Obama's dual decision to attack Syria but to seek advance support from the U.S. Congress must have surprised the Russian leader even more. Some in Russia took this for a sign of Obama's weakness; most agreed that the U.S. president was trying to share personal responsibility for the strikes and their aftermath with members of the U.S. political class; a small group of experts detected a design in the White House to build a coalition with influential Republicans in order to advance his domestic agenda, ever uppermost on Obama's mind.
With opinions in the United States and Europe about what to do with Syria so divided, and the invasion of Iraq still weighing on many people's minds, the Kremlin saw an opening to use the delay of the American military strikes in several ways. Putin publicly compared Kerry's statement on Syria with Colin Powell's charges against Iraq, which later turned out to be false. Referring to the U.S.-produced evidence of chemical weapons use by the Syrian authorities, Putin echoed the ''I am not convinced'' incantation of Joschka Fischer, the German foreign minister at the time.
And encouraged by the British parliamentary vote, Putin proposed to send Russian legislators to Washington to debate the issue with American legislators -- an offer promptly spurned on Capitol Hill.
Finally, Putin decided to use the opportunity of the G-20 summit, conveniently being held in St. Petersburg between the announcement of U.S. strikes and their execution, for a global debate on the world order, with himself as both a prominent participant and moderator.
On the eve of the G-20 meeting, Putin presented Russia's position on Syria as support for the principles of international law and the United Nations, rather than as support for the Assad regime. He briefly raised some eyebrows -- and some hopes -- when he did not rule out agreeing to the use of force against Damascus. In the same breath, however, Putin named his conditions: hard evidence of chemical weapons use and those responsible for it, which Russia would find acceptable; a thorough debate at the U.N. Security Council; and full control and oversight of the operation by the council.
And even though Obama had canceled a bilateral summit with the Russian president that was to have been held in conjunction with the G-20 meeting, and did not agree to a bilateral meeting on the margins of the G-20 itself, Putin expressed his clear interest in discussing Syria with Obama in St. Petersburg. Although he had been stung by Obama's negative and highly personal comments about himself, Putin was studiously polite about his U.S. counterpart, declaring that meetings with Obama were ''always constructive.'' He played down the widening rift between Russia and the United States, and even purported to pity Obama, depicting the U.S. president's statements as a result of stress.
In effect, though he purported to oppose any attempt to hijack the economic agenda of the G-20, Putin succeeded in setting the stage for a critical debate on U.S. foreign policy with the global leaders. In February 2007, when he vented his frustration with George W. Bush's policies at the Munich security conference, Putin had been a lonely voice at somebody else's party. This time, hosting the world's top-league players in his native St. Petersburg, he evidently felt himself on a surer footing.
Dmitri Trenin is director of the Carnegie Moscow Center.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); RED LINE ON WEAPONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); COLD WAR (77%); FLOODS & FLOODING (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); ARMED FORCES (62%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%) SYRIA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2013



184 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPECIAL REPORT: AMERICA'S CUP; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1398 words

HEADLINE: Ultimate Boats Now Stuck on Shore

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER CLAREY

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- The armada of lawyers dueled much longer than the two yachts in the last America's Cup.
Although each boat cost tens of millions of dollars and required more than 100,000 man hours to construct, Alinghi's defender, Alinghi 5, and BMW Oracle Racing's challenger, USA-17, only raced twice off Valencia, Spain, in February 2010.
Oracle and its billionaire American owner, Larry Ellison, won both races decisively over Alinghi and its billionaire Swiss owner, Ernesto Bertarelli, bringing the Cup to San Francisco and the Golden Gate Yacht Club.
The two yachts in 2010 were huge multihulls: 27.5 meters, or 90 feet, at the waterline. Neither has sailed again, and there are no plans for that to change. 
''I think the two big boats scare the daylights out of everyone who was involved with them,'' said Iain Murray, the regatta director for the 2013 America's Cup, for which the final phase is to begin on Saturday in San Francisco.
But those two white elephants (white whales?) from 2010 remain symbolic of the excesses of the world's oldest continuous major sporting event.
''In a way, that's kind of pure America's Cup,'' said George Hill, who co-owns a charter business in Newport, Rhode Island. ''Incredibly expensive and silly, and you know it's about technology between very wealthy people with outsized egos.''
Hill's company, America's Cup Charters, works with classic 12-meter yachts, including the former America's Cup winners Intrepid, Freedom and Weatherly. Hill said he has owned Weatherly personally since 1986.
The 12-meter class was used in the America's Cup from 1958 through 1987 and, unlike most classes in the event, it has proved durable.
That is because the original class rule, which dates to 1907, was designed to develop a boat that could cruise as well as race. In order to receive a certificate, Hill said a surveyor from Lloyd's of London had to monitor a boat's construction to ensure it adhered to their standards.
''By default and by definition, the 12-meter class are very strong boats,'' he said. ''They were around for 50 years before they were used for the America's Cup.''
Hill said his company's 12-meter yachts sail ''five days of the week on average.''
Meanwhile, Bertarelli has given Alinghi 5 to the city of Valencia, where the boat sits dismantled in the port as local officials consider how, where and if they should display it in a city that has fallen on harder times during the Spanish economic crisis.
About 9,600 kilometers, or 6,000 miles, away, USA-17 sits dismantled on shore at San Francisco's Pier 80, Oracle Team USA's base for this America's Cup. The trimaran's huge platform is in a parking lot that lies behind razor wire and an electronic entrance gate. To see the rest of USA-17 requires an invitation and a signed non-disclosure agreement. Once inside the main building, the yacht's 68-meter wing sail is clearly visible, suspended from the rafters of the huge shed that looks as if it could comfortably accommodate a squadron of fighter planes.
USA-17 arrived in San Francisco by freighter in March 2011, more than a year after the victory in Valencia. There is still no definitive plan for its use, although there have been suggestions it could end up on display at Oracle's corporate headquarters. There are definitely no plans for it to sail again, and not just because its wing sail is too tall to fit under the Golden Gate Bridge.
''It's just a big job to do anything with it,'' Murray said. ''It will never go sailing again, I don't think.''
The America's Cup dates to 1851, but Hill said the oldest defenders to survive in something close to original form were Weatherly and Columbia, 12-meter yachts built in 1958. He said there are a total of five America's Cup defenders from the 12-meter class still in Newport.
Dennis Conner's Stars & Stripes 87, which reclaimed the America's Cup from the Australians in 1987 in the final year of the 12-meter class in the Cup, is now chartered out of the Caribbean island of St. Martin.
The more recent winners are harder to find on the water. America³, Bill Koch's defender in 1992, is on display outdoors at the Herreshoff Museum in Bristol, Rhode Island. NZL 32, the New Zealand boat better known as Black Magic, is on display at the Voyager New Zealand Maritime Museum in Auckland.
Two of the magnificent J-Class yachts that challenged unsuccessfully in the 1930s -- Shamrock V and Endeavor -- still exist in name after being salvaged and rebuilt.
''Their rebuilds were so absolutely complete that there's nothing left of the original fabric of the boats other than the names,'' Hill said.
There are also replicas of America, whose victory over a fleet of British boats in 1851 off England's Isle of Wight was the genesis for the America's Cup.
But the original America was scrapped in 1945, just as so many other defenders and challengers were scrapped. Hill said some of the earlier Cup winners were not built to last, including some of those designed by Nathanael Greene Herreshoff in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
''The big Herreshoff boats were essentially disposable boats,'' Hill said. ''They were made of mixed metals and people think they didn't realize that they would create electrolysis and fall apart, but they knew at the time but didn't care. They were building disposable boats to win a particular series of races, and that was it.''
That sounds familiar to those who followed the 2010 Cup, and it bears remembering that USA-17 almost did not go sailing in Valencia at all.
An unexpected storm before the start of racing caught the trimaran in the harbor with its huge wing sail still in place and forced the shore and sailing crews to scramble and hope they could avoid losing control.
The yacht and its wing survived, although there was no shortage of other mechanical concerns in the lead-up to the regatta.
''I can tell you right now that two days before the first race with Alinghi we were not able to tack,'' said Max Sirena, who was part of USA-17's crew and is now skipper for the Italian team Luna Rossa Challenge. ''For me it was the most stressful Cup ever, but in the end, we had a magic week, we didn't break a single piece of the boat and there is something in the air when that happens. Everything was magic, and we were paid back for all the effort we put into that campaign.''
Much more than effort was involved. Some in Alinghi's camp have estimated that Ellison, Oracle's co-founder and billionaire chief executive, spent close to $400 million on the 2010 America's Cup campaign. That figure, which Ellison has not confirmed, would have included legal fees, team wages, boat building and transport costs and everything else associated with the nearly three-year cycle.
But even if USA-17 raced just twice and cost an estimated $40 million to build, some of the technological breakthroughs clearly have been carried forward, with Oracle choosing to defend the Cup in San Francisco in smaller but still powerful 72-foot, wing-sailed catamarans.
''It's sort of like last year's Formula One car,'' said James Spithill, Oracle's helmsman in 2010 and 2013. ''That's the sport. And when you've got that research and development, you are always looking to upgrade. But the cool thing about it is all the lessons learned from the design side and the technical side and how it flows through the rest of the sport.''
The most obvious difference: This new generation of multihulls can hydrofoil downwind and, remarkably in some cases, upwind. That reduces drag (and increases adrenaline) and allows the AC 72s to reach speeds of more than 40 knots, well in excess of USA-17's top range.
''It was an incredibly powerful and an amazing boat, but right now, the 72s could beat that boat,'' said James Spithill, who remains Oracle's helmsman. ''If that boat was engineered to go foiling, it would probably have a shot, but the level these 72s are at, there's nothing in the world that's even close.''
That may well be true but when this edition of the Cup ends in less than a month, it would be no big surprise if the extreme, high-maintenance AC 72s soon go the way of so many of their slower predecessors: out of the ocean, for good.
''I don't think these 72s are going to be sustained,'' said Gary Jobson, who helped win the Cup in 1977 with Ted Turner and is now a television analyst. ''Anything that takes 40 people to put in the water is going to make it difficult.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); BOAT RACING (90%); SAILING (90%); BOATING & RAFTING (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); SPORTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: LLOYD'S OF LONDON (GAMBIA) (63%); LLOYD'S OF LONDON (UK) (63%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (63%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (63%)

PERSON: ERNESTO BERTARELLI (58%); LAWRENCE J ELLISON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); NEWPORT, RI, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); SPAIN (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2013



185 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: Iran Ruling In Europe Draws Anger From U.S.

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER

 BODY:
BRUSSELS -- In a setback for the United States' attempts to isolate Iran, a European Union court threw out sanctions Friday on seven Iranian companies, including four banks, rejecting arguments that they were acting as front companies to bypass the punitive measures.
The General Court in Brussels, the union's second-highest tribunal, ruled that the bloc wrongly imposed sanctions against the Iranian companies as part of its efforts to stop Iran from developing nuclear weapons, a decision that immediately drew the ire of American officials. 
The United States Treasury took the opposite tack on Friday, imposing restrictions on a network of six individuals and four businesses for links to oil sales.
''We are very disappointed by the court's decision today,'' a Treasury spokesman said in a statement. ''The evidence linking these banks to Iran's illicit nuclear activities is clear and strong, and no financial institution anywhere should allow these Iranian banks to transact with them.''
The Treasury said its actions on Friday represented a renewed crackdown to curb the use of front companies, financial institutions and businesspeople to conceal the direct involvement of the Iranian government and entities like the National Iranian Oil Company and the Naftiran Intertrade Company.
The developments came amid signs of a more moderate tone in Iran's foreign policy after the election of President Hassan Rouhani in June. That has extended to its nuclear activities, which Tehran says are legal and peaceful but which Western nations and Israel consider a cover for developing the ability to make atomic bombs.
The ruling in Europe involved decisions by the union's governments to freeze the accounts of companies, including Post Bank of Iran, the Iran Insurance Company, Good Luck Shipping and the Export Development Bank of Iran, from 2008 to 2011.
In a statement, the General Court ruled that the Council of the European Union, an executive body of government ministers from all union countries, did not ''properly establish'' that the companies ''had provided support for nuclear proliferation.''
The sanctions will remain in place for at least two months pending any appeal to the European Court of Justice, the bloc's highest tribunal.
The Treasury Department's action, which prohibits Americans from doing business with the named individuals and companies, and freezes their assets, was aimed at a network of entities linked to Seyed Seyyedi, an Iranian businessman and the director of Sima General Trading, a company previously penalized by the Treasury.
The Treasury identified KASB International, Petro Royal FZE and AA Energy FZCO as companies based in the United Arab Emirates, controlled by Mr. Seyyedi and helping the Iranian national oil company to evade sanctions.
The Treasury also identified a number of individuals representing Swiss Management Services, National Iranian Oil Company-International Affairs in London and the Iranian Oil Company U.K. as helping the Iranian government evade oil sanctions.
''Our sanctions on Iran's oil sales are a critically important component of maintaining pressure on the Iranian government,'' David S. Cohen, the under secretary for terrorism and financial intelligence at the Treasury, said in a statement.
The ruling in Brussels was the latest in a string of reversals for European Union governments, which have been reluctant to share evidence that they deem overly sensitive or that might compromise intelligence gathering.
Seeking to address the problem, European governments agreed in October to shift tactics by moving away from blacklisting individual banks and instead imposing across-the-board measures, like requiring authorization of transactions of more than 10,000 euros, or about $13,100, with some exceptions for transfers in areas like humanitarian aid, medical equipment and farming.
European officials are expected to hold initial discussions on whether to appeal on Tuesday, according to a European Union diplomat with direct knowledge of those plans. The diplomat spoke on the condition of anonymity because the talks would not be made public.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION COURTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE COURTS (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); EXPORT TRADE (70%)

COMPANY: INTERTRADE CO LTD (67%); IRAN INSURANCE CO (65%); EXPORT DEVELOPMENT BANK OF IRAN (65%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COURT OF JUSTICE (84%)

TICKER: 3747 (TSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (67%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (67%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (65%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (65%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (65%)

PERSON: HASSAN ROUHANI (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%) EUROPE (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); BELGIUM (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ISRAEL (79%); IRAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2013



186 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1414 words

HEADLINE: Soft Jobs Data Not Expected To Deter Fed

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL; Binyamin Appelbaum contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Despite a disappointing jobs report on Friday that raised fresh questions about the nation's economic strength, analysts say they still believe the Federal Reserve will start pulling back on its stimulus program in a few weeks.
The Labor Department's snapshot of the job market in August had several discouraging details underneath a relatively mundane headline number, which showed the economy added an estimated 169,000 jobs. Perhaps the most striking was a plunge in the share of Americans who are either working or looking for work, which fell to its lowest level since 1978.
''If you had a more optimistic view of the economy, which I think the Fed does, this should give you some pause,'' said Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at MFR. ''It's been a real struggle here in the labor market.''
At the same time, earlier estimates of job growth in July and June were revised sharply downward, and hiring over the summer months was largely driven by low-wage sectors like retail, food services and health care. 
Still, economists said they believed that Fed governors would find enough bright spots in this report to justify scaling back their monthly purchases of long-term Treasury bonds and mortgage-backed securities -- measures that help push down long-term interest rates -- after their next meeting on Sept. 17 and 18.
''There's just barely enough in that report and in other forward-looking indicators we've seen to give Fed governors the confidence they need on the 18th to taper,'' said Ian Shepherdson, the chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics.
''For the record, I don't think they should, given the risks posed by Syria and the impending fiscal chaos in Washington,'' he said, noting the expected Congressional battles over the debt limit and spending measures. ''The costs of delaying until some of those factors are sorted out is not very great. But the Fed has given no indication it's thinking that way.''
Investors seemed to agree, with bond yields dipping slightly after the jobs report came out. As for stocks, after a topsy-turvy day, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Dow Jones industrial average both closed about where they began on Friday. In Friday trading, the Dow closed down 14.98 points, or 0.1 percent, at 14,992. The S.& P. 500 edged up 0.09 points, or 0.01 percent, closing at 1,655.17. The Nasdaq climbed a slight 1.23 points, or 0.03 percent, to finish at 3,660.01. The price on a 10-year Treasury note rose 16/32, to 96 9/32, with the yield falling to 2.93 from 3.00 on Thursday. The number of payroll jobs added in August was just shy of the average pace of hiring over the last year, and the unemployment rate edged down to 7.3 percent from 7.4 percent. Unemployment, however, fell for the ''wrong reasons,'' Mr. Shapiro said: because people dropped out of the labor force and so were no longer counted as unemployed, and not because more unemployed people found jobs.
The jobless rate is now edging close to the 7 percent level that the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, had identified as the Fed's target for ending its asset purchases altogether around the middle of next year. For several months, Fed governors have been saying that the Fed expected to begin reducing the monthly purchases ''later this year,'' which has been widely interpreted to point toward beginning the shift as early as September.
Charles L. Evans, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago and one of the more vocal proponents of highly accommodative monetary policy, used this phrasing in a speech on Friday, suggesting he was open-minded about the ''exact pattern of the reduction in purchases that we eventually take.''
The Fed's more hawkish members have been more explicit about their desired policy moves. Esther L. George, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City and a leading critic of the asset purchases, said on Friday that the Fed should cut its bond buying to $70 billion a month in September, from the current $85 billion a month, split between Treasuries and mortgage bonds. ''It is time to begin a gradual -- and predictable -- normalization of policy,'' she said.
Some economists suggested that Fed governors could react to the latest economic data by tapering their bond purchases slowly over a longer period of time and perhaps in conjunction with other measures that would underscore the central bank's commitment to helping the economy heal. For example, the Fed could announce that it is extending the period that it holds short-term interest rates near zero.
''This is their chance to lay out a road map for policy to help institutionalize the support the Fed is providing, regardless of who is sitting around the table come January,'' said Diane Swonk, chief economist at Mesirow Financial in Chicago, referring to Mr. Bernanke's still-unknown successor to lead the Fed over the next four years. ''The Fed operates based on institutional momentum. It only flips on a dime in a crisis.''
Despite the generally dismal picture, there were some bright spots in Friday's jobs report, including a tick upward in the average number of hours worked and a 5-cent gain in hourly wages for private sector workers. Over the last year, average hourly earnings have risen by 52 cents, or 2.2 percent, before adjusting for inflation. (Year-over-year inflation has averaged about 1.6 percent so far in 2013.) ''It's not just about how many jobs, but how much people earn in those jobs,'' said Douglas P. Handler, chief United States economist for IHS Global Insight.
Concerns remain about the quality of jobs being created. The industries driving hiring, like retail and food services, are more likely to hire part-time workers and operate on just-in-time schedules, making it difficult for employees to predict how many hours they will have from week to week.
''It's really frustrating not knowing whether I'll have money to pay rent and my bills,'' said Charles Eden, 20, who works at a Wendy's in St. Louis for $7.60 an hour. Last week, he had 30 hours; this week, 12. Ideally, he wants 40. ''It's really hard to find a second job not knowing whether I can work or whether I can't work in a given week.''
As of August, there were 7.9 million Americans who wanted to work full time but could find only part-time work. When these workers and people who want a job but have stopped looking are included, the total underemployment rate rises to 13.7 percent.
The labor force participation rate remains so low partly because the population is aging and partly because workers are sitting on the sidelines as they wait for the economy to heal. The big decline in the labor force in August was tied entirely to men dropping out; the number of women in the work force actually grew.
''This suggests that much of the decline came from occupations that are male-dominated, such as construction, and that many former workers are becoming discouraged about their job prospects and dropping out of the labor force as a result,'' said Mr. Handler.
Three-quarters of the jobs added in August went to women, said Joan Entmacher, vice president for family economic security at the National Women's Law Center. Most of the new jobs for women in August were in low-wage sectors, though, and men have captured most of the job gains since the recovery officially began in June 2009.
Some workers who took shelter from the poor job market by enrolling in college and retraining programs these last few years -- which young women have been much more likely to do than young men -- are finally starting to cycle back into the work force, and the lucky ones are finding new and higher-paying opportunities.
''I have people call me all the time now wanting to give me a job, and I have to say, O.K., thank you, but I think I have enough jobs now,'' said Jordan Douglas of Pampa, Tex., a single mother working 60 to 70 hours a week in three jobs as a registered nurse.
Ms. Douglas, 25, was laid off from a nursing home in February 2012 and struggled to find work. She decided to enroll in school full-time after finding a program that allowed her to continue receiving unemployment benefits while in training. Given her longer hours and higher hourly wage today, she now earns more than twice as much as she did before she was laid off.
''I couldn't have been where I am today had I not gone back to school, and I couldn't have gone back to school if I hadn't gotten laid off,'' she said. ''I didn't know it at the time, but it worked out perfectly.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Job seekers at a Target store in San Francisco last month. The economy added 169,00 jobs in August, many in low-wage sector jobs like retail and food services. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) (B6) CHARTS: The Labor Picture in August (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)
 The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (87%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); DEBT CEILING (70%); INTEREST RATES (65%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2013



187 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: VW and Its Workers Explore A Union at a Tennessee Plant

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Volkswagen is working with the United Automobile Workers at its Chattanooga, Tenn., assembly plant on how to unionize the plant and create a German-style works council there, the president of the labor union said on Friday.
The company would be the first German automaker to have such a council at a United States plant. A works council is a group of employees, including both white- and blue-collar workers, that meets with management on issues like working conditions and productivity.
But to avoid violating American labor laws, the plant would first have to be formally unionized, the company said. 
''VW workers in Chattanooga have the unique opportunity to introduce this new model of labor relations to the United States, in partnership with the U.A.W.,'' the union's president, Bob King, said in a statement on Friday.
Volkswagen officials told employees at the Chattanooga plant on Thursday that it was negotiating with the union about establishing a works council there, where about 2,000 workers assemble the VW Passat. A letter, signed by the plant's chairman, Frank Fischer, and its vice president for human resources, Sebastian Patta, said the talks were aimed at ''the possibility of implementing an innovative model of employee representation for all employees.''
The VW officials said that a works council could be created at a company in the United States only with the cooperation of a labor union because it might otherwise be viewed as an illegal company-sponsored union. That, the VW officials wrote, is why the company has started its dialogue with the U.A.W. None of the foreign carmakers with auto plants in the South are currently unionized.
Gov. Bill Haslam of Tennessee has been outspoken in opposing any union inroads at the Volkswagen plant, warning that it would undermine his state's efforts to attract investment.
Volkswagen and U.A.W. officials met on Aug. 30 in Wolfsburg, Germany, where the company is based, to continue previous discussions about the works council and unionizing at the Chattanooga plant, which has been operating since 2011 and has a total of 2,500 employees including managers.
Some labor and auto experts say that if the VW plant in Chattanooga gets a works council, it would create pressure to do likewise at the BMW plant in Spartanburg, S.C., and the Mercedes-Benz plant in Vance, Ala.
While some executives see works councils as a pesky thorn in their side, others see them as a useful source of ideas from the shop floor and a vehicle to build consensus and employee morale.
''Volkswagen is a company that has extensive experience with union representation,'' Mr. King said in his statement, ''and the U.A.W. believes the role of the union in the 21st century is to create an environment where both the company and workers succeed.''
U.A.W. officials say that Volkswagen has agreed to not oppose any unionization drive in Chattanooga.
In the letter to Chattanooga employees, Mr. Fischer and Mr. Patta wrote that they wanted to ''prevent any influence from outside driving a wedge into our great team.''
That resembles language that anti-union companies often use to suggest that unions would be an undesirable third party that gets between employees and managers. But a U.A.W. official said that sentence referred to anti-union groups, like the Competitive Enterprise Institute and its Center for Economic Freedom, that have vigorously criticized Volkswagen for not battling to keep out a union the way that many American companies do.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Volkswagen plant in Chattanooga, Tenn., builds Passats. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK SCHELZIG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (93%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (75%); NEW PRODUCTS (74%); WORKPLACE MORALE (73%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (71%)

COMPANY: VOLKSWAGEN FINANCIAL SERVICES AG (92%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%)

PERSON: BILL HASLAM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (92%); SPARTANBURG, SC, USA (51%) TENNESSEE, USA (98%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2013



188 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON OLYMPICS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: As I.O.C. Delegates Gather, Fog of Politics Descends

BYLINE: By JERÉ LONGMAN

 BODY:
BUENOS AIRES -- For Istanbul, Madrid and Tokyo, the big news comes Saturday, when one of those cities will be chosen to host the 2020 Olympics. On Friday, the Hilton Hotel lobby was thick with handshaking, huddling, rumor-mongering and promises inevitably to be betrayed.
Alex Gilady, a delegate of the International Olympic Committee from Israel, said: ''There are those who guess, those who hope and those who think they know. But no one knows a thing.'' 
The Olympic committee has another election Tuesday, this one to replace its technocratic president, Jacques Rogge. And while the talk here may seem to center on the 2020 Games and, oddly enough, on the Kardashians, it is ultimately more about the I.O.C.'s murky internal politics.
''Most people are talking about the presidential election,'' said Rene Fasel, a genial Swiss dentist and I.O.C. delegate who is president of the International Ice Hockey Federation. ''The city choice doesn't seem as important.''
That is a candid and curious statement given that the 2020 Games will not be held in London, as they were in 2012, when the biggest concern was whether the Rolling Stones would play the opening ceremony.
Granted, worries about aging rockers who wear eyeliner, one of whom claims to have snorted his father's ashes, are no small international matter. But they do not rival the issues facing the candidate cities for 2020.
Istanbul is faced with a Syrian war on Turkey's border and national tensions between secularists and Islamists. Madrid has a recession-battered Spanish economy and yawning unemployment. Tokyo is 150 miles from a stricken nuclear power plant.
Heavyweights including the prime ministers of Turkey and Japan will make final pitches Saturday to the I.O.C.'s delegates. The face of Madrid's bid is Crown Prince Felipe of Spain, a former Olympic sailor who is still adjusting to this whole nonroyal business of being a spokesman.
The prince is tall and polite, but, he explained, he cannot talk to the news media here because he does not talk to the Spanish media at home. So Madrid's message is being put out by a spokesman who will not speak.
Thankfully, that is not true for another Madrid supporter, the Los Angeles Lakers' Pau Gasol. He is gracious, urbane and willing to answer any question, even those about reality television.
At a news conference Thursday at another hotel, Gasol spoke about a former teammate, Lamar Odom, who is married to one of the Kardashian sisters, at least for the moment.
News reports surfaced that the troubled Odom may have checked into rehab. Gasol said that he had attempted to contact Odom and wished him recovery, if the rumors were true, because ''I have a great love for Lamar.''
For those keeping score at home, Odom is married to Khloe Kardashian. That is not to be confused with the N.B.A. betrothal that Kim Kardashian had to Nets forward Kris Humphries, a union that seemed to expire faster than the 24-second shot clock.
A more famous, if less voluble, supporter of Madrid's bid is the soccer star Lionel Messi, which underscores the I.O.C.'s favorite pastime after self-promotion -- conflict of interest.
Messi is backing Madrid while he happens to be sponsored by Turkish Airlines, the official airline of Istanbul's Olympic bid. Given Messi's stature, he is not likely to face a red card from the airline.
On Friday morning, Her Imperial Highness Princess Takamado of Japan schmoozed in the Hilton lobby. Next came Vlade Divac, the 7-foot-1 former N.B.A. center, wearing jeans, untucked shirt and sneakers after his luggage was lost. It was difficult to tell whether he was president of the Serbian Olympic Committee or leader of the world's tallest boy band.
Asked if he ever wanted to be president of the I.O.C., Divac laughed and said, ''I don't think they have a chair big enough for me.''
Six candidates are not so reluctant. Sergei Bubka of Ukraine, still the world-record holder in the pole vault in retirement, may not be considered the best presidential aspirant, but he definitely has the best hair.
The favorite is Thomas Bach, a lawyer from Germany, who won a gold medal in team foil at the 1976 Montreal Games. For the uninitiated, team foil has everything to do with fencing and nothing to do with baked potatoes.
Recently, Bach was the subject of a withering German television documentary. He was accused of cheating at fencing; appearing in the files of the East German secret police, or Stasi, as part of an influence-peddling scheme; and heading an Arab-German chamber of commerce with anti-Israeli leanings.
Christian Klaue, a spokesman for the German Olympic Committee, called the allegations ''nonsense,'' and Bach said, ''I have nothing to add.''
Bach was long ago cleared in an influence-peddling scheme regarding the World Boxing Association. Gilady, the I.O.C. delegate from Israel, said, ''To accuse Thomas Bach of being anti-Israeli is idiotic.''
There remains a kerfuffle involving the support of Bach by an influential I.O.C. delegate and member of the Kuwaiti royal family named Sheik Ahmad al-Fahad al-Sabah. The sheik has been slapped on the wrist for breaking an I.O.C. ethics rule against public support of candidates.
''It's a clear violation,'' said Denis Oswald of Switzerland, an I.O.C. member and presidential candidate.
Gianni Merlo of Italy, who is president of the International Sports Press Association, took another view of the sheik's being admonished for stating his opinion.
''The I.O.C.,'' Merlo said, ''is the only organization where you get in trouble for telling the truth.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Crown Prince Felipe, left, a former Olympian, leads Madrid's 2020 bid, along with Princess Letizia and Alejandro Blanco. (POOL PHOTO BY ALEXANDER HASSENSTEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); ATHLETES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); WINTER SPORTS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ICE HOCKEY (69%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (63%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (50%); REALITY TELEVISION (50%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (50%); POWER PLANTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (94%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (88%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) SPAIN (94%); TURKEY (92%); ISRAEL (92%); JAPAN (88%); SYRIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2013



189 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: Markets Close Mixed, Buffeted by Jobs Data and Syria Concerns

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
U.S. stocks had a mixed close after volatile trading on Friday, after job market data removed some uncertainty about Federal Reserve policy and after Russian President Vladimir Putin said he would maintain his long-standing support for Syria if the West were to attack.
The Standard & Poor's 500 index gained 0.09 points or 0.01 percent, closing at 1,655.17. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 14.98 points or 0.1 percent, to 14,922.50, and the Nasdaq Composite added 1.23 points or 0.03 percent, closing at 3,660.01. 
For the week, the S&P 500 is up 1.04 percent and the Nasdaq is up 1.1 percent. The Dow is up 0.6 percent after four weekly declines.
The U.S. August payrolls report showed about 169,000 jobs were added, fewer than the 180,000 that had been expected, and July's figure was revised sharply lower. The unemployment rate fell to 7.3 percent, its lowest since December 2008, though the decline reflected a drop in the share of working-age Americans who either have a job or are looking for one.
Many analysts said despite the weak jobs report the U.S. central bank would not adjust plans to slow its stimulus, currently at $85 billion a month in bond purchases.
Kansas City Fed President Esther George, a consistent hawk who has argued for a tapering in bond purchases all year, said reducing purchases to $70 billion a month could be ''an appropriate next step toward normalizing monetary policy.''
Such a reduction would be in line with expectations that have been falling in the last few months.
''Tapering is going to happen but there is a wide range of opinions in terms of how much the Fed is going to taper,'' said Joseph Tanious, global market strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management in New York.
''The market is comfortable with the idea (of winding down stimulus) as it is justified by economic growth,'' he said, pointing to recent data including an almost eight year high in the pace of growth in the U.S. services sector.
Investors are continuing to assess the possibility of a U.S.-led strike against Syria in retaliation for an alleged chemical weapons attack against its civilians.
Putin made clear on Friday that Russia did not want to be sucked into a war over Syria, signaling that Moscow would maintain ongoing support to Damascus in the event of foreign military intervention.
Tanious said, getting clarity on Russia's point of view helps ease some concerns about the implications of an attack on Syria, but any U.S. intervention is likely to impact oil and other markets.
''The (equities) market is jittery and that is understandable,'' he said.
Energy prices have been among the most volatile on the issue, with investors concerned that military action in the Middle East will weigh on oil supplies. U.S. crude oil has spiked almost 4 percent over the past two weeks and was up 1.7 percent on Friday.
Facebook shares rose 3 percent to $43.95 after hitting $44.56, its highest since the stock's debut on Nasdaq more than a year ago.
American Tower Corp rose 4.6 percent to $71.91 after the company agreed to buy Global Tower Partners for $4.8 billion.
E*Trade Financial shares jumped 4.6 percent to $16.26 after Goldman Sachs upgraded the brokerage's stock to ''buy'' from ''neutral'' two days after the company received approval to use capital from its bank subsidiary for broader corporate purposes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (92%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (55%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF KANSAS CITY (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (55%); JPM (LSE) (55%); 8634 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (54%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (54%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); SYRIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2013



190 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; COMMON SENSE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1475 words

HEADLINE: High Price For a Long Courtship

BYLINE: By JAMES B. STEWART

 BODY:
Verizon's agreement to acquire Vodafone's stake in Verizon Wireless is a megadeal by any measure: at $130 billion it ranks as the third-largest ever, and the largest since the collapse of the dot-com bubble in 2000.
Yet Verizon shareholders seem to have taken the price in stride, even though it is $30 billion more than was rumored just a few months ago. Verizon shares are about the same as they were before rumors of the deal surfaced last week, even though the share price of the acquiring company usually drops. But consider the math: if 45 percent of Verizon Wireless is really worth $130 billion, then Verizon's 55 percent stake alone should be worth $159 billion. Yet the enterprise value of all of Verizon, including its debt, was $176 billion this week.
That suggests Verizon is overpaying. And the staggering price also raises other questions: why did Verizon wait so long to buy the rest of the wireless company? Why now? And why did it ever put its crown jewel, wireless assets, into a joint venture to begin with? 
''I was advocating that we buy out Vodafone from Day 1,'' Dennis Strigl, the former chief executive of Verizon Wireless, told me this week. ''The whole issue for us was there was never a better time to buy than the year before. We just kept building more value and, therefore, a higher price. I wish we'd bought it in 2001.''
And Verizon could have bought it even more cheaply in 1999, when Vodafone outbid Bell Atlantic for AirTouch Communications, the company that provided the assets for Vodafone's stake in Verizon Wireless. AirTouch would have given Bell Atlantic, which later emerged as Verizon Communications, a nationwide cellular footprint to compete with AT&T, since Bell Atlantic at the time served New York and much of the East Coast, and AirTouch covered California and the West. (AirTouch itself resulted from a combination of the wireless assets of the former Bell operating companies Pacific Telesis and US West.)
According to Mr. Strigl, Verizon's strategy was always to create a coast-to-coast network. To compete with AT&T's then-popular nationwide calling plan, Verizon started paying its customers' roaming charges in areas where it did not offer service. ''That wasn't sustainable,'' Mr. Strigl said.
But Bell Atlantic dropped out of the AirTouch bidding at $45 billion -- $85 billion less than it is now paying just for AirTouch's former cellular assets in the United States. (Air Touch also owned extensive international assets that were not part of the Verizon Wireless venture.) Vodafone, based in Britain, snagged the company for $62 billion, in what will now be seen as one of the best deals ever.
Of course, it is easy to say with the benefit of hindsight that Verizon missed the opportunity of a lifetime when it let AirTouch slip from its grasp. In 1999, the year of that deal, cellular service was erratic, cellphones were clumsy and mostly limited to voice calls, and customers were coping with roaming charges by turning off their phones except when making calls.
Vodafone's chief executive then, Christopher Gent, now looks like a visionary. But he was criticized at the time for overpaying for AirTouch (and other acquisitions that transformed Vodafone into a global giant) and was excoriated in the British news media in 2003 for his £10.4 million pension. (Mr. Gent is now chairman of the pharmaceutical giant GlaxoSmithKline and a senior adviser at Bain & Company.)
According to an investment banker working on the deal at the time (who did not want to be named because he is involved in the current deal as well), Verizon may have underestimated Vodafone's determination to hold on to the wireless assets because it thought Vodafone was mostly interested in AirTouch's international assets. ''We did bid, but they didn't want to sell,'' Mr. Strigl said. ''At least, they didn't want to sell except at a very high price.''
Perhaps Verizon should not have been surprised. In its annual report that year, Goldman Sachs, which advised Vodafone, extolled the benefits of the AirTouch deal and quoted Mr. Gent as saying that Vodafone wanted to move to ''global leadership in mobile communications'' and that ''gaining a strong footprint in the U.S. market was a requisite.''
Still, Vodafone agreed on the need for nationwide coverage. So Verizon settled for the joint venture, which was forged in 2000, just a year after the AirTouch deal closed. Vodafone had a 45 percent stake in the joint venture. Even though Vodafone appointed three members of the Verizon Wireless seven-member board and named the chief financial officer, the venture was run by Verizon, with Mr. Strigl as chief executive of the venture until 2007. He, in turn, reported to Verizon's chief executive, Ivan Seidenberg.
Mr. Strigl said he agitated to buy out Vodafone from the start. ''Ivan was frustrated,'' he said. ''So was I. We thought the partnership with Vodafone would bring benefits for both companies. We thought there would be economies of scale, international roaming, better telephone equipment deals. They never happened. We'd have good conversations, but they never picked up any steam.''
Verizon came tantalizingly close to getting the Vodafone stake in 2004, when Vodafone thought it had reached a deal to buy AT&T Wireless, a move that would have required it to sell its stake in Verizon Wireless, with Verizon the likely buyer, at a price estimated at the time at about $30 billion. But a last-minute bid by Cingular, while Vodafone directors were sleeping in London, snatched the deal from Vodafone's grasp, and Vodafone dropped out of the bidding. (Cingular was a joint venture between AT&T and Bell South, and returned to the AT&T fold when AT&T bought Bell South in 2006.) ''A few hours made all the difference,'' said the banker, who was also involved in that transaction. ''It changed history.''
Under Verizon's and Mr. Strigl's leadership, Verizon Wireless grew to be the largest wireless operator in the United States. (Mr. Strigl distilled his experiences into a 2011 book, ''Managers, Can You Hear Me Now?'') Growth exploded after the introduction of the iPhone in 2007 and the rapid spread of Android-powered smartphones. As Mr. Strigl noted, the paradox for Verizon was that the better Verizon Wireless did, and the bigger the dividends it paid Vodafone, the less Vodafone wanted to sell, at least at any price Verizon would consider paying. ''We could never really get them to the table,'' Mr. Strigl said.
With the benefit of hindsight, Verizon should simply have paid whatever Vodafone wanted, since it was so much less than what it is paying now. ''Verizon was always looking for a bargain,'' said Jeff Kagan, an independent wireless and telecommunications analyst who has followed the two companies even before the AirTouch deal. ''They didn't want to pay retail. So they waited. If they had just swallowed their pride five years ago they would have saved billions.''
The multiyear standoff could have ended much differently. The investment bankers I spoke to this week said that both Verizon and Vodafone had at times considered merging the two companies, and had even considered bids for the other, hostile if necessary. ''Both sides thought about it many times over the years,'' the banker said. ''It was too obvious not to think about it. But the reality is that after you reach a certain scale, you don't gain anything by getting bigger. A wireless network is really a local tower and the end-user devices near there. When the two companies thought of getting together and tested the logic of globalization, it didn't produce many benefits.''
So why now? Vodafone has said it needs to focus on its core European markets, hard hit by the financial crisis there, and will now have the cash to expand in other regions. With interest rates rising and stocks volatile, the opportunity for Verizon to meet Vodafone's demands with an attractive package of cash and stock might not have lasted much longer. But perhaps most important, a new chief executive at Verizon -- Lowell C. McAdam, who had succeeded Mr. Strigl at Verizon Wireless, took over as Verizon Communications' chief executive in 2011 -- was willing to pay what Vodafone would accept, which turned out to be $130 billion. (Bankers on the deal said Vodafone initially asked for $130 billion plus tax liability, which Vodafone said would be about $5 billion.)
Both Mr. Kagan and Mr. Strigl praised the deal, even at $130 billion, with the proviso that it should have been done sooner. ''With a new chief executive, with interest rates going up, and with the way the industry is heading, Verizon finally jumped on it,'' Mr. Kagan said. ''It was the right thing to do, but it was awfully late.''
Mr. Strigl added: ''I'm very pleased with the deal. I have the same philosophy I had from the beginning: do it now or it will cost you more later.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dennis Strigl, the former chief executive of Verizon Wireless, said he had advocated buying out Vodafone from Day 1. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ISAAC BREKKEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 The $130 billion deal between Verizon and Vodafone is the largest since the collapse of the dot-com bubble in 2000. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDY RAIN/LAURA RAUCH/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); TELEPHONE RATES (79%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); JOINT VENTURES (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

COMPANY: VERIZON WIRELESS INC (98%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); VODAFONE GROUP PLC (85%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); VOD (NASDAQ) (85%); VOD (LSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (98%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2013



191 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: Obama Falls Short on Wider Backing for Syria Attack

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER and STEVEN LEE MYERS; Scott Sayare contributed reporting from Paris.

 BODY:
STRELNA, Russia -- President Obama raced home on Friday to confront one of the biggest tests of his presidency as he ramped up a campaign to persuade Congress to support airstrikes against Syria that many world leaders he had consulted declined to back.
After two days of tense discussions, including a dinner debate that went into the morning hours, Mr. Obama left without forging an international consensus behind military action as other leaders urged him not to attack without United Nations permission. But he won agreement from some allies on blaming Syria's government for a chemical weapons attack and on endorsing an unspecified response.
The deep divisions on display here at the Group of 20 summit meeting raised the stakes even further for Mr. Obama as he seeks authorization from Congress for a ''limited, proportional'' attack. While aides said he never expected or sought a more explicit endorsement of military action during the meeting, the president hoped to use the statement from allies condemning Syria to leverage more domestic support, but he acknowledged that he had a ''hard sell'' and might fail to win over an American public that polls show still opposes a strike. 
Mr. Obama wasted little time vaulting back into the domestic debate as he called members of Congress from both parties from Air Force One on his way back to Washington. He ordered aides to fan out in coming days with a series of speeches, briefings, telephone calls and television appearances to sway both Democrats and Republicans reluctant to get involved in yet another Middle East war. He also announced that he would address the nation from the White House on Tuesday evening to lay out his case before Congress votes.
''Failing to respond to this breach of this international norm would send a signal to rogue nations, authoritarian regimes and terrorist organizations that they can develop and use weapons of mass destruction and not pay a consequence,'' he said at a news conference in this St. Petersburg suburb.
The return to the Washington fray came after a tense overseas trip punctuated by an extraordinary showdown with the meeting's host, President Vladimir V. Putin, who not only opposes a strike, but also dismisses the notion that Syria's government gassed its own people.
During a long, late-night discussion about Syria, the two presidents effectively competed for the support of the other leaders, each man arguing his position and soliciting peers as if they were voters. At the end, Mr. Putin said a majority of the leaders joined him in opposing a military strike independent of the United Nations, including the leaders of China, India, Indonesia, Argentina, Brazil, Italy, Germany and South Africa.
''We hear each other and understand the arguments,'' Mr. Putin said. ''We simply don't agree with them. I don't agree with his arguments and he doesn't agree with mine, but we hear and try to analyze.''
The only members of the Group of 20 nations that supported Mr. Obama's plan, Mr. Putin said, were Canada, France, Saudi Arabia and Turkey, all of which were on Mr. Obama's side when he arrived here on Thursday.
White House aides disputed Mr. Putin's tally, and Susan E. Rice, the president's national security adviser, negotiated a joint statement including those allies as well as Australia, Britain, Italy, Japan, Spain and South Korea. The statement condemned the Aug. 21 chemical weapons attack near Syria's capital, Damascus, and held the government of President Bashar al-Assad responsible. According to American intelligence agencies, the attack killed more than 1,400 people.
''We call for a strong international response to this grave violation of the world's rules and conscience that will send a clear message that this kind of atrocity can never be repeated,'' the statement said. ''Those who perpetrated these crimes must be held accountable.''
The statement did not explicitly endorse military action, and some of the signers, like Italy, have warned against an American strike. But Obama administration officials argued that those that signed understood they were backing the United States as it was preparing for military retaliation, and therefore effectively embracing it.
Before returning to Washington, Mr. Obama acknowledged facing a difficult task to persuade Congress. ''I knew this was going to be a heavy lift,'' he said. ''I was under no illusions when I embarked on this path. But I think it's the right thing to do. I think it's good for our democracy. We will be more effective if we are unified going forward.''
The Syria dispute came to dominate the Group of 20 meeting, ostensibly focused mainly on economic matters, and underscored the difficulty Mr. Obama has faced with Mr. Putin in recent months. After Russia gave temporary asylum to Edward J. Snowden, the National Security Agency contractor who disclosed secret American surveillance programs, Mr. Obama canceled a separate one-on-one meeting with Mr. Putin in Moscow.
But Mr. Putin approached the American president after a plenary session and began chatting casually, at which point Mr. Obama suggested they sit down. They talked for more than 20 minutes, mainly about Syria, as other world leaders looked on. Mr. Obama said Mr. Snowden's case did not really come up. ''It was a candid and constructive conversation, which characterizes my relationship with him,'' Mr. Obama said.
For his part, Mr. Putin said the two leaders agreed to disagree.
He added that they did agree that Syria ultimately needed a political settlement, and that they delegated the matter to Russia's foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, and Secretary of State John Kerry. In May, the two officials announced an effort to begin negotiations for a settlement in Syria, to be held in Geneva, but that effort has since stalled and now seems further away than ever.
The strongest support for Mr. Obama continued to come from President François Hollande of France. But even Mr. Hollande has been under pressure in France to seek the widest possible approval at home and abroad before participating in military action, and on Friday he announced that France would await the findings of United Nations inspectors who visited the site of the Aug. 21 attack.
''We're now going to wait for the decision by Congress,'' Mr. Hollande said, ''then the inspectors' report.''
Mr. Hollande offered no explanation for his decision to await the United Nations findings, the timing of which remain uncertain, but French lawmakers have in recent days increasingly called for him to do so. White House aides said such a position was in keeping with theirs since the Congressional debate now effectively means there will be time for the inspectors' report before any strike.
Even as Mr. Putin ardently argued against an American-led intervention, Russia's navy continued preparations in the event of an attack. It has already dispatched at least four warships to the Mediterranean Sea, including three that passed through the Bosporus on Thursday.
Mr. Putin's chief of staff, Sergei B. Ivanov, told reporters that the landing vessels were being sent in case it was necessary to evacuate Russian citizens from Syria.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A destroyed street in Deir al-Zour, in eastern Syria. President Obama and world leaders remain divided on the conflict. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ABO SHUJA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (76%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); ARMED FORCES (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); TERRORISM (71%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (59%) SYRIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); INDONESIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%); GERMANY (65%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2013



192 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: What's On Saturday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (HBO) ARGO (2012) Ben Affleck, above, directed and stars in this Oscar winner for best film. It covers a little-known chapter of the Iranian hostage crisis in which Antonio J. Mendez, a Central Intelligence Agency officer and wizard of disguise, was tapped to help free six State Department employees stranded in Tehran after revolutionary forces seized the United States Embassy on Nov. 4, 1979. His plan: to have them pose as a Canadian movie crew filming a science-fiction flick called ''Argo.'' John Goodman and Alan Arkin play the Hollywood makeup artist and producer who assist him in his mission. Bryan Cranston, his neck tendons popping, is one of his bosses; and Clea DuVall, Tate Donovan, Scoot McNairy, Rory Cochrane, Christopher Denham and Kerry Bishé are the escapees. 
After setting your pulse racing, Mr. Affleck ''smoothly downshifts, easing from the high anxiety of the opener -- which evokes 1970s political thrillers like Sydney Pollack's 'Three Days of the Condor' -- into something looser, mellower and funny,'' Manohla Dargis wrote in The New York Times. ''Mr. Affleck handles his own roles, on camera and behind it, with a noticeable lack of self-aggrandizement,'' she added. ''In the end, this is a story about outwitting rather than killing the enemy, making it a homage to actual intelligence and an example of the same.''
NOON (13) RICHARD HEFFNER'S OPEN MIND Elie Wiesel discusses Richard Breitman and Allan J. Lichtman's book, ''FDR and the Jews.''
2:30 P.M. (C-Span) INSIDE MEDIA: AMERICA'S FIRST LADIES In this prelude to Season 2 of ''First Ladies: Influence and Image,'' Cokie Roberts of ABC and NPR, Krissa Thompson of The Washington Post and the historian Richard Norton Smith debate the symbiotic relationship between presidential spouses and the news media. John Maynard of the Newseum moderates.
4 P.M. (Fox News) A HEALTHY YOU & CAROL ALT Ms. Alt, the model, interviews celebrities about their fitness and diet routines, offers her own tips and answers viewer questions in this new talk show.
6 P.M. (13) PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND Hari Sreenivasan anchors this new series, which begins with a report by Martin Fletcher on Israel's recent discovery of large offshore natural gas reserves, and its potential effect on the country's economy and the region's political stability.
8 P.M. (Sundance) MICHAEL CLAYTON (2007) George Clooney plays a fixer who cleans up the messes at a large New York law firm. Tilda Swinton, in an Oscar-winning role, is chief counsel for an agrochemical behemoth that is about to settle a multibillion-dollar lawsuit with the firm's help. Then the star litigator (Tom Wilkinson) has a breakdown. The film's director and writer, Tony Gilroy, ''hasn't reinvented the legal thriller here, but I doubt that was his intention; at its best and most ambitious, the film plays less like a variation on a Hollywood standard than a reappraisal,'' Manohla Dargis wrote in The Times. ''It's a modest reappraisal, adult, sincere, intelligent, absorbing; it entertains without shame.'' In ''Duplicity'' (2009), at 10:30 on TNT, she -- Julia Roberts as the long-legged Claire, standing in a flowery dress in a garden, looking bored -- is C.I.A. He -- Clive Owen as Ray, on whom a suit becomes a brazenly sexy uniform -- is MI6. Five years after meeting over frozen drinks at a barbecue and ending up in bed, they decide to abandon their respective governments and go to work on opposite sides of the beauty products industry, with puffed-up executives portrayed by Paul Giamatti and Mr. Wilkinson. ''It's a caper movie, a love story, an extra-dry corporate satire,'' A. O. Scott said in The Times about this film, written and directed by Mr. Gilroy. ''However you describe it, 'Duplicity' is superior entertainment, the most elegantly pleasurable movie of its kind to come around in a very long time.''
9 P.M. (AMC) HELL ON WHEELS Cullen Bohannon (Anson Mount) and Louise Ellison (Jennifer Ferrin) dance a Texas two-step to ''Hell on Strings,'' a new song composed for the episode by Charlie Daniels.
9 P.M. (CUNY) MR. ARKADIN (1962) Orson Welles, left, directed and stars as the title character, a mysterious tycoon who hires a young con man (Robert Arden) to investigate his own background in this treatise on power and identity, which Welles never completed. Then several witnesses to Arkadin's past end up dead. '' 'Mr. Arkadin' remains a strange, magpie movie, assembled from elements from past films Welles had worked on or been near,'' including ''Citizen Kane,'' ''The Lady From Shanghai,'' ''The Third Man'' and ''Gilda,'' Dave Kehr wrote in The Times about this movie, which was released in Europe in 1955 as ''Confidential Report.'' KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY WARNER BROS. PICTURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (85%); MOVIE REVIEWS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SCIENCE FICTION & FANTASY FILMS (78%); FILM (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); JOURNALISM (70%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (63%); JEWS & JUDAISM (63%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (63%); LITIGATION (60%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (60%); LAWYERS (60%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (60%); NATURAL GAS (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (81%); WASHINGTON POST CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (58%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (81%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: BEN AFFLECK (92%); GEORGE CLOONEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAN (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2013



193 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REWORKING LABOR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1675 words

HEADLINE: The Ecumenical Union

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Richard L. Trumka, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., has a bold plan to reverse organized labor's long slide: let millions of nonunion workers -- and perhaps environmental, immigrant and other advocacy groups -- join the labor federation.
When the labor federation holds its convention in Los Angeles beginning on Sunday, he will ask its delegates for a green light to pursue these ambitious reforms. Needless to say, some within the labor movement view them as heretical.
Mr. Trumka says he believes that if unions are having a hard time increasing their ranks, they can at least restore their clout by building a broad coalition to advance a worker-friendly political and economic agenda. He has called for inviting millions of nonunion workers into the labor movement even if their own workplaces are not unionized. Not stopping there, he has proposed making progressive groups -- like the NAACP; the Sierra Club; the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic civil rights group; and MomsRising, an advocacy group for women's and family issues -- either formal partners or affiliates of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. 
''The crisis for labor has deepened,'' Mr. Trumka said in an interview. ''It's at a point where we really must do something differently. We really have to experiment.''
By crisis, he means myriad setbacks, including a steady loss of union membership, frequent defeats in organizing drives and unions being forced to accept multiyear wage freezes. Not only have labor leaders faced the embarrassing enactment of anti-union legislation in onetime labor strongholds like Wisconsin and Michigan, but they could not even win passage of legislation making it easier to unionize when President Obama was elected and the Democrats controlled the House and Senate.
In language far different from decades past -- when labor often talked with 'we'll get it done ourselves' bravado -- Mr. Trumka said: ''It's pretty obvious to all of our progressive partners that none of us can do it alone. If we're going to change the political and economic environment, it's going to take us all working together.''
Gary N. Chaison, an industrial relations professor at Clark University, said: ''Unions are thrashing around looking for answers. It just might prove successful from the very fact that there is great desperation to it. There's a sense that this is make-or-break time for labor. Either major things are done, or it will be too late to resuscitate the labor movement.''
Labor's reinvention process is taking many forms. The A.F.L.-C.I.O. has set up a dozen committees -- of historians, young workers, Web experts, pollsters -- to propose ways to reinvent labor. Our Walmart, a union-backed group of Walmart employees, has held repeated protests in the hope of somehow finding pressure points to persuade the giant retailer to improve pay and benefits. The Service Employees International Union helped organize a wave of one-day strikes at fast-food restaurants to create a nationwide movement of low-wage workers with the aim of pressuring McDonald's, Subway and other chains to raise wages.
''We're trying a lot of things, and some of them will work and some of them won't,'' Mr. Trumka said. ''We'll try to amplify those that work, and we'll jettison what doesn't work.''
Unions have continued to look for new groups of workers to organize. In an unusual effort, the service employees union is seeking to organize all adjunct professors -- an often low-paid group -- in the Boston area. After several fruitless attempts, the United Automobile Workers has accelerated its efforts to organize automobile plants in the South, pushing hard at Nissan, Volkswagen and Mercedes-Benz. In one creative approach to unionizing, the U.A.W. is working with VW to create a German-style works council at its plant in Chattanooga, Tenn. In anti-union Texas, a dozen unions are undertaking a decade-long organizing drive aimed at greatly increasing unionization there and helping turn Texas politics from red to blue.
Many conservatives and businesses applaud labor's decline, which they say is happening largely because today's workers have little use for unions. Businesses have always opposed unions, saying they push up wages and hurt productivity through collective bargaining and work rules. Moreover, they say labor's political war chest, formed from members' dues, has given unions too much power over politicians and regulators.
But many liberals and union members worry that if unions grow weaker, that will lead to more income inequality and less of a political counterweight to corporate America and conservative billionaires.
''What makes this a moment of hope is there is a general recognition that things are out of balance in terms of inequality and wage stagnation,'' said Craig Becker, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s general counsel. ''You have to find a way to create or re-create vibrant worker organizations to address those problems.''
Underlying all this strategizing is a sense that if unions are ever to reverse their decline, they will have to somehow inspire Americans to engage in collective action again. ''You can't solve the problems of the labor movement or the progressive movement until you restore the belief in collective power,'' said Karen Nussbaum, executive director of Working America, an A.F.L.-C.I.O. affiliate that mobilizes nonunion workers during elections.
In the mid-1990s, Mr. Trumka's predecessor, John J. Sweeney, sought to rescue labor by pressing unions to organize far more workers. But that effort failed, because only a few unions threw serious resources into the effort -- many did not think labor was in crisis. Moreover, many workers didn't see an advantage to joining a union, and many employers have grown expert at beating back unionization drives.
Janice R. Fine, a labor relations professor at Rutgers, said today's effort might prove more successful. ''Everyone in labor is chastened by what's been happening,'' she said. ''There's a general understanding that something major needs to be done. There's a sense that it's five minutes to midnight.''
Mr. Trumka's vision would bring millions more nonunion workers into the labor movement. They might help unions press employers to fix safety hazards, lobby state legislatures for a higher minimum wage and push Congress to increase taxes on the wealthiest Americans. Mr. Trumka's strategists have not decided whether these nonunion workers would or would not pay dues. If they are asked to pay dues, that would of course fatten struggling union treasuries.
A.F.L.-C.I.O. officials are asking themselves, when 49 percent of employees at a workplace vote to have a union -- failing to win the majority needed to bargain collectively -- why should unions turn their backs on that 49 percent? They say that 49 percent should be invited into the labor movement to, for example, lobby on pro-worker legislation or to get out the vote. They also say those workers should be able to avail themselves of some union benefits, like low-interest-rate credit cards or low-cost life insurance.
Many within labor are looking to Washington State as a model because of all the union community activity there. Unions, women's groups, immigrant organizations and faith groups -- joined by retiree and gay groups -- successfully pushed Seattle's City Council to enact a 2011 law requiring paid sick days. Labor in turn played a major role in persuading the state legislature to enact a same-sex marriage law and then in defeating a referendum aimed at overturning the law.
In recent months, Washington's unions have worked with black ministers to fight foreclosures and find jobs for former prisoners. A Teamsters local is providing legal services and lobbying muscle to Seattle's taxi drivers. Unions and MomsRising are pressing Tacoma's City Council to enact a paid sick days law.
''Unions have cooperated closely with us,'' said Kristin Rowe-Finkbeiner, co-founder of MomsRising, a Seattle-based group with 1.1 million members. ''When policies that will help all workers are proposed, often everybody jumps in without having to do a lot of second-guessing because we've worked together and we trust each other.''
Unions and community groups have joined forces to try to create the nation's highest minimum wage through a referendum in SeaTac, a community south of Seattle. The proposal would establish a $15-an-hour minimum wage -- more than twice the $7.25-an-hour federal minimum -- for 6,500 workers at Sea-Tac International Airport and its nearby hotels and car rental agencies. The $15 wage would be 63 percent higher than Washington's $9.19-an-hour minimum, already the highest state minimum wage.
Business groups had persuaded a judge to throw the referendum off the November ballot because of invalid signatures, but late Friday a state court of appeals ordered the proposal back on the ballot. Labor groups hope the measure will be a model for other communities.
''Fifteen dollars an hour would really help -- it would enable people to pay their bills on time and fix up their houses,'' said Chris Smith, 49, a father of three who until recently worked a dangerous job fueling aircraft that paid $10 an hour. He quit that for a job at Walmart, figuring that if he was going to earn $10 an hour, it might as well be safer.
Gary T. Smith, who coordinates a business coalition, said the $15 proposal ''goes too far and costs too much and will have too many unintended consequences,'' including layoffs by small businesses at the airport.
The Rev. Jan Lyn Bolerjack of the Riverton Park United Methodist Church in Tukwila exemplifies the growing ties between labor and faith groups. She began to campaign for the $15 proposal after she saw many airport workers lining up at her church's food bank. ''It's getting back to taking care of those who don't have a voice and lifting up the least among us,'' she said.
Reworking Labor: Articles in this series are examining the changing face of labor as the nation's unions and collective bargaining rights decline. Previous articles are at nytimes.com /businessday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from left, Richard L. Trumka, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
the Rev. Jan Lyn Bolerjack of the Riverton Park United Methodist Church at her church's food bank
fast-food workers demonstrating in Boston
a Walmart employee being arrested at a demonstration in Maryland
and the Volkswagen plant in Chattanooga, Tenn. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL P. KING/WISCONSIN STATE JOURNAL, VIA A.P.
STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
GRETCHEN ERTL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES
ERIK SCHELZIG/A.P.) (B1)
 Pescaszie Mukauruziga works at Sea-Tac Airport, where groups seek a minimum wage of $15. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (79%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); HISTORY (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); FAMILY (69%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (67%); CIVIL RIGHTS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (93%); SIERRA CLUB (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (56%); NATIONAL COUNCIL OF LA RAZA (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2013



194 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; DECISION TIME; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: In Struggling Area, Concerns About Jobs and the Police

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
Lloyd Campbell learned at a young age not to trust politicians.
But then he immigrated from Jamaica to New York City, and in 2001 he decided to vote for Michael R. Bloomberg as mayor. Mr. Campbell had started cutting hair at the 2nd Star Barber Shop in Wakefield, at the northern tip of the Bronx, and from behind his chair he had to only look out the window to see the drug deals and street crime that plagued the neighborhood.
Since then, Mr. Campbell has seen crime go down and local schools improve. One of his sons was even accepted to the Bronx High School of Science this fall.
But even as Wakefield has become safer, Mr. Campbell and many other black residents like himself say they have been stopped more frequently by police officers and searched or detained. And as once-gritty neighborhoods in other boroughs have flourished, many of Mr. Campbell's regulars have lost jobs and struggled to buy food and necessities. 
Mr. Campbell did not vote for Mr. Bloomberg again. ''I think Bloomberg is a pretty good mayor, but there's a lot of stuff I don't like,'' Mr. Campbell, 45, said as he relaxed for a few minutes in his barber chair, waiting for the next customer. The barber shop usually charges $15 to $20 for a cut, but he allows his customers to pay what they can.
''We need our neighborhood to be better,'' he said.
The 2nd Star Barber Shop is tucked into a strip of delis, Jamaican restaurants, salons and 99-cent stores on White Plains Road, near the last stop on the No. 2 train from Manhattan. The working-class community -- which is said to be named for the plantation where George Washington was born (first called Popes Creek, then later changed to Wakefield) -- is predominantly black, with large enclaves of Jamaican and West Indian immigrants.
The door to the barber shop is propped open during the day, welcoming customers into a sunny room with lime-green walls and black-and-white parquet floors. There is a retro feel to the place, reinforced by framed posters of Bob Marley, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Michael Jackson and Richie Stephens. Regulars lean back for shaves and cuts, chatting easily. No one seems in a hurry.
Zenaida Lopez planted her wiggly grandson, Mekhi Davis, 4, in a chair to get him ready for kindergarten. Ms. Lopez, 60, confided that her life had taken a turn for the worse. She lost her $34,000-a-year job as a phlebotomist after St. Vincent's Hospital Manhattan closed in 2010. She has been able to find only part-time work at Montefiore Medical Center, earning $12,000.
''I have to pinch my pennies,'' said Ms. Lopez, who has emptied her savings and retirement accounts and is looking for a second part-time job. ''If I see a blouse I want to buy -- and who doesn't want to buy a blouse? -- I can't because I have to think, 'I need some milk, eggs, bread.' ''
She said Mr. Bloomberg had not done enough to create jobs or lower rents for people just trying to survive. Now Ms. Lopez, who grew up in the Bronx, said she feared she would have to leave the city.
''I love New York but it's getting to a point where I don't want to live on welfare,'' she said. ''I want to work and support myself, and I can't seem to do it here.''
In a chair across the room, Errol Witts, 59, lamented that he could not afford health insurance. ''If you're sick, you're dead,'' Mr. Witts said as his barber repeated that with a nod.
Mr. Witts, who earns $20,000 a year as a cargo handler at Kennedy International Airport, said he moved to Wakefield from Queens seven years ago because the rents were cheaper. But now he pays $15 a day in tolls to commute to work. He said it took three salaries -- his, his wife's and their daughter's -- just to cover the $1,500 monthly rent for the family's two-bedroom apartment.
''The people with money get all the benefits,'' he said. ''We struggle here, and we're not getting any justice.''
But amid the sharp criticism of Mr. Bloomberg, there were also some nods of approval for his health policies, including the controversial ban on large sodas, in a borough with a rising obesity and diabetes problem.
Roshel McKenzie, 27, who braids women's hair in a corner of the barber shop, said she checked the calorie counts posted on restaurant menus, another Bloomberg initiative, and skipped the really fatty fare. ''Say you know something is bad, but you're still eating it,'' she said. ''What it does is bring about awareness.''
Deangelo Hawthorne, 18, a recent high school graduate, said he worried that crime-fighting tactics like the stop-and-frisk program had gone too far in minority neighborhoods like Wakefield. Mr. Hawthorne, who immigrated from Jamaica when he was 7, said he has been stopped by police officers 10 times in the past year alone, even though he said he never carried drugs or guns.
''Because I'm big, they'll see you and think you're up to something,'' said Mr. Hawthorne, who is stocky and wears glasses. ''God forbid you're wearing a hoodie. You don't even have to walk with your pants sagging.''
Mr. Campbell, the barber, said he was pulled over by police officers two years ago because of a broken headlight, and then detained because he was transporting a knife while helping a friend move. He said he planned to vote for Public Advocate Bill de Blasio, a Democratic candidate for mayor, in part because of his opposition to the stop-and-frisk tactics.
''He said he would stop the frisking, he would go about it another way,'' said Mr. Campbell, who met Mr. de Blasio at a jerk-food festival in Queens in June.
Several customers said they liked Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker and another Democratic candidate for mayor, because they felt she understood their priorities. ''She's not talking nonsense,'' Ms. Lopez said. ''Rents, crime -- that's what I'm interested in.''
Gavin Tinglin, 34, said he had not bothered to vote for a mayor since Rudolph W. Giuliani, because he did not feel that any of the candidates would offer much help to Wakefield. ''I do think it gets forgotten,'' he said. ''There's so much to be done in this neighborhood.''
But Mr. Tinglin, an unemployed mailroom worker who said he had been laid off twice since 2004, said he was tired of being overlooked. This year, he plans to vote for former Representative Anthony D. Weiner, a Democratic candidate for mayor, hoping his ideas and energy will propel change.
''If you tell someone you live in the Bronx, there's a negativity,'' Mr. Tinglin said. ''I'm ready for a change -- most people are. I'm ready for a new mayor.''
DECISION TIME: Articles in this series are looking at the concerns and hopes of New Yorkers as the city prepares to choose its next mayor.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LLOYD CAMPBELL: Age: 45 | Occupation: Barber
ZENAIDA LOPEZ: Age: 60 | Occupation: Phlebotomist
GAVIN TINGLIN: Age: 34 | Occupation: Mailroom worker
 ROSHEL MCKENZIE: Age: 27 | Occupation: Hairstylist (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPHICS: Neighborhood Numbers: Wakefield (Source: Center for Urban Research, the Graduate Center, CUNY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BARBER SHOPS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (75%); LAYOFFS (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (70%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2013



195 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: Voices on Syria as the Decision Nears

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Proudly Patriotic but Skeptical on Syria Attack'' (front page, Sept. 6):
America has been continuously at war since 2001, with not much to show for it except huge debts and a crumbling and neglected infrastructure at home.
Barack Obama won the election in 2008 on the promise of using diplomacy to solve international problems and to use war only for existential threats to America. 
America is not threatened in this Syrian crisis. We face many problems that need solutions. President Obama, please invest the country's energies in building here at home and make our economy strong.
SYED TASNIM RAZA New York, Sept. 6, 2013
To the Editor:
Consider two scenarios. In the first, the United States strikes Syria unilaterally. In the second, dozens of countries, while refraining from military action at least for now, join the United States in condemning the Syrian atrocities, adopting nonmilitary sanctions against the regime and calling upon Russia and China to join in.
Which, in the long run, would make American leadership more credible? And which would be more effective, in the long run, in deterring future use of chemical warfare?
GORDON SHULL Wooster, Ohio, Sept. 6, 2013
To the Editor:
I wonder whether I'm the only older American of European descent, a survivor of World War II, who remembers Munich 1938 and the futility of appeasing a dictator.
Indeed we should undermine Bashar al-Assad, not with a few missiles but by keeping him wondering about what we know and hitting the regime where it will do the most good and at the time when it will be most effective.
SUZANNE BOULE Brooklyn, Sept. 6, 2013
To the Editor:
Re ''Obama Faces Barrier in His Own Party on Syria'' (front page, Sept. 5):
There is a simple solution to the ''Syrian dilemma'': Charge Bashar al-Assad with war crimes based on his use of poison gas (and perhaps other crimes against humanity).
This, of course, will do nothing in the short to medium term to stop the heinous atrocities of the Syrian civil war, but it avoids United States involvement, brands deserved opprobrium upon a prime perpetrator, may very likely rally support from the international community, may help salve Israeli angst over the situation and minimizes the threat of retaliatory action by various Middle Eastern states.
Many American politicians may feel a deep sense of relief over not having to commit to one or the other of two evils. Yes, thousands of Syrians will continue to die, but if we attack Syria, the scenario could be much, much worse and much, much wider.
In the long term, Mr. Assad may very well come to trial and earn an enduring moniker as an enemy of humanity.
HARVEY FLEET Golden, Colo., Sept. 5, 2013
To the Editor:
Re ''On Syria, a U.N. Vote Isn't Optional,'' by Oona A. Hathaway and Scott J. Shapiro (Op-Ed, Sept. 4):
While a United Nations vote isn't optional, the world body must nevertheless assume its responsibilities.
The problem of how to overcome the Security Council's failure to exercise its primary responsibility in a given crisis because of a lack of unanimity of the five permanent members has bedeviled the United Nations from its inception.
The search for a workable solution that would preserve the authority of the Security Council and the credibility of the United Nations has taken many forms, from the ''Uniting for Peace'' resolution in 1950 to the adoption by the General Assembly in 2005 of the doctrine of Responsibility to Protect.
Upholding international norms is not an optional responsibility. The United Nations needs to revisit and re-examine the debates on humanitarian intervention with a view to re-establishing the proper role of the Security Council and the General Assembly in maintaining collective security and protecting the dignity and worth of the human person.
RALPH ZACKLIN New York, Sept. 6, 2013
The writer was United Nations assistant secretary general for legal affairs, 1998-2005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAR CRIMES (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); POLITICS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (73%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (78%); BARACK OBAMA (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) SYRIA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CHINA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2013



196 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1567 words

HEADLINE: The Great Stagnation of American Education

BYLINE: ROBERT J. GORDON


HIGHLIGHT: The decline in educational attainment &#8212; more high school dropouts, poor-quality schools &#8212; has serious consequences for the economy. 

 BODY:
For most of American history, parents could expect that their children would, on average, be much better educated than they were. But that is no longer true. This development has serious consequences for the economy.
The epochal achievements of American economic growth have gone hand in hand with rising educational attainment, as the economists Claudia Goldin and Lawrence F. Katz have shown. From 1891 to 2007, real economic output per person grew at an average rate of 2 percent per year - enough to double every 35 years. The average American was twice as well off in 2007 as in 1972, four times as well off as in 1937, and eight times as well off as in 1902. It's no coincidence that for eight decades, from 1890 to 1970, educational attainment grew swiftly. But since 1990, that improvement has slowed to a crawl.
Companies pay better-educated people higher wages because they are more productive. The premium that employers pay to a college graduate compared with that to a high school graduate has soared since 1970, because of higher demand for technical and communication skills at the top of the scale and a collapse in demand for unskilled and semiskilled workers at the bottom. 
As the current recovery continues at a snail's pace, concerns about America's future growth potential are warranted. Growth in annual average economic output per capita has slowed from the century-long average of 2 percent, to 1.3 percent over the past 25 years, to a mere 0.7 percent over the past decade. As of this summer, per-person output was still lower than it was in late 2007. The gains in income since the 2007-9 Great Recession have flowed overwhelmingly to those at the top, as has been widely noted. Real median family income was lower last year than in 1998.
There are numerous causes of the less-than-satisfying economic growth in America: the retirement of the baby boomers, the withdrawal of working-age men from the labor force, the relentless rise in the inequality of the income distribution and, as I have written about elsewhere, a slowdown in technological innovation.
Education deserves particular focus because its effects are so long-lasting. Every high school dropout becomes a worker who likely won't earn much more than minimum wage, at best, for the rest of his or her life. And the problems in our educational system pervade all levels.
The surge in high school graduation rates - from less than 10 percent of youth in 1900 to 80 percent by 1970 - was a central driver of 20th-century economic growth. But the percentage of 18-year-olds receiving bona fide high school diplomas fell to 74 percent in 2000, according to the University of Chicago economist James J. Heckman. He found that the holders of G.E.D.'s performed no better economically than high school dropouts and that the rising share of young people who are in prison rather than in school plays a small but important role in the drop in graduation rates.
Then there is the poor quality of our schools. The Program for International Student Assessment tests have consistently rated American high schoolers as middling at best in reading, math and science skills, compared with their peers in other advanced economies.
At the college level, longstanding problems of quality are joined with the issues of affordability. For most of the postwar period, the G.I. Bill, public and land-grant universities and junior colleges made a low-cost education more accessible in the United States than anywhere in the world. But after leading the world in college completion, America has dropped to 16th. The percentage of 25- to 29-year-olds who hold a four-year bachelor's degree has inched up in the past 15 years, to 33.5 percent, but that is still lower than in many other nations.
The cost of a university education has risen faster than the rate of inflation for decades. Between 2008 and 2012 state financing for higher education declined by 28 percent. Presidents of Ivy League and other elite schools point to the lavish subsidies they give low- and middle-income students, but this leaves behind the vast majority of American college students who are not lucky or smart enough to attend them.
While a four-year college degree still pays off, about one-quarter of recent college graduates are currently unemployed or underemployed. Meanwhile, total student debt now exceeds $1 trillion.
Heavily indebted students face two kinds of risks. One is that they fall short of their income potential, through some combination of unemployment and inability to find a job in their chosen fields. Research has shown that on average a college student taking on $100,000 in student debt will still come out ahead by age 34. But that break-even age goes up if future income falls short of the average.
There is also completion risk. A student who takes out half as much debt but drops out after two years never breaks even because wages of college dropouts are little better than those of high school graduates. These risks are acute for high-achieving students from low-income families: Caroline M. Hoxby, a Stanford economist, found that they often don't apply to elite colleges and wind up at subpar ones, deeply in debt.
Two-year community colleges enroll 37 percent of American undergraduates. The Center on International Education Benchmarking reports that only 13 percent of students in two-year colleges graduate in two years; that figure rises to a still-dismal 28 percent after four years. These students are often working while taking classes and are often poorly prepared for college and required to take remedial courses.
Federal programs like No Child Left Behind and Race to the Top have gone too far in using test scores to evaluate teachers. Many children are culturally disadvantaged, even if one or both parents have jobs, have no books at home, do not read to them, and park them in front of a TV set or a video game in lieu of active in-home learning. Compared with other nations where students learn several languages and have math homework in elementary school, the American system expects too little. Parental expectations also matter: homework should be emphasized more, and sports less.
Poor academic achievement has long been a problem for African-Americans and Hispanics, but now the achievement divide has extended further. Isabel V. Sawhill, an economist at the Brookings Institution, has argued that "family breakdown is now biracial." Among lower-income whites, the proportion of children living with both parents has plummeted over the past half-century, as Charles Murray has noted.
Are there solutions? The appeal of American education as a destination for the world's best and brightest suggests the most obvious policy solution. Shortly before his death, Steve Jobs told President Obama that a green card conferring permanent residency status should be automatically granted to any foreign student with a degree in engineering, a field in which skills are in short supply..
Richard J. Murnane, an educational economist at Harvard, has found evidence that high school and college completion rates have begun to rise again, although part of this may be a result of weak labor markets that induce students to stay in school rather than face unemployment. Other research has shown that high-discipline, "no-excuses" charter schools, like those run by the Knowledge Is Power Program and the Harlem Children's Zone, have erased racial achievement gaps. This model suggests that a complete departure from the traditional public school model, rather than pouring in more money per se, is needed.
Early childhood education is needed to counteract the negative consequences of growing up in disadvantaged households, especially for children who grow up with only one parent. Only one in four American 4-year-olds participate in preschool education programs, but that's already too late. In a remarkable program, Reach Out and Read, 12,000 doctors, nurses and other providers have volunteered to include instruction on the importance of in-home reading to low-income mothers during pediatric checkups.
Even in today's lackluster labor market, employers still complain that they cannot find workers with the needed skills to operate complex modern computer-driven machinery. Lacking in the American system is a well-organized funnel between community colleges and potential blue-collar employers, as in the renowned apprenticeship system in Germany.
How we pay for education shows, in the end, how much we value it. In Canada, each province manages and finances education at the elementary, secondary and college levels, thus avoiding the inequality inherent in America's system of local property-tax financing for public schools. Tuition at the University of Toronto was a mere $5,695 for Canadian arts and science undergraduates last year, compared with $37,576 at Harvard. It should not be surprising that the Canadian college completion rate is about 15 percentage points above the American rate. As daunting as the problems are, we can overcome them. Our economic growth is at stake.
Robert J. Gordon, a professor of the social sciences at Northwestern University, is at work on a book about the American standard of living since the Civil War. 

        
How Technology Wrecks the Middle Class
        
The 1 Percent Are Only Half the Problem
        
No Rich Child Left Behind
        
Singapore's Lessons for an Unequal America
        
The Rise of the Permanent Temp Economy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (88%); HISTORY (78%); FAMILY (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); MINIMUM WAGE (73%); GRADUATION RATES (72%); HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (70%); BABY BOOMERS (61%) Education; Income Inequality; Wages and Salaries; The Great Divide

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%) ILLINOIS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2013



197 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: The Short Sentence as Gospel Truth

BYLINE: ROY PETER CLARK


HIGHLIGHT: Express your most powerful thought in the fewest words. 

 BODY:
As a writer and teacher, I try to learn something about the craft every day. A gold coin of inspiration may come in my reading, in a conversation with another writer or even in the process of revising this essay.
I learned an important lesson, somewhat unwittingly, on July 19, 1975, while watching an interview with two of my favorite writers, William F. Buckley Jr. and Tom Wolfe. Mr. Wolfe was making fun of an art critic who had begun an essay with the sentence "Art and ideas are one."
 "Now, I must give him credit for this," said Mr. Wolfe. "If you ever have a preposterous statement to make ... say it in five words or less, because we're always used to five-word sentences as being the gospel truth."
The five-word sentence as the gospel truth. 
Granted, Mr. Wolfe was being a little cynical, but the truth of what he was saying still applies. Express your most powerful thought in the shortest sentence. 
In a 2006 article in The St. Petersburg Times, the writer Thomas French showed off this move, describing the memorable life and influential tenure in a Tampa zoo of a chimpanzee named Herman. 
 "Altogether," wrote Mr. French, "he lived at Lowry Park Zoo for 35 years. He lasted there longer than any other creature and longer than any of the humans. Each of the 1,800 animals at the zoo is assigned a number. His was 00001." 
In an interview, Mr. French explained that the most telling detail in Herman's story was that number: 00001. Herman was Elvis, No. 1, the primal primate, Adam in this garden of captives.
Finding that number - with all those zeros - is good reporting; how Mr. French decided to use it is more revealing. He could have listed it in a catalog of details. Instead, to deliver it full force, he placed the magic number at the end of a paragraph at the end of a section in the story's shortest sentence. "His was 00001." 
Using short sentences to their full effect is a centuries-old strategy, found in opinion writing, fiction and nonfiction, poetry and plays. It works in a formal speech or in a handwritten letter. Shakespeare had a messenger deliver the news to Macbeth in six words: "The Queen, my lord, is dead," a message that could fit easily inside a 140-character tweet. 
A familiar and effective place for the short sentence is at the end of a long paragraph. Here is the critic Greil Marcus riffing on the poetry of the beat poet Allen Ginsberg:
SIN! SIN! SIN! Ginsberg shouted again and again, in scores of other words - single words, elaborate travelogues, sexual fantasies, the American pastoral as it passed by under his eye on the highway, unable to outrun the American berserk in Vietnam. He was there, "lone man from the void, riding a bus/hypnotized by red tail lights on the straight/space road ahead," to judge the country. And he was there to save it.
Let's measure the economy of that final sentence, an efficiency that brings with it the ring of truth: Seven words, all of one syllable. Twenty-one letters. That's three letters per word.
There are times when these truth-bearing (truth-baring!) sentences come in a cluster, heightening the drama. The sentences also can appear as a stand-alone paragraph, swimming in white space. George Orwell plays with these techniques in "Animal Farm":
It was a pig walking on his hind legs.
Yes, it was Squealer ... And finally there was a tremendous baying of dogs and a shrill crowing from the black cockerel, and out came Napoleon himself, majestically upright, casting haughty glances from side to side, and with his dogs gambolling round him.
He carried a whip in his trotter.
A long sequence of short sentences slows the reader down, each period acting as a stop sign. That slow pace can bring clarity, create suspense or magnify emotion, but can soon become tedious. It turns out that the short sentence gains power from its proximity to longer sentences, as Orwell demonstrates with that final image of the whip appearing after a sentence that stretches to 38 words. 
Another British dystopian, Anthony Burgess, might have learned this trick from Orwell. In the last paragraph of "A Clockwork Orange," his savage teenage narrator is about to be liberated from the re-programming designed to suppress his violent impulses. Listening to his beloved Beethoven's Ninth Symphony, he expresses his joy via an invented gang-slang of the future:
Oh, it was gorgeosity and yumyumyum. When it came to the Scherzo I could viddy myself very clear running and running on like very light and mysterious nogas, carving the whole litso of the creeching world with my cut-throat britva. And there was the slow movement and the lovely last singing movement still to come. I was cured all right.
Notice the metrical echoes in that final sentence: five words. All of one syllable. None longer than five letters. And with this added benefit: It comes not just at the end of a passage or a chapter, but as the last chilling words of the novel. 
What makes a short sentence short is determined by the sentences around it. In the land of 40-word sentences, the 20-word sentence bears a special power. The following passage ends the historical novel "Libra" by Don DeLillo and describes the burial of John F. Kennedy's assassin Lee Harvey Oswald. You will notice that all the sentences are relatively short, allowing the emotional tension to build. The woman in question is Oswald's mother:
Marguerite felt a weakness in her legs. The wind made the canopy snap. She felt hollow in her body and heart. But even as they led her from the grave she heard the name Lee Harvey Oswald spoken by two boys standing fifty feet away, here to grab some clods of souvenir earth. Lee Harvey Oswald. Saying it like a secret they'd keep forever. She saw the first dusty car drive off, just silhouetted heads in windows. She walked with the policemen up to the second car, where the funeral director stood under a black umbrella, holding open the door. Lee Harvey Oswald. No matter what happened, how hard they schemed against her, this was the one thing they could not take away - the truth and lasting power of his name. It belonged to her now, and to history.
Consider the variety of lengths in this excerpt: 7, 6, 8, 32, 3, 8, 13, 23, 3, 28, 8. The two shortest verbless sentences of three words (Lee Harvey Oswald) appear immediately after two of the longer sentences. That change of pace, that abruptness, that slamming on of brakes, carries significant meaning as does that final truth bearing/baring sentence: "It belonged to her now, and to history."
I thank Tom Wolfe for that 1975 lesson on the disproportional power of the short sentence. It stuck. I owe it to him to restore his original context, that writers can use it to give even preposterous statements the ring of truth. The bigot can use it to foment hate. The propagandist can slap it on a bumper sticker. But for the writer with good intent, the short sentence proves a reliable method for delivering the practical truth. With punch. 
 Roy Peter Clark teaches writing at the Poynter Institute. He is the author of "Writing Tools" and "How to Write Short: Word Craft for Fast Times." 

        
How to Listen
        
My Filthy Secret
        
Puzzling Through (A Love Song)
        
Don't Ask What I'm Writing
        
With a Little Help From My Friends

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (90%); WRITERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POETRY (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); ANIMALS (71%); PRIMATES (71%) Reading and Writing Skills (Education); writing and writers; Writing and Writers; Draft

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (87%) FLORIDA, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%); VIET NAM (50%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2013



198 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: A Brief History of Data Revolutions in Economics

BYLINE: STEVE LOHR


HIGHLIGHT: Today&#8217;s optimism among economists that Big Data will yield breakthroughs in the ability to measure, monitor and guide the economy has echoes in the past. The twin engines of innovation in the field have long been technology and necessity. 

 BODY:
Measurement is the lifeblood of economics. And today, economists are optimistic that all the new digital sources of information - Big Data, in the popular shorthand - will open the door to breakthroughs in the ability to measure, monitor and perhaps guide the economy. That is the subject of an article I wrote, which was published on Sunday 
Advances in technology have long fueled improvements in the measurement of populations and economic activity. Herman Hollerith's punched-card tabulating machines, first used in the 1890 census, made it possible to efficiently count and categorize America's surging population at the end of the 19th century. (And the Hollerith tabulating machines were the founding technology of the company that became I.B.M.)
In the early 20th century, the spread of automobiles and telephone service made it possible to expand and increase the frequency of the household surveys - done in person and by telephone - used to track employment and job losses.
In the 1960s, mainframe computers made it possible to mine and process larger and larger amounts of data. And the adoption of affordable digital tape storage was another vital technology, said James Poterba, president of the National Bureau of Economic Research and a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Vast amounts of government data - the equivalent of truckloads of punched cards - could then be stored on a few computer tape reels and easily copied. Those portable tapes could then be fairly easily sent off to curious economists and social scientists at universities across the country. "That opened the floodgates to wholesale statistical analysis of government data sets," Mr. Poterba said.
Technology may provide tools, but the incentive for innovation in measurement is often needed. In June 1930, based on scattered reports of improvement, Herbert Hoover declared, "The Depression is over." At the time, there was no measure of national economic activity, which we now call the gross domestic product, or G.D.P. And there was no reliable information on unemployment. Policy-making was based on guesswork, gut feel and wishful thinking.
To address the gap, the government hired economists and statisticians to come up with a scientific method for measuring the national economy. In 1934, a team led by Simon Kuznets published their report on how to calculate national income, and the field of econometrics took a giant step forward. "That work was propelled almost entirely by the necessity of the Great Depression," said Claudia Goldin, an economist and historian at Harvard.
Economists, both in academia and in business, see a pressing need these days behind the flurry of Big Data research. After all, they note, the United States is emerging fitfully from the worst recession since the Depression. "We have more data, better tools and an urgent demand for greater understanding," said Jed Kolko, chief economist at a Trulia, an Internet start-up that mines residential real estate data.

        
For Newcomers in Silicon Valley, the Dream of Entrepreneurship Still Lives

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BIG DATA (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (88%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); HISTORY (74%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); STARTUPS (50%) Kuznets, Simon S; National Bureau of Economic Research; Recession and Depression; Data; Policy

COMPANY: TRULIA INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: National Bureau of Economic Research

TICKER: TRLA (NYSE) (50%)

PERSON: Kuznets, Simon S

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



199 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4881 words

HEADLINE: Harvard Case Study: Gender Equity

BYLINE: By JODI KANTOR; Brent McDonald and Hannah Fairfield contributed reporting.

 BODY:
BOSTON -- When the members of the Harvard Business School class of 2013 gathered in May to celebrate the end of their studies, there was little visible evidence of the experiment they had undergone for the last two years. As they stood amid the brick buildings named after businessmen from Morgan to Bloomberg, black-and-crimson caps and gowns united the 905 graduates into one genderless mass.
But during that week's festivities, the Class Day speaker, a standout female student, alluded to ''the frustrations of a group of people who feel ignored.'' Others grumbled that another speechmaker, a former chief executive of a company in steep decline, was invited only because she was a woman. At a reception, a male student in tennis whites blurted out, as his friends laughed, that much of what had occurred at the school had ''been a painful experience.''
He and his classmates had been unwitting guinea pigs in what would have once sounded like a far-fetched feminist fantasy: What if Harvard Business School gave itself a gender makeover, changing its curriculum, rules and social rituals to foster female success? 
The country's premier business training ground was trying to solve a seemingly intractable problem. Year after year, women who had arrived with the same test scores and grades as men fell behind. Attracting and retaining female professors was a losing battle; from 2006 to 2007, a third of the female junior faculty left.
Some students, like Sheryl Sandberg, class of '95, the Facebook executive and author of ''Lean In,'' sailed through. Yet many Wall Street-hardened women confided that Harvard was worse than any trading floor, with first-year students divided into sections that took all their classes together and often developed the overheated dynamics of reality shows. Some male students, many with finance backgrounds, commandeered classroom discussions and hazed female students and younger faculty members, and openly ruminated on whom they would ''kill, sleep with or marry'' (in cruder terms). Alcohol-soaked social events could be worse.
''You weren't supposed to talk about it in open company,'' said Kathleen L. McGinn, a professor who supervised a student study that revealed the grade gap. ''It was a dirty secret that wasn't discussed.''
But in 2010, Drew Gilpin Faust, Harvard's first female president, appointed a new dean who pledged to do far more than his predecessors to remake gender relations at the business school. He and his team tried to change how students spoke, studied and socialized. The administrators installed stenographers in the classroom to guard against biased grading, provided private coaching -- for some, after every class -- for untenured female professors, and even departed from the hallowed case-study method.
The dean's ambitions extended far beyond campus, to what Dr. Faust called in an interview an ''obligation to articulate values.'' The school saw itself as the standard-bearer for American business. Turning around its record on women, the new administrators assured themselves, could have an untold impact at other business schools, at companies populated by Harvard alumni and in the Fortune 500, where only 21 chief executives are women. The institution would become a laboratory for studying how women speak in group settings, the links between romantic relationships and professional status, and the use of everyday measurement tools to reduce bias.
''We have to lead the way, and then lead the world in doing it,'' said Frances Frei, her words suggesting the school's sense of mission but also its self-regard. Ms. Frei, a popular professor turned administrator who had become a target of student ire, was known for the word ''unapologetic,'' as in: we are unapologetic about the changes we are making.
By graduation, the school had become a markedly better place for female students, according to interviews with more than 70 professors, administrators and students, who cited more women participating in class, record numbers of women winning academic awards and a much-improved environment, down to the male students drifting through the cafeteria wearing T-shirts celebrating the 50th anniversary of the admission of women. Women at the school finally felt like, '' 'Hey, people like me are an equal part of this institution,' '' said Rosabeth Moss Kanter, a longtime professor.
And yet even the deans pointed out that the experiment had brought unintended consequences and brand new issues. The grade gap had vaporized so fast that no one could quite say how it had happened. The interventions had prompted some students to revolt, wearing ''Unapologetic'' T-shirts to lacerate Ms. Frei for what they called intrusive social engineering. Twenty-seven-year-olds felt like they were ''back in kindergarten or first grade,'' said Sri Batchu, one of the graduating men.
Students were demanding more women on the faculty, a request the deans were struggling to fulfill. And they did not know what to do about developments like female students dressing as Playboy bunnies for parties and taking up the same sexual rating games as men. ''At each turn, questions come up that we've never thought about before,'' Nitin Nohria, the new dean, said in an interview.
The administrators had no sense of whether their lessons would last once their charges left campus. As faculty members pointed out, the more exquisitely gender-sensitive the school environment became, the less resemblance it bore to the real business world. ''Are we trying to change the world 900 students at a time, or are we preparing students for the world in which they are about to go?'' a female professor asked. The Beginning
Nearly two years earlier, in the fall of 2011, Neda Navab sat in a class participation workshop, incredulous. The daughter of Iranian immigrants, Ms. Navab had been the president of her class at Columbia, advised chief executives as a McKinsey & Company consultant and trained women as entrepreneurs in Rwanda. Yet now that she had arrived at the business school at age 25, she was being taught how to raise her hand.
A second-year student, a former member of the military, stood in the front of the classroom issuing commands: Reach up assertively! No apologetic little half-waves! Ms. Navab exchanged amused glances with new friends. She had no idea that she was witnessing an assault on the school's most urgent gender-related challenge.
Women at Harvard did fine on tests. But they lagged badly in class participation, a highly subjective measure that made up 50 percent of each final mark. Every year the same hierarchy emerged early on: investment bank and hedge fund veterans, often men, sliced through equations while others -- including many women -- sat frozen or spoke tentatively. The deans did not want to publicly dwell on the problem: that might make the women more self-conscious. But they lectured about respect and civility, expanded efforts like the hand-raising coaching and added stenographers in every class so professors would no longer rely on possibly biased memories of who had said what.
They rounded out the case-study method, in which professors cold-called students about a business's predicament, with a new course called Field, which grouped students into problem-solving teams. (Gender was not the sole rationale for the course, but the deans thought the format would help.) New grading software tools let professors instantly check their calling and marking patterns by gender. One professor, Mikolaj Piskorski, summarized Mr. Nohria's message later: ''We're going to solve it at the school level, but each of you is responsible to identify what you are doing that gets you to this point.''
Mr. Nohria, Ms. Frei and others involved in the project saw themselves as outsiders who had succeeded at the school and wanted to help others do the same. Ms. Frei, the chairwoman of the first-year curriculum, was the most vocal, with her mop of silver-brown hair and the drive of the college basketball player she had once been. ''Someone says 'no' to me, and I just hear 'not yet,' '' she said.
After years of observation, administrators and professors agreed that one particular factor was torpedoing female class participation grades: women, especially single women, often felt they had to choose between academic and social success.
One night that fall, Ms. Navab, who had laughed off the hand-raising seminar, sat at an Ethiopian restaurant wondering if she had made a bad choice. Her marketing midterm exam was the next day, but she had been invited on a very business-school kind of date: a new online dating service that paired small groups of singles for drinks was testing its product. Did Ms. Navab want to come? ''If I were in college, I would have said let's do this after the midterm,'' she said later.
But she wanted to meet someone soon, maybe at Harvard, which she and other students feared could be their ''last chance among cream-of-the-crop-type people,'' as she put it. Like other students, she had quickly discerned that her classmates tended to look at their social lives in market terms, implicitly ranking one another. And like others, she slipped into economic jargon to describe their status.
The men at the top of the heap worked in finance, drove luxury cars and advertised lavish weekend getaways on Instagram, many students observed in interviews. Some belonged to the so-called Section X, an on-again-off-again secret society of ultrawealthy, mostly male, mostly international students known for decadent parties and travel.
Women were more likely to be sized up on how they looked, Ms. Navab and others found. Many of them dressed as if Marc Jacobs were staging a photo shoot in a Technology and Operations Management class. Judging from comments from male friends about other women (''She's kind of hot, but she's so assertive''), Ms. Navab feared that seeming too ambitious could hurt what she half-jokingly called her ''social cap,'' referring to capitalization.
''I had no idea who, as a single woman, I was meant to be on campus,'' she said later. Were her priorities ''purely professional, were they academic, were they to start dating someone?''
As she scooped bread at the product-trial-slash-date at the Ethiopian restaurant, she realized that she had not caught the names of the men at the table. The group drank more and more. The next day she took the test hung over, her performance a ''disaster,'' she joked.
The deans did not know how to stop women from bartering away their academic promise in the dating marketplace, but they wanted to nudge the school in a more studious, less alcohol-drenched direction. ''We cannot have it both ways,'' said Youngme Moon, the dean of the M.B.A. program. ''We cannot be a place that claims to be about leadership and then say we don't care what goes on outside the classroom.''
But Harvard Business students were unusually powerful, the school's products and also its customers, paying more than $50,000 in tuition per year. They were professionals, not undergraduates. One member of the class had played professional football; others had served in Afghanistan or had last names like Blankfein (Alexander, son of Lloyd, chief executive of Goldman Sachs). They had little knowledge of the institutional history; the deans talked less about the depressing record on women than vague concepts like ''culture'' and ''community'' and ''inclusion.''
As the semester went on, many students felt increasingly baffled about the deans' seeming desire to be involved in their lives. They resented the additional work of the Field courses, which many saw as superfluous or even a scheme to keep them too busy for partying. Students used to form their own study groups, but now the deans did it for them.
As Halloween approached, some students planned to wear costumes to class, but at the last minute Ms. Frei, who wanted to set a serious tone and head off the potential for sexy pirate costumes, sent a note out prohibiting it, provoking more eye rolls. ''How much responsibility does H.B.S. have?'' Laura Merritt, a co-president of the class, asked later. ''Do we have school uniforms? Where do you stop?''
A few days before the end of the fall semester, Amanda Upton, an investment banking veteran, stood before most of her classmates, lecturing and quizzing them about finance. Every term just before finals, the Women's Student Association organized a review session for each subject, led by a student who blitzed classmates through reams of material in an hour. Some of the first-years had not had a single female professor. Now Ms. Upton delivered a bravado performance, clearing up confusion about discounted cash flow and how to price bonds, tossing out Christmas candy as rewards.
Like many other women, Kate Lewis, the school newspaper editor, believed in the deans' efforts. But she thought Ms. Upton's turn did more to fortify the image of women than anything administrators had done. ''It's the most powerful message: this girl knows it better than all of you,'' she said. Breaking the Ice
One day in April 2012, the entire first-year class, including Brooke Boyarsky, a Texan known for cracking up her classmates with a mock PowerPoint presentation, reported to classrooms for a mandatory discussion about sexual harassment. As students soon learned, one woman had confided to faculty members that a male student she would not identify had groped her in an off-campus bar months before. Rather than dismissing the episode, the deans decided to exploit it: this was their chance to discuss the drinking scene and its consequences. ''They could not have gone any more front-page than this,'' Ms. Boyarsky said later.
Everyone in Ms. Boyarsky's classes knew she was incisive and funny, but within the campus social taxonomy, she was overlooked -- she was overweight and almost never drank much, stayed out late or dated. After a few minutes of listening to the stumbling conversation about sexual harassment, she raised her hand to make a different point, about the way the school's social life revolved around appearance and money.
''Someone made the decision for me that I'm not pretty or wealthy enough to be in Section X,'' she told her classmates, her voice breaking.
The room jumped to life. The students said they felt overwhelmed by the wealth that coursed through the school, the way it seemed to shape every aspect of social life -- who joined activities that cost hundreds of dollars, who was invited to the parties hosted by the student living in a penthouse apartment at the Mandarin Oriental hotel in Boston. Some students would never have to seek work at all -- they were at Harvard to learn to invest their families' fortunes -- and others were borrowing thousands of dollars a year just to keep up socially.
The discussion broke the ice, just not on the topic the deans had intended. ''Until then, no one else had publicly said 'Section X,' '' Mr. Batchu said. Maybe it was because class was easier to talk about than gender, or maybe it was because class was the bigger divide -- at the school and in the country.
That was only one out of 10 sessions. At most of the others, the men contributed little. Some of them, and even a few women, had grown to openly resent the deans' emphasis on gender, using phrases like ''ad nauseam'' and ''shoved down our throats,'' protesting that this was not what they had paid to learn.
Patrick Erker was not among the naysayers -- he considered himself a feminist and a fan of the deans. As an undergraduate at Duke, he had managed the women's basketball team, wiping their sweat from the floor and picking up their dirty jerseys.
But as he silently listened to the discussion, he decided the setup was all wrong: a discussion of a sex-related episode they knew little about, with ''89 other people judging every word,'' led by professors who would be grading them later that semester.
''I'd like to be candid, but I paid half a million dollars to come here,'' another man said in an interview, counting his lost wages. ''I could blow up my network with one wrong comment.'' The men were not insensitive, they said; they just considered the discussion a poor investment of their carefully hoarded social capital. Mr. Erker used the same words as many other students had to describe the mandatory meetings: ''forced'' and ''patronizing.''
That week, Andrew Levine, the director of the annual spoof show, was notified by administrators that he was on academic and social probation because other students had consumed alcohol in the auditorium after a performance. (His crime: dining with visiting family instead of staying as he had promised in a contract.) He was barred from social events and put on academic probation as well.
That was just what students needed to believe their worst suspicions about the administration. Ms. Frei had not made the decision about Mr. Levine and worked to cancel his academic probation, he said later, but students called her a hypocrite, a leadership expert who led badly. Hundreds of students soon wore T-shirts that said ''Free Andy'' or ''Unapologetic.''
''Daddy, why are the students hating on you?'' Mr. Nohria's teenage daughters asked him, he told students later.
A few days before commencement, Nathan Bihlmaier, a second-year student, disappeared while celebrating with classmates in Portland, Me. He had last been seen so inebriated that a bartender had asked him to leave a pub. When the authorities told students that Mr. Bihlmaier's body had been dredged from the harbor, apparently after a fall, Mr. Nohria and Ms. Moon were standing beside them.
The first year of their experiment was ending with a catastrophe that brought home how little sway they really had over students' actions. Mr. Bihlmaier had not even been the drinking type. In the spirit of feminist celebration, Ms. Sandberg gave a graduation address at the deans' invitation, but during the festivities all eyes were on Mr. Bihlmaier's widow, visibly pregnant with their first child.
Amid all the turmoil, though, the deans saw cause for hope. The cruel classroom jokes, along with other forms of intimidation, were far rarer. Students were telling them about vigorous private conversations that had flowed from the halting public ones. Women's grades were rising -- and despite the open resentment toward the deans, overall student satisfaction ratings were higher than they had been for years. A Lopsided Situation
Even on the coldest nights of early 2013, Ms. Frei walked home from campus, clutching her iPhone and listening to a set of recordings made earlier in the day. Once her two small sons were in bed, she settled at her dining table, wearing pajamas and nursing a glass of wine, and fired up the digital files on her laptop. ''Really? Again?'' her wife, Anne Morriss, would ask.
Ms. Frei been promoted to dean of faculty recruiting, and she was on a quest to bolster the number of female professors, who made up a fifth of the tenured faculty. Female teachers, especially untenured ones, had faced various troubles over the years: uncertainty over maternity leave, a lack of opportunities to write papers with senior professors, and students who destroyed their confidence by pelting them with math questions they could not answer on the spot or commenting on what they wore.
''As a female faculty member, you are in an incredibly hostile teaching environment, and they do nothing to protect you,'' said one woman who left without tenure. A current teacher said she was so afraid of a ''wardrobe malfunction'' that she wore only custom suits in class, her tops invisibly secured to her skin with double-sided tape.
Now Ms. Frei, the guardian of the female junior faculty, was watching virtually every minute of every class some of them taught, delivering tips on how to do better in the next class. She barred other professors from giving them advice, lest they get confused. But even some of Ms. Frei's allies were dubious.
At the end of every semester, students gave professors teaching scores from a low of 1 to a high of 7, and some of the female junior faculty scores looked beyond redemption. More of the male professors arrived at Harvard after long careers, regaling students with real-life experiences. Because the pool of businesswomen was smaller, female professors were more likely to be academics, and students saw female stars as exceptions.
''The female profs I had were clearly weaker than the male ones,'' said Halle Tecco, a 2011 graduate. ''They weren't able to really run the classroom the way the male ones could.''
Take the popular second-year courses team-taught by Richard S. Ruback, a top finance professor, and Royce G. Yudkoff, a co-founder of a private equity firm that managed billions of dollars. The men taught students, among other lessons, how to start a ''search fund,'' a pool of money to finance them while they found and acquired a company. In recent years, search funds had become one of the hottest, riskiest and most potentially lucrative pursuits for graduates of top business schools -- shortcuts to becoming owners and chief executives.
The two professors were blunt and funny, pushing a student one moment, ribbing another one the next. They embodied the financial promise of a Harvard business degree: if the professors liked you, students knew, they might advise and even back you.
As Ms. Frei reviewed her tapes at night, making notes as she went along, she looked for ways to instill that confidence. The women, who plainly wanted to be liked, sometimes failed to assert their authority -- say, by not calling out a student who arrived late. But when they were challenged, they turned too tough, responding defensively (''Where did you get that?'').
Ms. Frei urged them to project warmth and high expectations at the same time, to avoid trying to bolster their credibility with soliloquies about their own research. ''I think the class might be a little too much about you, and not enough about the students,'' she would tell them the next day.
By the end of the semester, the teaching scores of the women had improved so much that she thought they were a mistake. One professor had shot to a 6 from a 4. Yet all the attention, along with other efforts to support female faculty, made no immediate impact on the numbers of female teachers. So few women were coming to teach at the school that evening out the numbers seemed almost impossible.
As their final semester drew to a close, the students were preoccupied with the looming question of their own employment. Like graduates before them, the class of 2013 would to some degree part by gender after graduation, with more men going into higher-paying areas like finance and more women going into lower-paying ones like marketing.
Ms. Navab, who had started dating one of the men -- with an M.D. and an M.B.A. -- from the Ethiopian dinner, had felt freer to focus on her career once she was paired off. She was happy with her job at a California start-up, but she pointed out that she and some other women never heard about many of the most lucrative jobs because the men traded contacts and tips among themselves.
This was the lopsided situation that women in business school were facing: in intellectual prestige, they were pulling even with or outpacing male peers, but they were not ''touching the money,'' as Nori Gerardo Lietz, a real estate private equity investor and faculty member, put it. A few alumnae had founded promising start-ups like Rent the Runway, an evening wear rental service, but when it came to reaping big financial rewards, most women were barely in the game.
At an extracurricular presentation the year before, a female student asked William Boyce, a co-founder of Highland Capital Partners, a venture capital firm, for advice for women who wanted to go into his field. ''Don't,'' he laughed, according to several students present. Male partners did not want them there, he continued, and he was doing them a favor by warning them.
Some women protested or walked out, but others said they believed he was telling the truth. (In interviews, Mr. Boyce denied saying women should not go into venture capital, but an administrator said student complaints prompted the school to contact the firm, which he had left decades before.)
The deans had not focused on career choice, earning power or staying in the work force; they felt they first needed to address campus issues. Besides, the earning gap posed a dilemma: they were hoping fewer students would default to finance as a career. ''Have the courage to make the choices early in your life that are determined by your passions,'' Mr. Nohria told students.
Plenty of women had taken Mr. Ruback and Mr. Yudkoff's classes on acquiring and running businesses, including Ms. Upton, who had delivered the crackerjack finance presentation. She counted 30 to 40 classmates planning search funds, all men except for a no-nonsense engineer named Jennifer Braus. The professors eventually decided to finance and advise Ms. Braus, hoping other Harvard women would follow.''Nothing succeeds like success,'' Mr. Ruback said.
Ms. Upton decided to take a far lower-risk job managing a wealthy family's investments in Pittsburgh, where her fiancé lived. ''You can either be a frontier charger or have an easier, happier life,'' she said. Looking Ahead
Of all the ceremonies and receptions during graduation week, the most venerated was the George F. Baker Scholar Luncheon, for the top 5 percent of the class, held in a sunny dining room crowded with parents who looked alternately thrilled and intimidated by what their offspring had achieved.
In recent years, the glory of the luncheon had been dimmed by discomfort at the low number of female honorees. But this year, almost 40 percent of the Baker scholars were women. It was a remarkable rise that no one could precisely explain. Had the professors rid themselves of unconscious biases? Were the women performing better because of the improved environment? Or was the faculty easing up in grading women because they knew the desired outcome?
''To my head, all three happened,'' Professor Piskorski said. But Mr. Nohria said he had no cause to think the professors had used the new software, and the subjective participation scores, to avoid gender gaps. ''Sunshine is the best disinfectant,'' he said, a phrase that he said had guided him throughout his project.
One of the Baker scholars was Ms. Boyarsky, the classroom truth-teller. Two hours after the luncheon, she stepped up to a lectern to address thousands of graduates, faculty members and parents. Of the two dozen or so men and only 2 women who had tried out before a student committee, she had beaten them all, with a witty, self-deprecating speech unlike any in the school's memory.
''I entered H.B.S. as a truly 'untraditional applicant': morbidly obese,'' she said.
The theme of her speech was finding the courage to make necessary but painful changes. ''Courage is a brand new H.B.S. professor, younger than some of her students, teaching her very first class on her very first day,'' she said. ''Courage is one woman'' -- the one who reported the groping episode -- ''who wakes the entire school up to the fact that gender relations still have a long way to go at H.B.S.''
And, Ms. Boyarsky continued, she had lost more than 100 pounds during her final year at Harvard. ''Courage was then me battling the urge to be defensive -- something I believe I had been for a long time about this particular issue -- and taking a hard, honest look within myself to figure out what had prevented change,'' she said.
Even before she finished, her phone was buzzing with e-mails and texts from classmates. She was the girl everyone wished they had gotten to know better, the graduation-week equivalent of the person whose obituary made you wish you had followed her work. She had closed the two-year experiment by making the best possible case for it. ''This is the student they chose to show off to the world,'' Ms. Moon said. For the next academic year, she was arranging for second-year students to lead many of the trickiest conversations, realizing students were the most potent advocates.
The administrators and the class of 2013 were parting ways, their experiment continuing. The deans vowed to carry on but could not say how aggressively: whether they were willing to revise the tenure process to attract more female contenders, or allow only firms that hired and promoted female candidates to recruit on campus. ''We made progress on the first-level things, but what it's permitting us to do is see, holy cow, how deep-seated the rest of this is,'' Ms. Frei said.
The students were fanning out to their new jobs, full of suspense about their fates. Because of the unique nature of what they had experienced, they knew, every class alumni magazine update and reunion would be a referendum on how high the women could climb and what values the graduates instilled -- the true verdict on the experiment in which they had taken part.
As Ms. Boyarsky glanced around her new job as a consultant at McKinsey in Dallas, she often noticed that she was outnumbered by men, but she spoke up anyway. She was dating more than she had at school, she added with shy enthusiasm.
''I am super excited to go to my 30th reunion,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nitin Nohria, left, the dean of the Harvard Business School, acknowledging Brooke Boyarsky as a Baker scholar in May. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GRETCHEN ERTL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
A 1968 campus newspaper in an exhibition celebrating the 50th anniversary of women's admission to the Harvard Business School.
Members of the class of 2013. A student drew laughs when he called the two years ''a painful experience.'' (A18)
Top, the Harvard Business School's class of 2013 at graduation. Above left, Robin Ely, Nitin Nohria, Frances Frei and Youngme Moon, administrators at the school, pledged to continue their efforts to foster women's success in the program. Above right, members of the class of 2014 on campus. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KATHERINE TAYLOR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19) CHARTS: Female students at H.B.S.
Female students in top 5% of class (A1)
Few Women on the Business School Faculty . . .: Harvard Business School says it wants to improve the gender balance among faculty members, but a close look at the 2012-13 faculty shows just how far it is from that goal without extensive hiring. (Sources: Harvard Business School
individual faculty members)
Before Graduation: Grade Gap Closes: More than a third of Harvard Business School students are women, but until last year they were a much smaller percentage of the elite Baker scholars. (Source: Harvard Business School)
After Graduation: Salary Gap Widens: For most business school graduates, the gender salary gap widens sharply after graduation. Figures are from the Booth School of Business at the University of Chicago
Harvard Business graduates earn comparable salaries. (Source: American Economic Journal: Applied Economics) (A18)
 . . . and the Pipeline Shows It Is Likely to Stay That Way: The school has a large pipeline of men seeking tenure. Of the more than 120 untenured male professors, about half are assistant or associate professors who will be up for tenure soon. Others are lecturers or untenured professors of management practice. (CHART BY HANNAH FAIRFIELD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); GENDER EQUALITY (89%); CASE STUDIES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CURRICULA (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (70%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (59%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

PERSON: DREW GILPIN FAUST (58%); SHERYL SANDBERG (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (89%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (89%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (89%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



200 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1540 words

HEADLINE: With the World Watching, Syria Amassed Nerve Gas

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, ANDREW W. LEHREN and RICK GLADSTONE; David E. Sanger reported from Washington, and Andrew W. Lehren and Rick Gladstone from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Syria's top leaders amassed one of the world's largest stockpiles of chemical weapons with help from the Soviet Union and Iran, as well as Western European suppliers and even a handful of American companies, according to American diplomatic cables and declassified intelligence records.
While an expanding group of nations banded together in the 1980s to try to block the Syrian effort, prohibiting the sale of goods that would bolster the growing chemical weapons stockpile, the archives show that Syria's governing Assad family exploited large loopholes, lax enforcement and a far greater international emphasis on limiting the spread of nuclear arms.
Now, as President Obama confronts enormous difficulties in rallying a reluctant Congress and a skeptical world to punish the Syrian government with a military strike over what is said to be its apparent use of deadly nerve agents last month, he appears to be facing a similar challenge to the one that allowed the Assads to accumulate their huge stockpile. While countries around the world condemned Syria for adding to its arsenal as most nations were eliminating their own, few challenged the buildup, and some were eager to profit from it. 
''It was frustrating,'' Juan C. Zarate, a former deputy national security adviser for combating terrorism in the George W. Bush administration, recalled Friday.
''People tried. There were always other understandably urgent priorities -- Iran's nuclear program, North Korea,'' said Mr. Zarate, who has written a book about American efforts to crack down on illegal financing for terrorist groups and states including Syria, Iran and North Korea. ''It was an issue that was always there, but never rose to the top of the world's agenda.''
Proliferation experts said President Bashar al-Assad of Syria and his father before him, former President Hafez al-Assad, were greatly helped in their chemical weapons ambitions by a basic underlying fact: often innocuous, legally exportable materials are also the precursors to manufacturing deadly chemical weapons.
Soon after Mr. Obama came to office, newly installed officials grew increasingly alarmed by the ease with which Mr. Assad was using a network of front companies to import the precursors needed to make VX and sarin, deadly chemical poisons that are internationally banned, according to leaked diplomatic cables from WikiLeaks, the antisecrecy group.
Sarin gas has been identified by the United States as the agent loaded atop small rockets on Aug. 21 and shot into the densely populated suburbs of Damascus, killing more than 1,400 people, according to administration officials.
The growth of Syria's ability was the subject of a sharply worded secret cable transmitted by the State Department under Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton's name in the fall of 2009. It instructed diplomats to ''emphasize that failure to halt the flow'' of chemicals and equipment into Syria, Iran and North Korea could render irrelevant a group of antiproliferation countries that organized to stop that flow.
The cable was included in a trove of State Department messages leaked to WikiLeaks in 2010.
Another leaked State Department cable on the Syrians asserted that ''part of their modus operandi is to hide procurement under the guise of legitimate pharmaceutical or other transactions.''
Publicly, American officials contend that they have done much since then to limit the flow of raw materials that feed Syria's chemical weapons industry, in particular Syria's Scientific Studies and Research Center, which has been identified as a principal government enterprise for weapons development. Israel struck a missile convoy outside the center in January, American intelligence officials have said, on suspicions that weapons were headed for delivery to Hezbollah in Lebanon.
''For several years, the Treasury Department, working with our partners across the U.S. government, has taken steps to expose and disrupt the Syrian regime's W.M.D. proliferation activities,'' David S. Cohen, the Treasury under secretary in charge of sanctions, said in an e-mailed statement. ''We will continue to use all of our authorities to undermine the Syrian government's W.M.D. proliferation efforts within Syria as well as around the world.''
The diplomatic cables and other intelligence documents show that, over time, the two generations of Assads built up a huge stockpile by creating companies with the appearance of legitimacy, importing chemicals that had many legitimate uses and capitalizing on the chaos that followed the collapse of the Soviet Union. A Russian general responsible for dismantling old Soviet chemical weapons, who died a decade ago, was identified by a colleague as the man who helped the Syrian government establish its chemical weapons program.
As early as 1991, under the first Bush presidency, a now declassified National Intelligence Estimate concluded that ''both Czechoslovakia and the Soviet Union provided the chemical agents, delivery systems and training that flowed to Syria.'' The same report concluded that Syria most likely possessed 500-kilogram aerial bombs containing sarin -- larger, it appears, than the warheads mounted atop rockets that killed so many in the Ghouta suburbs of Damascus on Aug. 21.
While investigations by the United Nations into the attack remain incomplete, a group of outside academic experts reported last week that some of the warheads used contained 100 kilograms or more of sarin agent.
But even with such a large stockpile of weapons on hand, the director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper Jr., reported to Congress earlier this year that Syria ''remains dependent on foreign sources for key elements'' of its program. That dependence points to an important vulnerability that the West may be able to exploit as it tries to stop Syria from expanding its program.
The most detailed and highly classified cables in the WikiLeaks trove underscore that, while Syria has the ability to make chemical weapons, it relies heavily on other nations for getting precursor ingredients that can also be used for medicine.
Crucial chemicals and the missiles to deliver them have come not just from nations long allied with the Assad government, like Iran and Russia, but also from China (sometimes operating through North Korea) and a variety of Western nations, the cables and other documents show. In a few instances, American companies became players in Syria's efforts to add to the sophistication of its stores.
One of the best-known cases in the United States involved a Waterville, Me., company once known as Maine Biological Laboratories. The company and several top executives were found guilty of allowing a series of shipments to Syria in 2001, including restricted biological agents.
That was one of several instances that involved deals with American firms, the cables show. In another case, an unidentified American company sold potassium cyanide to a Syrian pediatric hospital in 2006, but made no effort to check whether it was used for treating patients, as the Syrians had insisted was done, or instead was diverted for making chemical weapons.
A March 2006 State Department cable from the American Embassy in Damascus described how Syrians seemed to be exploiting trade with the West. ''Syrian businessmen regularly report on the ease with which their fellow businessmen illegally import U.S. commodities with seeming impunity, as well as express concerns that the USG's lack of enforcement of the economic sanctions'' are ''hurting those that choose to play by the rules.''
Those transactions presumably included chemicals that could be precursors for chemical warfare.
The Americans were not the only ones concerned.
According to another leaked cable, the Netherlands discussed how monoethylene glycol, an important raw material used to manufacture urethane and antifreeze, was shipped by a Dutch concern to the Syrian Ministry of Industry, considered a front for the Syrian military. The Dutch outlined how the chemical could also be used as a precursor for sulfur mustard, and possibly for VX and sarin.
These and other instances caused diplomats to seek more international control of goods that could aid Syria's chemical weapons program. In 2009, the State Department pressured its delegation to the Australia Group, the 40-nation organization aimed at stopping the spread of chemical weapons, to push harder to constrain such trade.
''Emphasize that failure to halt the flow of AG-controlled goods into Syria, Iran and North Korea,'' said a leaked State Department cable sent out over Mrs. Clinton's name, could ''call into question the AG's relevance and important role in nonproliferation.''
Proliferation-monitoring officials attribute some of this failure to a simple lack of government resources to police the enormous volume of international chemical transactions, the globalization of that industry, and a greater concern about monitoring nuclear weapons.
''Precursor chemicals have not gotten the same attention as the nuclear trade,'' said one Congressional expert, who asked not to be identified because he was not authorized to talk about investigative findings. ''It's been a known problem for a long time, and yet it happens.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Building Blocks for a Stockpile (Sources: Diplomatic cables
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
 the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies at Middlebury College) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); WIKILEAKS CONTROVERSIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); TERRORISM (70%); EXPORT CONTROLS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); SYRIA (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013

 
